Nguyen 1 Nhi Ha Phuong Nguyen Composition II Andrew de Carion January 29, 2017 Alternatives for animal testing year, more than 100 million animals [are suffered and in U.S. laboratories for biology lessons, medical training, curiosity-driven experimentation, and chemical, drug, food, and cosmetics (peta.org). This controversial outcome leads to contention between the proponents and opponents of animal testing. While some organizations believe that animal testing is essential for research, others consider this act as unnecessary. Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine (PCRM) and Foundation for Biomedical Research (FBR) conflicts with each other, since these organizations want to achieve different goals. PCRM promotes vegan lifestyle and prevents the use of animals for testing. On the other hand, FBR believes that research and animal testing are essential to finding cures for diseases and life-altering illnesses in people and (fbresearch.org). Both organizations may not share the same belief, but they all care about the well-being of humans. While PCRM and FBR have different points of view on animal testing, these organizations can work together do develop alternatives in order to resolve the contention and save thousands of and lives. The primary goal of PCRM is to educate people about animal testing and prevent the use of animals in research. This organization believes it is very important to use non-animal testing methods, because a large amount of animals is suffering from testing for benefits. According to PCRM, animals subjected to painful procedures or toxic (pcrm.org). Laboratory experiments may make it extremely hard for animals to survive. Nguyen 2 Moreover, the mental health of the animal subjects is of concerns. According to Balcombe et al in the article routines cause animal changes in physiologic parameters correlated with stress pressure. . . were associated with all. . . procedures in multiple (42). This study shows that animals are being highly stressful in experiments. Since there are significant differences between animals and humans, experiments on animals are not relevant to human health, they do not contribute meaningfully to medical advances for curing (peta.org). According to Pippin in the article Need for Revision of Pre- Market Testing The Failure of Animal Tests of COX-2 animal test is potentially dangerous to evaluate drugs for human (3). Therefore, PCRM does not support animal testing procedure. Unlike PCRM, FBR believes it is necessary to use animals for testing. This organization argues that animals research can help find treatment to serious diseases, so it will save many people. According to FBR, testing is essential for understanding the safety and proper dosages of new medicines and (fbresearch.org). Without the use of animals, it may be extremely hard for scientists to know how certain diseases and medicines affect humans. According to Garattini and Giuliano in the article testing is still the best way to find new treatments for studies have led to the production of drugs that have affected the epidemiology of human pathology, contributing to prolonging (3). With the help of animals when doing research, scientists successfully found treatment to many diseases. Because well-treated animals will provide better and more reliable results, the living conditions of animal subjects should not be of concerns. According to FBR, for lab animals are more extensive than those for human research (fbresearch.org). Nguyen 3 PCRM and FBR have not come to a resolution yet, because FBR sees no alternative method for researching a complete living organism. In contrast, PCRM says that it is cruel and inhumane to experiment on animals, and animals are so different from human beings that research on animals often yields irrelevant results. Both organizations have wasted an amount of energy on poorly executed animal testing and on poorly conceived efforts to stop animal (advocacy.britannica.com). While PCRM and FBR seem to have different beliefs, both organizations want to develop new drugs or treatment to save lives. These organizations believe that through research, it is possible to study and find treatment to serious disorders. Without the help of animals, scientists are still able to study and track the progress of some diseases such as or stroke (pcrm.org). On the other hand, some scientists use animal testing to understand and learn more about the side effects of new medicines (fbresearch.org). It is clear that PCRM and FBR use different methods when doing research, however, these organizations share a common ground. Both PCRM and FBR want to study disorders and find new treatment to save lives. Since PCRM and FBR share a common ground, it is possible that both organizations work together to develop alternatives such as computer simulation to prevent animal testing in research. These organizations want to save more people by developing new treatments. In spite of concerns that animal testing will kill the animal subjects, FBR sees that it will be difficult to study and understand how a disease works without the help of animals. Therefore, computer simulation method will be a mutual beneficial solution. Developing computer simulation to prevent the use of animal in research is feasible, because scientists have already worked on this project for years. According to Arora et al in the article of Animals in Nguyen 4 Drug Research: An Approach Towards Fulfillment of teams around the world are working on a which is designed to predict drug metabolism and metabolite interaction with any given (1). Moreover, computer simulation may also reduce the time of testing in laboratory. According to Arora et al, can simulate experiments in silico (on computer) in minutes that could take months or years to do in the lab or (2). This method can actually save time and lives at the same time. Developing computer simulation to prevent animal testing is a workable compromise, because PCRM and FBR benefit from this solution. Both organizations will be able to study diseases and find new treatment without the help of animals. If these organizations succeed in developing the program, animals will not be need for research anymore. This outcome favors the goal of PCRM, since the aim of this organization is to prevent the use of animal in research. FBR can also benefit from this compromise, because computer simulation will save the time and may even work better than testing animals. According to Arora et al, computer simulation can provide the that animal models will never be able to (1). All the benefits that each group receive from the computer simulation will make this compromise viable. In conclusion, while PCRM and FBR use different methods to achieve their goals, they share a common ground. Both organizations want to save lives and care about the well- being of humans. By working together to develop a computer simulation, it is possible that animals will no more be needed in research. This compromise is practicable, since each group will gain what they want. Nguyen 5 Works Cited Arora, T., A. K. Mehta, V. Joshi, K. D. Mehta, N. Rathor, P. K. Mediratta, and K. K. Sharma. Substitute of Animals in Drug Research: An Approach Towards Fulfillment of  N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Balcombe, Jonathan P., Neal D. Barnard, and Chad Sandusky. Laboratory Routines Cause Animal  (2004): n. pag. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Biomedical  Foundation for Biomedical Research. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Collins, Francis S. Experiments on Animals:  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Cruelty Free  Cruelty Free International. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Garattini, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi. Animal Testing Is Still the Best Way to Find New Treatments for  European Journal of Internal Medicine (2016): n. pag. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Pippin, John J. The Need for Revision of Pre-Market Testing The Failure of Animal Tests of COX-2  N.p., Feb. 2005. Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Rogers, Kara. Scientific Alternatives to Animal  Britannica. Britannica, Inc., 17 Sept. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Physicians  The Physicians Committee. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.