Braganca 1 Marcela Braganca Andrew ENC 1102 26 January 2017 The Compromise Between PETA and NCBA The beef industry has been a subject of debate among stakeholders since its demand started to increase. The United States, according to a research conducted by Forbes, is the second leading nation that most consumed meat in the year of 2013, showing that the average American will eat 200.6 lbs of meat per year. Among the different stakeholders, NCBA Beef Association) and PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) are two conflicting groups which stand for opposite ideals regarding the same source, the cattle. As stated in its official website, NCBA define itself as an independent organization that works directly in satisfying and increasing demand of consumers in the beef industry, which causes a great impact in the economy. On the other hand, PETA is an independent organization that promotes animal rights around the world, yet, this organization is completely involved in the cattle industry and its abruptness regarding the animals. than to keep an endless competition between opposing desires without getting anything out of it, making a compromise between the two stakeholders would be challenging but definitely a win-win solution to both of them. The compromise between PETA and NCBA will be a long term benefit; by promoting an act to end animal suffering, uncomfortness, and abuse within the industry, the cattle industry will eventually gain ethic and respect from meat and non-meat eaters, which will also bring benefit to the agricultural economy. Braganca 2 The beef demand has increased gradually over the years, and so did motivation to fight this battle. With all the media and technology we have today, it is impossible to ignore the protests going on around the world. Eventually, one of the main issues discussed among people is animal rights. For instance, many activist believe that animals should be treated as equally as human beings, and that they should be protected under a law. Following this ideology, an organization was created named PETA; which stands for People the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Today, one of the main aspects that PETA fights against is the cattle industry. Ronald J. Adams enforces this fight when he states in his article Food and Animal Rights , that worst examples of abuse are to be found in the factory farms where animals may literally never see the light of day or be afforded enough space to turn around [in little protection is afforded to animals raised for human  The cattle industry is the leading agricultural livestock in the national and is has been target of utmost animal abuse. According to report Beef Industry, cows are burned to identification purposes, workers cut testicles without any pain relief, cows die of heat or freeze to death (depending on the states they are raised), they die from diseases because of sanitary negligence, and their food is packed with antibiotics which make human beings to build an antibiotic-resistance (makes it harder to fight diseases that requires antibiotics). Essentially, activists want the beef industry to come to an end promoting a vegan lifestyle, a no meat/dairy diet. On the contrary, the farmers and workers are happy to see the demand of meat increasing. As any other industry that depends on the supply and demand market, the industry has direct effect in the life of many rural communities, and exactly what National Beef Association promotes. According to NCBA, works to advance the economic, political Braganca 3 and social interests of the U.S. cattle business and to be an advocate for the cattle policy positions and economic . In other words, they make sure the beef industry is at its best position in the worldwide trade. According to Bill Bullard, the author of Siege: The U.S. Live Cattle Industry , the U.S. receiving $50 billion annually the live cattle industry the single largest segment of American agriculture and is, consequently, critically important to the prosperity of Rural  (Bullard 1). Obviously, their main source of profit is the cattle and ending this market would cause a tremendous crises not only for the rural communities, but for the entire nation. The United States relies big part of its economy on the agricultural industry, for instance shutting down this department would hurt many families socially and economically. Apparently, the two stakeholders are in great conflict that seems to be hopeless. They have one variable for which they fight for because their lives depend on it, either morally or financially. If PETA could shut down this industry, it would be great to the animals but it would be too uncaring to the people who depend on millions of jobs that this industry provides. However, not making any changes will also be unethical; not moral to live a life in which people do not care or associate [a package with a living, breathing, walking, suffering  (Adams 303). In this case, to make a win-win solution affordable, it requires from both stakeholders to understand that the compromise presented on this paper will not bring instantaneous results, but will definitely be a long-term solution. For the compromise is mandatory the presence of a fiscalization company which will enforce the law. If animal rights is not presented in the establishment, the industry will be shut. In return, since the labor will require more attention, patience, and caution, the price of the beef will increase. However, since the beef Braganca 4 industry will be morally respected and supported by people from all over the world, it will result in an increase on demand. Increasing demand will result in an increase in supply, which will eventually increase wages. Apparently, the changes will bring both groups satisfaction. This is not the first time that animals are in between two big concurrents. Activist in New Zealand and the cosmetic industries had opposite perspectives regarding animals.The cosmetic industry required many lab experiments to measure the risks of a certain product; and for instance, animal-testing seemed the most accurate to collect data. However, on the side, they believed that animals should had their rights just as human beings have theirs. Consequently, according to the research conducted by Rychert and Chris Wilkins for Massey University, 2013, New Zealand introduced the Psychoactive Substances Act (PSA), which restricts the use of animals to conduct lab experiments. Animal-testing would only be approved if the product that would be tested was considered a low-risk product, preventing animal from harm. However, in 2016, due to protests, the law changed and animal-testing was banned (Rychert and Wilkins). Certainly, animal protectors were very grated with the new law, but it was a disaster not only for the cosmetic industry but for the science industry which, as stated before, had animal-testing as their best method of study banned. Not satisfied, scientists started to study new alternatives or solutions. With all effort, the scientists proposed a new compromise, Animal testing is accepted for medicines, but increasingly prohibited in safety assessments of consumer products such as cosmetics or  (Rychert, 2015). In other words, to conduct an experiment to promote development in medicine for the well being of humans, animal-testing will be legal under low-risk procedures, avoiding harm on animals. Braganca 5 As noticed, people have created a dependency on animals in their professional lives. It is impossible to exclude a variable from daily routines and expect no change or no consequence from it. Globalization surrounds people in every manner, not mattering their differences, they are all connected. For that reason, different stakeholders have always to create a compromise between them, otherwise the solution that benefits only one stakeholder can possibly bring harm to the community. With and compromise, animals will get the treatment they deserve, and NCBA will be the greatest example to show people that animals, even if raised for human purposes, deserve the proper respect. As a result, the compromise will benefit the animals, but also the people. Braganca 6 Works Cited Adams, Ronald J. Fast Food And Animal Rights: An Examination And Assessment Of The Response To Social  & Society Review (00453609) 113.3 (2008): 301-328. Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The  Association - Beef USA. http://www.beefusa.org/theassociation.aspx. Accessed 20 January 2017. The Beef PETA. http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-food/factory-farming/cows/beef-industry/. Accessed 20 January 2017. Bullard, Bill. Under Siege: The U.S. Live Cattle  Dakota Law Review 58.(2013): 560. Academic: Law Reviews . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Rychert, Marta, and Chris Wilkins. Policy Analysis: The Challenge Of A Ban On Animal Testing For The Development Of A Regulated Legal Market For New Psychoactive Substances (NPS) In New Zealand: Issues And Options For  International Journal Of Drug Policy 26.(2015): 1273-1278. . Web. 24 Jan. 2017.