Khani 1 Julian Khani Professor N. Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Solar Energy and Tesla Alternative energy is a hot topic in political circles as well as in various Environmental Protection interest groups. Most scientists believe fossil fuels are destroying the planet; we have all been made familiar with the concept of the Greenhouse effect in High School, and seen images of the smog covered skies in China. With the recent election of President Donald Trump, the issue of alternative energy has gained a lot more screen time because of appointment of a climate change denier to the Environmental Protection Agency. The Dakota Access Pipeline gets airtime on every major news network in part because of the injustice to Native Americans and their sacred grounds, but also because of how detrimental an oil spill can be. While there are many different forms of alternative energy such as Wind or Geothermal, Tesla and Tesla Motors specialize in Solar Power and intend to make it the future of clean energy. How will Tesla draw consumers to buy their products? Khani 2 Fig. 1 This image was pulled directly off of the Tesla website. It features a very modern looking home with a Tesla Powerwall installed. The Tesla Powerwall and Powerpack units are used to store solar energy that can be collected from many different sources including Tesla new solar shingles. There are a few different messages this image communicates; you can see how discreet and compact the Powerwall is. You can also see that wherever this home is, it is fairly secluded from society. This is because the unit stores solar energy, and can be used to power a home entirely off the grid, completely eliminating your gas and electric bill. batteries integrate with solar to harness the abundant power of the sun and reduce our reliance on fossil fuels. Homeowners, businesses and utilities use Tesla energy products to reliably increase their use of renewable energy and foster a clean energy (Tesla) Khani 3 As the quote suggests, the unit can be used to power the home in tandem with standard energy resources while simultaneously reducing reliance. People with interest in protecting the environment would no doubt love a system like this. According to the eText a writer employs data or statistics within a text, you can probably assume that he or she is attempting to appeal to the logic and reason of the reader (Hoffman Tesla applies Logos by including detailed specs and statistics about the device such as a 90% round trip efficiency, indicating that the unit can successfully actualize 90% of the energy it collects and attempts to apply. The image also creates visual emphasis by its placement of the Powerwall. The bright white color and placement near the center of the image draws emphasis here, making it focal point or of the image (Hoffman 334). Pathos is applied through the image in several ways; the very modern design of the home is likely meant to evoke a sense of elegance or luxury, even though unit is very affordable. Through that dichotomy, it may be meat to signify that the unit is very sensible; it can be accessible by both the upper class as well as the middle and lower classes. It is possible that the design of the home is all meant to be futuristic and therefore the unit appears to be advanced for its time, which may invoke Kairos by inducing its viewers to get with the times and buy now rather than later. Khani 4 Fig. 2 The second image is a view from the front of the same or similar home complete with a Tesla Model S car and a Powerwall unit installed in the garage to both power the home and charge the car. The roof also has the solar shingles that appear to be just like any other, but with the added benefit of collecting solar power. Your eye is immediately drawn to the Red Tesla car in the garage, as well as the white Powerwall unit again. The house is still very isolated, and would appeal to someone with interest living off the grid. Though included in this image is the car, which furthers the ability of the person who wants to live off the grid to do so. Ethos might be portrayed in this image by showing the entire home being powered by the 2 Powerwalls. This therefore shows the effectiveness of the product and intrinsic authority, and gives you an idea of the amount of power the units collect. If your entire home can be powered by solar energy, than why not your car? This again is an example of ethos. The presence of the car is meant to reinforce the idea that solar energy and Tesla are very capable of powering your entire lifestyle. Khani 5 Through the 2 images we see the presentation of Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos. The website as a whole offers a few more examples to support the images. The use of aforementioned statistics help by applying Logos to the advertisement. A 10 year warranty on the product may be a way of using Ethos because the company selling the product is so confident in it that if something happens they will replace it. Tesla therefore knows so much about the product and it is engineered so accurately that there is no possible way it could break. The presentation of the car in the image also reminds you that Tesla is an alternative energy industry leader on many fronts and that they already have several successful products. In addition, both images present images of the Powerwall unit and how compact it is. The smart design might appeal to Pathos through the pleasant aesthetics of the unit. The stark white coloring of the units is likely supposed to appear as very clean, because solar power is a clean energy source. This emotionally appeals to consumers through the desire of reducing there carbon footprint. Those interested in living off the grid may also feel a sense of independence because of the isolation of the home and its ability to self-power. Tesla is telling these consumers that if you buy me, I can make you independent. In conclusion, the images present Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos in several effective ways to draw you into buying their products. Ethos is presented through including additional successful products in their images. Logos is presented through the use of smart design and statistics. Pathos is invoked through pleasing aesthetics and a sense of independence for those interested in living off the grid, as well as those looking to cut costs. Kairos is presented by utilizing a futuristic looking home to help make the Powerwall look state-of-the-art, which in turn pressures consumers to catch up. Word Count: 112 Khani 6 Works Cited AuthorLastName, FirstName. Title of the Book Being Referenced. City Name: Name of Publisher, Year. Type of Medium (e.g., Print). LastName, First, Middle. Journal Title (Year): Pages From - To. Print. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Author Unknown. Tesla Energy. 2016. Web.