Wombacher 1 Andrew Wombacher Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 21 January 2017 Space Exploration Opinions regarding exploring the realm of space are constantly evolving. The advancement of technology allows us to see further into space, and holds unprecedented opportunities for mankind. However, some remain skeptical and feel that money is wasted when invested in the space industry. Skeptics would say that failed missions mean wasted money, time, labor, and materials. These conflicting opinions have raised the question; Is space exploration worth the risks and costs? Longnecker, David E., Ricardo A. Molins, and (U.S.) National Research Council. A Risk Reduction Strategy For Human Exploration Of Space: A Review Of Bioastronautics Roadmap. Washington, D.C.: National Academies Press, 2006. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 18 Jan. 2017. This research article was written with the purpose of creating a plan to address risks involved with space travel and exploration by humans. The article is broken into two major parts; considerations of risk factors, and methods on how to combat the risk factors. This article would serve as a counterargument, showing that risks associated with space travel are being addressed. Once risk factors have been worked out of the equation, space travel will hold the same opportunity with significantly smaller margin of error. Most of the information used in the article comes from the Washington D.C. National Academy Press. Other sources used in the article are also referenced in the appendix. Wombacher 2 Dr. David Longnecker is currently a director at the AAMC (Association of American Medical Colleges) working with NASA to ensure medical safety of those entering the realm of space. Prior to receiving his current position, he served as President of the American Board of Anesthesiology, President of the Association of University Anesthesiologists, President of the National Resident Matching Program, and the founding president of the W.T.G. Morton Society. Considering all his credentials, Dr. David Longnecker has proven that he is knowledgeable on human health, which is necessary when developing methods of addressing health risks in space. ISECG. Stemming from Space Nasa, Sept. 2013, www.nasa.gov/sites/default/files/files/Benefits-Stemming-from-Space-Exploration-2013- TAGGED.pdf. This article discusses the benefits of expanding into space, and how making space easily accessible would directly benefit people on earth. The author then goes on to create three subcategories that space exploration would improve. This academic journal would answer the research topic space exploration worth the costs and and would explain in detail how space exploration would be beneficial. ISECG (International Space Exploration Coordination Group) is a voluntary, non- binding forum consisting of fourteen space agencies whose motivation are to advance global space exploration strategies. The forum publishes annual reports regarding advancements and challenges in space exploration, along with other academic articles, dating as far back as 2007 when the forum was created. Among the 14 organizations who contribute to the forum include NASA, UK Space, and Agenzia Spaziale Italiana. These Wombacher 3 space agencies collaborate with each other, and all must agree on an article prior to its publication, thus avoiding any bias and including ideas from around the world. Selding, Peter De. Reusable Falcon 9: What Are the Real Cost Savings for  SpaceNews, 25 Apr. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. http://spacenews.com/spacexs-reusable-falcon-9-what-are-the-real-cost-savings-for- customers/ This article discusses the evolution of the space craft known as Falcon 9, and how it is a breakthrough in regards to sending cargo to space at a cheaper cost. After 5 failed rockets, SpaceX successfully launch and land a reusable rocket, opening the door to cheaper exportation of cargo to space. The article remains neutral on the topic, and discusses the issues SpaceX must face prior to opening to the commercial market. Two of the issues SpaceX face are insurance implications and worries that a rocket may fail. However once these issues are resolved, traveling to space will become significantly cheaper. The author Peter B de Selding was the Paris bureau chief for space news and has written numerous articles regarding the development of the current day space program. The article he wrote would be valuable to the research paper because it discusses costs associated with sending people to space. Since the cost of traveling to space is going to decrease, it would provide the same amount of opportunity for a smaller price. Rai, Amelia, et al. Expanded Benefits For Humanity From The International Space  Acta Astronautica 126.Space Flight Safety (2016): 463-474. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Wombacher 4 This Academic journal discusses how research on the ISS (International Space Station) had expanded our knowledge on several different topics and led to technologic advancements on Earth. One of the largest topics discussed in the journal regards expanded knowledge in the field of health. As an example, the Neroarms being developed for surgery are decedents from the Canadarms used to move heavy objects on the ISS. Had mankind not traveled to space, technology such as this would not exist and surgeries would be a lot more fatal. The book is the product of collaboration among several different space agencies around the world. Some of the agencies include NASA, NCA, ESA, JAXA, ASI, and Roscosmos. Since the space agencies are the ones performing the research in space, they would know the information best and can translate their knowledge directly to the book. This avoids commentary third parties would add to the original information.