Elsingergy 1 Abdulrahman Moustafa Elsingergy Dr. Theodore J Murray ENC1102.906 01/25/2017 Man-up and Cry Imagine that you are done working out in a fitness room in a fancy gym, and you walk back to the changing rooms only to find a fit man sitting on a bench, and shedding some tears. How would you view this encounter? Would you be surprised or rather confused? The reason behind this feeling is that the public often views crying and shedding tears as a sense of weakness or as an act people should hide and be ashamed of disclosing. However, is crying actually psychologically harmful as it is mostly portrayed? Should people try to cry less in order to grow stronger, and to not let weakness sneak into them? The answer to all these questions is, surprisingly, NO. Ironically, the act of letting guard and defense down is a very healthy and psychologically positive process. Even president Obama cried in his speech on gun violence in January 2016 (Young). This shows that even a country leader can shed some tears, and convey emotions (Young). In fact, a good cry with the right people might be the only prescription a psychiatrist advises. Tears should no longer be viewed as a form of weakness, rather people should encourage each other to shed them. Given the fact that crying is normally triggered by emotionally meaningful and individualized events; the process of shedding tears is crucial for emotion and emotion regulation (Bylsma 1). Why not view crying as the means by which a person forgets his depressing life and pause for a moment to put down all his burdens. Did you change your mind yet? Now, what may be the benefits of crying? Elsingergy 2 Research conducted by Lauren Bylsma in 2008 discourses the psychological benefits of crying. This research theoretically proves that crying helps humans tension or stress through possible physiological and biochemical behavioral coping or social (Byslma 1). This means that crying not only acts as a psychological medication, but also as a physical one in that it helps the body physiologically cope with stress. Severe depression usually contributes to lack of sleep, decrease in appetite and, in extreme cases, can lead to strokes. In retrospect, crying with the right people may easily cut stress symptoms and consequences short. This proves the fact that crying truly is psychologically and physically beneficial. In support to this claim, statistical surveys performed by Bylsma and colleagues over 4000 crying reports from men and women across over 30 countries and found that a majority of participants reported experiencing mood benefits from (Bylsma 1). Again, this buttresses the claim that tears will are mood-enhancers. From a different perspective, I always ask myself, what can do to In addition to stress relief, a very important advantage of crying is communication. It is one of the main reasons people cry. In fact, the main reason children and babies cry is the need for help, support, etc., thus communication has always been the primitive function of crying (Miceli 265). Similarly, adults tend to cry for help and support. Although, depending on the age group, needs will distinctly differ, all humans will still have needs. Hence, we can view crying as a universal support-seeking behavior. This is true because when see they often tend to offer help or comfort (Miceli 265). As a proof to this claim, Maria Miceli reports, of our respondents states: I cry when I know which way to turn, and crying is likely to draw (Miceli 265). This proves that crying also offers social integration, and forms Elsingergy 3 bonds between people, and this is exactly our role towards our stressed and support-seeking friends: to offer them help and comfort. However, when and for whom is crying beneficial? In retrospect, I discussed the claim that crying is very beneficial in many ways. However, since no claim, as far as science is concerned, can be generally proved without having exceptions, crying may not be healthy for everyone. This brings forth the question: who can benefit from tears? To answer this question, researchers studied the conditions under which crying is considered beneficial. Lauren Bylsma and her colleagues conducted a survey that statistically discussed that the nature of crying-triggers and the social environment, in which crying occurred. These factors play an important role in determining when crying is beneficial (Bylsma 1). This survey reported that crying in inappropriate social environments will result in a negative impact on the people. To clarify, if people were present in an environment that does not appreciate pain and problems, they will probably not benefit from crying. As a matter of fact, they may be harmed psychologically from it. This proves that a proper social environment is totally integral for stressed out people. So why can we not be a society that supports depressed personnel? Counterarguments might suppose that crying does not help. In fact, some may argue that crying results in a mood drop or emotional deterioration. A recent experiment done on 28 criers and 32 non-criers after watching a movie. Immediately after the movie, the negative mood increased significantly for criers 1). This shows that crying can be harmful. To respond to that counterargument, I would suggest viewing crying like a medical prescription given by a specialist doctor. The brochure will have the side-effects section which states that this prescription might cause such and such to some, but not to others. Like I mentioned previously, there will never be a rule that is always 100 percent accurate, and that there must be some exceptions defying it. However, does that mean that we Elsingergy 4 should not take the medicine prescribed to us, in fear of its side-effects? Statistics does prove that the number of people experiencing relief after crying is more than those who had mood drops after it. This proves my claim that although crying may not work for everybody, it is still means by which people can relieve their stress. To sum things up, we all cried as babies, but now that we are adults, we no longer view crying as we should. Infants cry because they need help from their parents. Furthermore, when parents respond to their cries, subsequent benefits like good attachment with the parents, healthy emotional development and reduced risk of maltreatment are provided to the infants (Oldbury 29). This is just a smaller and more primitive version that also applies to adults. Crying is healthy for people in many various aspects including psychology, physiology and sociability. However, the real challenge face, is the judges they receive, which create fear, worry and doubt (Young). Hence, I strongly believe we should encourage each other to cry more, and provide help and comfort for the depressed among us. This will definitely create a strong bond within our society. Elsingergy 5 Works Cited Bylsma, Lauren M., Marcel A. Croon, Ad.J.J.M Vingerhoets, and Jonathan Rottenberg. When and for Whom Does Crying Improve Mood? A Daily Diary Study of 1004 Crying  Journal of Research in Personality 45(4) (2011). Elsevier Inc. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Asmir, Ad J. J. M. Vingerhoets, Igor Kardum, Marina Maja antek, and Mia Why Crying Does and Sometimes Does Not Seem to Alleviate Mood: A Quasi-Experimental  Motivation and Emotion 39.6 (2015): 953-60. Web. Miceli, Maria, and Cristiano, Castelfranchi. Crying: Discussing Its Basic Reasons and New Ideas in Psychology 21.3 (2003): 247-73. Web. Oldbury, Sarah, and Karen Adams. The Impact of Infant Crying on the Parent-infant  Community Practitioner 88.3 (2015): 29-34. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Young, S. L. Why Men  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 2 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.