Addington 1 Madison Addington Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 Jan 27, 2017 Do affect animals negatively or positively? According to Cambridge dictionary a zoo is an area in which animals, especially wild animals, are kept so that people can go and look at them. Zoos are an issue to a lot of animal rights activist because they believe that wild animals belong in their natural habitat and should not be caged for our entertainment Zoos ). The Association of Zoos & Aquariums (AZA) and its members envision a world where, as a result of the work of accredited zoos and aquariums, all people respect, value, and conserve wildlife and wild places Strategic ). Captive Animal Protection Society (CAPS) think that zoos do not save species from extinction. Instead, they divert much-needed attention away from important conservation work in the wild Zoos ). These two organizations have very contrasting views on zoos. AZA wants to make their zoos better and safer for animals while CAPS wants to get rid of all zoos. To resolve the conflicting factor between the two organizations, they can come to a compromise by making the existing zoos more comfortable for the animals to live in by eliminating all cages, finding better ways to keep and look after these animals and only importing the animals that need special attention and cannot fend for themselves in the wild. Addington 2 AZA was founded in October 1924. They have thousands of veterinarians, scientists, and animal care professionals with the expertise to help endangered species. According to the AZA website 30+ species, the American bison and California condor, have been brought back from the brink of extinction because of the work of accredited zoos & aquariums and our AZA SAFE: Saving Animals from ). They have more than 600 Species Survival Plans already in place and have already spent a combined $160 million a year on conservation of animals in the wild. 180 million Americans visit AZA-accredited institutions each year. This is important because public support for conservation efforts is vital to their success. AZA SAFE: Saving Animals from ). Association of Zoos and Aquariums provides its members with the services, high standards, best practices and program coordination to be leaders in animal welfare, public engagement, and the conservation of Strategic ) A retired schoolteacher named Irene Heaton founded Captive Animal Protection Society in 1957. The suffering that animals were subjected to as part of the entertainment industry disgusted her. So, she decided to start this organization in order to bring about a change to both practices and attitudes Our history ). CAPS believes that wild animals in zoos suffer physically and mentally as their complex social, behavioral and physical needs cannot be met in unnatural manmade environments Zoos ). CAPS is UK-based and is leading the campaign to end the use of animals in entertainment, particularly in circuses, zoos and the exotic pet trade. They plan on doing this by carrying out investigations to expose and address animal suffering, educating and raising awareness to inspire new generations of animal advocates and by lobbying Addington 3 decision-makers to effect long-term legislative change for animals. They also made it their mission to provide support, advice and resources to other animal protection groups and individual campaigners. In 2004 CAPS commissioned the largest and most in-depth investigation ever made into the public aquarium industry, revealing most animals to have been taken from the wild and disputing conservation claims by the industry Findings may sink ). In 2012 CAPS established the AnimalPledge.org scheme, which seeks to encourage the media industry to refrain from the use of performing wild animals in productions. The project was established in partnership with the Ape Alliance. In 2013 CAPS launched a new campaign entitled the Fight for . The campaign seeks to outlaw the practice of pinioning of birds in zoos. The research found that members of the zoo industry were carrying out the practice illegally. (Jeory, Zoos chop wings in half to keep them ) These two stakeholders have not yet come to a resolution because one wants to eliminate all zoos and the other wants to improve them. CAPS thinks AZA will not accomplish their mission because presenting animals to zoo visitors as living exhibits teaches children that animals can be manipulated in order to fulfill their own curiosity about them. It suggests that animals have no right to be treated as individuals who think and feel for themselves. They also believe that working in the natural habitat could carry out effective conservation. This will then protect individuals and entire ecosystems. Zoos ) Even though both organizations have very opposing views they have a few similarities. AZA has a program called Saving Animals From Extinction (SAFE) that Addington 4 focuses the collective expertise within their accredited zoos and aquariums and leverages their massive audiences to save species. This is similar to CAPS because they are also trying to save animals from extinction. At the same time, SAFE is building capacity to increase direct conservation spending, as well as their impact on saving species through work in the field, in their zoos and aquariums, and through public engagement. CAPS also thinks it is effective to work in the natural habitats. species exist only because of the efforts of aquariums and zoos and our AZA SAFE: Saving Animals from ). CAPS and AZA are both trying to save wildlife and wild animals they just have different methods. The two opposing sides can come to a compromise by making the existing zoos more comfortable for the animals to live in by eliminating all cages, finding better ways to keep and look after these animals and only importing the animals that need special attention and cannot fend for themselves in the wild. Past solutions were to build safaris because you would be eliminating all cages. This did not work because CAPS found that zookeepers and employees still treated animals poorly. For example, a safari park tried to force chimpanzees to mate even though scientist warned them that it would be a bad idea. Safari Park to breed chimpanzees despite cruelty warning from ) This compromise is workable because it would eliminate all cages and no animals would be mistreated or forced to entertain people. It is convenient because zoos could still make money even though it may be a little more expensive to have certified people working there. They might not get as many visitors because they wont have as many animals being imported into these zoos. This would be a better compromise because they would Addington 5 have more support from CAPS and they have to worry about them trying to close down their zoos. The Association of Zoos & Aquariums (AZA) provides its members with the services, best practices and program coordination to be leaders in animal welfare, public engagement, and the conservation of species. The Captive Protection Society (CAPS) aims to stop the exploitation of animals in entertainment, particularly in circuses, zoos and the exotic pet trade through a combination of undercover investigations, research, campaigns, political lobbying and education. CAPS and AZA are both trying to save wildlife and wild animals in different. To bridge the gap between the varying views, The two opposing sides can come to a compromise by making the existing zoos more comfortable for the animals to live in by eliminating all cages, finding better ways to keep and look after these animals and only importing the animals that need special attention and cannot defend for themselves in the wild. Addington 6 Work Cited AZA SAFE: Saving Animals from  AZA Animals. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Findings may sink  IOL. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Jeory, Ted. Zoos chop wings in half to keep them  Express.co.uk. N.p., 27 Apr. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Our history  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Safari Park to breed chimpanzees despite cruelty warning from  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Strategic  Strategic Plan. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. We believe in a better future for all living  Association of Zoos & Aquariums: AZA.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Zoos  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Addington 7