Student 1 Student Professor Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 22 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft The institute for responsible technology was founded in 2003 by researcher and consumer advocator Jeffrey Smith. The Institute for Responsible Technology (IRT) provides the public with the latest information and research on Genetically Modified Organisms - the process of taking genes from one species and inserting them into another...to obtain a desired trait or  as defined on website. Biotechnology has introduced farmers with corn, soybeans, and other cash crops that can produce its own pesticide and while remaining herbicide tolerant (Smith). Although this may sound like an economic revelation, genetically mutated (GM) plants have shown unintended side effects such as creating new/unknown proteins or toxins (Smith). These side effects have shown in rat-testing experiments (from eating the plants), so the side effects may potentially show in humans as well. goal is to spread awareness and promote the consumption of non-GMO plants. Smith makes use of the website by displaying visually enthralling images that encourage this goal. By utilizing images with visually enticing components and rhetorical appeals, Jeffrey Smith succeeds in shedding light towards the potentially dangerous health risks that cause. The first image (shown below as Figure 1), was located multiple times throughout the website; it was located in the page and under a subsection titled Should You The location of the image and the titles of the webpages indicate that the Student 2 image is used to educate his viewers on GMO education and prove to his viewers why they should care about this issue, and perhaps encourage them to avoid eating GM foods. The image displays the findings from a rat-testing experiment led by Arpad Pusztai, which the most in-depth GMO feeding study ever (xxxxxpdf article.) The image structure is very geometric and structured. It is a box with four images of up-close microscopic pictures of stomach lining and intestinal cells of rats. Two of the images show cells of the controlled rats that ate Non-GM potatoes, and the other two displayed how the cells changed after eating GM potatoes. Across the bottom half of the image reads in a medium-sized plain black text, fed GM potatoes showed proliferative cell which explains what the four pictures above reveal. The color scheme of image is very basic (white with black lines and text) so the blue color of the cell pictures stand out as the focal point of the image. This kind of image would draw attention to viewers with the taste for straight-forward factual images. The image has a box that is split into two sections. The left side section has two microscopic images of stomach lining cells one rat that ate non-GM potatoes and another rat that ate GM potatoes. The right side section has two smaller images of intestinal wall cells one rat that ate non-GM potatoes and another rat that ate GM potatoes. The images show how much larger the gastrointestinal cells have grown from eating GM potatoes compared to the normal size of cells indicated in the non-GM pictures. Since it is organized into sections and labeled with captions, the form easily shows the causal relationship between eating GM potatoes and consequently growing unintended cell growth, a possible sign of cancer. Figure 1 utilizes rhetorical appeals that help educate and persuade the into believing that GMO plants may cause negative health effects. The image strongly appeals to Logos because it displays reasons and evidence that support the claims (Blank). Student 3 After reading and understanding the pictures of the cells before and after rats ate GM potatoes, the majority of viewers can logically agree that genetic modification can lead to health dangerous, such as of cells and damaged organ and immune Modified (GM) Foods and Dr. Arpad 2010). Many people are aware that processed and artificial foods are unhealthier than organic foods, so it would make sense to believe that genetically altered crops could cause unhealthy outcomes as well. Because this image is indicating that GM foods may cause precancerous cell growth, many people may appeal to this image emotionally (Pathos), as most people know someone who has gone through cancer and would be more inclined to care about the message of this image (Smith). At first glance, the image seems to be lacking an appeal to Ethos because it does not show a trademark or name from where this image was made (Lane et al). However, the image shows scientific pictures of real cells, so perhaps viewers will assume that this image may be credibly valid because a scientist or professional had to complete this experiment and take these microscopic pictures in the first place. The image itself also comes from a website that is credible by Ethos; Jeffrey Smith is a consumer advocate promoting healthier non-GMO 2010). However, the image does not show any source information regarding its source or trademark. Likewise, the image does not have a date or reference to when this experiment took place (which would appeal to Kairos), although viewers could look up the date of this experiment (1998), and realize that this occurred within this past decade, which is relevant and recent to this issue (xxxxxhuffintonpost). The second image (shown below as Fig. 2), appears on the bottom or right side of each web page. This image is a movie poster for an award-winning 2012 film by Jeffrey Smith, called Roulette: The Gamble Of Our The image is hyperlinked to another website that Student 4 gives the viewer more information on the description of the film. The image is used to promote this educational film about the health risks of which will also encourage them to avoid eating GM foods. The image displays popcorn kernels/seeds that form the shape of a human skull. A skeleton head symbolizes death or poison which is a unique way to grab the attention and curiosity, which is the intention of the stakeholder. The title is written in a large plain white font which sticks out to the viewer, along with the large central image of the skull head which takes up most of the image. This kind of image would draw attention to viewers with the taste for creative and interpretive thinkers because one must interpret what the correlation is between corn kernel seeds and a deathly skull. There is a direct quote from a blogger called that gives a short summary of what the film is about. The diction used in the description including, conditions implicated with genetically altered gives the viewer enough information to understand that the stakeholder is spreading awareness of the dangers of GM crops, and can interpret the significance of the corn kernel/skull illustration easier. Below the illustration indicates that the creator of this film is also a author, and two awards that this film received. The color scheme is aesthetically pleasing to the eye; the colors are bright and pastel, which juxtaposes the deathly significance of the eerie skull in the middle. The orange font of the subtitle matches the orange shade of the corn kernels, which brings a sense of coordination through the image. The font and font type is easily readable, but a bigger font size for the subtitles and awards would have made reading the image easier for the viewer. Figure 2 also utilizes rhetorical appeals that help promote this educational film about the health risks of which will also encourage them to avoid eating GM foods. Logos is Student 5 utilized by the illustration of the corn kernels sorted into a shape of a skeleton, a symbol of death. At first this combination of corn kernels and a skeleton can seem random, uncorrelated and illogical, but that curiosity in the logic behind the illustration is what drives the viewer into watching the movie that the poster is promoting. Ethos is indicated by the direct quote written by ST Frequency, a writer and blogger, as well as the awards that the film achieved which are displayed in the bottom corners of the image. This film has won the 2012 Movie of the Year by the Solari Report and the Top Transformational Film of 2012 by AwareGuide, which gives the film credibility in its content and quality (Smith). Pathos is used in the image within the title and quote captions: Gamble of our and conditions implicated with genetically altered are serious and shocking scientific statements that will hook a attention and stir an emotional response that persuades them into watching the film. Kairos is indicated through the year 2012 that is mentioned in the awards displayed in the bottom corners of the image. 2012 was less than a decade ago, so the information displayed in this film/poster is still relevant to the issue as of today (Lane et al). The design, form, and context of the images along with the rhetorical appeals such as Logos, Ethos, Pathos, and Kairos educates and persuades viewers into learning more about the issue on consuming GMO foods. Smith exploits the use of these images throughout the Institute for Responsible website to encourage readers to be educated more on and to eventually avoid foods with due to its potentially dangerous health risks. Therefore, by utilizing images with visually enticing components and rhetorical appeals, the Jeffrey Smith succeeds in shedding light towards the potentially dangerous health risks that cause. (WC: 1579) Student 6 Works Cited  Institute for Responsible Technology. Jeffrey Smith, 2010. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Blank, Ryan. is an Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. University of South Florida, 2014. Web. 6 Sept. 2014. Genetically Modified (GM) Foods and Dr. Arpad  Genetically Modified (GM) Foods and Dr. Arpad Pusztai. Jeffrey Smith, 2010. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Genetic Roulette The Gamble of Our  Genetic Roulette The Gamble of Our Lives. Jeffrey Smith, 2010. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. GMO  Institute for Responsible Technology. Jeffrey Smith, 2010. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Institute for Responsible  Institute for Responsible Technology. Jeffrey Smith, 2010. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Jeffrey M. Smith  Institute for Responsible Technology. Jeffrey Smith, 2010. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily et al. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Page numbers. E-text. Smith, Jeffrey. Anniversary of a Whistleblowing  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smith, Jeffrey. Genetic Roulette: The Documented Health Risks of Genetically Engineered Foods. Fairfield, Iowa: Yes! Books, 2007. PDF Article. Spicer, J. & Walker, K. (2016). Chapter 1: Rhetoric Matters. Rhetoric Really Matters: Exploration in rhetoric and argumentation. Student 7 Figure 1: Student 8 Figure 2: http://responsibletechnology.org/