Melanie Zapata ENC 1101 1/27/17 INTERMEDIATE DRAFT FACTORY FARMERS VS ANIMAL RIGHTS ACTIVITS Meat production drastically increases every year and is one of the highest demanding industries in the world. Almost everyone in the world consumes meat in their diet. Some, such as animal rights activists, however, oppose the use of animals on farms entirely and the ways that these animals are handled. On the other hand, farmers must meet these demands and have their own ideologies of the necessity of meat production in agriculture. This results in what seems to be an infinite cycle of disagreement between those that do not believe in the need to use farm animals and the farmers themselves. However, if these two opposing sides were to somehow see eye to eye, the controversy could be considerably minimized. There are millions of people that do not support the use of animals of factory farms. According to PETA.com, The food industry is one of the largest areas where suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of This organization is completely against the use of any kind of animal product in any industry. They strongly believe in the importance in preserving an right to live a humane life. PETA has also been known to have many tactics to protest against companies that may exploit animals. Because of the use of animals in meat production, PETA stands completely against factory farming and constantly criticize and protest the methods used in factory farming when raising animals for consumption. Examples of the inhumane treatment that PETA stands against can be found in J. Lassen, P. and B. academic journal in which they briefly discuss the treatment of pigs in factory farms. Docking, a mutilating technique in which the tails are cut off, is practiced and deprived the pigs of their ability to follow natural instincts and thus eroded their (6 Lassen et al) In perspective, this should be enough to recognize factory farming as immoral and unjust to well deserved rights. Conversely, factory farms consider the production of meat on farms utterly necessary for several reasons. The demand for meat is virtually never-ending and must meet those demands. Farmers insist that the methods used in farming in relation to the treatment of animals is a part of the production process. Although others may point fingers at these techniques and call them unsafe, many farmers reassure consumers that their food is safe. Americasfarmers.com tells site that Farmers are producing the safest and most affordable Also, many farmers argue that factory farming is necessary for the economy worldwide. In his online article, Mateus J.R. Paranhos da Costa states comprises a significant proportion of the Latin American economy, with strong performance from the poultry, beef and pork production (2 Paranhos da Costa) Farmers and factory farm employees will also argue that this is their only means of living and rely on farming for the sustainment of their families economically. There is an endless list of reasons why factory farmers consider meat production and methods used when raising or slaughtering animals necessary. When brought up in a general conversation, animals rights activist and factory farmers seem like fire and ice. However, much to the disbelief of some, both do share a common interest: animals. Animal rights activists are concerned with the wellbeing of animals and hope for their use in agriculture to be completely diminished. Farmers are mostly focused on providing consumers with safe, edible meat and producing a large quantity while saving as much money and produce as possible. Animal rights activists believe that animals deserve a healthy life just as much as humans. Farmers believe that healthy animals would result in a better economic sector. Although both reasoning lies in different aspects, their ultimate interest is within the animals themselves. There are a couple of approaches that exist when attempting to satisfy the interests of both animal rights activists and factory farmers when looking at the overall wellbeing of the animals. If factory farms could practice more techniques when handling farm animals, perhaps PETA could begin to notice the attempts to provide animals with more humane lives and reduce their tactics of protesting. People with equal mindsets as PETA must also come to the realization that animals are always going to be used in farms and any chance of the discontinuation of this is well beyond our lifetimes. The demand for meat is virtually inevitable, something that must be considered by PETA. However, an rights to a cruelty-free life is something that can be provided by farmers. Factory farmers must recognize the existence of alternative methods when handling farm animals. These methods, such as the update of technological resources used in factory farms, could result in an increase of produce and boost the economy. Two seemingly incompatible stakeholders with completely different perspectives of animals of farms share a common interest. The health of animals plays in both of their interests and can result in a better animal community in the eyes of animal rights activists as well as an increase in production for farmers. WORKS CITED PETA.com Americasfarmers.com Meat Science: Strategies to promote farm animal welfare in Latin America and their effects on carcass and meat quality traits