Moir 1 Alexandra Moir Ms. Alison Missler Composition 2 Section 44 27 January 2017 The Great Dairy Debate Milk production occurs across the globe, with the bulk of it happening in the United States. Over 14% of the milk is produced right in our own backyards (CIWF 2012). The dairy industry has been labeled as an industry that emits large amounts of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, which in turn causes environmentalist groups, such as the World Wildlife Fund, to speak out against their current farming methods. Groups on the other side of the spectrum, those that support the dairy industry, such as the International Dairy Foods Association, wish to make the industry as strong as possible. Changing the methods of farming would take time, training and money, all commodities that they would rather not sacrifice. If the two groups, however, would come together and collaborate, the could work together to mobilize methods that would be beneficial in the economic and environmental aspect of dairy production which could be to the advantage of both parties involved. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) is an environmental conservation organization that was founded on the basis to address the lack of funds going towards environmental issues. Now, it has grown into a worldwide network which innovative solutions that meet the needs of both people and (WWF 2017) to locations everywhere. They focus on countless areas of the environment to attempt to keep it in a healthy condition, such as the oceans, forests, and animals. In respect to the subject of dairy farming, they would like it to continue while keeping the environment issues in the forefront of the minds. Moir 2 Dairy farming has been linked to producing greenhouse gases (GHGs) that can contribute to climate change, such as CO2, N2O and CH4, and the International Panel on Climate Change concluded that 10-12% of greenhouse gases come from the agricultural sector (Gollnow, Sebastian, et al. 2014). If one does not follow proper farming procedures, for example, the handling of manure or fertilizer improperly, the water sources nearby can become contaminated from the chemicals within the compounds (WWF). Since dairy farming includes multiple steps, such as transportation, feed, and fermentation, there are numerous areas of the environment that can experience the effects of this industry. A journal published by Horacio A. Aguirre-Villegas and Rebecca A. Larson, they stated percentages of greenhouse gases emitted from portions of the dairy industry: Manure is the second largest source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on a dairy farm after enteric methane (CH4) and is responsible for 7% of both agricultural CH4 and nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions (USEPA, 2006). Volatilized ammonia (NH3) from manure, which can reach up to 70% of excreted nitrogen (N), can travel long distances and deposit into water and terrestrial ecosystems or transform into N2O emissions, contributing to both eutrophication and climate change (Hristov et al., 2002). This splice of the journal depicts the extreme impact that a small portion of the industry can have on the environment, especially the air and the water sources surrounding the local community. The International Dairy Foods Association (IDFA) is an organization whom represents numerous dairy organizations and suppliers, composed of three main groups: (1) the Milk Industry Foundation, (2) the National Cheese Institute (NCI) and (3) the International Ice Cream Association. Their focus is to provide their stakeholders with the proper training, education and materials needed to succeed along with influencing all governmental policy that includes dairy Moir 3 and other industrial issues. The members of this association run companies and operations all around the world, and represent approximately 85% of the United States dairy products (International Dairy Foods Association 2017). The International Dairy Foods Association wants to accomplish numerous tasks, such as to clear the negative connotation of the dairy products, become a resource for officials in economic analysis, reduce the overall amount of interference from the government and make the dairy industry a more sustainable process. In a journal published in 2015, it states that dairy sector is crucial to world economy, currently being one of the most competitive and influential sector in food with the United States being the second largest producer/exporter of milk (Oliveira, Jonas da Silva, et al. 2015). If the association were to make improvements to the farming methods already in place, it would become more economically beneficial and would allow methods to be more efficient. An example of profitable innovations in the dairy industry would be the use of genomics to increase breeding values, and should, in theory, reduce the amount of inbreeding in cows (Silva, Marcos V.B., et al. 2014). It is too soon in time to determine whether the amount of inbreeding does decrease in actuality. This type of compromise, where two organizations work together to solve a problem, has occurred in the past, which is why this compromise is assured to work. There was a collaboration between and the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) in 1990, where the EDF proposed a 42-step plan that depicted how could minimize its carbon footprint (Qudrat 2012). The main problem was that 80% of their waste was being generated in its daily operations with food preparations and their supply system (Environmental Defense Fund). Nobody would have thought that a fast food chain, would team up with a non- profit environmental support group to solve such a problem. They worked together and looked at every aspect from suppliers to distribution centers and to the final stage being the restaurants to Moir 4 see were reductions in materials could happen. Because of this collaboration between both organizations, eradicated 300 million pounds of packaging, condensed its restaurant waste by 30%, and saved an average of $6 million per year (Environmental Defense Fund), proving that partnerships between two unlikely organizations does work. In the 1990s, the environment was at the forefront of minds, similar to higher order issues. Both industries have an interest in the sustainability of the craft, however, neither thought of joining together to amplify their efforts. By collaborating, the World Wildlife Fund can help provide a plan to slowly alleviate some of the environmental stress the dairy industry applies while keeping the economy for the products afloat, similar to the McDonald and Environmental Defense Fund Plan. Since methane levels can vary greatly by diet alone, by 50% in some cases, a way to alleviate stress from the environment would be by managing the diets. As stated in the International Dairy Journal, ways that would diminish the amount of greenhouse gases emitted would be manure management, feed production, and the mitigation of enteric fermentation (Thoma, Greg, et al. 2013). Another article published by the International Dairy Journal goes in depth about the different portions of the carbon footprint, stating that approximately 57% of it is contributed by the process known as enteric fermentation, where micro-organisms breakdown carbohydrates and produce CH4 (methane) as a by-product. If changes made within the current system, the dairy industry could expect to lose as much as $2.2 billion per year by the end of the century because of sensitivity to climate change (Mauger, Guillaume, et al. 2015). If these techniques were to be implemented over large increments of time, it would result in little economic stress on the dairy farmers and have an extremely positive effect on the environment, immensely shrinking its carbon footprint. Moir 5 Works Cited Aguirre-Villegas, Horacio A., and Rebecca A. Larson. Evaluating Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Dairy Manure Management Practices Using Survey Data And Lifecycle  Journal Of Cleaner Production (2017): 169. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Anam Qudrat. Alliances: Collaboration Between Business and Environmental Advocacy Inquires Journal, Vol. 4, No. 07, 2012, Pages 1-2, Web, Accessed 27 Jan. 2017 Compassion in World Farming. Dairy 7 Jan. 2012, ciwf.org. Web. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017 https://www.ciwf.org.uk/media/5235182/Statistics-Dairy-cows.pdf Gollnow, Sebastian, et al. Carbon Footprint Of Milk Production From Dairy Cows In  International Dairy Journal 37.(2014): 31-38. ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. International Dairy Foods  International Dairy Foods Association, International Dairy Foods Association. IDFA, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. http://www.idfa.org Mauger, Guillaume, et al. Impacts Of Climate Change On Milk Production In The United  Professional Geographer 67.1 (2015): 121-131. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. reduces waste-and saves  Environmental Defense Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. https://www.edf.org/partnerships/mcdonalds Oliveira, Jonas da Silva, et al. Fair Value: Model Proposal For The Dairy  Agricultural Finance Review 75.2 (2015): 230. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Moir 6 Silva, Marcos V.B., et al. The Development Of Genomics Applied To Dairy  Livestock Science 166.Genomics Applied to Livestock Production (2014): 66- 75. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Thoma, Greg, et al. Regional Analysis Of Greenhouse Gas Emissions From USA Dairy Farms: A Cradle To Farm-Gate Assessment Of The American Dairy Industry Circa  International Dairy Journal 31.Supplement 1 (2013): S29-S40. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. WWF. World Wildlife Fund, 2017, http://www.worldwildlife.org. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017