Korosec 1 Ross Korosec Hannah Lay ENC 1102 11/29/17 Should College Athletes Get Paid For hundreds of years there has been debates on whether or not college athletes should be compensated for their duties that in the long term generate income for University. The main focus in this debate is trying to determine the economic structure of the NCAA especially in the last decade needs to be reformed from what is currently being used. From Player Unions, NCAA, and to journalist the voices in this debate are immense movement for reform is based primarily on one fundamental contradiction: Major college sports Division I college basketball and football are billion-dollar industry, yet the athletes themselves earn only a miniscule fraction of this sum a scholarship. Critics argue amateurism is an exploitative to keep the athletes from sharing in the profits of their labor (Van Rheenen, 2012), stating that amateurism has never been about an ideal; it has always been about control (Phillips, In this debate the two main stakeholders are that of the NCAA and players in the NCCA. The two objectives of these two associations are simple. Maximize the benefits for a student athlete without exploiting them. The Truth of the matter is that the two agree that players deserve to benefit from their contributions to the University but to what extent is where the heated debate comes into play. In the past events, have occurred bringing it to the attention. These have helped pave way to where the current rules are. With the reoccurring issues, it might make one stop and Korosec 2 ponder if what is currently being used is still viable in todays day in age. The NCAA actually created the name in order to prevent athletes from being able to claim that they are technically employed due to the hours required from coaches and profit that is created. Coaches actually have control over academic life as well as their regiment for their particular sport outside of season which has been known to affect grades of these student athletes creating low graduating rates. Stories like these are examples of what student athletes are facing. former college football players sued various collegiate athletic conferences and broadcast networks, claiming a conspiracy with the NCAA to collect billions of dollars, while the student athletes upon which the system depended received only athletic scholarships. The plaintiffs alleged a recent study revealed the average football student-athlete had a fair market value $456,612 above and beyond the value of a scholarship. They attacked the NCAA amateurism rules as anticompetitive agreements. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss. The district judge found that the NCAA and its conferences marketed college football which was the epitome of competition because it consisted of contests between competing institutions. He explained that the entire structure of college football would fall apart if there were no rules on which the competitors agreed that affected the size of the field, the number of players on a team, etc. Thus, the judge ruled that NCAA rules actually promoted competition because they played a vital role in enabling college football to preserve its character and as a result enabled a product to be marketed that might otherwise be unavailable. He dismissed the case, ruling that the amateur character of a student-athlete was a fundamental part of those competitive Stories like these have happened time and time again. The NCAA stands firm that the players are still Armatures and should not be profiting off the revenue created. But is this right? We see in this story that there are two totally reasonable explanations for each side. How are we able to reach Korosec 3 common ground in this. Universities are able to claim that scholarships are a form of compensating for the egregious hours of service the students provide. This is a very viable reason that the NCAA is able to throw in the face of the press and lawyers fighting to get their athlete paid for the services provided. If all athletes were to quit the Universities would be financially and this is the point player unions are trying to stress. The NCAA does indeed provide a elusive rulebook that allows them to be in the right to profit from the athletes doings NCAA features a 430-page manual governing its Division I sports, complete with a four-page table of contents and user guide. The manual states the basic purpose of the NCAA is to maintain intercollegiate athletics as an integral part of the educational program retain a clear line of demarcation between intercollegiate athletics and professional sports. The NCAA achieves this desired demarcation by requiring student-athletes to be amateurs in an intercollegiate sport, and their participation should be motivated primarily by education and the physical, mental and social benefits to be derived. Article 1241 of the manual outlines numerous bylaws that help to promote and maintain amateurism in collegiate By signing a NLI which is required by law in order to play in NCAA sports, Students are agreeing to this. The overall objective of NCAA is create a competitive league that is not driving by profit of players. Professional organizations are able to incentivize players to be on a specific team because they are financially better off than another organization. NCAA provides an equal playing field by giving each team a certain amount of scholarships in order to equalize the playing field. The only thing that drives a student athlete to attend a certain school would be the academics and facilities that a University can provide. Which can only be improved from a University thriving in their athletics. Korosec 4 It is very obvious what the two stakeholders are trying to achieve in this manner but solutions have not yet been attained leaving each side happy. When we begging to think about all the possibilities that could create some form of compromise we need to think what each side wants. Student athletes want to be compensated for their duties which are performed for a ridiculous amount of time. Their duties affect their graduation rate and take up most of their time throughout the year even when classes are not in session. The current form of compensation is a certain amount of scholarships divided up between a team. Not all athletes receive scholarships so it is in a way it is an unequal form of compensation. The NCAA has a goal to create successful sports teams at their universities. A byproduct of this is that the university creates revenue from commercializing their athletes and benefit drastically from it. With this money, they are able to pay coaches more, create better facilities, and a larger group of students who want to apply to that specific school which allows the university to thrive. What can the university give up that does not detract from this process. To find common ground I think that a viable method to use is maybe increase the amount of scholarships for each team. The university will take little to no loss by doing so. Also, this provides student athletes to get a high level education while still excelling at the sport they specialize in for free. This detracts a lot of debate. If all College athletes are able to have a full ride, then both parties are able to benefit. Korosec 5 Sources White, Mark H. II, and Ludwin E. Molina. Infrahumanizing Praise: Athletic Admiration Decreases Perceptions Of Agency And Support For College  Social Psychology 47.4 (2016): 187-200. PsycARTICLES. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Competitive Nature Of NCAA Rules Keeps Student-Athletes From Being  College Athletics And The Law 8 (2015): 10. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McCormick, Robert A. The Myth Of The Student-Athlete: The College Athlete As  Washington Law Review 81.(2006): 71. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wolverton, Brad. Graduation Rates For College Athletes Reach Historic  The Chronicle Of Higher Education 13 (2006): Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.