Benrube 1 Jared Benrube Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102: Composition II 29 January 2017 Fixing the United States Presidential Election Since 1787 the president of the United States has been elected using the Electoral College. Most of the time the results of the electoral votes goes hand in hand with the results of the popular vote, but on some rare occasions the candidate with the most popular votes win the election. The recent 2016 election exemplifies this rare occasion in which Donald Trump was elected president through the electoral votes even though Hillary Clinton had over 2 million votes more than him in the popular vote. Many people feel that the Electoral College system is an outdated method of determining our election, and that it is not democratic as they believe the voice of the voters are going unheard. Others feel that abolishing the Electoral College would undermine the federalism that has been established in the United States, and believe that it would cause our presidential candidates to focus on bigger regions to get votes. Whether people are for or against the Electoral College, the goal of both sides is to have the voice of the voters to be heard. By having the election being determined by both the electoral and popular vote, we can make sure voice is heard in future elections. Save Our States is a project created by the Freedom Foundation that supports preserving the constitutional federalism of the United States and keeping the Electoral College in place. They believe that abolishing the Electoral College and determining our president through popular vote would make it so that the voices of people in smaller states be heard. According to the article the Electoral System the Electoral College was established at the Benrube 2 Constitutional Convention in 1787 as one of several compromise ideas for how to elect the president of the United States. Other methods included selection by the Congress, by the state governors, by the State legislatures, by a group of Congress members chosen by lot, and by direct popular vote. The Electoral College was chosen as it had allowed for balance when there was varying State and Federal interests, it gave State legislatures the choice of how their electors were selected, it gave smaller states leverage so that the election dominated by more populous states, it helped preserve that the election and reelection of the president is independent from Congress, and it eliminated political manipulation from the election process the Electoral College 2). Those that support the Electoral College reject that it is undemocratic by stating that the electors are chosen by voters in free elections since the nineteenth century. They also state that it is a major part of federalism in the United States as the Constitution proposes a Federal election for the presidency where the votes are tallied in every state College 9). Today with the fifty states and District of Colombia there are 538 electors, and the president is determined by the candidate that gets at least 270 of the electoral votes. The number of electors each state has is determined by the number of house and senate members they have. This allows for smaller states to have their voices heard as well in the elections rather than the results being dominated by the more populous states, as intended when the Electoral College was enacted. Save Our States is against the National Popular Vote as they believe it misinforms people about the Electoral College and federalism in the United States. The constitutionality of the NPV initiative has been brought into question as it might interfere with some of the provisions in the Voting Rights Act. Since the NPV is an interstate compact it comes into question of whether it needs the approval of Congress to be passed as in the Constitution is says Benrube 3 that no state can make an agreement or compact with another state without the consent of Congress the Electoral College System 32). For the National Popular Vote to be passed it would need the approval of Congress if it is enacted in every state. The National Popular Vote is a bill that was created so that if it is passed in every state, the presidency would go to the candidate that wins the popular vote. The creators of the bill believe that the Electoral College is undemocratic and that determining the winner of the election by popular vote would increase democracy in the United States. In the article and Cons of the Electoral College US senator Barbara Boxer compares the results of the election to a game of basketball. She states that it make sense to have the candidate with the lower number of votes win the election, just like you have the winner of a basketball game being the team with the least number of points. Barbara Boxer, along with others, believe that the system is outdated and undemocratic saying that it violates the principle of one person, one vote and Cons of the Electoral 19.) The National Popular Vote go into effect until it is enacted in enough states to have at least 270 of the electoral votes. With it in place the states that have the compact enacted would have their electoral votes go to the national popular vote winner. The article College states that supporters of the NPV claim that it would eliminate: the possibility of the candidate with the fewer number of votes to win the election, faithless electors, reliance on a winner-take-all system, various voting power advantages, and the results of the election depending on the Twelfth Amendment. NPV advocates believe that with the compact enacted presidential and vice presidential nominees would need to evenly spread their campaigning nationwide as be campaigning for every vote College 11). Benrube 4 While both stakeholders have valid arguments for their point of views, a compromise can be made to how the winner of the presidential election is determined. The winner of the election should be determined by both the electoral votes and the popular votes. With this compromise enacted it would make sure that the voice of every voter is heard because if neither candidate wins both votes, a run-off vote would be held in order to determine the winner of the election. The article College lists three of the most popular methods to reforming the Electoral College. The first method would be an automatic plan which would have the electoral votes automatically rewarded on the basis of a winner-take-all system in each state. The second method would be a district plan that would be similar to what is already adopted in Maine and Nebraska where one electoral vote would go to the winning candidate in each congressional district and the two votes would go to the statewide popular vote. The last method is a proportional plan that would have each states electoral votes automatically rewarded based on the percentage proportion of the popular vote gained by each candidate College 9). The compromise plan would be similar to the second method listed because if the electoral and popular vote is split between the candidates nationwide, the run-off vote would have it so that each states two votes would go to the popular vote while their remaining votes would go to the candidate that won the district. To have this compromise enacted a bill would need to be passed in every state and have the consent of Congress. In conclusion, this method would fairly distribute the votes in each state in accordance to the candidate each region voted for. Since both stakeholders want the voice of the voters to be heard this is the best way possible to do so since it be a winner-take-all situation used to determine the winner of the election in each state. While it is often times rare for a candidate to win the electoral vote and not the popular vote, it has happened twice in the past five presidential Benrube 5 elections. This compromise will take into account the voices of the voters in every region, and will make sure the candidate that we the people of the United States voted for will be elected president. Benrube 6 Works Cited How The Electoral College System  Congressional Digest 96.1 (2017): 2-32. Academic Search Premier. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Electoral College  Congressional Digest 96.1 (2017): 8-32. Academic Search Premier. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. The Pros And Cons Of The Electoral College  Congressional Digest 96.1 (2017): 18- 31. Academic Search Premier. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.