Malik Al Murshidi Mr. Adam Phillips ENC 1102 026 January 28, 2017 Animal Testing Animal testing is one of the biggest controversies in world. PETA, an animal rights organization, has been working with many companies to expand and develop new testing methods that requires no animal use. But on the other hand, most scientists and research centers insist that animal testing is a successful method responsible for many cures, and contributed to advances in understanding of many conditions and illnesses. Both stakeholders must work together to come up with new alternative testing methods that will not involve any animals. Animals used in research has increased with the growth of research and development in medical technology. Every single year, millions of animals are used for experimenting all around the globe. The painful experience, stress and death experienced by the animals during scientific experiments have been a debating issue for a long time. The major concern is about the unethical way scientists and researchers run their tests on animals, a bit more disadvantages of animal testing like requirement of manpower who qualified and skilled for the task, protocols that are very time consuming followed by high costs. Humans have used animals for food, transportation and pets since the beginning of humanity itself. However, the use of animals for experimental testing and research is a more recent use. Many or most people are against animal testing because of its unethical and cruel results. Despite many protests and efforts from animal rights activists and organizations, animal testing is still a research method used everywhere around the world. The method of testing on animals is still in use in our modern world. This topic caused a huge debate whether animals should or should not be used for testing. PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) is the largest animal rights organization, with more than 5 million supporters and members worldwide. PETA uses public education, events, protest campaigns and research to raise awareness on animal testing. PETA, the first stakeholder in the debate, and most animal rights activists claim that the method is inhumane and animals suffer because of it. unethical to sentence 100 million thinking, feeling animals to life in a laboratory cage and intentionally cause them pain, loneliness, and (www.PETA.org). Animal testing involved many cruel techniques and procedures, shocking, burning, and killing animals is all in a work for vivisectors. If these atrocious acts were committed outside laboratories, they would be (www.PETA.org). main argument revolves around the unethical testing methods that harm animals both physically and mentally. Some animals are left with burns and major body parts damage. The practice itself is agonizing for the animals. A variety of animals were used; rats, mice, birds, rabbits, guinea pigs, sheep, fish, frogs, pigs, birds, dogs, cats, primates, among others. According to a study done by PETA, year, more than 100 million animals are killed in U.S. laboratories for biology lessons, medical training, drug, food, and cosmetics the figures are high and shocking, with PETA claiming that most of the tests are wasteful and unreliable with out of 10 experimental drugs fail in clinical the reason to why they fail is because we cannot accurately predict how they will behave in people. Historically, humans have successfully cured mice of cancer, but that the same method never worked on humans. Despite huge member count and support, also scientists and people that think testing on animals are necessary. Biomedical research associations insist that testing on animals has been successful in the past, and that it has led to many cures and medical breakthroughs. CBRA (California Biomedical Research Association) is the second stakeholder who insist that animal testing is a necessity in our modern world, and that it will help advance our knowledge in the medical field. According to CBRA, animals make excellent test subjects because are biologically similar to humans. In fact, chimpanzees share more that 99% of DNA with humans and mice share more than 98% DNA with (www.ca-biomed.org). This means humans and chimpanzees share many common health problems making them the best test subjects we have. CBRA supports idea on using model computers and artificial cells that replicate the behavior of a human body. However, CBRA claims that some tests are not possible to work on computer models yet cannot be studied in bacteria and it is not possible to study the effects of high blood pressure in tissue (CBRA) Scientists discovered three crucial drugs that cured cases of hypertension, both mild and severe cases, the research was run on mice, cats, rabbits and rats. Because of that discovery, researchers today know that treating hypertension can reduce kidney disease, heart disease and reduces the chance of a stroke. During the mid-18 th century, the first successful kidney transplant by a human was performed. Before the surgery, it was first performed on dogs as a sort of practice. Similar methods have been used since, and it successfully led to the treatment and prevention of many diseases, this did not only benefit humans, it benefits animals as well. than 80 medicines and vaccines developed for humans are now used to treat (CBRA). Thanks to research on animals, it has helped develop many vaccines for animals to cure and fight diseases such as rabies and distemper in dogs and cats, it even assisted in the advancement of treatments for heartworm. Research on animals has saved many species from going extinct, like the Brazilian tamarins and the Californian condor, due to new reproductive methods applied to rare and endangered species. There are many other benefits to both humans and animals because of biomedical research. Both stakeholders have found common ground when it comes to the future of animal testing. Both stakeholders work together to develop advanced computer models, so that animals be used for testing. As of now many Biomedical research centers have adjusted their research methods to be more humane, by using a new process called the The 3 reduction, refinement and replacement. Reducing the minimum use of animals and refining the experiments by carefully planning to ensure that the animals feel pain or suffer. Animal replacement means using non-sentient material which may replace the use of conscious living vertebrates in animal experimentation. The best replacement suggested is the use of computers and simulators that can replace animals with more accurate results, meaning better research. Computers helps us understand the basic and essential parts of the bioscience field. Specific computer models and software programs help to create new medicines and vaccines. Computer made simulations are used to anticipate the different outcomes of lethal toxic effects. The use of computers is the best alternative the stakeholders came up with, it will take some time before technology advances to the level that we need animals at all. This will please both stakeholders since no living animal will suffer or feel pain. Works Cited : www.PETA.org www.ca-biomed.org U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Report Animal Usage by Fiscal 2 June 2015. Cary Funk and Lee Rainie, and Views on Science and Pew Research Center, 29 Jan. 2015.