Haynes1 Yohance Haynes Professor Phillips Composition 1102 January 29th 2017 Can Tasty be Healthy The fast food industry and the health community have a long history of bumping heads because of conflicting ideas. Heath vs. tasty fast food is the substance of the problem and the battlefield is our own backyards. The United States is especially under fire from these two organizations. Obesity and overweight related illnesses play a gigantic factor in the conflict between the two stakeholders. Health organizations try to attack this problem and find solutions to these health problems in society. They look at society and find the causes of these issues and create ways to prevent them. In this search for the problem, fast food has shot to the top of the list for biggest causes for these obesity and health problems. Therefore they approach these companies and try to create ways to limit the unhealthy output by these companies. With their efforts they have made some headway but continue to fight over healthy and unhealthy ideals. The fast food companies do not want to stop selling their products because that is how they make money. Bending on little issues but staying strong to their ideas they continue to fight on in the healthy vs. fast food battle. For instance has a franchise built on their fast food products and they stand by them. Then on the other side dietitians like Mike Kamo who disagree with and their products. These two sides are on opposite sides of the spectrum and seem to agree on anything. When you look at both sides and their ideas both want what what is best for the customer. They just have different interests and ways of doing so. Haynes2 By talking about what has to say about their product and what Dietitians have to counter with, the two sides can come to a cease fire by working together in the splitting of healthy options to half of the menu. The Mcdonalds menu is made and specialized for the customers. Their goal is to make good food for the consumer so that they continue to dine there. They want what is best for their customer so that they get the best results. even states on their website At making changes based on what hearing from all of you. why we work hard to make tasty food with a is (Mcdonalds 2) They aim to please their customers and bring society together with tasty food. Speaking of their foods, they claim that their food is made at the best quality and even have their own food experts to support their claims. A huge menu of many different foods from burgers, to fries, to sweet desserts. All made with the best care and quality of ingredients. Their website is very impressive and includes all of the information that a healthy customer or organization could easily find if they were interested. The website even shows their fresh suppliers of the ingredients that they use. Their entire menu is covered on this page with the different companies. Their chicken nuggets, fish, potatoes, beef all come from well supported providers. Mcdonalds does not see the need to change up their menu because their menu is fresh and good for the people it serves. On top of their fast food being of high quality they provide some healthy alternatives. They talk about variety of choices with their oatmeal, salads and fruit that is served. With these foods come big claims that their food is progressing and reducing its unhealthy items. Such as comments like McNuggets have no artificial colors or flavors. And now, no artificial Haynes3 1) They are defending their products well and providing evidence that change is not necessary at the company. On the other side we have a contender that disagrees with statements and thinks they do need to change. Dietitian Mike Kamo has a website nutrition secrets and it talks about the horrible ingredients in foods and why we are getting sick because of it. He goes on to talk about ingredients and they are not what they seem to be. For example, he talks about a study done in 2008-2012 on fries that were left to decay in a jar. The fries still looked pretty much the same as when first ordered. In his opinion that can not be natural or healthy for the body. One big ingredient that has concerned him is dextrose. He exclaims that Our cells need dextrose, but consuming too much of it can lead to fat (Kamo 1) and also that dextrose can also cause spikes in blood sugar levels . (Kamo 1) This ingredient accounts for the fat gained by companies and the obesity rates that come with them. Along with a blood sugar spike that affects diabetic patients and others like them. According to him there are more questionable products like this in Mcdonalds line up. Mike Kamo also goes into a point about the burgers that are served there. He says that claims their burgers are 100% beef and contain no pink slime. So when he further looked at the item he found that the cheese contained the foul ingredients. So this was a way of misdirection to hide the ingredient in the burger. On and on Mike goes down Mcdonalds list of items and defaces something unhealthy that the community can do without. He shows how the food is literally killing us and that is not as nutritious as they make themselves seem. He brings up experiments that are conducted that proves his claims and show the health defects that come along with food. As another example Mike talks about high fructose corn syrup and how it is in Haynes4 list of ingredients. He says that According to the fructose corn syrup is the real driver of the current epidemic of heart attacks, strokes, cancer, dementia, and of course, Type 2 diabetes (Kamo 1) He wants to get out to the community that this food does not sit right with us and we should make some changes to it or where we dine. Bringing details of both companies together and viewing all their points a conclusion has been made. wants to fulfill their mission statement and give best to their customers. Mike Kamo and the health community also wants best for the people health wise. To give the people what is best for them the solution would be to slit the menu. should get rid of half the items off their menu and replace them with healthy choices. This way both sides healthy and fast food get their exposure to the community. In doing this both sides also lose something. loses half of their menu and the health side has no say over what healthy choices or fast food items stay on the menu. A collective solution for the common goal of serving the community. Bringing all the information together, both sides have supported their claims and defended their arguments. The healthy side and the fast food side. They have many opposing viewpoints on the same subjects and do not agree most of the time. But they both have a common goal that brought upon this idea for common ground. By looking at both sides we see that by splitting the menu down the middle we satisfied both groups but most importantly the community. Haynes5 Haynes6 Works Cited Kamo, Mike. The Horrible Ingredients Used in (No Wonder We Are Getting  Nutrition Secrets. Nutrition Secrets, 11 June 2015. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 Company Spotlight:  Marketwatch: Food 4.12 (2005): 25-30. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Our Variety of Ingredients: Quality Foods  Our Variety of Ingredients: Quality Foods Mcdonalds, 2016-2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017