Sebastian Leguizamon Comp ii ENC 1102 29/01/2017 1 Project 1 Intermediate Draft From the days of Caesar to the Obama administration, immigration has always been a major part of political life. It is one of the larger elephants in the room, and seems to be a point of partisan and divisiveness discussion. The two ideas in which people can relate to when speaking about the rights of illegal immigrants in this country could be represented by two specific organizations. The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) which advocates for a decrease in immigration and an end to rights that illegal immigrants can benefit from. MALDEF is the largest legal civil rights organization that focuses on Latinos. They aim to bring the issues of immigrants from Latin America to the fore front of American politics. However different these two organization are with their almost incompatible world views; a compromise can be achieved. Improving the native countries of the immigrants that come illegally would take away the need to emigrate from their respective home lands. FAIR is a non profit organization started in 1979 by John Tanton. Since then, they have grown in numbers and in influence. It is estimated that between 1998 and 2011, the Federation for American Immigration Reform spent aver 3 million dollars on lobbying. Now they stand as one of the most well funded, and thus, powerful organization which advocates an anti- immigration agenda in the nation. It is their believe that immigration has hit a point in a point in history in which if it keeps following its trend, it will be detrimental to aspects of life such as the environment and even the American culture as a whole. According to their mission statement, one million immigrants are led into the United States every single year. If that number is reduced to three hundred thousand, it will have a vast positive affect in the way of life. Improving the environment by controlling population growth, and increasing the quality of life for all Americans. The basic beliefs that the organization is centered around is that in order for [Type [Type Sebastian Leguizamon 2 2 the country to achieve great social causes, that there needs to be a control in the immigration in the country. A policy without discrimination against race, religion, gender or nationality. Their claims are fair and their goal is admirable. However, the premise of a decrease in diversity through the controlling of immigration can call for the unity of people who share xenophobic world views and intolerance. Some of the board directors for FAIR have been on record saying some less than friendly comments about immigrants. There was a recent ad campaign funded and ran by FAIR in Virginia that blamed immigrants for traffic and sprawl in the state. In 1997 Tanton told the Detroit Free Press that unless the border were sealed and secured, the country would be overrun by people and creating garbage and looking for Which should give anyone a pretty good idea about the extreme sentiments about immigration that Tanton and some people within the FAIR organization share with each other. On the other side of the coin, is MALDEF. Founded in 1968 by Pete Tijerina, the organization has been leading the way in advocating for rights and improvement of life for thousands of Latino immigrants that come to this country. Since their early days, MADEF has now expanded their offices into cities like Chicago, Atlanta, and Washington D.C. MALDEF prides itself in promoting for social change through its litigation and education of the population in the areas of rights for immigrants, education, ext. On their website the have different tabs for an area in which they would like to improve the rights given to immigrants (i.e. employment, voting rights, rights ext.) Each of these tabs has a litigation link in which it lists specific legal cases that relate to that area. MALDEF has been called the firm of the Latino as it represents and defends hundreds of Latino Americans in the courts of law of this country each year. Through the years, they have gained an impress line up of directors ranging from Harvard grads, to executives in fortune 500 companies. With all these connections [Type [Type Sebastian Leguizamon 3 3 and money comes influence. Which is all politics really is, influence. MALDEF has had their hand in several land mark U.S Supreme Court cases. Including Plyer v. Doe, which banned a Texas law which made parents of undocumented children pay tuition for public education. Amongst other cases, including some which deal with the redrawing of congressional districts in order to help Latino voters elect their congressmen in Texas as seen in 2006. With their extend of influence they have built a large following and developed deep trust among the Latino immigration community. Immigration is a very complex issue. And these two organizations achieve success when another one fails. So to achieve a compromise between them to some may seem impossible. However there have been some solutions proposed that might make these two radically different organizations come together. The most promising of them seems to be the one which suggests that in order to decrease the number of immigrants that come to the country, one must not just implement bands or witch hunts against immigrants in order to deport them back to their countries. In many cases, those immigrants who come here illegally come to this country out of desperation. So how do you keep a person who is desperate to leave their homeland to stay? By improving the quality of life of these countries. If there is a mass effort by the united states government and support from the people of these powerful organizations in the topic of immigration such as MALDEF and FAIR, enough money and enough support could be gained to make this goal a reality. Foreign aid policies would need to increase in order to improve the quality of life of people in other countries in order to make emigration out of countries out of the United States unnecessary. There is a great sentiment in the united states that revolves around that idea that should come as if to ignore all the problems which occur outside of our borders. However if these people who advocate this idea would like to see an end or at least a [Type [Type Sebastian Leguizamon 4 4 decrease of illegal immigration to this country a compromise would need to be made. In the grand scheme of things, reducing the number of immigrants that are allowed inside the US by improving the lives of millions of people around the world by making education more accessible and governments less corrupt seems like a small price to pay. It seems as if today, the topic of immigration has created a huge divide in this country. Two organizations that show the difference in ideologies that are present in the United States today are FAIR, which has an anti-immigrant agenda and MALDEF, which advocates for the fair treatment of both legal and illegal immigrants. Trying to come up with a compromise that may be accepted by these two organizations may seem impossible, however there are several solutions that seem like they could please both sides. One of them is to make emigration unnecessary for immigrants. If we focused less on putting a lot of our efforts into building walls or deporting people, and more on improving the quality of life of other people outside of our own borders, there would be a decrease of immigration, both legal and illegal in this country, attracting organizations like FAIR. While the humanitarian side of it would attract organizations like MALDEF. The solution is not a simple one, in fact it is extremely complex. But this may be a building block into a better, and safer world for generations to come. [Type [Type Sebastian Leguizamon 5 5 Work Cited - MALDEF: Mission Statement Immigration Federation for American Immigration Illegal Immigration Federation for American Immigration Reform, Olivas, Michael A. From A Organization Of Into A Firm For The Latino : MALDEF And The Purposive Cases Of Keyes, Rodriguez, And  Denver University Law Review 90.(2013): 1151. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. - Should We Do Fundraising Consultants, 2012, pp. - HING, JULIANNE. How To Make AMERICA WHITE  Nation 304.3 (2017): 24-25. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.