Student !1 Student Dr. Thornton 29 January 2017 ENC 1102 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric: Intermediare Draft Public schools around the nation contain a certain form of program that is shown to heighten the mind and excite the soul. The fine arts program in schools has shown potential in the increase of student performance in not just creative areas but basic education and even some advanced education. Regardless of this information, the fine arts program held within schools is starting to be removed; mostly in public schools. A member of the National Education Association has set up a part of their page arguing the removal of fine arts, specifically music, education in public schools using Adams, located in West Contra Costa school district. On their page discusses the their argument against the removal of music education in public schools as well as uses images to attract their argument. Certain images were picked out and analyzed to explain the visual rhetoric behind the placement. The second image used on the page, and the first image analyzed, is scene of what can be implied as an art teacher interacting with two student in some type of fine art education. The primary visual message the stakeholder is communications through this image is a sense of enjoyment from a student interacting in fine arts education. In the image, the student is obviously smiling while doing her work art work. There is one older woman and two young women implying a teacher and students relationship between these three. The one element in this image that stuck out to me the most was its developed tone. The image created a positive tone and Student !2 feeling through the smiling of the student and teacher. This is an obvious cue towards creating this tone. a simple and very commonly used element in advertising as seeing someone enjoying something can create the idea that whatever is being advertised is enjoyable. Regarding rhetorical analysis, the image created a part of visual attraction through the factors of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. In using ethos, the image presents the implied teacher of the art class. The figure given by the teacher shows a sort of credibility, especially when connecting a teacher, another primary educator next to parents, and art, the main focus of the argument. The image represents pathos in the same way it creates tone. Using the image of the smiling student, the picture creates a tone, or more of an emotion relayed from the image. This symbol was used as a factor of pathos. When determining how logos is used in this image, it is a bit more difficult to explain a concrete example; however, what can be said is that the image develops a possible logic the fine arts is fun. the same type of advertisement when saying to eat a certain brand because the brand is good. The advertisement is trying to make the audience believe that there is a logic that the brand is good. Just as logos, kairos is a bit more difficult to develop an explanation for. The possible use of kairos in this image is that a sense of limit is created for the lifetime of fine art education in schools. Dallas, Texas, elementary school students will lose their band programs entirely as they are phased out over the next three years as part of a restructuring that shifts the programs to middle (Holcomb) Basically, the image can be depicted as: art class is fun but unless fought against, art classes will be gone in time. Further more it can be said that fun will be gone in time. The third image used on the arguers page, and the second image analyzed, is an image of a student holding up what can be implied as their own art work; most likely made in a fine arts Student !3 class. There are many possible messages which can be given through this image; however the one which seems most appealing is the encouraging message in that students can achieve so much through the education of fine arts. integrating the arts has dramatically improved teaching and learning in my (Holcomb) This quote hangs above the image improving the point the message is giving. Visual cues given by the image that relays the message is the student and their impressive art work suggestively created by the student. This message would not be easily depicted if there was a student with some not so appealing artwork. The use of something impressive or difficult creates the idea that an art student was able to create this image because the student is an art student. Regarding rhetorical analysis, the image created a part of visual attraction through the factors of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. This image uses the factor of ethos through he incorporated use of the statue of David in the students artwork. The statue of David is a highly considered work of art. When related to a students work of art, a sense of credibility is connected to the students work as the student becomes a more credible artist in the message given. A sense of pathos is depicted through the facial expression of the student. The student in the image expresses a serious face. This can be depicted as a seriousness towards the students hard work in their fine arts class. Using a serious looking student and a highly credible artwork goes hand to hand in making a point in arguing the removal of fine arts education. When using logos, a sense or logic can be created explaining that great work can be accomplished through fine arts education. The logic is basically the message represented from this picture; only more focused on the art aspect rather the general education and achievement. When discussing the use of kairos in the image; it is a bit more general. The sense of kairos may be that, through the determination Student !4 and seriousness of the student, it creates a limited time feeling as if the student is running out of time to be an art student or for the continuation of fine arts education. Its just as animal shelter commercial uses a serious look along with describing a time limit to their cause. The seriousness of the advertisement creates a stronger time restriction to be broken. The two images are very different; however, work very well in their opposite combination. The first image creates the appeal of how enjoyable the argued point is. it gives the audience a sort of reliability to the argument. The audience observes the enjoyment of the point of argument and understands that something enjoyable. The second image creates a seriousness to the argument. The audience learns that the point of argument is not just something fun but something serious. It increases the seriousness of the argument. The second comes after the first so the audience can understand the enjoyability of fine arts classes. Then the second image comes in to show how this enjoyable point of argument can be taken away and quickly. The page created explains argument against removing music programs from schools. Two images were analyzed and broken down to why they are there. The images used were observed to explain what their use was. (Word Count: 1200) Student !5 Works Cited: Holcomb, Sabrina. Arts  NEA. National Education Association, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.nea.org/home/10630.htm>.