Leah Hansil January 29, 2017 Comp II MW 12:30pm The world is changing in many ways and with this also comes advancements in technology. One of these advancements is the ability to genetically modify foods. Genetically modified organisms are the result of a laboratory process where genes are taken from the DNA of a species and mixed into another DNA. Many might see this technology as a great advancement, although not everyone sees it that way. While the American Society of Plant Biologists (ASPB) believe that genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, are the answer to the food shortage problems, other organizations like GMO Free Florida (GMOFF) have a much different opinion. They believe that GMOs will bring more harm to society then they can help it. In order to both help the planet while still giving people their right to choose, there must be a compromise between the two opposing sides. The American Society of Plant Biologists is a professional society devoted to the advancement of the plant sciences. The society first originated in 1923 with approximately 200 members. Their goal was to find a way to use science to solve the upcoming food shortage problem. This society has grown and now publishes two world-class journals and organizes conferences that are key to the advancement of the science. They believe that through plant biology, many of the issues concerning food and the farming industry can be solved. concerns are not invalid. Many studies have shown that extreme climate change is leading to the collapse of food production which causes large food shortages threaten human health and (Cobon 150). Conditions such as droughts, floods, and rising temperatures make it nearly impossible to grow food in what used to be suitable farmland. With these climate changes also comes new bugs and pests that come to feed off the crops. Along with these issues, Thomas Malthus, an economist and writer believed that the population would grow faster than the food would be able to be supplied. With these concerns becoming more of a reality, scientists are turning to the idea of genetically modifying livestock and the seeds used to grow crops. These modified foods include plants with improved resistance against diseases and drought, increased nutrient levels, and even animals with enhanced growth characteristics. They believe this scientific process is the answer when it comes to feeding our growing population. On the other hand, numerous people in the population are against this new found technology. An organization calling themselves GMO Free Florida hopes that one day the government will ban the release of all genetically modified organisms into the environment. The organization has been together since 2010 and now has over 15,000 subscribers that work with other Florida-based organizations to work towards diminishing GMOs. They have also started many divisions of their own called Right to They claim that GMOs have potential health problems, serious environmental damage, and violate and rights. The information is not made available to the public on the process in which scientists modify the food and therefore speculation arises on how safe these foods will actually be. The three major health concerns with genetically modified foods are toxicity, allergenicity, and genetic hazards (Zhang 121). Those against the process worry about chemicals and toxins entering the food. Since the process is not explained to the consumer there are concerns with what is exactly going to be going into their body and if have a reaction to it. Therefore, they want to see these foods on the shelves if they could be dangerous. When considering both organizations, even with their opposed beliefs, they have the same over-all goal. Both the ASPB and GMO Free Florida want what is best for the health and survival of the human population. Their views differ on how to do this, but there is a way to compromise between the two. Putting both GMOs and non-GMOs on the shelves with proper labeling could be a solution that benefits both groups without overstepping on either side. Genetically modified organisms will be available for those who wish to support the science and as time goes on, there comes the possibility of increased demand. They must give up on GMOs being the only source on the shelves while still having it as an option. Those who are opposed to this will also have options at the grocery stores as food not genetically modified will be available as well. They must also give up on GMOs not being on the shelves but will have peace of mind that the foods that are modified will be properly labeled as to not cause accidental consumption. Labeling of GMOs will also allow consumers to make informed decisions when picking out groceries. Since foods are not currently labeled many customers are consuming GMOs without even knowing. After time goes on, grocery stores can also make informed decisions on how much of and what type of food they want to stock on their shelves. This decision can be based off what products the consumers buy more of. Although each organization must give up part of their mission, it will help them reach their overall goal of benefitting human life. This compromise allows both those who support and those who do not support this new technology to have food available to them. It also allows research to be done on if GMOs are demanded by the public based off of sales which will aid in deciding whether or not to continue further with technology. Works Cited Cobon, David H., et al. Shortages Are Associated With Droughts, Floods, Frosts, And ENSO In Papua New Agricultural Systems 145. (2016) 150-164. Environmental Index. Web. 23 Jan 2017 Zhang, Chen, Robert Wohlhueter, and Han Zhang. Modified Foods: A Critical Review Of Their Promise and Food Science And Human Wellness 5.(2016) 116-123. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 GMO Free Florida. gmofreeflorida.org/about/ 29 January 2017 American Society of Plant Biologists. aspb.org/about/ 29 January 2017 American Society of Plant Biologists. aspb.org/about/history/ 29 January 2017 Just Passed A GMO Labeling Bill. Super Happy About NPR. npr.org/sections/thesalt/ 29 Jan. 2017