Lulu Chen ENC 1102 003 Mr. January 29, 2017 Immigration: support or against? Since Uncharted Waters, the great voyager Columbus found the Americas; the Mayflower arrived at the east coast, Immigration had started on this land. After World War II, America became a super power country, and it also attracts a large number of migrants tried to live here. Their goal is simple and clear: getting a better life. According to Trends, Consequences and Prospects for the United the author Chiswick mentions the Immigration law of the United States divides immigration into four ways: family, unification, employment, and diversity. The total number of allowing immigrants was around 600,000 in 1990, but the number increase rapidly every year. Till 2002, the average of increasing amount is about one million per year (10). This crazy number entering in America also cause many different of effects. Some people started to think about is immigration benefit for the country, or it will harm the United States. They divided into two camps that one is to support immigration, and the other one is to against immigration. While the National Immigration Forum believes immigrants should have more opportunities and higher social status because immigrants have great potential to help the economics of America, the Federation for American Immigration Reform argues that immigration should be reduce and limited due to the large amount of immigrants are uncontrolled and increase unemployment rate. To satisfy the objectives of both groups, government should set a limitation for immigrants that enter America every year, offer more opportunities for immigrants who enter America legally, and strengthen border management to restrict illegal immigrants. The National Immigration Forum is an organization that helps immigrants to have more opportunities and live better in America. The organization has many sponsors, such as AltaMed, SEIU Strong Together, and IBC Bank. The total financial donation of the year 2015 was around five million US dollars. The chair of the organization is Laura Foote Reiff from Greenberg Traurig. This organization has helps immigrants through three major programs: Bibles Badges Business, New American Workforce, and Forum Action Fund. The National Immigration Forum believes should be treated better as same as other Americans do because immigrants have great value to make America better. Many immigrants came to America with skill and knowledge, and they could benefit the economics of the United States. According to the author Borjas writes almost, an increase in labor supply of every 15 percent would increase native income by 0.2 or 0.3 percent of the present value of this gain is $800 trillion! This data shows how large amount of economic increase by allowing immigrants enter in America. It proves immigrants can really help the United States raise up the economic status in the world. Also, the economic increase could benefit the citizens of America by building better infrastructure. For those who considering economic effect that brought by immigrants stand on support side for the immigration issue. The Federation for American Immigration Reform is an organization that tries to reform the immigration law and reduce immigration in the United States. This organization has established more than thirty-five years and it has become the group of anti-immigration. They have over one-point-three million memberships and about fifty private sponsors. The Federation for American Immigration Reform believes immigration should be limited because immigrants will cause unemployment and social security issue. According to policy and the authors writes of the 9/11 hijackers entered the United States using various immigrant visas, some perfectly in order and other obtained fraudulently. (Givens This means allowing more immigrants enter in America will also increase the risk of social security. It is hard to making sure every immigrant is not a potential terrorist, and government cannot keep on track the action of every migrants. For those who considering social security effect that cause by immigrants will take an opposite side with those who support immigration. One way to meet both objectives is to limit the number of immigrants that enter into America every year and provide better welfare to those who enter America legally and with high skill. Illegal immigrants are the majority factor that cause social instability. They are not being inquired and enter America without security customs inspection. Compare with legal immigrants, they are more educated and less possible to become a terrorist. According to the article We Know About Illegal Immigration from the author Barrera states Mexico is the largest single group of immigrants in the United In 2014, the number of illegal immigrants from Mexico is around 5.6 million. (Barrera). President Trump had signed an agreement that start to build a border wall between America and Mexico. Although it is a controversial action, it will restrict illegal immigrants enter America through Mexico border. On the other hand, legal immigrants who with high skill should be welcome to America. The United States immigration law has employment-based immigration, which allows people who has high skill and being invited by their employer immigrates to America. This act attracts many people who are high educated and high skill from different countries immigrate to the United States. They can use their skill to contribute this nation and making America become a better country. In conclusion, immigration is the most important issue of America since the United States is the first immigration country. Weather support or against immigration, they both have their reason. The only goal of both group is to make American greater. Immigration has its own advantage and disadvantage. When considering support or against it, people should first determine what are the positive effects and what are the negative effects. Keeping the benefit brought by immigrants and reduce the harmful effect is the only way to make America great and strong. Works Cited Barrera, Ana. We Know About Illegal Immigration From PewResearchCenter, http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2015/11/20/what-we-know- about-illegal-immigration-from-mexico/. Borjas, George J. Immigration Economics. n.p.: Cambridge : Harvard University Press, 2014., 2014. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Chiswick, Barry R. Immigration : Trends, Consequences And Prospects For The United States. n.p.: Bingley : Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 2007., 2007. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Givens, Terri E., Gary P. Freeman, and David L. Leal. Immigration Policy And Security.U.S., European, And Commonwealth Perspectives. n.p.: New York : Routledge, 2009., 2009. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.