1 Grant Polk ENC 1102 Project 1 Jan. 20, 2017 Animals in Captivity Human beings possess a natural curiosity about wild and rare animals. We want to observe them up close, watch how they move, study their interaction with one another, and in many cases, we long to witness these animals perform for us. We for one minute, consider the fact that these animals were taken from their true habitat, away from the very natural elements they need in order to survive. Too often, these animals are controlled and manipulated to behave in an unnatural manner, generally for the sole purpose of entertaining audiences. Is it reasonable for wild animals to be captured and placed in captivity for the rest of their lives, in order to satisfy our curiosity to know more about them, while exploiting their ability to learn and perform tricks? Animal activist groups, such as Captive Protection Society (CAPS) and Stop Animal Exploitation Now (SAEN) are vehemently opposed to the captivity of animals under any circumstances, and their mission is to uncover the truth behind the sad life of animals kept at zoos and aquariums. Along the same lines, animal advocate-type groups like the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums (WAZA) and the Zoological Association of America (ZAA) contend that keeping animals in captivity can be beneficial to both humans and the species. Like CAPS and SAEN, their main concern is for the ethical and fair treatment of the animals held captive in zoos, aquariums and any other situations where animals are put on display. They promote responsible ownership, through high standards in animal care and safety. The World Association of Zoos and Aquariums (WAZA), whose motto is for encourage and support zoos, aquariums and other like-minded organizations 2 throughout the world, and they are at the forefront of animal welfare. They claim that caring for animals in zoos and aquariums are continuous with caring for them in the wild. Two new strategies, released by WAZA in 2015, have been researched and approved by leading academics and organizations in the field of conservation. WAZA maintains that these two strategies are essential to the operation of aquariums and zoos globally. to is one of the strategies, which includes 7 steps to conservation leadership. Caring for Wildlife is the second strategy, and entails a scientific approach to caring for animals and ensuring their welfare. Within these strategies, WAZA encourages zoos and aquariums to and prioritize species which allow you to deliver conservation victories that clearly demonstrate the impact the animals in zoos and aquariums have on our ability to save their wild http://www.waza.org/en/site/media/publications-1264077522/waza-strategies. Furthermore, the stringent guidelines imposed by WAZA ensure the welfare of the animals by including proper nutrition guidelines, exhibit design standards, and staff training. Many of their conservation success stories are revealed in their book, a Future for Wildlife: Zoos and Aquariums Committed to Biodiversity by Gerald Dick and Markus Gusset, who are both conservation biologists with WAZA. In light of conservation successes, there are some instances when animals in captivity are a necessity in order to ensure their survival. These instances would include situations where wild animals are injured or in danger, and are in obvious need of care. For instance, during the Gulf Oil spill in 2010, there was an immediate impact on the wildlife around the Gulf of Mexico. Many scientists and volunteers got together to gather birds and other animals covered in oil. These animals were captured, cleaned, fed and released back into the wild after a matter of days. Other instances where captivity would be a necessity, would include rare species that are 3 caught and studied in order to help save them from extinction. The Florida panther is one such animal that is prone to disease, genetic disorders and car accidents. These situations obviously require a short amount of time in captivity, in order to ensure the well-being of the animals involved. On the other hand, there is compelling evidence verifying that keeping animals in captivity over a long period of time is detrimental to their physical and psychological well-being. In fact, animal experts from the Captive Protection Society (CAPS) insist that keeping animals in captivity actually drives them insane. Their study found that 90 percent of the animals held in aquariums and zoo-like environments exhibit some form of self-harming behavior as well as neurotic behavior. These behaviors are simply not observed when animals are studied in the wild. Their stance on animals in captivity is that wild animals belong in their natural habitat, and that no manmade environments are suitable for these creatures. Furthermore, the claim these entertainment industries make that we are educating the masses about these animals is not a valid point. Animals cannot and should not be manipulated for our entertainment, and time we educate ourselves and especially our children that this is not a realistic goal for these wild animals. The recent closure of the Ringling Bros. Barnum & Bailey Circus, as well as the phasing out of the Sea World killer whale shows, demonstrate the drastic changes beginning to take place in the animal entertainment industry. There is now an awareness and an understanding that keeping these animals in captivity for the sake of entertainment is truly unethical. These iconic shows and performances are amongst the most entertaining and well-known animal shows in the world, yet changing their shows or shutting down their operation completely. These big businesses touted for years that the animals they keep are very well taken care of, and better off than they would be in the wild. So, why are Barnum & Bailey and Sea World changing their 4 views? The continued pressure from animal activist groups such as PETA, CAPS and SAEN has caused them to rethink their practices of taking wild animals out of their natural element and keeping them in captivity. This shift in thinking is just the beginning of the realization that keeping animals in captivity is downright cruel. 5 Works Cited Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The animal rights  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Ringling announcement an indicator of broader shift toward animal protection A Humane  A Humane Nation. N.p., 16 Jan. 2017. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Waza. WAZA is the unifying organization for the world zoo and aquarium  WAZA : World Association of Zoos and Aquariums. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Waza. WAZA  WAZA Strategies : WAZA : World Association of Zoos and Aquariums. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Administrator. Welcome to  Welcome to ZAA.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. MLA formatting by BibMe.org.