Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Visual Rhetoric in the Musical Arts It has been proven that giving students access to musical arts in school leads to higher graduation rates and a more well-rounded individual. One primary issue is, having a musical arts program in a school can be costly; Buying music equipment, hiring qualified instructors, and creating a comprehensive program takes a great deal of money and resources. The National Association for Music Education is a stakeholder for keeping the musical arts in schools. The organization has made it their mission to make sure student has access to a well-balanced, comprehensive, and high-quality program of music Specifically, the website features two images that are used to further their message. These two images use visual rhetoric to inform viewers of the mission and purpose, as well as to get people involved through monetary donation and direct legislative action. The National Association for Music Education website features a page about their plan for the year 2017. Part of their plan states their desire to and maintain comprehensive coalitions, strategic alliances, partnerships, and sponsorships to advance music This leads to the first image of a young boy who is in stylish clothing playing an acoustic guitar. The image contains text to the left of the boy that reads MUSIC! DONATE $10 BY TEXTING to This image is an example of the National Association for Music Education using their website as a platform to advertise fundraisers for the musical arts. The background of the image is yellow and white. These bright colors allow the dark grey Student 2 text and the stylish blue and green clothes to stand out. This contrast is what will grab the attention and make it easier for them to understand. The image can also grab the attention through emotions. The emotional appeal, also known as pathos, is represented through the boy. The image of a kid having fun with a guitar will stay with the viewer, therefor compelling them to donate to the cause. If the advertisement only contained a standalone image of a guitar, the viewer might not give the same consideration to the impact of donating. Another appeal found in the image is known as ethos, or the appeal to credibility. The image of the boy can act as an emotional appeal, but it can also give the impression that the organization has a sense of solicitude. In other words, a viewer might be more willing to donate if they get the sense that the organization truly cares about their cause. A third appeal, logos, can also be derived from the image. The appeal to logic is apparent in the use of quick and simple wording. As well as the simple wording, the ease of donating via SMS text-to-donate means more people have less of an excuse to not donate. However, no matter how appealing the image is to its audience, if it is not presented at the right time, it will not be effective. This appeal to timeliness is known as kairos. The timeliness of the image becomes clear when people hear about schools cutting funds for art programs. This seems to be more of a problem now that science programs have become more of a demand. Going back to the National Association for Music plan for the year 2017, they have also stated that they intend to the legislative and regulatory environment to support music education and The second image would help explain how they plan to accomplish this task. In the second image, there is a group of young men and women surrounding a table, dressed formally, presumably discussing legislative actions that can be taken relating to music education. The purpose of this is to make people feel like they can get involved Student 3 and make their voice heard. Because of the formal nature of this image, relative to the first image, the color palette is more neutral and the overall tone is more serious. The text, to the right side of the picture, says ACTION Then below in a smaller font it says Music Education in Federal Education Policy Add Your Voice to the Legislative in a simple and easy to read shade of blue. When breaking down the second image, the picture uses pathos to make the viewer feel like they should get involved, appealing to their emotions. The picture also serves as an appeal to credibility, again, known as ethos. The picture of a young adult participating in the legislative process shows off the character of the organization. Parents and adults will see the picture and understand the message that the National Association for Music Education is trying to portray. In contrast to the first image, this one separates the text from the picture using logos. This arrangement of the image allows the viewer to form their own logical understanding of the image before reading the text, or vice versa. Lastly, the tone and style of the text appeals to timeliness. Kairos is used through the straightforward word choice and by using capital letters to show importance. Also, is literally something that is timely as it deals with current issues and acts upon them. Using various visual and rhetorical strategies, the National Association for Music Education continues to take strides to spread their message and further the availability of music education in schools. In the first image that was analyzed, the message was asking for support in their cause by donation. This image used a brighter tone to convey its message and was directed to a wider audience than the second image. In the second image that was analyzed, there was a call to action. It was evoking the idea of joining in the process of direct action through legislation. The image was intended for an older audience, especially parents who Student 4 understand the issue. Together, these images support the claim that student should have access to a well-balanced, comprehensive, and high-quality program of music Student 5 Works Cited National Association for Music Education. National Association for Music Education, 2017. www.nafme.org/. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. and Goals National Association for Music National Association for Music Education, 2017. www.nafme.org/about/mission-and-goals/. Web, 28 Jan. 2017. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 19-52. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 371-374. E-text. Staff, Edudemic. vs. STEAM: Why The Makes a Edudemic, 21 Jan. 2015, www.edudemic.com/stem-vs-steam-why-the-a-makes-all-the-difference/. Web, 29 Jan. 2017.