Hathaway 1 Michelle Hathaway Ms. Hannah Lay Composition 2 Section: 047 29 January 2017 Tyson Foods Inc. & Hidden Villa Ranch In this day and age, the actual thought of where are meat comes from is nonexistent. People just pick up their meats from the shelves of a grocery store and move on. Companies like Tyson Foods Inc. and Hidden Villa Ranch are the ones behind the scenes packaging and actually doing the slaughtering of the livestock. These companies are necessary in the normal order of how to get meat to the consumer. Tyson Food Inc. has a mission statement that is followed throughout the company. It is as states, are a company of people engaged in the production of food, seeking to pursue truth and integrity, and committed to creating value for our shareholders, our customers, our TEAM Members, and our communities. We strive to be a company of diverse people. We strive to be honorable. We strive to be a faith-friendly- (www.tysonfoods.com). To break it down this mission statement is saying that this company is a family and community oriented company so hand in hand means that the production time and quality of the meats they are selling are very important to this company. Hidden Villa Ranch is another company that is in the meat industry their mission statement is as follows, Villa Ranch is a diverse food company conducting Retail and Foodservice egg and egg product Sales. We also specialize in domestic and international trading and wholesaling of agricultural products. It is our mission to grow these businesses as a team, to have fun, to make money, and to do the right In a summarized fashion this is Hathaway 2 stating that this company cares about quality and production of their meats. Both companies have different mission statements but an underlining same want, which is good production times and great quality meats. The only difference between these two companies is the treatment of the livestock that they are slaughtering for production to get to these goals. Tyson Foods Inc. is like a typical slaughterhouse, this means the livestock is kept in pens no larger than their bodies size with no wiggle room and force fed the feed to keep them alive enough to grow to the proper size before slaughter. On the other hand, Hidden Villa Ranch is a free range slaughter house meaning the livestock is in large fenced in fields that have green grass for the livestock to feed off of before slaughter. Maybe these are both extremes of how to treat the livestock in the slaughterhouse businesses. There could be a compromise that would be able to make these two companies not have such huge differences and the same treatment of their livestock. So it cause a disturbance to the common population when they see the different treatments. A compromise that could be taken into consideration is to get larger pens for the livestock to be kept inside the butchery so they can move around freely without the stress of no room at all in Tyson and without the insecurities of safety due to outside circumstances at Hidden Villa. These two companies have not been able to come to a resolution on the topic of treatment of their livestock because each have strong roots in their communities and both think what they are doing is best for the community they are working in. Tysons food is a company that is committed to the production time of their meats so each of their costumers is happy and able to eat that night. So as for their treatment of their livestock they see that the pens they have, create more room for more livestock and that means that production time increases and more customers are happy. So their set up for how the livestock is held makes sense for their goal and their wants to keep the production high for their community. Tyson Foods Inc. may lose a little bit money in Hathaway 3 buying the larger pens for their livestock as well as may have a slight decrease in profit because they cannot keep as many livestock on the production line as they used to. On the other side of the coin their amount of meats leaving the company many decrease slightly but the quality of the meats leaving the company increases. This is due to the fact that the livestock in the larger pens are under less stress which causes healthier meat and larger meat because the livestock has more room to actually expand and grow in the larger pens without being under the influence of steroids. Hidden Villa Ranch is a company that has high quality meats because of how they treat their livestock. The livestock is kept in outside fields away from the slaughter rooms with amply amount of space to be able to grow and live almost like they would in the wild before humans came along. This creates a more open atmosphere for the animals with a stress free lifestyle before the slaughter happens. With the compromise that in tales that the livestock would be kept inside in large pens. This would increase the production time for Hidden Villa as well as this could give more of a safety precaution for the livestock. Meaning that the livestock is safe from the outside storms and predators that could be roaming around the area might attack the livestock. The compromise might bring a high price on buying the pens but this does create a more controlled environment for the livestock to live in. This compromise may have positive and negative benefits for both companies but it does create a more consistent way of slaughtering the livestock to the public perception. Public perception is everything for companies especially food related companies because without the public input they would not have any profit what so ever. So this compromise gives the public a way of normalcy throughout the multiply companies and multiple ways of slaughtering and treatment of the livestock. Hathaway 4 Works Citied Core  Tyson Foods: Core Values. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Food Safety In Free-Range And Organic Livestock Systems: Risk Management And  Journal Of Food Protection 72.12 (2009): 2629-2637. Environment Index. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kirwan, Pat. Feedback Of Slaughter House  Veterinary Ireland Journal 4.1 (2014): 10-11. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mission  Mission Statement. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tyson Foods, Inc. SWOT  Tyson Foods, Inc. SWOT Analysis (2016): 1-8. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.