Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Women in Combat Women in combat positions in the United States military face prejudice and exclusion due to the military being a male dominated field. These women seek for inclusion and a sense of belonging from groups such as the Service Action Network. The Service Action Network fights for military voices to be heard; mission is to be the most influential and effective network of service women, acting as their champion, advocate and best information (Service Women). The Service Action Network website offers women the tools and connections they need to succeed in the military. Women in combat is the main topic of the Service Action Network website which gives women a voice in a mostly male profession, allows women to have a sense of unity in the military, and offers help to women looking to join the military (Service Women). The Service Action Network portrays their goals and mission on their website through not only words, but through images as well. The first image that they use to grab the attention is their logo. The logo is in all black with the words Voice, underneath and a red megaphone next to the logo. The Service Action Networks logo uses rhetorical appeals to get its message across. The rhetorical appeals it uses to convey its message are logos, kairos, ethos, and pathos. Kairos an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman 23). The image of the megaphone speaks to the viewers and lets them know that the time is now to speak up and let their voices be heard. Ethos is method of persuasion in which the speaker or the writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Hoffman 27). The image expresses ethos, because it is the symbol for the organization itself which makes it credible and trustworthy. Logos the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Hoffman 32). Logos can be seen in the statement below the image showing that the organization will do what it says and amplify the voices. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal that be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Hoffman 37). Pathos is evident in the megaphone and quote at the bottom, because they both show the values of this organization. It speaks to the viewers who want their voice to be heard. The logo itself truly embodies the goals and aspirations of the group and speaks to their targeted audience. This photo is a broad statement of what the stakeholders goal is and who their audience is. The second photo from the website is a representation of what the logo of Service Action Network stands for. The second photo is a picture of service women smiling surrounded by women not in uniform showing their support for them. This photo gives off a positive feel to the viewer, because the women in uniform are and surrounded by other women and they all look happy. It gives a visual example of what the first photo and logo state in words. This image, like the first, uses rhetorical appeals as well. Logos is shown in this image by showing the Service Action Network acting on their mission and purpose to support service women. Ethos speaks to credibility and this picture expresses its trustworthiness by including the women in uniform. It shows a real life example of the Service Action Network in action. Pathos is shown in the smiles and happiness of these women in this image. It shows how the Service Action Network makes the women in these combat positions have the best experience by providing support. Kairos is expressed by the looks on the civilians faces while they are helping these service women. It makes the reader want to help these service women and get involved with the program if they are not already in the military. To some, seeing this image may make them want to join the military, which is another one of the Service Action Networks goals. The Service Action Network was founded in 2007. They represent voice of all military women- past, present, and (Service Women). The organization strives to help women in the service succeed in and out of the work force. They wish to see the service women they provide aid to flourish in all aspects of their lives, both personal and professional. Some of their past goals that they are most proud of are, opening all military jobs to service women, holding sex offenders accountable in the military justice system, eliminating barriers to disability claims for those who have experienced military sexual trauma, and expanding access to services for a broad range of reproductive healthcare services (Service Women). This organization seeks to service all women in the military no matter what they are having an issue with, which can be seen in the history of the Service Action Networks achieved goals. These voices are hard to hear in such a male dominated profession and this organization finally helps these women be heard. The Service Action Network truly cares about their that women they support, it is evident in their mission statement and in their actions. The Service Action Network uses their website to demonstrate their goals and mission through words and images. They convey a strong message that they want to give women a voice beginning with their logo containing a megaphone. The group uses images on their website to show how they help women and the effects they have on the service women they do help. The Service Action Network truly portrays a group of people that work to better the lives of women in the military during and long after their service in combat. (WC: 1003) Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Service Action  Service Action Network. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://www.servicewomen.org/>. Service Action Network. N.d. Service Action Network. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.servicewomen.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/Untitled-3.png>. Sheffield, Written By Jenna Pack. Jenna Pack  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://writingcommons.org/index.php/open-text/information literacy/visual- literacy/breaking-down-an-image/399-breaking-down-an-image>. What We  Service Action Network. N.p., 18 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.servicewomen.org/what-we-do/>.