Staggers 1 William Staggers Composition II Sarah Basil 01/29/17 Public Smoking and Policies for Smokers and Non-Smokers Public smoking is considered to be a nuisance by many but a simple freedom for a great deal of people also. There are many regulations and policies regarding public smoking but there a clear solution for how to keep non-smokers from people who prefer to smoke. There are many places that simply ban smoking but others are decided for by the owners. Some airports such as have integrated designated smoking areas within the airport in order to appease both demographics (Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority). This is a simple solution because, although it separates both groups of people, no one is bothered by others and everyone is still free to do as they wish. For these reasons, many other public areas should adopt designated smoking areas in order to reach a compromise between smokers and non-smokers. Certainly, there are many organizations that are against smoking which reach out to people in order to educate them about the dangers of tobacco and offers statistics. Campaign for Tobacco Free goes beyond that and gets involved with laws surrounding public smoking and second hand smoke. They argue that separated areas resolve the issue though because the smoke be ventilated quickly enough. This means that they fight for completely smoke free environments which offer room for compromise, since smoking is still a legal freedom (CTFK). They put their beliefs above those of other preferences and lifestyles. Their initiatives certainly help keep children and other people from the dangers of Staggers 2 second hand smoke but not very realistic to ban smoking all together yet. Banning smoking in areas all together could also do damage to initiatives because, according to Silke Anger et al. in the article last puff? Public Smoking Bans and Smoking these bans affect the smoking rate very much. Anger states that no significant reduction in either the average smoking propensity or the average smoking intensity within the population in the short This shows that smoking bans that were implemented in Germany had no significant effect on people who smoke (Anger, Et Al). The only noticeable difference in the bans which were put in place were the rates of smoking in restaurants and other public areas. These regulations seem to do well at keeping second hand smoke out of public situations but this still help smokers at all when it comes to going out in social situations. This also restricts smokers from using their right to smoke in public settings which be taken away. If they could smoke in certain areas where no one is being bothered, both sides could be happy and apart from each other. Similarly, there are many organizations and advocacy groups for the rights of non- smokers. These groups fight to have balanced rights for the most part when it comes to smoking bans in areas which allow it in any nearby places. In James article, Rights Advocacy in Tobacco Control Policies: an Assessment and he states that to control environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) could be assisted if the tobacco control movement gave greater emphasis to the issue of individual He also goes on to explain how non-smokers have different rights to personal health and well being which should be addressed just as importantly or more. These differ from other individual freedoms such as being able to smoke a cigarette which was legally purchased in public (Katz). When people go to work, Staggers 3 have to stay in a hotel, or even sit in a restaurant with others, they have the right to not sit next to smokers who are invading their personal space by hurting their lungs. For these reasons, important to make sure rights are addressed for a better solution and regard to freedom. According to Dr. Catalin Florian, his organization is a non-profit group that encourages the freedom of smoking and defends human rights when it comes to restrictions on lifestyle choices. They promote the rights of smokers and challenge government interference when bans are put in place. This group defends many rights but they put any emphasis on rights in the equation (Florian). This group believes in being able to smoke wherever someone wishes which benefit non-smokers in any way. They, instead focus on integrating smokers and non-smokers in the same spaces (Florian). They even set up private bars all over the world in which smokers and non-smokers alike are invited to converse. Their ideology is more of personal liberties than health regards. Above all, both sides of the public smoking debate have more in common than they realize. In almost all groups who advocate for the right to individual freedoms and personal health, they both agree that rights need to be taken in to consideration when restrictions and bans are signed off on. When each side is addressed, everyone works together more efficiently to resolve the heart of the problem. seen one example that was addressed earlier which is the option to place designated smoking areas around public areas and facilities in order to appease both parties (Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority). These spaces would be away from the non-smokers and well ventilated in order to keep areas clean. They also seem to be the best solution since they work so well in a heavy traffic area such as an airport where many people are confined together in terminals and concourses. This example also Staggers 4 shows the effectiveness of this solution because traveling all day without smoking is very challenging for some which leads to problems if they cant smoke during travel. In conclusion, public smoking is an issue which be solved in favor of only one side. An effective compromise which holds both sides interests at heart is what is necessary in order to promote public health and at the same time, look out for individual rights. It has been shown that when bans and restrictions are forced on public areas, smoking rates fluctuate because smokers must have a space to exercise their freedom. In order to fight for the right to have smoking areas, you can write to your local legislatures or sign petitions for bills the are in progress. Without support from everyone, both sides will continue to be divided and the issues which currently stem from public smoking will continue to persist. Staggers 5 Works Cited Smoking  Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority. N.p., 02 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. for Tobacco-Free  Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Anger, Silke, Michael Kvasnicka, and Thomas Siedler. One Last Puff? Public Smoking Bans and Smoking  Journal of Health Economics. ScienceDirect, May 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Katz, James E. Individual rights advocacy in tobacco control policies: an assessment and  Katz 14 (suppl 2): ii31 -- Tobacco Control. N.p., 2005. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Radut, Dr. Catalin Florian. Smokers  Smokers Association Lifestyle as it should be ! N.p., 2008. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.