Lauren Landvogt Adam Carter ENC 1102 26 January 2017 The Existence of Zoos in America For many years people have developed a fondness for the exotic creatures that cannot be kept as house pets. These animals are the inhabitants of zoos across the nation. It is often debated whether or not zoos should continue to exist. On one side of this controversial debate is an organization, or better yet, a well-known zoo in America; The Saint Louis Zoo. The Saint Louis website has a mission statement that reads that their goal is to conserve animals and their habitats through animal management, research, recreation, and educational programs that encourage the support and enrich the experience of the On the other side of the debate is the Captive protection society. Often referred to as CAPS, the mission statement of this organization reads believe that wild animals belong in their natural habitat and should not be caged for our To appease both the St. Louis Zoo and the Captive Protection Society we must implement sanctuaries around the globe to provide animals more naturalistic habitats and allow humans to continue learning about animals through observation. According to the official website of the St. Louis Zoo, the history of the organization dates back to 1904 at The Fair. It started out as a flight cage funded by the Smithsonian that people could go through. The community in Saint Louis loved the cage so much that they requested the exhibit remain in the city. The city bought the exhibit and it was the foundation of the St. Louis Zoo today. The website goes on to elaborate about how civic leaders established the Zoological Society six years after the Fair. The leaders who were invested in created a zoo in the city had many objectives in mind. The objectives of the early leaders, as stated directly from the website, include: To establish and to co-operate with the City of St. Louis in maintaining a Zoological Park for the instruction and recreation of the people, to exhibit wild animals under favorable conditions, to encourage Zoological Research, to increase public interest in wild animals, to secure better protection of wild animal life by educational methods. Referring back to the current mission statement of the St. Louis, their focus has definitely shifted to concentrate more on the wellbeing of the animals and less on the interest of the general public. According to the website, the St. Louis Zoo was one of the first zoos to remove the cages and try to develop more naturalistic habitats. According to the article Adorable Venomous Vipers Born at St. Louis the zoo has put in major efforts to rescue an endangered viper species (Barber 2013). Another thing to note about the St. Louis Zoo is that it does not charge visitors to enter the zoo. The only source of income for the zoo is made from concessions and from a train that visitors can pay to ride. An organization completely against the existence of zoos is Captive Protection Society. Their core belief is that we, as humans, do not have the right to cage animals for our own entertainment. Captive Protection Society was formed in 1957 by a woman named Irene Heaton. website is updated frequently with new cases of animals in captivity being abused. They have many successful campaigns that have resulted in positive changes in zoo environments that have lead to a better quality of life for several exotic creatures. CAPS believes that environment such as zoos contribute to the mental and physical distress of the exotic creatures. The official website of the organization states that signs of distress among animals include pacing or rocking back and forth. There was a study conducted that is labeled analysis of captive tigers (Panthera tigris): A water pool makes the that discusses how enclosed habitats can affect animals, such as tigers, negatively (Biolatti et al.). CAPS also believes that zoos are a threat to conservation efforts and that all efforts should be implemented in their natural habitats that way efforts can positively influence the ecosystem as well. In order to satisfy both the St. Louis Zoo and the Captive Protection Society we must implement sanctuaries around the globe to provide animals more naturalistic habitats and allow humans to continue learning about animals through observation .A sanctuary is essentially a safe haven for animals to live. This compromise will satisfy both organization because when it comes down to it, both organization share a common goal; and that is to secure the wellbeing of the zoo animals. The only difference is that the St. Louis Zoo wants to incorporate humans in order to preserve the foundation that the zoo was built upon. By implementing sanctuaries it will ensure a better quality of life for animals while still allowing people to observe and learn from the wildlife. Developing these sanctuaries essentially take away the entertainment factor zoos satisfy. This compromise would appease the St. Louis Zoo because they would not be losing revenue and the general public would still be allowed to visit the sanctuary. The wishes of the CAPS organization would be fulfilled because the animals would no longer be in captivity and people would no longer be utilizing the zoo animals for their entertainment. The organization called AZA, short for Association of Zoos and Aquariums describes a strategy to advance the quality of life for animals in captivity. Their mission statement reads: Association of Zoos & Aquariums provides its members with the services, high standards, best practices and program coordination to be leaders in animal welfare, public engagement, and the conservation of Their plan involves turning zoos into sanctuary-like environments. Their website describes an in-detail plan to achieve this goal. Works Cited Barber, Elizabeth. Nine adorable venomous vipers born at St. Louis  The Christian Science Monitor 2013: General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Biolatti, Cristina, et al. Behavioural Analysis Of Captive Tigers (Panthera Tigris): A Water Pool Makes The  Applied Animal Behaviour Science 174.(2016): 173-180. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Saint Louis  Why Zoos Matter : Saint Louis Zoo. Saint Luis Zoo, 2003. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. We Believe in a Better Future for All Living  Association of Zoos & Aquariums: AZA.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Zoos  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.