Student 1 Student J. Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2016 Prevalence of Homelessness Metropolitan Ministries is a non-profit charity that serves the greater Tampa area, reaching through Hillsborough, Pasco, Polk, and Pinellas county, and provides food assistance, life skill training, child care, housing assistance, and on-site housing for clients in need. Metropolitan Ministries focuses on for the homeless and those at risk of becoming homeless in our community through services that alleviate suffering, promote dignity, and instill self-sufficiency... as an expression of the ongoing ministry of Jesus Metropolitan Ministries makes information and contact for their services available on their website, metromin.org, which displays information for those wanting to help and those in need. Metropolitan Ministries uses their website to share testimonies by clients who have been helped, as well provide information coupled with powerful images of people helping and being helped. Metropolitan Ministries displays moving testimonials and imagery to inspire hope within those in need, as well as inspire volunteers to donate their time or resources to help others. The image heading the section (see Fig. 1), shows a young girl with her mother, taken in front of some of the on-site housing provided by Metropolitan Ministries. The subjects of the picture are smiling and looking into the camera, while one leans on the other, implying very close or are family members. The juxtaposition of the people with the housing is meant to associate their happiness and positive expressions to the home itself, and Student 2 outline the motif of Hope. The image itself is heavily saturated, and the saturation lends to the hopeful tone, and gives it an overall more positive tone. The color scheme highlights the human subjects of the image, and allows the housing to fill the role of a backdrop, while still allowing a mental association. The image is included in the housing section to help confer the message that families are positively impacted by the housing solutions that Metropolitan Ministries provides, and lends a positive connotation to the entirety of the Housing information section. The visual appeal in the housing header also covers a variety of rhetoric appeals, primarily focusing on its pathos appeal. Pathos appeal is mostly highlighted through the expressions and placements of the human subjects in the image. The hopeful expressions and smiles of both subjects are intended to invoke feelings of happiness or hope to encourage volunteers, and to associate those beneficial emotions to housing aid. In addition to the image itself, accompanying subtext is intended to draw on empathy of potential volunteers, by [having experiencing this emotion, the reader begins to develop his or her own emotional (Lee 38) posing reasons people may need housing assistance, such as would you cook dinner? Where would you shower? What if you were a single mom with toddlers and your only option for shelter was with your brother who was dealing The image also makes a strong ethos appeal, as the image showcases actual housing units provided by Metropolitan Ministries, and hopes to emphasize that their housing solutions are concrete in their effectiveness. In addition, a logos appeal is made by strongly emphasizing a cause-and-effect style relationship between the newly provided housing and the positivity of the new residents. The logos appeal is reinforced with accompanying subtext, which lists that of affordable housing is the number one cause of family and that know that Student 3 when families have safe shelter and their basic needs are met, they can focus on the things they need to do to get out of homelessness The rhetorical appeals in the housing header (Fig. 1) focus primarily on invoking empathy and positive emotions, and then effectively connecting those feelings to the housing provided for families that backdrops the image. An additional way that Metropolitan Ministries conveys their message and goals is through the imagery of employees directly working with and helping those in need (see Fig. 2). The most prominent element in the image is the handshake between a Metropolitan Ministries employee, and a client being helped. The Metropolitan Ministries logo is also displayed on a podium in the background, and the visible face in the image is smiling. The image itself is composed of almost entirely bright colors, again reinforcing the idea that the tone of the website and the organization in general is one of positivity and hope. In addition, the image has the same saturation that is present on most of the headers, and again channels the idea of positive emotions by avoiding strong contrast or aggressive color schemes. The smiling facial expression visible in the image supports the idea of positivity, and the handshake shows cooperation between the subjects in the image. The second image makes strong rhetorical appeals, with the greatest focus on logos, with secondary focuses on pathos and ethos. Logos appeal is highlighted by the main focus of the image, the prominent handshake in the image, which cements the idea that Metropolitan Ministries employees work with in-need community members to provide assistance. The logos appeal is supported by the text under the image, which states families still need to be able to do things like file their taxes, get an ID or apply for benefits like food stamps, social security or medical An ethos appeal is supported by the Student 4 inclusion of the Metropolitan Ministries logo on the podium in the background of the image, as well as the name tag visible on the shirt, which lends the image a tone of professionalism and credibility by to symbols that represent (Lane 21). In addition, the usage of saturation and colors as well as the facial expression visible makes a pathos appeal. Pathos is appealed with the visible smile of the employee as they work with a client, pushing the idea that working to help people is rewarding work to potential volunteers, and that help is available to potential clients. Metropolitan Ministries provides all kinds of services for those in need, specifically working with those who are homeless or at risk of losing their home. Their website uses a variety of mediums to convey their message and mission, but specifically caters to those who are seeking aid or people that can volunteer their time and resources to help others, and persuades readers to contact the, through a combination of various rhetorical appeals. Student 5 Works Cited We Are Metropolitan  Hope for the Homeless. Metropolitan Ministries, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.metromin.org/>. Housing. Digital image. Services-Housing. Metropolitan Ministries, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://mminc.convio.net/mw/images/Services-Housing-compressor.jpg>. Lee, Kendra, et all., Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. Life Services. Digital image. Metropolitan Ministries, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://mminc.convio.net/mw/images/Services-Life-Services-compressor.jpg> Lane, Emily, et. al. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text. Student 6 Figure 1. http://mminc.convio.net/mw/images/Services-Housing-compressor.jpg Figure 2. http://mminc.convio.net/mw/images/Services-Life-Services-compressor.jpg