Student 1 Student name ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric In world, food waste is one of the most astounding global problems and it becomes more and more serious with time passed by: According to the Food And Agriculture Organization of the United Nations., approximately thirty percent of the food and nourishment produced for human need every year and more than 1.3 billion tons of food is wasted because supply exceeds demand in many places, and this number is still increasing year after year. On the other side, about eight billion people in some poor areas all over the world are supposed to be malnourished. They live in poor, and they have enough food to support their lives. Therefore, how can reducing food waste to make a contribution to our society has become a serious social problem? The Rude Food is the first rescued food catering service, and they are a nonprofit enterprise to counter food waste in the city. Their primary business is to identify the food wastage points such as supermarket, restaurant, and wedding and redistributing surplus food with their food waste partner. Swedish caterer Rude Food is all about rethinking food waste, and the first picture comes from the first page of their official website, which is an illustrations green bean. As is shown in this picture, the stems, leaves, and peels of the green bean are gray, but the peas inside of the beans are green. Grey represents death and hopelessness, while green symbolizes life and vigor. Therefore, the color co-ordination of the food indicates the mission of Rude Food: Rude Food company supplies food to the hungry because they choose food ingredients comes from items and the food Rude Food makes taken from wasted food such as leftover vegetables Student 2 and meat from restaurant, blemished fruits and salad in the supermarket and so on. all- volunteer, mostly vegan catering service cooks up accessible, and easy-to-replicate meals made almost entirely from food Mary Mazzoni. A Company That Is Rethinking Food Waste. Friday, Apr 24th, 2015 The audience of this picture is everyone in our world, but the audiences are also divided into three parts. Also, the message what this company wants to express is different to different people. The first part is normal people for the reason that this endeavor intends to cultivate a concept to us which is not waste food. The second part is some big restaurants as well as supermarket because Rude Food wants to get food from these places. The third part is the hungry because Rube Food Company intends to let the hungry know that they can get cheap or free food from Rube Food Company. When talks about Rhetorical Appeals, to be honest, the picture is not logical according to the laws of nature because the fruit of the plant is no longer fresh once the plant roots were rotten. However, this picture shows pathos and ethos thoroughly. This image illustrates the goal of Rude Food, which is reducing food waste and provide them to the hungry, indicating the sympathy of Rude Food to the hungry as well as the responsibility to the society. more, as a company with social features, everything expressed from this picture has timeliness, and Rude Food tries their best to communicate their goal in a decorum way. The second picture is a combination of picture and words. In the middle of the image is a balance and a small bowl is situated on the left side of the balance, while a big tree is located on the right side. The picture shows that one Rude Food cookbook equals one tree planted. On the other side, several words are showing at the bottom of the image. our commitment to environment friendliness, for everyone the rude food cookbook sole, we pledge to plant a which shows the commitment of Rude Food. The primary color of the picture is red, which give Student 3 the audience a strong feeling about to this picture. more, the small bowl on the left side of and the big tree on the right side means we will make a significant contribution to the environment after paying a small bill for the book. The primary audience of this picture is the consumer, and the message Rude Food wants to express is choose us when you need the cookbook because you can make a contribution to our environment. To begin with, this picture shows logo very clearly in this picture because Rude Food provides enough reasons for consumers to choose them and they also use a balance scale to adjust the cookbook and environment accurately. As is shown in the e-text, is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre, Pathos, Rhetorical Really Matters, P37. Secondly, this picture shows pathos well for the reason that Rude Book indicates the love to the environment, attracting more people to buy their products. Then, the picture has credibility because they make a promise to our environment. Last but not the least, as a company with social features, this picture also has timeliness, which is Kairos. In a word, these two pictures of Rude Food website show the goal and mission of Rude Food which is reducing food waste in our daily life and make a contribution to our society. However, there are also differences between these two pictures. The first picture pay more attention to the hungry because Rude Food provides wasted food to the hungry and donates the surplus to charity. At the same time, Rude Food also pays attention to our environment for the reason that this company plant tree using their incomes, which is the main idea of the second picture. This company has a good way of doing business not only because they are cultivating a concept for people of not wasting food, but also because they are trying their best to make a great contribution to our society. (WC. 1008) Student 4 Student 5 Work Citied: http://rudefood.se/index.html (Rude Food MALMD website) http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters (Rhetoric Really Matters Explorations in Rhetoric and Argmentation)