student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 Jan 29 2017 Depression Images have a powerful effect on the minds of people. This may be through individual experiences, instinct, personal or general appeal or even empathy. It is through this that many businesses advertise with the aim of attracting as many clients as possible. This is mainly achieved through the presentation of images that relate to the clients and their needs. The two images display elements of identity, universality, and attention that are drawn towards the customers concerning the various aspects of depression such as its lack to discriminate and the desire for customers to receive the best attention. From the website, the two images contain an aspect of placing focus on the people that are involved. They both have their backgrounds faded out as the focal range seems to be on the shortened. In the first image, for instance, the man and woman are depicted as sitting in front of a computer. They are both focused and illuminated upon by the camera while the background, which contains a certain portrayal of a fence behind a glass wall. There also appears to be a chair in the background. In the second image, only the lady has been focused on by the camera while there is an impression of two people in the background. From the impression, one can quite easily tell that one of the two figures is a blonde woman and the other one is a man. Both images seem to express that depression is a condition that is faced by any person irrespective of their gender or age (Bullard). student 2 Additionally, the depiction of the lady in the second image as smiling may be related to that of the serious facial expressions that are portrayed in the first image. This may be understood through the connection that depression is a serious issue that affects people and in some cases people cannot, in essence, tell that they suffer from depression. The issue that is primarily required in any case that a person feels like the symptoms of depression manifest in them, they should seek expert opinion and advice as is demonstrated in the first image (Bullard). The mere fact that an individual wears a smiling face or seems to live a happy life should be used as the basis to believe that they are without depression (Wehrenberg). Some people who suffer from depression may have lucid moments during which they are happy and normal. It is particularly important for stakeholders, especially the customers, to understand that depression is not a condition that is manifested through just a single symptom. Rather, it clinical depression has a relatively wide range of symptoms. Some of the most common symptoms of depression include difficulty concentrating or making rational decisions, possession of guilty feelings, feelings of worthlessness or being hopeless, and a decrease in energy to keep going and push through with various tasks. Other symptoms include irritability, insomnia, hypersomnia, and a decrease or complete loss of interest in certain activities of issues that one found pleasurable before (Bullard). Additionally, depression does not discriminate as any person from whichever gender and age may be affected. From such an understanding of a lack of a clear definition of what depression feels or manifests, customers are then able to go out and see an expert rather than assume that they are either fine or depressed. It is important that one consults a specialist when they experience such symptoms rather than simply diagnose themselves. As is demonstrated in the first image in which a man points at a computer seemingly explaining something to the woman, one needs to be analyzed and guided about depression. student 3 Both images contain an element of client attention from the company or specialists. In the first image, the man is seen pointing to a computer with an expression of a person trying to explain something to the woman. It can be interpreted that the man is the expert as he appears to explain some statistics or results to the woman who then appears to be a patient based on the way she is seated leaning relatively backwards as a person keenly listening to their doctor. In the second image, the lighting of the picture presents one with the concept of focus. The woman looks straight into the camera with a smile. She may then be interpreted as a person who is receiving the right amount of attention, seemingly from the expert on depression. Additionally, the other people that are seated with her are facing away from the camera. This may be interpreted as an appropriate position in the context that the patient requires the right amount of attention from her doctor to be properly treated for her depression (Wehrenberg). The concern from such a relation between the two images revolves around the patient. It is in the best interest of both the patient and the company or experts that the customer receives the best attention possible to help them get through with their diagnosis and treatment of depression or any other related conditions with which they deal. Through the demonstration or reflection of a customer-centered practice, the company is then more likely to attract a higher number of patients for their diagnostic and treatment programs together with any other services that they offer (Wehrenberg). This is mainly due to the level of trust that they would gain from their clients. Both images present elements of practicality to the dealings of the company with its customers. Both images contain elements of individuality, universality, and thoughtfulness which then reflect the needs of customers who are looking for assistance with their conditions of depression. Primarily, both images appear to center on the people in them thereby reflecting the student 4 need for attention by the patients. They also contain people of different genders, ages, and even race. This suggests that depression can affect any person. It also does not manifest through a single specific symptom and may vary between individuals. All these elements present the concerns of different stakeholders in the sense that patients always require attention and assurance from the specialists. Both the experts and patients need the confidence of each other and cater for the others best interests, especially the student 5 Works Cited Bullard, Elijah W. A Cross-Cultural Analysis of Help-Seeking for Symptoms of Depression in Japanese Primary School Teachers: Ethnicity, Self-Construal, and Subjective Perception. Universal-Publishers, 2010. Wehrenberg, Margaret. Anxiety + Depression: Effective Treatment of the Big Two Co-Occurring Disorders. W. W. Norton & Company, 2014.