Student 1 Savannah Musser Professor Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Depression When reviewing how many Americans suffer from a silent disease known as, the realization of how necessary it is to provide aid comes to mind. Treatment options are more available to the public than noticed. Ways to combat this mental illness can be found on their website, www.adaa.org. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America dedicates time and money to help those who are suffering. This non-profit organization was founded in 1979 which excels in education, training, and research for anxiety, OCD, PTSD, depression and other disorders (About ADAA). ADAA uses specific appealing images that emphasizes on the importance of treatment options for depression. ADAA serves the purpose of researching and working to find a way to help people who suffer from depression. Through a visual strategy appealing to families and individuals who are impacted by depression the ADAA, incorporates color imagery, symbolism, and rhetoric strategies. Student 2 The primary visual message is that therapists are available worldwide and are only a click away. The light blue iridescent glow that encircles the globe is showing how much light shines. The light blue symbolizes trust, loyalty and serenity. Trusting someone to help you get through this depressed state can potentially change your life for the better. Looking at the world in this image it is bright and cheerful-unlike the lives of people suffering from depression. The deep-sea blue is a calming and familiar color. Blue is significant because it brings out the cool emotions that people feel. Per Colors Matter, blue is also a symbol of depression in American culture. Comprehending the extent of how powerful blue can be is crucial when understanding depression. The large hands encompassing the globe prove that help is always near. When viewing the large hands in the image, we can see that they are much bigger than the world itself. Hands signify unity amongst the human population. According to Mental Health America, depression causes people to lose pleasure from daily life, can complicate other medical conditions, and can even be serious and lead to suicide. While image two shows the strong emotion of others on their faces, image one avoided putting any faces at all. Without any specific characteristics, it implies that a person suffering from depression may feel more comfortable to ask for help. It provides familiarity and knowing someone is available always. Learning how to cope with depression not only can benefit the individual, but also make the world a more positive living environment for all. When reviewing the rhetorical appeals in the picture, pathos is most prevalent. The emotion felt through the visual aid of the helping hand is extremely significant. Logos is used at the bottom of the image and it states, Over Anxiety and to use logic to persuade the reader that it is possible. Kairos is used because it is the opportune time because this issue is so prevalent. This picture is credible due to the organization at hand and their past in aiding those suffering from depression. Student 3 The sullen faces of image two are hard to grasp. Depression is not only an internal battle that individuals face, but it also affects those around you. Being open with your loved ones is the first step in achieving the positive persona that is inside. The lack of emotion on the face of the male leaves the woman worrisome. The male is wearing a dark colored shirt; the dark creates a depressing mood that places the woman in a similar aurora. The woman is acting as the backbone and support system of the male. By observing the image, it is obvious that the male is suffering from depression. Considering the lost gazed stare of the male is extremely impactful. The greenery surrounding the individuals is creating a parallel between the nature and the natural depressive disease that is too common. When reading the words, sleep, I worry about it is made apparent that not only is he suffering from depression, but from anxiety and other disorders as well. In more cases than not, the diseases go hand in hand. The logos shown in the image comes through the quote stating, sleep because I worry all the time about The reasoning behind this impactful image is because of his illness and how it is impacting his life, as well as those around him. The ethos is displayed because he has experienced depression first hand. Pathos is exemplified through the empty stare that both adults have going through their eyes. The prevalence of Kairos is shown in this image based on the fact that it is a specific example of a case of depression. When reviewing how a close loved one of mine has battled depression their whole life, I can personally understand how difficult it can be to treat. The first step is always to accept and admit the struggle at hand. ADAA is a confidential company who is always willing to help. The way they made my family feel during this trying time is something that no one else could have. The treatments offered to my loved one made the biggest impact on their life. I have never seen him so happy and excited about life surrounding Student 4 him. I would highly recommend for people to utilize this great tool in enhancing the lives of those with this silent disease. Depression and mental issues continue to encompass the lives of many. Certain populations lack the information that is crucial to combat issues with mental health. The non-profit organization strives to reach the families and individuals that are suffering through mental disorders. The goal is to augment the quality of life of those impacted by mental illnesses. The effect of mental disorders go beyond a wiped smile. Major depression is one of the most common mental illnesses, affecting 6.7%(more than 16 million people) of American adults each year according to Substance Abuses and Mental Health Services Administration. (WC 1145) Student 5 Works Cited America, M. H. (2014, March 13). Depression. Retrieved January 18, 2017 Bram, Lisa. About  About ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. Morton, J.L. Welcome to Color  The Meaning of Colors. N.p., n.d. Web.