Student Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Conveying Solar Importance As society considers the future, it sees the major source of energy running out, raising the question of what to do with it. The use of renewable resources has been one the initial solutions to attempt and solve the issue of using up all available fossil fuels. Renewable resources are not at all means not new, however their importance have only recently come into the limelight. Solar energy is a resource that is available very frequently, as we will be available for billions of years. Solar panels, specifically in Florida have been part of recently legislation to allow them to be available at a cheaper cost to the average consumer. With the importance of solar panels increasing, so has the importance of stakeholders interposing their stance their stance into the conversation. Using websites full of images is an important way for these stakeholders to introduce their side of the argument, whether it is for or against the increasing popularity of solar energy. One company Solar Energy International, has used their website for the promotion of solar panel knowledge and integration into the power grid. Using pathos and arrangment in images on its website, Solar Energy International wants to promote the importance of solar energy and the switch to it. Solar Energy International was founded as a educational starting in the year 1991 continuing into the current period (www.solarenergy.org). SEI stands to inform the those wanting the knowledge, on the operation of solar panels other Student 2 (www.solarenergy.org). The stakeholder has made its claim, about educating individuals on the use of solar panels, putting its name and stake on the conversation of solar energy and the use of solar panels. Overall, Solar Energy Internationals simple goal is to educate the public on ways to make the world more sustainable. The first image from SEI depicts many persons standing around a solar panel, in a very joyous mood. The joyous mood specifically appeals to appeal to while the arrangement of the people helps add emphasis to the image (Rhetoric Really Matters 37). Pathos is the most common way to appeal those that are engaged in an image, implementing the use of it in website trying to show the importance of its message. With the group of people smiling at the image, it is showing how happy they are, connecting to the audience. With the joyous faces of the 20 plus individuals, it brings the viewer a sense of happiness along with the meaning of the image. While the viewer sees the happiness, it implies a sense of content towards the issue being addressed in the image. However, the presence of a single solar panel only subtly addresses the issue of solar energy. The emotion of the people draws out the issue to the viewer in a small way but helps to encourage the cause given by the stakeholder. The viewer is shown that happiness is associated with being educated about solar panels or helping with more sustainable ways for the earth, resulting in a positive outlook to the cause of the image. Also, the arrangement of the objects in the image helps appeals to the opinion. While all the individuals around the image are smiling, the solar panel is front and center in the image. Being in the middle of the image, means it is the most important piece in the arrangement of all the objects. The people surround it, but they draw your attention around the center object, the solar panel which the of the image (Rhetoric Really Matters 348). The people Student 3 surrounding the image with happy smiles emphasis the center image, of solar panel showing the happiness that comes from helping a cause such that of Solar Energy International. The second image is a seal with a shield in the middle resembling that of an old house in mediaeval times, but adapted for modern use. The arrangement of the small images inside of the shield is where the image implements most of its meaning. The surrounding text simply informs the viewer of general information about the stakeholder. While the shield contains an image of a globe, the sun, and a lightning bolt with a wrench. Three smaller figures are encompassed by the rest of the image, for they are the main purpose of the image. The sun is used to show the solar part of mission statement and their wanting to use the sun in the first place. The world, is next to the sun, but above it to influence how Solar Energy International wants to do something that is going to affect more than just a few people, even stating they have done work in Africa, Micronesia and the (www.solarenergy.org). Using the combination of lightning bolt and wrench is seen at the top left of seal, which is the most important as to right and from top to (Rhetoric Really Matters 348). If the imageholder was the one to put it where our eyes would read it first, it has significance to the overall image. In the case of the shield, it symbolizes the working of light or energy, hands on with a manmade tool. The intention of the stakeholder, with each individual symbol in the shield is show how each part unifies together as a whole to complete the meaning. Solar Energy Internationals goal is to use the sun with solar panels in order to better the world as a whole. The arrangement of the three little images serve to show the goal of SEI, all in different aspects. Solar Energy International is a group that has put their input into the conversation on solar energy, using images on their own website. Through the appeal to emotions, pathos, and the arrangement of the images it is possible to see the stakeholders claim. Even if it impossible to Student 4 simple read about claim, it is possible to see how they influence those looking to gain knowledge on the conversation by the use of various images. (WC: 1015) Student 5 Works Cited McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 237-243. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Understanding Visual Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 237-243. E-text. Solar Energy International. Solar Energy International, 2016, http://www.solarenergy.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017.