Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 22 January 2017 Take Refuge The Refuge is a residential program in which people with illnesses are treated for at least 30 days to one year (Welcome to The Refuge believes that dependency, trauma/PTSD, mood disorders and process addictions are treatable illnesses and that recovery and remission can occur with proper to Their treatment program includes approaches such as yoga, hypnotherapy, meditation, and other techniques to The intended target audience of the organization is anyone and everyone. The Refuge does not provide very much information on their history and background, rather they present locations, staff, and external resources under their category. On The home page there are two video testimonies (one from a male, one from a female) that stand out in order to capture the attention. On their main menu, each category is displayed in an identical matter so that they match the same level of importance and are easily accessible. The primary goal, message, and purpose is provide lasting recovery through healing the mind, body and to Through the follow images provided, it can be seen that The Refuge believes that they are able to treat depression and like illnesses with proper treatment that includes guidance and nurture. Image 1. http://www.therefuge-ahealingplace.com Student 2 LET US GUIDE AND NURTURE YOU BACK TO A HEALTHY STATE OF LIVING. In image 1, presented above, the primary visual message the stakeholder is communicating is that The Refuge creates a path to healthy state of Text is used in the image to convey the intended message and is what grabs the attention. The text actually blocks the photo, making the image just a background and the text the main focus. The use of color (the green and tan colors) impacts the viewer by creating a sense of calmness and relaxation. The text communicates that The Refuge is a calming and welcoming place that will aid people in their path to overcoming mental illness. The text and picture combined give the overall image the purpose of encouraging people to get treatment and become healthy again through The Refuge. Logos is an to and can be seen through the use of the bridge in the photo (Lane, Lee & Mckee 21). The bridge symbolizes the journey in which the person will go on with The Refuge in order to get back to a healthy life. Ethos is the way in which the image with the audience (Lane, Lee & McKee 18). In this case, it is used through the fact that the audience is able to see the down a far length of the bridge. The long path represents freedom, a symbol that is viewed with a large amount of importance to many people. Pathos is an to and can be seen through the use of the word healthy (Lane, Lee & McKee 20). By using the word healthy, it implies that the person needing the help is not healthy, playing on the emotions of that person. Kairos is a of persuasion that pertains to the right Student 3 place and the right and is used in the image through the concern that the person who needs guiding is unhealthy (Lane, Lee & McKee 23). They are stating that without the guidance of The Refuge, the targeted audience is living in an unhealthy state. Through these rhetorical devices, the audience is able to see a clear connection between the image and The main goal: that they are able to treat depression through guidance and nurture. Image 2. http://www.therefuge-ahealingplace.com/depression-treatment/ The primary visual message the stakeholder is communicating through image 2 is that talking to someone may help the way the targeted audience has been feeling. The serious face that the woman on the right is portraying and the smile on the woman on the left are visual cues that convey the intended message. The facial expressions indicate that these two women are having a serious conversation. The placement of the woman in the purple arm is what stands out the most in this image. Its placement shows that woman is open and welcoming of the other woman and how she may be feeling. The image uses colors that are solid, creating a casual and calm impact on the audience. Logos is created through the sense of community that is portrayed through the friendship presented by the two women. Ethos is also portrayed through the friendship in the image. The friendship expresses life experience, appealing to the credibility of The Refuge. Pathos is used through the portrayed conversation that is occurring. Since it appears that one woman is opening Student 4 up to the other, this plays on the empathy of the audience. Kairos is used through the position of both females in the image. One woman looks welcoming and inviting by the way she is sitting while the other looks as if she is opening up and talking to the other. This is an attempt to persuade the targeted audience to get help. When looking at how this particular image uses rhetorical devices, that audience is able to see exactly how the image adds to The goal in encouraging people to get treatment through them. After reviewing both images and the main goal, it is clear to see that they are connected in the belief that by going to The Refuge and being treated through specific approaches that aim to heal the mind and body, that depression and other illnesses are treatable. The Refuge aims to make unhealthy people healthy again by treating them through their residential programs by using techniques that specifically guide and nurture their patients. As seen in image 1 and 2, they claim to create a calm and welcoming environment in which people who need help can seek it. Image 1 expresses their goal of achieving a healthy mind through guidance and nurture while image 2 furthers this by actually showing two women have a conversation that appears to also have guidance and nurture. Both images connect back to The Refuge and its goal to treat people with illnesses such as depression. Word Count: 1012 Student 5 Works Cited Welcome to The  The Refuge. The Refuge, A Healing Place., n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http://www.therefuge-ahealingplace.com/>. Lane, Emily. Lee, Kendra. McKee, Jessica. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 17-24. E-text.