A l a h m a d i 1 Muataz Alahmadi Prof. John Williams ENC1102 January 29, 2017 Regulating the Sharing Economy For thousands of years people has been using their trades to sell merchandise and offer services for compensation, they offer services like hospitality services, transportation services and much more. This type of businesses is known as the traditional business model, but as time goes by; businesses develop and try to find new ways to beat the competition of other businesses, which later on led to new business models. For an example the sharing economy is an upcoming business model that is taking over the market. The sharing economy is a peer to peer business model that eliminates the companies in the middle from the equation which makes it cheaper for the customer and makes it more profitable for the worker. An example for the sharing economy is Uber. Uber is a phone application that is used to request car rides at very cheap prices. Ever since Uber started at 2009 the taxi industry has been struggling to compete because Uber offers cheaper fares in almost the whole world. Uber and other sharing economy businesses has been controlling the market which led to protests that later on led to Uber being banned in many countries like South Korea, Spain and Israel (Malhotra, 2014). Uber ban raised many questions, the most important question that has been raised is, will the sharing economy based businesses and the traditional business are willing to reach a compromise and if yes, what is the compromise. A l a h m a d i 2 from point A to point B. It still is but taxi drivers has been struggling ever since the ride sharing applications and companies like Uber, Lyft and much more appeared. According to the Los Angles times since Uber started operating, trips taken in taxis have dropped nearly 30% it also described the situation as drivers are taking a hit, a big hit, and really painful. Some have even left to drive for Uber, he said, lured by the popularity and its lower overhead costs, including no vehicle leasing fees. Still, per-mile rate is lower than that of taxis, which have their rates set by city officials. Uber also takes 20% of every (Nelson, 2015). For an example the yellow cab in Los Angles costs 2.7 dollars per mile and the base fare is 2.85 (Los Angeles Taxi Cab Company) which is way more expensive than Uber, but it has a very strong advantage during Holidays and crowded celebrations. The advantage they have that is during Holidays and crowded celebration Uber fare rate increases, sometimes it doubles and sometimes the fare reaches ten times as much as the original fare. are really affordable. Uber costs 0.90 dollars per mile and a base fare of zero dollars, with a minimum fare of 5.15 dollars (Dough, 2016). Not only that Uber is cheaper than taxis it is also more convenience for the customer, simply because it has a very easy to use app which gives Uber a lot of advantages like for an example. The driver knows the costumers location while the customer also knows where the driver is exactly by live GPS through the mobile app. Also instead of calling or looking for a taxi, Uber costumer use the application to request a driver at the same moment or schedule a ride for later while giving the customer a fair estimation for the ride. Regardless all the great features Uber has, it also has a lot of issues. For an example Uber does not require a background check it only require a driving record check, which led to a lot of issues including fake rides. According to Huet Ellen and Chen Liyan A l a h m a d i 3 have figured out how to scam the system. In one scheme they buy phones that are passenger account, hop in a car and collect the bonus. Uber has said its fake-ride rate is around 3%, but local media estimate the fraud rate at 30% to (Huet Ellen and Chen Liyan, 2015) This is not the only issue that Uber is having, this is not the only issue that is Uber having many other issues including consumer fraud as mentioned earlier, unfair competition, , and deceptive business practices. (Posen, 2015) Both Taxis and Uber are having a lot of issues that are not easily solvable for an example Taxis are struggling to compete with Uber and their rivals for a share in the market, as was stated earlier in the research, according to the Los Angles times since Uber started operating, trips taken in taxis have dropped nearly 30%. In the other hand Uber is having a lot of issues to including a major issue that Uber as an application is not certified to transport people because it is against the regulations to schedule a driver for third party. But Uber founder Travis Kalanick explained than being a transportation service, Uber is in the business of delivering cars. [Uber delivering a car to you that you, then, can do whatever you want with. Well, the car has a driver as (Posen, 2015). Uber is not following the international transportation regulation which led to Uber being banned in many countries like Netherlands, Thailand, Spain and many other countries, it is also banned in many cities in the United States like Las Vegas, Eugene and Panama City (Huet Ellen and Chen Liyan, 2015). Regardless of the issues of the two opposing sides have, they also have a lot of thing in common, like how both Uber and Taxis are both driving people around or how both Uber an taxis focus on creating jobs, Also both sides are getting hurt from the competition, so coming to hard, actually In Broward County, Florida where Uber was A l a h m a d i 4 suspended for not following the regulations. The county of Broward suggested a compromise because the demand on Uber was pretty huge. The county of Broward proposed gives transportation network companies the option to register their own drivers or vehicles or allow the county to do it, while giving the county 2015). This compromise might be the way to end both of Uber and Taxis problems, for Uber it is not going to get banned anywhere if it is following the regulations. In the other hand it will benefit the taxis because drivers which is going to make the competition fairer. A l a h m a d i 5 Works Cited Dough. How much does Uber cost? Uber fare  RideSharingDriver. N.p., 09 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. HUET, ELLEN, and CHEN LIYAN. World War  Forbes 196.4 (2015): 94-98. Business Source Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Malhotra, Arvind, and Marshall Van Alstyne. The Dark Side Of The Sharing Economy ... And How To Lighten  Communications Of The ACM 57.11 (2014): 24-27. Business Source Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Mendoza, Jessica. One Florida county works to find compromise between taxis and Uber (  The Christian Science Monitor. The Christian Science Monitor, 12 Aug. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Nelson, Laura J. Uber and Lyft have devastated taxi industry, city records  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. A l a h m a d i 6 Posen, Hannah A. Ridesharing In The Sharing Economy: Should Regulators Impose Uber Regulations On  Iowa Law Review 101.(2015): 405. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Rates and Services - Los Angeles Taxi Cab  Rates and Services - Los Angeles Taxi Cab Company. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.