ENC1102 Instructor: Adam Carter Name: Shuoyuan Zhang Will meat fade from the menu The United States is a country of meat consumption. From Ari article, the rate of meat consumption is sustained growing in the past four decades, and he use a date report from Rabobank (a Dutch bank that focus on agriculture) to point the specific number that shows the meat consumption in the US. In 2012, the average annual meat consumption is 184 pounds and the number was increased to 193 in 2015. (Phillips). Consider to the increasing tendency of meat consumption, and other problems of meat eating such as healthy, environment, many people suggest reducing meat consumption in the future. They think meat eating increased cancer risk and domestic animal farm produce many CO2 and methane which are greenhouse gas. In other side, many people like to eat meat (chicken, or beef, or pork). They just enjoy their good meal and care other things. Besides, legally no one can stop other people eat meat. And the purpose of this paper is to find a compromise for people of opposite groups. There are two compromise that may solve this problem: find a meatless food alternatives to meat, or increase the price of meat. Find a meatless food which taste like meat and alternatives to meat is the first compromise for following stakeholders. There are two obvious stakeholders when consider if meat consumption reduced: meat eaters and environmentalists. The goal is simple, eat meat. And the goal of latter is reducing the meat consumption to protect environment. From Roger Harrabin, meat eating is really involve greenhouse gas level. He mentioned a research from Cambridge and Aberdeen universities, the greenhouse gas from food will raise up to 80%. (Harrabin) as we all know, many countries in the world have a same target that limiting emission of greenhouse gas. Animal farms release many gas such as carbon dioxide, methane. In other words, the amount of greenhouse gas emission from livestock animals are higher than the whole transportation system (Phillips). Another paper by Bobby Magill said uses more land and freshwater and generates more greenhouse gas emissions per unit of protein than any other commonly consumed So, environmentalists think reducing meat consumption is a good way to fight global warming. For meat eaters, they eating meat for nutrition and/or good taste. Many people think people cannot get normal nutrition if they get enough meat, a misunderstanding, from Sharon Palmer, Vegetarian Diets could support a person in any period including pregnancy, lactation, infancy, childhood, and adolescence, and for athletes. (Palmer) Mix their goals together, if people could find some meatless food that have similar nutrition and taste as real meat, which could be alternative to real meat. In addition, there is one more benefit when use an alternate meat. From the World Health Organization, red meat and processed meat are considered to carcinogenic food that probably carcinogenic to humans. From their Q&A part, they said people need meat but should control the meat consumption to some extent. (Q&A on the carcinogenicity of the consumption of red meat and processed meat). The risk increases with the amount of meat consumed. People who eat large amount of meat probably just like to eat meat and never care about healthy. So the compromise of using another food that have similar taste as meat to alternative to meat is a practical way to reducing meat consumption. Meat eater would have alternate meat and livestock farms would decrease their size. Secondary, when people talk about reducing meat consumption, meat companies must against that idea because of their profit. So, there is another pair of stakeholders, meat companies versus a group of environmentalists who want to reduce meat product. For meat companies, the goal is making more money. To achieve their goal, they have to try everything to increase their quantity of sale. For opposite side of stakeholders, they just want to reduce the amount of meat in market. As the paper mentions above, they want to get a better world and keep healthy. So, the compromise is a way to get to their both goals to some extent. Increasing the price of meat is a good way to solve this problem. I will explain how it works for both sides of stakeholders. Think a minute, assume meat companies increase the price, then there is some people may reducing purchase of the meat product, and buy other food. For meat companies, they sold less meat product than before, but they probably just loss a little of profit because the unit price is higher than before. In addition, they could reduce the size of factories, which also reduce the cost to process meat product. Finally, the meat companies loss too much. They might even get more money. And people of another side would also find the amount of meat would be less than before. So, I think this compromise is also a practical way. On conclusion, meat will not fade from menu in the short term although some researches show consuming a large amount of meat is not a good thing. And there are two practical compromise to solve this contradiction. The first one is finding a meatless food alternatives to meat, another one is increasing the price of meat. Meat eater loss nutrition as Palmer said in his article meat, no And meat companies loss their profit and environmentalists could also see the amount of meat in market will reduce to some extent. habits and customs is very difficult to change, although they may know the dark underside of the meat-packing industry from many investigations and documentaries like and And new theories will encounter resistance in this complex business circumstances. So, we have to find some compromises to solve problem. Work cited page Ari Phillips, are eating meat like going out of style 2016, Fusion. From: http://fusion.net/story/338095/last-year-americans-ate-meat-like-it-was- going-out-of-style-its-not/ Bobby Magill, Show Link Between Red Meat and Climate 2016, climatecentral. From: http://www.climatecentral.org/news/studies-link-red-meat-and- climate-change-20264 Roger Harrabin, gas fear over increased levels of meat 2014, BBC environment analyst. From: http://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-29007758 on the carcinogenicity of the consumption of red meat and processed 2015, World Health Organization, From: http://www.iarc.fr/en/media- Sharon Palmer, Meat, No Problem Vegetarian Diets Can Support Optimal Health for Infants and 2010, Dietitian, From: http://www.todaysdietitian.com/newarchives/030810p28.shtml