Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 22 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft From losing a loved one as an adult to simply being late to class as an adolescent, the reality of depression is a very serious and, also frightening, mental illness. This sickness as well as other varieties of mental illness are prominent increasingly so in society today that can affect every aspect of daily life; even as easy as going to work. In the two visual images pulled from the website of Anxiety and Depression Association of America, the average American person is struggling from mental illnesses and can take steps towards curing their illness through the help of this stakeholder. The treatment of depression and other mental illnesses is a topic that is prioritized in the website Anxiety and Depression Association of America which provides opportunities and methods to cure depression; how to understand what the illness is; and ways to acknowledge the severity of mental illnesses and how to take actions to help one another. As a result of the rising amount in numbers of individuals suffering from depression in the United States, the Anxiety and Depression Association of America has been successfully treating patients for over thirty years with the help of donations from people all over the United States who stumble upon their Association. The reason behind the popularity of the organization is because of their widely known advertisements and success rate behind them in all ages. This Student 2 website is considered a stakeholder for the treatment and awareness of different mental illnesses because of the shared concern between the person being treated, those who have family members with the illness and the founders and people who run the Association. They all share a connection in the purpose of finding a cure and treating all mental illnesses and prove by doing so through great success from the help of donations and success stories of curing these mental illnesses such as depression of their patients who are receiving this widely known treatment that the Association seems to swear by. From the following two images that were chosen from the website, the purpose of creating them in the first place was to appeal to all types of people of all ages that maintain awareness of depression and other mental illnesses and encourage them to visit their site, use their treatments and help their association to continue to thrive. They represent the severity at which mental illness can take over an average body and a call for action for those who still continue to suffer or are just on the beginning of their mental rehabilitation journey. As a result of the images context; text arrangement; connotations and other appeals used to capture the attention, they greatly represent the association and what it was created for. Therefore, the two images drawn from the Associations website are very similar but both give off a different message to different ages of their audience. In the first image that displays six children at school gives off a different ambiance compared to the other image of the man in the hard hat who is shown to be distressed at his daily job. In order to examine both images and their texts rhetorically, it is important to keep in mind the relationship between the author, the text as well as the audience, reading, you should examine the goals, the techniques used to create the text, and the effectiveness of those (Royce 364). The author is able to maintain this relationship through using the infamous rhetorical appeals which include logos, Student 3 ethos, pathos and kairos. These appeals play a very vital role in analyzing an image because they are used to help understand all aspects of which the author is appealing to from emotions to logic to ethics as well as timeliness. Nevertheless, the rhetorical appeals used for this process of analyzing the relationships of the images from the Associations website is so important to understand in order to have a clear understanding of their mission and what they stand for. Through these techniques as well as other methods used to break down an image, the two images will be broken down to go into more depth on their relationship and why they are somewhat different yet so similar as a whole for representing the Association. On the whole, the relationship between the two images are represented by the use of the rhetorical appeals of logos, pathos, ethos and kairos that combine with the overall purpose in which they were created in the first place. Firstly, under the appeal of logos, both images have a large portion of the image covered in text. The image of the man embodies the cause and the children represent the effect of mental illness and the treatment the Anxiety and Depression Association of America is trying to convince people will make them happy again. Secondly, ethos is a very strong factor in these two images from the children who are used to tug at the emotions of mothers and families as well as the other image of the everyday working man in the hard hat who is showing an expression of distress that appeals to all working, middle class America in search of help of their depression. This also leads into the appeal of ethos where the focus is who the image is targeting as an audience. The relationship between not only the two images but its ties with the stakeholder appeals to the audience that the Association is meant for and what the people who are being affected by this illness look like. For the audience to see regular children and a regular working family man represents their outreach to all people who are affected or if they know someone who is being affected such as family, friends, colleagues and Student 4 so many others who maintain awareness of depression and other mental illnesses. Lastly, the appeal to kairos is shown through the bright colors and articles of clothing in both images representing it to be in the middle of the school year for the children and in the middle of working a day to day job in heat for the man in the construction hat. They both embody how the daily havoc of depression can hit at any time and at any place; even in the halls of school. Overall, the rhetorical appeals used by the authors keys it in together with the mission of the Association perfectly by appealing to all age groups of all types of mental illnesses and giving them hope. Through the relationship between the two images and their overall connection with the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, this stakeholder of the treatment of depression and other mental illnesses holds a promise of helping and treating others emotionally and personally so that everyone can be connected. The connection that the Association was able to create for their audience allowed a personal connection to be formed between the company and those being treated that ensures the success of the images. The two images reveal the confidence of their treatment and their ability to give someone a happier and healthier life. (Word Count: 1,190) Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Breaking Down an Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds What is a Rhetorical Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text