Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project One Intermediate Draft: Solar Energy The solar energy manufacturing is a growing business among different companies as a new way to help save energy while promoting environmental sustainability. The Solar Energy Industries Association focuses on promoting the use of solar energy among large corporations, by using different rhetorical devises they attract industries to understand how simple and efficient using solar power can be for their businesses. The Solar Energy Industries claim is to advocate for the protection and expansion of the U.S market for all solar technologies. They achieve their goal by attracting their audience on their website. Having a colorful and vibrant web page with many images and links to their associates, illustrating different organizations using solar energy. The primary goal of their website seems to be to promote the importance of using solar power. The intended audience of the organization is made up of all kinds of marketing organizations that could benefit the use of solar power as well as companies that are interested in promoting environmental sustainability. On their website you can find information available about the history and background, when they started the company as well as how they work to promote the usage of solar energy, different partners, events, how to contact them, their principals and ethics as well as the information of the staff in charge of the company. The website uses Logos to demonstrate the different campaigns and events taken being coordinated by the company to promote using solar energy. By listing the different companies that now use solar power and are part of the association they are using Ethos to have examples of large industries that are benefiting from using solar power and accentuating their credibility. The website uses Pathos by acknowledging the different ways that using solar energy can impact the environment, this way they use the emotional aspect to attract companies that are interested in the well being of the environment. The solar Energy Industries website uses Logos, Ethos and Pathos to focus on attracting companies and persuading them that using solar energy can be benefiting. The first message is to promote the usage of solar power by demonstrating that large industries such as can benefit from using solar power. The image conveys the meaning by the angle the picture was taken to show the solar panels that the building is using but also to show that is a store to support the idea that a large corporation could use solar power. The image is also using color to impact the viewer, by using warm tones the image displays the usage of solar light by the industry. Giving the sense of tranquility to the audience, demonstrating the simplicity of using solar panels. Even Though the image does not display any text on the image, the word that is visible on the building communicated the idea that a national industry can benefit from using solar panels so many other marketing industries Student 2 should too. The image uses Logos by exhibiting the solar panels used by the store, this way they persuade the audience by showing them the convenience of solar panels on a roof of a known large industry. By exposing the name of a large nationwide store, the image is also using ethos. Giving the image credibility that large corporations can benefit from the usage of solar energy. The image uses lighting and color to use pathos and evoke the emotional effect of the image. By using warm tones the author displays a quiet and peaceful scenario to demonstrate the trust of using solar power. Kairos is also being used by the image by being taken during the day and revealing the sunlight, and demonstrating how solar energy can be sued during the day. The image using the different rhetorical devices to display a well known corporation to suggest the audience that large businesses can benefit from using solar power. The second image promotes the significance of suing solar power, by establishing how all you need is solar panels and sun to obtain energy. The way the photo was taken is a visual cue that the image uses to clarify the message, by demonstrating solar panels and the sun in the background to exhibit the effortlessness of using solar energy. The image stands out by using the element of design of the angle of the picture, making the solar panels seem so powerful and garb the attention of the audience. The image also Emphasizes the sun in the back ground shinning on the solar panel by using color. The bright sunset appeals the attention to accentuate the purpose of the solar panel. By using Logos the image simplifies the way that the solar panel works, demonstrating the way a solar panel works by using the sun to create solar energy. The image uses Ethos by being locate on a field, not having a specific location the image implies that solar power can be used anywhere as long as you have solar panels and the sun. Pathos is used by the image by intensifying importance of the sun, and how we could use it to our advantage. The setting of the image and the view of the sunset gives the image a peaceful look to build trust in the audience. The photo takes place during a sunset, using Kairos, to demonstrate how we can use the sun light to convert it to energy. Also, acknowledging that solar energy is reliable and can be used throughout the whole day. The second image uses different rhetorical devices to demonstrate how simple and convenient using solar energy can be. In conclusion, the Solar Energy Industries Association promotes the use of solar energy among large companies. Through their website they persuade their audience on the advantages of using solar energy and the different way that it can benefit them. Through the use images they illustrate the way these companies can use solar panels to obtain solar energy and how large companies can trust using solar energy for they businesses. Student 3 Work Cited Energy Industries SEIA.org. Collin Silver, 12 july 2012. Web 29 Jan. 2017.< http://www.seia.org> Jenna Pack Sheffield. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 226 > Student 4 Image One: http://www.seia.org Image Two: http://www.seia.org/events