Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project 1: Food Waste Reduction FWRA claims Americans are causing way more food to waste than they realize. The stakeholder, FWRA, desires to combat the issue of food waste, while simultaneously drawing more supporters to the cause. Food waste has been an issue currently going under the radar in America. Citizens may be aware of issue of food waste, but may not grasp the extent of it (Foodwastealliance.org). Images on website help to institute their goals and viewpoints into their viewers in a simple and powerful way. Two images on the webpage can be studied using visual rhetoric strategies, and broke down into their rhetoric appeals, and potential rhetorical fallacies. These two images each complement each other by bringing the viewer into the conversation, and advocating the mission of FWRA, in order to enforce their goals of reducing food waste while simultaneously giving to those in need (Foodwastealliance.org). FWRA is a stakeholder that aims to combat food waste. Food waste is a broad topic that can be addressed from many different angles. There is not one certain way that people waste food. Food is wasted by consumers, but also by local restaurants, markets, factories, and farms as well. FWRA focuses on the areas they can impact the most, own U.S. operations [such manufacturing, retail, and in an attempt to lower the amount of food wasted in food production (Foodwastealliance.org). They also have two other specific goals, one to boost the supply of nourishing food donations to the needy, and the other is to redirect food away from Student 2 landfills. Efforts are put towards strategizing how to produce food more efficiently, and those strategies are given to the food industries to implement into their production lines. As FWRA works towards their goals, they also attempts to convince the general public of the importance of their cause (Foodwastealliance.org). Teamed up with individuals and companies, FWRA can take large measures to reduce food waste. The first image aims to spike the reader to take interest in the topic. Its primary purpose was to use the concept of pathos, to elicit an emotional response out of the viewer. The image also informs people of the significance of food waste during the production stages. Text was inserted over a grocery store background helps the viewer to grasp the gravity of a statistic used about food. The grocery store image has a huge variety of colors, causing the author of the image to insert a gray background behind the text, adding clarity to the font. As the viewer looks from left to right over the image, they first observe the view of the store, before seeing the statistic at on the right side of the image. This arrangement of the image adds to its pathos, adding an emotional connection to the typography (Hoffman 348). The statistic also appeals to the logos of the image. The image makes a claim that up to forty percent of food in the U.S. will never be consumed. On a deeper level, the unstated assumption would be that a change needs to happen to lower that percentage, and most viewers would probably agree (Hoffman 32). Logos then feed in to the Kairos aspects of the picture. Since people know food is currently being wasted, they may want to know what actions can be done to help. The designated audience appears to be adults that lack awareness of food waste, but the image could also be aimed at the general public. The second image compliments the first image, as it addresses the mission. The dark green grass contrasts with the with text, making the typography easy to read. The font size is big enough to be comfortably read, but not big enough to distract the viewer from the rest Student 3 of the image. The Typography appeals to Ethos, giving the viewer the sense that the stakeholder has a lot of experience in the field of food waste, based on their large stated goals (Hoffman 27). Also, the text is given on the left side over empty space, so that the reader sees the text before viewing the image. In the background, the grass is blurry, and the hand holding rice is in clear focus to draw the attention. The hands holding rice affects the pathos of the image, because the person looks like they are handing rice to someone. The inferred kindness of the image draws on the emotions and morals about feeding the hungry. Kairos is the need to act now, since it is clear in the image that the stakeholder is currently trying to combat food waste (Hoffman 41). The author also seems to have an ardent tone on the matter, and the hands with rice also support the Logos of the image. Viewers would be inclined to believe that since the stakeholder is taking of the challenge, then they must be having some type of change in the community, whether or not that is actually true. Overall, the purpose of the image was to convey the drive and purpose. Together, the images complement each other, and focus on a common goal. Image one first draws the reader into the conversation. Viewers are able to relate to the image after being drawn to the scene of a commonly visited place, a grocery store, and then viewers find themselves informed of an issue occurring in their society. Image two then informs the viewer what the stakeholder is currently doing to engage the issue. Alongside each other, the images reach out to the general public that is ill informed of the food waste situation, and to draw the support of individuals and businesses towards cause. On the other hand, it could be argued that image one is, to anonymous a logical fallacy (Hoffman 55). This fallacy can be observed in the claim of a statistical estimate, without providing a reliable Student 4 source. Though the fallacy can be inferred by the first image, there is no denying the goal to combat food waste. The two images on website work side by side to inform viewers of prevailing food waste issues, establish their ideology on the topic, and gather support as the stakeholder works to reduce food waste, funneling that extra food to the needy. primary focus is to lessen the amount of food waste, but they need support from the community (Foodwastealliance.org). Images on the website help to educate and draw viewers to the cause. These images could be broken down using visual rhetoric strategies to better understand how they efficiently affect the viewers. The purposes of the images could be clearly defined, and support goals. The images challenge viewers to get involved in the matter, joining an issue that is not only national, but is a global conversation (Word Count: 1135). Student 5 Works Cited Food Waste Reduction  FWRA Food Waste Reduction Alliance. N.p., n.d. http://www.foodwastealliance.org/. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text.