Vieira 1 Karen Vieira Sarah Basil ENC 1102.905S17 29 January 2017 Everyday a college education becomes more vital to gain footing in the job market and every college wants to sell itself as being able to adequately prepare its students for it. Much sense then lies in the fact that these students take different classes with information necessary in the fields they choose to pursue but there are some outliers in the form of transferable skills. This instigates a challenge for all colleges to create a curriculum in these classes that both satisfies the educational needs of students going into different professions and administers that education in a way accessible to all their different learning styles. This essay will dissect both Duke University and The University of South first year composition programs and then attempt to explain what they have to gain if they both choose to adopt the same Universal Design for Learning approach in their classrooms. Duke first year composition course is truly student centered. In other words, instead of providing one set curriculum the school offers a range of class sections for to choose from. Each section focuses on different topics from literature to religious mysticism, militia movements to Thompson Writing and much more. By allowing students to preselect their interests before joining a class Duke surrounds its students with those of similar interests and presumably those with the same job aspirations. This has both pros and cons as with anything and while students meet like minded peers and truly Vieira 2 would be expected to be engaged in their work it seems to eradicate one of their few chances to truly go out of their comfort zones and work with those who think in different ways from them. These classes also are made in seminar style with no more than twelves students per class professors are able to a seminar environment consisting of vigorous class discussion and careful consideration of student Thompson Writing The University of South Florida takes a different approach. Their first year composition curriculum is divided into two courses: Comp I and Comp II. The goal of each is to gain prowres in literacy skills through reading comprehension and research, refine critical thinking processes through exploring historical perspectives and visual images, and critically reflect upon visual and textual and, research, and compose respectively. Though their class sizes are larger than those at Duke they do also attempt to create discussion generating focus on class workshops and peer review. Through these means they are able to create real world job skills when it comes to taking constructive criticism and sharing their own opinions and ideas with a group. Another aspect of their curriculum is the WOVEN approach. understands that communication is multimodal, that it is more than words on a piece of paper. WOVEN resist communication paradigm. Instead, it celebrates it by incorporating different modes of In this sense USF emerges students in the career world of today by allowing them to use multimedia in their curriculum such as analyzing images. Though both these schools demonstrate they believe writing skills to be an important transferable skill they do not agree on how to educate their students. The proposal of both taking up Universal Design for Learning in their classrooms would both satisfy views of Vieira 3 allowing students to pick their interests and interest in students being prepared for multimodal environment. In the academic journal Design in First Year Composition- Why Do We Need It, How Can We Use Danielle Nielsen describes Universal Design in Learning or how she abbreviates it, UDL, like this UDL teachers apply flexible strategies that allow students to learn, demonstrate competency, and become interested in learning in different ways For instance, students may prove their ability to understand narratives by writing a story or by filming a silent movie, a less traditional method that requires more visual acumen than written expression. Both choices enable students to prove they understand narrative development, however. Additionally, students may show they have mastered material through group work, presentations, portfolios, or community projects (Bowe (5). Both USF and Duke could reach their goals more fully if they changed to the Universal Design for Learning style of curriculum. This would be mutually beneficial as not only would both schools be able to ensure that their students had transferable communication skills in whichever field they pursued but they would also fulfill the needs of employers hoping to hire students out of college to represent them. Vieira 4 Annotated Bibliography: Duke Thompson Writing  University Thompson Writing Program: Writing 101 . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Thompson Writing Program web page gives explains their first year composition class for all Duke students. It explains this course is composed of a small group of students, no more than 11 per class. It has a seminar style to it and it is focused on students interests. They are able to do this by offering many different sections of the same class, each with a different focus and even instructors from different branches in the university. This web page is integral in the formation of my paper because it allows me to present style of first year composition teaching style. With it I can compare and contrast educational style from from and the compromise which I purpose. Composition  Year Composition . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Composition  Year Composition . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.  Year Composition . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. first year composition site shows both their comp I and comp II class curriculums, which are based on three large writing projects per class. It also has pages dedicated to Vieira 5 certain important aspects they try to focus on in general. These include the approach and peer review. This web page is integral in the formation of my paper because it allows me to present style of first year composition teaching style. With it I can compare and contrast educational style from from and the compromise which I purpose. Nielsen, Danielle. Universal Design in First-Year Composition - Why Do We Need It, How Can We Do  CEA Forum 42.2 (2013): 3-25. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This journal article defines the teaching style of Universal Design in relation to first year composition courses. It not only explains what this style is but why it is a good choice for this style of class delving into the diversity of these classes as well as other aspects. Nielsen also goes over the best ways to implement this style of teaching in these classes. This article is vital to my essay because it not only supplies a vital solution for both schools to change to that holds both student choice and multimedia use as its core but it also. also important that it gives