Al Araimi 1 Hamed Al Araimi Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Video Games and Violence In recent years there have been intense debates surrounding the issue of video gaming and their potential linkage to violence and antisocial behavior among children. As technology advances and more video games made available to children through smartphones and computers, parents and the society at large is becoming increasingly worried about the effect of these games on children. Some of these games carry violent scenes involving guns, fist fights, and blood, such as Theft Auto: San The risks of violent video games have been brought to the attention of the legislators who in turn have passed laws that aim to prohibit the sale of some these games to the children. Consequently, the U.S. legislature is now on a collision path with retailers who are keen on maximizing their profit through the sale of these games. However, a compromise position can be reached when the legislature and the retailers agree to the use of video game rating to classify those that are suitable for children and those that are not. Interactive video games have lately become very important as they provide the entertainment that the children badly need. Video game developers have thus taken advantage of that need and continue to develop a variety of these games. However, most of these games are violent in nature and some people do not realize the potential impact they can have on children. For instance, in the video game Theft Auto: San the gamer engagers in bloody fights with the police. They make use of guns, crude weapons, or their fists. A child who is exposed to such games for a prolonged period may eventually learn some of the tricks and try to implement Al Araimi 2 them in the real life (Funk et al. 26). In fact, some studies have already found a positive linkage between children violence and their exposure to violence video games (Anderson and Bushman 354). It is for this reason that the legislature through the members of congress have tried to pass a number of laws to protect the children from exposure to violent video games (Thierer). The move has however not gone well with the retailers of these games who feel that some of these laws may negatively impact their business. A conflict of interest has therefore existed between these two stakeholders for some time and there is need for a compromise if the children are to be protected from exposure to violence. Considering the situation at hand, it is obvious that the legislatures and video game retailers are at odds. Video game retailers are in a business and the more they sell these video games the higher their profitability. However, the legislatures are there to pass laws that are for the general good of the society (Thierer). A violent society is a risk to peaceful co-existence. It is in this view that these two conflicting stakeholders have to reach a compromise that will ensure that children are protected from exposure to violence. In the same way, the legislatures have to ensure that game retailers are not pushed out of business by simply prohibiting the sale of their products. To put this point into context, the year 2005 saw California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger sign into a law a bill that prohibited the sale of violent video game to minors. This generated grave concern within the ranks of the $25 billion a year industry with many analysts forecasting great losses. A landmark ruling was however passed by the Supreme Court in 2011 which lifted the ban on the sale of these video games. Ted Price, president of Insomniac Games praised the supreme court decision by saying that such a ban have left us handcuffed wondering whether or not what we create would fall under the restrictions and thus be illegal to sell to (Biskupic and Snider). Al Araimi 3 A compromise to the conflict at hand can be achieved when the two stakeholders factor in their shared values or goals. First, retailers are in a business which is an important part of a economic growth. Legislatures are equally elected to govern the country, protect the interest of their constituents, and ensure that businesses thrive to spur up economic growth. Businesses can only thrive in an environment that is free from violence or events that can cause losses. Exposing children to violent content has been proven to have a long-reaching impact on their social behavior. Children who are constantly exposed to violence may end up picking up some of those characters and try then in real life (Shaffer, Williamson et al 106). These may include robbing business at gun-point so as to get money. This is an example of a risk that both the legislatures and retailers would not like to happen. It is therefore from these shared risk that the two stakeholders can reach a compromise that will not only protect children from exposure to violence, but will also save businesses from losses that arise from a violent business environment. The most feasible solution to the problem at hand is the use of video game rating to determine which one is suitable for children and which one is suitable for only adults. In the United States, this function can be achieve through the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) (Video games and age US and UK). Both the retailers and legislatures must give the ESRB the authority to review all video games and classify them according their suitable for the various age group. For instance, we can have video games for children aged 10 years and below, then for teenagers below 17 years, and finally for mature who are 18 years and above. The extremely violent video games should be sold to adults who are mature enough not to experiment what they encounter in these games in the real life situations. Nevertheless, critics may however find a weakness in the above compromise since children can still access these videos through their parents. It is at this point that the role of the parent or guardians need to be highlighted. It is the Al Araimi 4 duty of the adult present in these homes or schools to keep violent video games away from children. Through a collaborative approach children exposure to violent content will be minimized. In conclusion, the solution to children exposure to violent video game content rests on a compromise between the legislatures and retailers. Strict laws need to be put in place by the legislatures that will prohibit the sale of violent video games to children. However, this law must not be a blanket ban on the sale of these video games to minors as it was the case in California in the year 2005. Instead, the legislatures have to come to an understanding that such a move a multi- stakeholder undertaking and that the interest of all the stakeholders have to be taken into account. This law can be implemented through the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) which is an independent body mandated to classify video games according to the various age groups. Since both the retailers and legislatures are keen on building a peaceful society, this shared common goal can inform the basis of the functions performed by ESRB. These two stakeholders must acknowledge that the interactive video games shape children especially on their perception of violence and its effect. Similarly, legislatures must appreciate the role played by the interactive gaming industry in the economic growth. Therefore, ESRB can appropriately classify the video games produced in line with the age group to ensure that children are not exposed to violence. Lastly, retailers acting in good faith can collaborate with the patents to ensure that violent video games do not get in the hands of minors. Al Araimi 5 Works Cited Anderson, Craig A., and Brad J. Bushman. Effects of violent video games on aggressive behavior, aggressive cognition, aggressive affect, physiological arousal, and prosocial behavior: A meta-analytic review of the scientific  Psychological science 12.5 (2001): 353- 359. Biskupic, Joan, and Mike Snider. Supreme Court Rejects Ban on Violent Video  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 28 June 2011. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Funk, Jeanne B., et al. Violence exposure in real-life, video games, television, movies, and the internet: is there  Journal of adolescence 27.1 (2004): 23-39. Shaffer, David Williamson, et al. Video games and the future of  Phi delta kappan 87.2 (2005): 105-111. Thierer, Adam D. Regulating Video Games: Must Government Mind Our  Cato Institute. N.p., 24 June 2003. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Video Games and Age US and  Video Games and Age US and UK. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.