Jonathan Hernandez 29 January 2017 ENC1102 Project 1 Are American Women Oppressed? One of the most controversial and talked about subjects of the most recent history in the United States has been, are American women oppressed? The talking points of many conversations, that often lead to arguments, are the ideas that women make different wages, sexism in workplaces is prevalent, or the amounts of rights given to women are so small that they feel powerless. These ideas all end up being discussed any time the subject of feminism comes up. On one side of the argument is the group of people who would say that these ideas are the most important issues facing the American people and that until the people face and address these problems, there will always be a division in America. One of the most prevalent speakers for this side is Gloria Allred. She is a spokesperson for many feminists and a practiced lawyer for the movement, taking many popular and newsworthy cases. The opposing side would argue that these problems are either not important enough to keep at the top of the list of issues facing the country or that they are nonexistent in the first place. A stakeholder on this side of the discussion is Milo Yiannopoulos. He is a public speaker and journalist for Breitbart News, who believes passionately that feminism and people like Gloria Allred are not good for the country, and he actively debates them. Both sides of any feminist argument want the same thing, which is what is best for women in America. The only reasonable way to come to an agreement on how to accomplish this is to diminish each radicals and make a platform for rational people to make rational decisions. By ignoring the loudest and most stubborn of each side, those who really want what is best for American women will be able to come to a solution for each area of interest. The first stakeholder, who in recent news has gained a large amount of national attention, is Gloria Allred and the women that look up to her. She is most famous for her work in the OJ Simpson trial, the Tiger Woods scandal, the Bill Cosby case, and more recently, the women suing Donald Trump. Her work is centered around feminism and she does what she does because she believes she is doing what is best for American women. A major fighting point for Allred and her recent supporters is fighting against the wage gap. Recent data and polls show that women in the work force make 79 cents to every dollar a man makes (Fleming). Fleming attempts to show that status groups (such as white males) engage in exclusionary practices that reserve the best opportunities and jobs for members of the as opposed to other reasons that include discrimination. Allred and her advocates say that this is a major dividing factor in America and, along side blatant sexism, that the country needs to focus on equality of women. Many protesters took to the streets in late January, after Donald inauguration, to voice their opinions on just that. Allred, and many of the feminists that consider these issues as serious as she, have a slogan that they have made famous, or infamous to some. This message states, not a feminist, then you are a The gender wage gap is what many believe to be the worst aspect of work environment sexism. That is not the only aspect, however. Allred often takes cases of sexual harassment. She posits that women are almost always the victim of sexual harassment, even if they realize it. This side believes that it is almost impossible for women to get ahead because they are seen as sexual objects, instead of capable competitors, in the work place. She said, are endless new variations on how to hurt a woman physically, emotionally, financially, and This point of view, taken to the extreme, envisions a world where men are oppressors, women are victims, and always a fight to be had because women will never be equal. It also sets up the idea that men are the enemy. Like Allred has said, more I know about men, the more I like Milo Yiannopoulos is someone who will tell a person exactly what he is thinking at any given moment, often without any sort of filter. His supporters see this as a positive characteristic, whereas others see it as being rude and offensive. He (in)famously told a student at one of his I give a shit about your feelings, I just care about This was quickly followed by cheering from his fans, and from his opposers. Yiannopoulos has given many speeches and talks at dozens of universities around the country. Many of these talks were on the subject of feminism, or a form of it. Being one of the top disputers of feminist claims, Yiannopoulos feels very passionate about laying out his findings to people he believes are uniformed and misled about the topic. He argues that feminist groups claim that women make 79 cents to the dollar of a man is deceptive, in fact he has argued this many times. He said, in a talk he gave to students at Auburn University, [the wage is something that no real economist takes seriously. . . it is about life choices, not He goes on to explain how the 79 cents figure comes from life choices and not from blatant sexism in the workplace. Whether it is choosing to take hours off of work to take care of a family or their own fear of asking for a raise or promotion, which women are half as likely to ask for, these factors, Yiannopoulos says, are the real properties holding women back in the workplace. He explains that the 79 cents figures come from a very broad sweep over all jobs and all people working, but when each job cell (which is a word to describe all employees working in the same occupation as a specific point in time) is looked at separately, that number does not stand up (Ludsteck). Ludsteck actually proposes that there are more women in recent years being hired and paid than men due to the fear that employers have of being labeled a sexist. Not only does he feel the 79 cent statistic is purposefully manipulated, but he feels that women have become oversensitive in the workplace, and look for problems. feminists think safe spaces will protect them from the world, but they In fact safe spaces grant the rest of the world a brief reprieve from dealing with left-wing stupidity, which is the only real argument for them. But the real result of a safe space is to reinforce ignorance, fragility, and a toddler mentality. therapy Yiannopoulos states. His bombastic statements at his speeches often give rise to shouts of protest. He care. He believes that feminism has gone so far, that not only are women not discriminated against, but that the country is now being damaged by this push from what he calls third wave feminism. He often uses military studies that show that women are more inclined to be physically hurt in combat, that only eight percent of military females want combat roles, but that the military still pushed for women in combat in fear of feminist backlash. They simply lowered the standard of the military to make it possible for women to meet the standards. This, he argues, is the result of lesbians controlling the Any person who already leans in one direction is going to find the strong statements of both Allred and Yiannopoulos to be off-putting. Both of their outlandish approaches to the topic make it difficult for listening to take place. But a rational approach to the topic can bring about a balanced position on the subject of American women and oppression. For instance, the 79 cent wage gap seems, at first glance to be proof that women get ahead in the workplace. However, a close look at those numbers, without the name calling, does show that the studies that show this large gap do tend to do very little in the way of discriminating between reasons for the the gap. For instance, goal facing most researchers is how to decompose the observed gender wage gap of employed men and women into differences in preferences and constraints. This decomposition is important for policy. If women would have received a higher wage by working full-time but did not choose to do so due to strong preferences for part-time work, their lower wages reflect outcomes from voluntary choices rather than any malfunctioning of the labor The reasons for gaps in wages is often explainable for things that are outside of discrimination, and using data and hard numbers can explain the differences. However, ignoring the fact that some women are harassed work either. Individual cases should be looked at and it should be easy to understand that just because one instance of harassment is accurate, that then apply to every woman, in every workplace in America. The rational fact is, that although isolated incidents of discrimination against women are, of course, happening, to extrapolate those instances to the entire state of women in America is overgeneralizing and gives absolutely no acknowledgement of the fact that American women are some of the freest women in the world with endless possibilities to succeed at their fingertips. Works Cited -Allred, Gloria. Gloria Allred Discrimination Attorney Feminist  Allred, Maroko & Goldberg. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. -Ludsteck, Johannes. The Impact Of Segregation And Sorting On The Gender Wage Gap: Evidence From German Linked Longitudinal Employer- Employee  Industrial & Labor Relations Review 67.2 (2014): 362-394. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. -Liu, Kai. Explaining The Gender Wage Gap: Estimates From A Dynamic Model Of Job Changes And Hours  Quantitative Economics 2 (2016): 411. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. -Wienclaw, Ruth A. Gender And Economic  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. -Yiannopoulos, Milo. FULL TEXT: MILO On How Feminism Hurts Men And  Breitbart. N.p., 07 Oct. 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.