Maycock 1 Natale Maycock Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 Jan 2017 Wind Powered Turbines in the United States The American Wind Energy Association (AWEA) is a national organization that advocates deeply for the development and utilization of wind powered turbines. Currently it is trying to improve the use of turbines throughout states that have previously started exploiting their use, while simultaneously working to implement Wind Power Programs inside of states that currently do not. Wind turbines are currently a controversial topic in renewable resources because there are arguments that they could possibly do more harm to the environment, than good; which is an argument that they are trying so hard to dispel. One of many platforms that they use to relay their message is the multimedia they have posted on their website. AWEA uses multiple aspects within their multimedia, specifically their graphic images, to portray the idea that wind turbines are crucial for the future of renewable resources. Upon arrival to the website, you are met with a beautiful picture of several very large turbines, in fields as the background of the entire screen (Figure. 1). The text that is in the foreground is the truth about Wind , is a literary tool that appeals to the ethos of the source. In the image, viewers will note that the text is very large and in a white contrast, so that no one could possibly miss the message. I believe that this speaks to the authority that the organization is portraying, to say that they have the real information, and they are willing to share it with the viewer speaks to the thought that they have the power and authority to spread said information. It is going solely off of the credibility that accompanies a name like one of its own, and the fact that they are for the expansion of wind turbine use. Maycock 2 Figure 1. Homepage for AWEA at http://www.truthaboutwindpower.com Maycock 3 Works Cited What Is the Truth about Wind  What Is the Truth about Wind Power? Siemens Energy Inc,, 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.truthaboutwindpower.com/>