Figbe 1 Prosper Figbe Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Political/economic problems regarding the issue of There is nothing more satisfying, than having a goodnights rest and a place to call home. Having a place that every one of us thrives, a place where family can be raised. Where one could always find love irrespective of the circumstance is the greatest gift to man. Homelessness has a negative effect on the growth and stability of our society today, it poses a deep danger to our ability to succeed. Individuals who are destitute are frequently not able to maintain a secure and adequate housing. Every individual deserves a decent place to call home because having shelter is an essential need for every human. However, not everyone gets to own a home due to numerous challenges that society places on our lives. Living without a home can place many hardship on an life and the implications could lead to individuals being exposed to dangerous diseases, and unsafe environment. By providing all sorts of assistance in terms of finances, and therapy programs are some of the solution to getting rid of homelessness. The company Bowery Mission and Leesa Sleep Cooperation uses their homepage image to present their concern about the impact of homelessness and various ways individuals in the community could help fix the situation. The images show how hard it could be for individuals sleeping on the streets, and how much of a joy it would be for them to have a bed to sleep in just for the night. It also shows the impact it Figbe 2 could have in our society, because the less amount people sleeping around in the street the lower the crime rate in our society as a whole could be. Figure one applies to Logos because the graceful tone used makes the audience feels like their main purpose is to help in whatever way they can to eliminate homelessness. It also applies to figure two because it shows that the main reason of the women sleeping in the street, is due to the fact that she has no place to call home. Ethos is used in figure one to show that there are many individuals who are devoted and involved in this mission. Figure one makes the audience want to be involved and help in any way they can. The feeling ethos and being a part of helping the homeless get off the streets is also applied to figure two. Figure two shows that individual with a good conscience whom saw the women lying in the street will find a way to help her in whichever way they can. Pathos is used in a sense to show that some individuals do care for the welfare and health of other individuals. Pathos is used to convey a message to the viewers for them to help, it applies to image two because the sadness attach with the images immediately connects to the feelings. Finally, Kairos is used because it shows the audience that the time to help fix the problem. In order to change society and get rid of homeless, people need to begin to make a change. There is no indication of Kairos being used in figure two; however, the images helps present the ideas of immediate help which can be seen as timeliness. Both pictures use visual message to communicate that donating and giving out to the less privilege and the homeless will go a long way in making our society a better place. It will also help our society take a step forward in the fight and reduction of homelessness and spreading the message that homelessness is a big issue in our society. We all should take responsibility by helping in any way possible. Bowery Mission and Figbe 3 Leesa Sleep Cooperation used boxes filled with mattress as a way to show their generosity. The people wearing red robs shows their selfless commitment to the course. However for image one the use of white and blue color signifies positivity and it also draws the audience to the message being passed across. The picture also uses the colors because they signify something pure. While in image two the mixtures of different colors present the viewers with the notion that she really does not care about the kind of things she wear, the image is very colorful, and it presents the viewers with all kinds of positive emotions to help. The danger that comes with being Homeless poses a threat to the safety of an individual. The negative impact of being Homeless is the main topic that is dealt with in these stakeholder companies Mission and Leesa Sleep This Company shows various ways to help prevent homelessness by; supporting individuals, starting a campaign to feed the homeless and through the creation of jobs opportunities. People spend a third of their lives sleeping, but there are too many people in our country that sleep at night because they have a place to rest. By donating in any way possible to help the less privileged could go a long way in our efforts to reduce homelessness in our society. According to David Wolfe, CEO and founder of Leesa Sleep LLC, a given night, more than half a million people in the U.S. are living on the streets, in cars, in homeless shelters or in subsidized transitional housing. Of that population, 15 percent are considered (Wolfe). All of these difficulties being experience by homeless people are a result of inadequate job opportunities to sustain mankind. The creation of a campaign would be a huge factor and also go along way in the eradication of homelessness in our society. The organizations Figbe 4 primary goal, is to support the local community by providing a safe place for the poor and provide them with a bed to sleep in. According to James Winans, Chief Development Officer of New Bowery Mission, on the streets means never being able to close your eyes and say or going to be here for a full Homelessness poses a threat to the success of our nation as whole; the result of being homeless could lead to an uprising of many crimes in the area such as, shoplifting, prostitution, drugs and even rape. It is time for people to take a stand and make a change in their society. We need more businesses like Bowery Mission and Leesa Sleep Cooperation, who are willing to help those in their community, who cannot help themselves. There is nothing more satisfying, than having a goodnights rest and a place to call home. Having a place that every one of us thrives, a place where family can be raised, and where one could always find love irrespective of the circumstance is the greatest gift to man. Help those in need when you get the change, and make a change in your society. (WC: 1200) Figbe 5 Work Cited Page America  Vimeo. N.p., 28 Jan. 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Donate or Volunteer at The Bowery  Donate or Volunteer at The Bowery Mission Npach. N.p., 05 Aug. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Pundit: People, Planet, Profit. Triple Pundit, 19 Oct. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Sheep, Leesa. One Company Tackles Homelessness: One Mattress at a  Triple The Bowery Mission. Hope For New York, 09 Dec. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Triplepundit. N.p., Jan.-Feb. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Wolfe, David, Company Tackles Homelessness: One Mattress at a Triple pundit: people planet, profit. N.p., 19 Oct. 2016. Web.26 Jan. 2017.