Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 Arts of the Future For hundreds of years, the arts have had a huge impact on people and cultures all around the world. The arts do not just include paintings or drawings; the arts range from paintings, to music, and even acting. A major influence in painting was Vincent Van Gogh who painted Generation after generation have been influenced by all types of music. From Duke Ellington with Jazz, The Rolling Stones with rock and roll, Tim McGraw with country, and even hip-hop artists like N.W.A., Kodak Black, and Lil Wayne. People all around the world watch movies. Without actors there are no movies. Without the arts, none of this is possible. The Americans for the Arts Action Fund acknowledges just how important the arts are to all of society. The Americans for the Arts Action Fund is dedicated to keeping the arts in school by enlisting and mobilizing citizen activists that will help ensure that arts-friendly public policies are adopted at the federal, state, and local levels. The main goal of the Americans for the Arts Action Fund is to keep the practice of the arts in school. Throughout the Americans for the Arts Action website, they show how the arts benefit society by listing benefits of keeping the arts in school and by using images that show what they stand. One of the several images used on the organizations website is their logo. Their logo is a star that is colorful and broken up into three parts located on the left, on the stars right shows the name of the organization, for the Arts ACTION and under the star and the name is the mission statement of the organization, a movement Student 2 of one million arts One element that stands out in the logo is the star. The star being broken up into three different parts and each piece being colored a different color (red, green, and blue) shows how abstract elements can be unified to create one image. A famous artist by the name of Pablo Picasso used shapes of all different varieties to construct his paintings. Even the logo has art history involved in it. The mission statement involves one million advocates. This leads to the image using Ethos because of two separate reasons. Firstly, the influence of Pablo Picasso establishes credibility by using the influences of a famous artist in the construction of its own organizational logo. Secondly, the words million arts in the mission statement also shows credibility because millions of people do not unite and advocate for the same thing if there is not a logical reason to do so. The image also uses pathos because the phrase a within the mission statement gives people viewing this organization and even the advocates already involved an emotion reason purpose or reason to get involved. Finally, the image uses kairos. The capitalization of the entire word within the logo represents urgency in taking part in what the Americans for the Arts Action Fund is all about. Urgency ties in directly with timeliness which is what kairos is all about. The logo that the Americans for the Arts Action Fund uses to represent the organization has several pros. The first pro being that the only color used in the logo is within the star itself allowing it to stand out beautifully and that forces the attention to be drawn directly to the star. The second pro being that the Picasso like design of the star represents the history of art directly and without the influence of Picasso the logo would not be possible. The third and final pro being that by linking together the star and the words and the Student 3 viewer can see that the arts can be saved by the people because the people are the stars of the show. The second image chosen from the website of the Americans for the Arts Action Fund takes place in an elementary school classroom. Within the classroom are a few adults and several young students. Each student holding a different piece of artwork. The image uses logos because not only is each and every student holding either one or two pieces of artwork, each and every student has a smile on its face. When two things are happening simultaneously there is more often than not a connection between them. Logically, the students are smiling because the artwork they produced brings them joy. The image also uses pathos because the involvement of young adolescents automatically adds the factor that appeals directly to emotions. Finally, the image uses kairos. The joy that is apparent throughout the image, from the students to the few adults in the back, shows that art brings joy to not only young adolescents but to adults as well. This in turn represents timeliness in illustrating that no matter how much time goes by in a life, art has the ability to bring one joy. The image of the students and adults within the classroom shown on the website for Americans for the Art Action Fund has two pros. First off, the wide variety of colors used in the artwork being held and the colors all around the classroom force the eyes to look at and analyze every little detail. Second off, the people in the class are not all of the same background wise. Some are white or Caucasian and others are black or African American. The fact that each and every person in the classroom is smiling shows that it does not matter if you are black or white or any other ethnicity, art has an effect on every background. Art can have an impact on anyone. From young adolescents to mature adults, from people of a white background to an African American background. The Americans for the Arts Action Student 4 Fund illustrates throughout its website that people all over the world are influenced by art no matter the age or background. Their website contains information and images that directly reflect the mission they want to accomplish and use logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos to deliver its message. The successful construction of the website is a great reason why millions of advocates have gathered to support the arts. The Arts are a key part to the history of the world and will continue to influence the people of today and the people of years to come. As a whole, the Americans for the Arts Action Fund is a great organization that has taken part in keeping the arts in school (W.C. 1102) Student 5 Student 6 Works Cited a  Americans for the Arts Action Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Browning, Ella, and Rea, Joshua. Understanding Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 371-374. E-text. Classroom. Digital image. Art Action Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily, McKee, Jessica, and McLintyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. Logo. Digital image. Arts Action Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.