Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 A Brighter Way of Looking at the World Every topic at hand has two sides, a  side, and an  side. No matter what is being discussed, there is always going to be the people that feel strongly one way or the other, those people are considered stakeholders. Stakeholders have an invested opinion and it is usually difficult to distinguish if their voices are right or wrong. Even though identifying stakeholders can be troublesome, there could be anywhere from five to hundreds of them on a specific topic (Royce, et al.). When it comes to the use of solar energy, many different viewpoints can be found on whether or not it is actually worth it. One stakeholder that has a particular view on this issue is the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA). While the use of solar energy is the main topic discussed on the Solar Energy Industries Association website: two images that the association uses helps promote the benefits of solar power. Solar Energy Industries Association is considered to be a main contributor when it comes to the use of solar energy. They also act as the voice to both small businesses and large companies when it comes to the use of solar energy. They currently work with one thousand member companies to promote the use of clean, affordable solar energy throughout the United States by strengthening the industry and educating the public on its benefits. Within these one thousand member companies include installers, developers, manufacturers, contractors, and financiers who all work together to make solar energy a main use of power in America On the SEIA website, one can find information on events going on, the research that Student 2 has been done, as well as the issues they discuss and their policies. While their intended audience could really be targeted towards anyone, it is probably more directed at, or appealing to those in their late twenties and above, those who own houses or businesses, and anyone who can or is willing to take part in their association (Royce). Solar Energy Industries main message is to work towards a cleaner future and a better America. They present this message through the many events the attend and/or host, the content on their web page, for example, the images, their issues, events, and resource sections, and their connections through social media, as well as their members and sponsors (Pack). Both images used on the Solar Energy Industries Association website are great sources of all four rhetorical appeal techniques: logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos (Lane). In image 1 and image 2, the both kairos, the rhetorical appeal relating to timeliness, by showing that the faster one is to install solar panels or to begin implementing the use of solar energy in their lives, the faster they can start to save money and the planet. Assuming the audience had any background knowledge on the association, to begin with, the amount of ethos that can be found in both of these images is extraordinary. Even though neither image has any type of embedded text or company logo, they still show credibility through the fact that they are on the website alone. To add even more credibility to that, SEIA states that they help manufacture solar panels, which the viewer could assume that the solar panels shown in image 2 are ones manufactured by them . In addition, pathos is also present in both images in similar ways. Pathos is the appeal to emotions, which both images do in the sense that the viewer cares about the world they live in. Solar energy, according to SEIA, helps save the planet and creates a cleaner way of living. Even more so, using solar energy is a lot less expensive overall, and who does not like to save some money? Student 3 While there are many similarities in both image 1 and image 2, there are some differences that help promote the same message. Logos is a bit more difficult to discover, but with further analysis could help decipher the logic in the images. The interpretation of logos in image 1 shows that solar panels can help provide energy throughout an entire building even during the night The reason that is possible is because during the day, any energy not used, or extra that was accumulated, is saved for when the sun is not out to provide solar energy. In image 2, there are mountains in the background which could only be interpreted as a non-city area to viewers If solar panels are able to provide energy in places with not many resources, there is no logical reason as to why switching to solar energy could not benefit the environment and the economy. In image 1, there is no physical evidence of solar energy in the image, however, there is an image overlay of what can be depicted as solar panels over the cityscape scene This could represent that all these buildings shown are run purely on solar power, considering that roughly ninety percent of the buildings are lit. On the other hand, image 2 represents actual solar panels in use. The viewer could assume that these are being used within a neighborhood due to the house on the left side of the image, as well as looking at the size and style of the roof they are installed on looks like it might belong to a factory or business building. This image shows that there are no bounds as to where solar energy can be used. To conclude, Solar Energy Industries Association is a stakeholder that are for the use of solar energy. Their use of images throughout their website help promote their message and their future goals for this topic. Both the image 1 and image 2 exemplify the use of pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos (Lane). As well as intrigue their targeted audience in the possibility of implementing the use of solar energy in a daily life (Royce). Image 1 and image 2 both take a bit Student 4 of interpretation to figure out exactly what is being said through the pictures, one slightly clearer than the other. Regardless, Solar Energy Industries Association properly represents a stakeholder and how they promote their message and goals to the world through rhetorical strategies and appeals (Pack). (Word Count: 1,048) Student 5 Works Cited Solar Energy Industries Association, Web. 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.seia.org/about. Distributed  Solar Energy Industries Association, Web. 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.seia.org/policy/distributed-solar Accessed 19 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily, et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-63. E-text. Pack, Jenna. Down and Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. E-Text. Royce, Katherine, et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 364-379. E-text. Royce, Katherine. is a Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 364-369. E-Text. Solar Energy Industries Association, Web. 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.seia.org/policy/solar-technology. Student 6 Image 1 http://www.seia.org/sites/default/files/Distributed-solar.jpg Student 7 Image 2 http://www.seia.org/sites/default/files/Solar-technology-SHC.jpg