Reynoso 1 Paola Reynoso Prof. H. Lay ENC 02 29 January 2017 Gun Control or Gun Rights? There is too much violence in our nation, and the primary cause of death is caused by gun violence. Due to what is happening the term gun control is created, which is the governments regulation of the sale and ownership of firearms. Like every other controversial topic, there are people in favor and against gun control. Those in favor are concern about the great amount of violence due to guns and the safety of the citizens, and those against gun control are concerned with their rights and being able to defend themselves. Likewise, there are organizations who support or oppose gun control. An organization in favor of gun control is the States United to Prevent Gun Violence (SUPGV), while the National Association for Gun Rights (NAGR) is against it. These two stakeholders have different views; SUPGV wants military arms to be banned from communities and the NAGR wants the people to have the right of owning any weapon or firearm without the permission of the government to defend themselves. Although they have different views, they both still want the safety of the people, but they want to achieve it in different ways. To achieve the common goal, there is going to be education provided for the citizens about guns and the consequences of using one, teach citizens how to be safe in situations where guns are used and how to defend themselves, and before buying a weapon making a background check of the client. The States United to Prevent Gun Violence has the purpose of making communities safe for the people, and they work to reduce deaths and injuries by pushing to make more legislations Reynoso 2 and by educating the citizens about gun violence. The website of this organization states: have the right to be safe in our homes, schools, and communities and to live in a country free from the fear, loss, and grief caused by gun violence felons, terrorists, domestic abusers and the seriously violent mentally ill continue to have easy access to firearms and ammunition because of our weak gun (States United to Prevent Gun Violence). They want to keep guns away from criminals, terrorists and those who are violent due to a mental illness through the use of background check before buying a gun, keep guns away from domestic abusers, whether a male or female. Gun owners have to keep guns unloaded and stored away from the reach of children. Educate families (adult and children) about guns and gun violence, their risks, dangers and consequences. Finally, ban military arms from communities to prevent massacre. In relation to the mentally ill who own guns, it is really dangerous. According to the article, There a Gun in the Assessing the Risks of Gun Ownership in Older Adults, an elderly couple who both had dementia, a mentally ill disease, were taken care of by their nephew and his wife. When doing a safety check, a gun was seen loaded, and the elderly man had two other pistols just in case of an intruder. When the nephew was informed he said he would remove them but he did not, so months later, the elderly man threatened the nephew with one of the guns, and the police came in. This example shows what could happen if someone mentally ill would posses a gun (Pinholt, E. M., Mitchell J. D., Butler J. H., Kumar, H. pg. 1). By doing these five things, the community can be a safer and fearless place to live. The SUPGV states: Develop effective policy initiatives and best practices for gun safety. Organize local action to highlight gun violence impact in the community. Keep close watch on dangerous gun lobby policies and proposals. Communicate effectively with community leaders, the public and the media. Contribute fact-based input to local elected representatives and members of Reynoso 3 Congress about stronger gun laws. Assist our state groups in engaging supporters with a shared online communications system for emails, action alerts, petitions and fundraising. Collaborate with our organizational allies to maximize advocacy impact and create positive change. Connect our state groups to resources for building coalitions and grassroots activism within the GVP movement. Provide technical support support for website development, action alert creation and social media toolkits. Due to all this, it can be seen that they want to achieve the safety of the people. The second stakeholder, National Association for Gun Rights, is a gun right advocacy group that was founded by Dudley Brown in 2000. The NAGR works to uphold the Second Amendment and pass the Constitutional Carry legislation, which consists of people having the right to buy and bear arms without a government permission slip because the people should have the right to self-defend. According to Law-Second Amendment-Ninth Circuit Holds that Concealed Carry is not Protected by the Second the Carry Legislation is not part of the Second Amendment, yet in California one can have open and concealed carry of firearms in public areas. This is what the NAGR is trying to achieve. The NAGR states that: one should be treated like a criminal simply for wishing to carry a firearm in defense of themselves or their By having the Carry Legislation one would known that everyone is exercising their right to have a gun. The NAGR has already helped Kansas and Maine achieve the passing of the Constitutional Carry legislation in 2015, and it has also helped propose the Constitutional Carry in many other states. They also achieved the Constitutional Carry in West Virginia, Idaho and Mississippi in March 2016. This was due to the NAGR pushing the bill through legislature and the support of gun owners, which lead the legislators to vote for the bill. Another victory was in July 2016; after the terrorist attack in Orlando, there were 6-separated anti-gun amendments in the Reynoso 4 Senate, which were defeated by the NAGR by delivering more than 300,000 petitions and many calls and emails so that the anti-gun amendments would not pass. The final victory would be that the House Speaker, Paul Ryan, was planning to achieve the anti-gun H.R. 5611, which would deny the rights to bear arms without permissions to the citizens. Despite this, the NAGR was able to collect 500,000 petitions and make more than 15,000 calls that made the anti-gun groups retreat. It can be seen, the primary goal of the NAGR is to achieve that every state has the Constitutional Carry, meanwhile the States United to Prevent Gun Violence primary goal is the safety of each individual. Both stakeholders contradict, but they have the same goal of safety; they just want to achieve it in different ways. A simple compromise might be teaching citizens how to be safe in situations where guns are used and how to defend themselves. Also before buying a weapon making a complete and accurate background check of the client; this will make it safer to those in the community. This way the States United to Prevent Gun Violence organization will be more relieve in terms of the safety of the people and anyone can buy guns, but to prevent violence a background check must be done. By making this compromise the States United to Prevent Gun Violence will not achieve the ban of military arms in the community, yet they will be achieving the security that they wanted for the communities. With this compromise The National Association for Gun Rights will not gain the Constitutional Carry Legislation, unless they keep fighting for it like they have done previously, yet anyone has the freedom to buy a gun with a background check. By continuing fighting, the Constitutional Carry legislation could pass in almost all the states. This way both stakeholders give up something, yet they gain something. For the compromise to be accomplished the NAGR and SUPGV would have to work together. Since the NAGR has instructors that teach safety classes, classes with permit and training, their Reynoso 5 teachers would teach the citizens to defend themselves and how to correctly act on a shooting. Due to the NAGR having classes for safety, it presumes that they are concern about safety, which means they have this in common with the States United to Prevent Gun Violence. SUPGV would educate the citizens about gun violence and how guns are dangerous because with just one bullet the heart can stop beating and a live can be taken. The other part of the compromise is the background check. Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence states: law has several flaws, however, that allow ineligible individuals to obtain Some flaws of the current background checks include private sales, reporting of records, and verifying identification. Unlicensed private sellers do not have the obligation to make background checks, and as a consequence felons and other people can buy guns easily. Background checks are incomplete due to the lack of criminal history records, mental health records, drug abuse records, and domestic violence records. Finally, verifying that the identification of the individual is valid is something that the process of background check is lacking. The ideal background check will include the report of records, verification of identification and private sails, and it will take a while on finishing to confirm that it is completed. Two stakeholders that are with each other are the States United to Prevent Gun Violence and National Association for Gun Rights. This is because the SUPGV wants military arms to be banned from communities, make communities safer and protect the people, and the NAGR wants the people to have the right of owning any weapon or firearm without the permission of the government. For the NAGR to achieve their goal, they need to maintain and defend the Second Amendment, so they can protect themselves and their families. For SUPGV achieve their goals, they would have to create awareness about gun violence through social media, other organizations and the government, make background checks before buying a gun and educate the Reynoso 6 people. Although they have different views, both stakeholders care about the safety. Due to their different goals and a common factor a compromise based on providing education, training, and background checks will make a difference and in the long run, both stakeholders will achieve what they want: safe communities and the Constitutional Carry legislation in every state. Progress is not seen from one day to the next, it takes time, effort and dedication. If both of these stakeholders accept the compromise, in the future people will be more aware about the danger of guns, which will prevent gun violence, making communities safe. Reynoso 7 Work Cited National Association of Gun Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://www.nationalgunrights.org/ Check Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 http://smartgunlaws.org/gun-laws/policy- areas/gun-dealer-sales/background-check-procedures/. Constitutional Law-Second Amendment-Ninth Circuit Holds that Concealed Carry is not Protected by the Second V. County of San Diego, 824. F.3d 919 (9 th Cir. 2016) (en banc*) Vol. 130:1024 pg. 1024-1031. 2017. Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://www.dictionary.com/. Association of Gun Omics International. N.p. n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Pickhartz, E. National Association for Gun Rights Work to Protect the Second Amendment Rights of Wideopenspaces. 9 Oct. 2014. N.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://www.wideopenspaces.com/qa-dudley-brown-president-national-association-gun- rights/ Pinholt, Ellen M., Joshua D. Mitchell, Jane H. Butler, and Harijinder Kumar. There a Gun in the Assessing the Risks of Gun Ownership in Older Journal of the American Geriatrics Society 62.6 (2014): 1142-1146. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. United to Prevent Gun Violence / A 50 State Solution To End Gun States United to Prevent Gun Violence /A 50 State Solution To End Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://ceasefireusa.org/.