Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 25 January 2017 Harnessing the Sun Finding a future renewable source of power is a problem that is being debated both politically and economically. Types of power that has been invented and used are wind, hydroelectric, and solar energy. There are many pros and cons that spark out when using these types of energy sources, but the most promising energy source is solar energy. Solar power is the most promising because it can be purchased and used by any person for their own personal gain. Also, the source is sustainable, environmentally friendly, and abundant. Other energy sources like hydroelectric or wind power can only be used in certain locations around the world. For example, wind power can only be placed in windy areas to be efficient like hills, and hydroelectricity when there is large bodies of water. SEIA (Solar Energy Industries Association) has realized this and focuses on protecting and expanding the solar industry at the federal and state level. Solar energy is dealt within the website seia.org which shows how solar energy has the power to be the U. primary energy source, and help the environment with the global warming crisis and the cleanliness. One of goals is to provide everyday people with the resources and tools to expand the solar energy on a global level. By doing this will help make solar energy one of the primary power sources for the U.S. Throughout website, they show different types of information to the viewer to inform them the benefits of solar energy. One of the images used on the organizations website depicts an overhead view of a Target being powered by energy with solar Student 2 panels. Some of the elements that stood out in the image were the number of solar panels on the building and the realization of how much energy these panels could produce together. The purpose of the image is to show how a known store used every week by regular people can be powered by this source of energy. Target is one of the biggest companies in the U.S which allows them to play around with their profit to see if they could make more money or if they are a good company, make a difference. This leads to the image using logos because it would be logical for large companies to save money by finding cheaper energy sources while also helping the environment. The image also uses ethos because even large companies can realize the ethics behind saving the environment and using other types of power sources besides fossil fuels which are fueling climate change. Lastly, Kairos is used by showing overtime every building could be powered by solar energy and the time to start is now. The pros about this image being used on the organizations website are it depicts a known store being powered by solar energy which could appeal to viewers, and shows solar energy being a reliable power source for a large company. The down sides to this image are showing a large company not a normal household which could depict the technology not being advanced enough yet to lower the prices, and showing how many solar panels it takes to power the building. Even though solar energy can be very profitable and beneficial, it is also very expensive and this is something the organization want to show, but will hopefully be fixed soon. The second image chosen from the website shows a different side to the debate of solar energy, not the economic side (first image), but the political side. This this image shows a large field of green grass including a blue sky. The primary purpose of this image is to show how solar energy is clean and could be an alternative to fossil fuels which are polluting our Student 3 environment and reinforcing global warming. Solar power gives off no pollutants which is the reason an image with a clear sky and green grass is used on the website. This image helps depict the primary goal and focus which is one of the reasons as to why on the homepage for the website. Logos is used because it is logical to help the environment and think a power source with no pollutants would help the earth. Also, pathos is used because the emotions of the viewers become happy and they feel healthier looking at an image with green life and clear skies which is one of the reasons why it is on the homepage. Some pros about the organization using this image on their website are it shows how solar energy is a clean power source with no pollutants, and how using this energy source could make the earth more healthy and clean in the future. The cons or drawbacks to this image are its too plain and depict how solar energy really works, and show a true message about the purpose to be used on the homepage. One of the purposes of the organization is give the tools needed to learn about solar energy and how to use it. The majority of the images used show this need but it could be fixed in the future. Solar energy is still being debated both politically and economically about its future use, but organizations out there are helping the cause. website hits every topic they want to spread out including making solar energy the U. primary energy source, and help the environment with the global warming crisis and the cleanliness. Their website has much background information, resources, and images convey their message. The images used on the organizations website do include ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos when being viewed. This allows their website to persuade and influence viewers to join their side and promote the use of solar energy around the country. Solar energy is a promising energy source that has little cons involving its use in certain areas, but the pros overtake the cons. Overall, SEIA is one of the Student 4 many organizations out there that could help spread the world about future power sources so future generations could live in a healthy environment (W.C 1022). http://www.seia.org/sites/default/files/target%20smb.jpg http://www.seia.org/sites/all/themes/seia/img/rolling-hills.jpg Student 5 Work Cited Browning, Ella, and Rea, Joshua. Understanding Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 371-374. E-text. Lane, Emily, McKee, Jessica, and McLintyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. Rolling Hills. Digital image. SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://www.seia.org/sites/all/themes/seia/img/rolling-hills.jpg>. Solar Energy Industries  SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Target. Digital image. SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://www.seia.org/sites/default/files/target%20smb.jpg>.