Steuer 1 Abi Steuer Mr. Carter ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Books vs. E-books As the generations change, new concepts come into play. In this age of Millennialism and fast-pace living, one notices an increase in technology. It has expanded past occasional internet browsing to overtaking the common day to day life. People order food with tablets, have computers in their cars, and are on their phones for business and pleasure most of their day. While Millennials tend to enjoy the internet realm, individuals of older generations often feel left behind with this influx of new-age advancements. Undertones of discontent have sparked among these groups, especially in the conversation of e-books and hardcopy text. True controversy has risen between businesses that sell tangible books and those that sell them online because the e- book market is sweeping over the nation. A business in jeopardy during these recent years is Barnes and Noble. They have attempted to keep up with the market by producing a device called NOOK. They wanted to appeal to both younger and older generations by selling books in their stores while also selling them as e-books on their devices. These kept the company afloat for a small time, but e- book sales began to sky rocket and surpass Barnes and Apple started allowing individuals to buy e-books on any device of their choice. Since a majority of the public own an Apple phone, laptop, or some other product produced by the company, they found it cheaper to buy an e-book on a device they already owned instead of buying a NOOK. While Barnes and Steuer 2 Noble is still in business, many believe their days are numbered since books sales are declining (barnesandnobleinc.com) (cbsnews.com). Both companies are obviously working against each other. Barnes and Noble wants to keep written text alive by selling hardcopy books. Apple, on the other hand, gained interest in the concept of online text and is actively supporting that market. There is no evidence of either company detesting the other, but their business markets put them at odds with each other. When analyzed, though, these organizations have common ground- they are in the business of selling knowledge. Apple is more focused on spreading it online while Barnes and Noble wants to get physical books in hands. These companies understand that knowledge will never die and that there is an ever increasing demand for it. This has and always will be true because we need intelligence to grow. The avenues for sending out information have simply changed with time. Therefore, both of these companies want to fulfil similar duties, they just have differing approaches on how to do it (library.appstate.edu). Teachers find that physical contact with books help their students learn faster and more effectively. Statistics show that when individuals highlight the text and jot notes on the paper, they have an easier time retaining what they read. Others enjoy buying tangible copies of books because it helps them feel immersed in the story. Holding the book and flipping the pages create a better experience for these readers. Another reason hard copies are sold is because technology intimidates a number of people from previous generations. A majority of them have little to no experience with tablets, laptops, cell phones, etcetera. They have no interest in reading a book on an electronic device when they can pick up a copy from the store (bookmasters.com). Millennials and those fully adapted to the digital age are often the ones inclined to buying e-books. This group understands and feels comfortable with the current technology, therefore, Steuer 3 they search for their literature on a diverging path. Instead of buying a traditional book that they have to lug around, they find much more practicality in purchasing one online. This saves space and gives them the ability to own numerous texts all in one small device. E-books are also bought to save money. There is usually a significant difference between the price of a digital piece and the hardcopy of it. This is especially true when it comes to textbooks. College students are required to purchase their own copies of the text the instructor assigns for the course. They obviously want the best price and in almost every case they find the most affordable option to be buying an e-book. Students realize that if they store all of their textbooks online they will save money and will have an easier time keeping track of their assigned readings (cbsnews.com) (pewresearch.org). Barnes and Noble and Apple understand both sides and are trying to please the audience to the best of their abilities. However, Barnes and Noble is mainly focusing on individuals that prefer hardcopy text and Apple is selling e-books to the technology driven folk. A beautiful compromise could be established if the two simply joined forces. If e-book app asked the customer if they were interested in buying a hardcopy of the text instead of, or in addition to, the e-book they are purchasing, both companies would have the potential of making a profit as well as reaching more people. The customers that choose to buy a physical copy would do it through Barnes and network and those that decide to stick with the e-book would continue through Apple. The companies would discuss where to split the revenue and how to effectively execute the idea, but all in all, a wonderful bridge between book and e-book could be born. In fact, some people may switch from enjoying online text to indulging in hardcopies and vice versa. Steuer 4 Knowledge is something that will always be sought after- that will never change. The methods of obtaining it are ever changing, though, and that is where businesses selling books find the most strife and competition. They want their method of gaining knowledge to be preferred by the public. In the end, the customers are all desiring the same product. With that said, instead of finding new methods to outsmart and potentially annihilate other businesses in their field, book sellers should discover their common ground. In other instances, it is understandable why the owners of companies constantly think up new ways to come out on top. They have to demonstrate that their products are better than their competitors. In the business of selling books, however, that should not be the thought process of the companies. They all truly have the same products to offer. There is no difference between one copy and another copy. They are in luck because people will always want to buy what they are selling opposed to other companies that sell items that are only in demand for a short time. Unfortunately, the book unwillingness to work together is causing most to go out of business. Many branches of book sales were open to the public for a while but their attempt to compete with each other ultimately failed and numerous stores shut down. Therefore, if a compromise were to be made with the two leading book companies, it could create a settlement that gains them more customers than they previously had. An agreement in this area of consumption will also help bring two differing worlds together. Book lovers and textbook buyers will be exposed to the option of either hardcopy or digital edition and a world of conversation and understanding will be opened up on either side of the argument (pewresearch.org). Steuer 5 Works Cited  Pew Research Center RSS. N.p., 23 Nov. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pewresearch.org/topics/e-reading/>. Berr, Jonathan. Barnes & next  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 05 Jan. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.cbsnews.com/news/whats-barnes-nobles-next- chapter/>. About Barnes & Noble B&N,  Barnes & Noble Inc. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.barnesandnobleinc.com/about-bn/>. Print Book vs.  Bookmasters. N.p., 24 May 2012. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.bookmasters.com/blog/print-book-vs-ebook/>. Belk Library and Information  Welcome to Belk Library & Information Commons Belk Library and Information Commons. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://www.library.appstate.edu/>.