Imani Aird ENC 1102 Dr. Jamie Thornton 1/27/17 Keeping the Arts in Public Education Public education has been subject to experimentation. In grades K-12, especially, there has been much controversy as to what core subjects should be taught to the growing generation. Parents demand for more than just academic achievement in their children, which seems obvious. Spending eight hours of the day at school calls that students learn to be affluent in their social, cognitive, and critical thinking skills; skills that most believe cannot be achieved through just high test scores in math and reading alone. The Americans for the Arts Action Fund recognizes this and uses rhetorical appeals such as logos and pathos to show why arts education is necessary in schools through several visual rhetorical strategies. Americans for the Arts aim to lead the individuals who support the arts and nourish the best ideas to build leaders for communities to help ensure that American has access to the transformative power of the The organizations use of visual and rhetorical strategies help in demonstrating to their audience that the arts can turn students into active thinkers and engaged learners. They do this through two visual images, one that uses consistent logical appeals and the other that uses aspects of emotional motivation. Using connections to reason, the first image gives the audience a desire to be a part of a community bigger than themselves. There are many strong and descriptive words being used to create an aspect of intelligence for the Americans for Arts fund. The National Arts Marketing Project is a branch of the Action Fund and uses bold colors and fonts that provides to their audience a feeling of urgency and importance. Highlighted using a purple background, the NAMP uses a descriptor like in regards to the success of their workshops. The words like strengthen/advance and services and tools surrounds the National Arts Marketing Project in an atmosphere of confidence. Appealing to the sense of logic they are able to come across as reliable and trustworthy in their ability to build organizational art staff using their Logos is the and clarity of an (Rhetoric Matters, 30). In this image provided by the Americans for the Arts foundation there is consistent repetition of obvious logic. Why should one go to the National Arts Marketing Project to strengthen the skills of their community? They should turn to the NAMP because they have with Pathos is a rhetorical strategy that can be used to help an audience connect more to an argument (Rhetoric Matters, 35). In the second image, provided by Americans for the Arts, already there is a clear view of emotions from the first woman whom the focus is on. There is diversity provided in this image when you look at both women in the front, smiling. Looking at the bright smiles from everyone in the room, the viewer as well is compelled to feel the same emotion. The feeling of happiness is being conveyed here and the audience can also take a sense of empowerment from this image. This can be shown by the closed fist raised high in the air by everyone in the room and also by the fact that it looks as though everyone is the room is of the female gender. They are all obviously advocates for the arts and this image can easily appeal to women who still feel as though their voice is not being heard because of their sex. This image portrays the excitement and eagerness for national support on arts advocacy and the NEA. Both of these images have the same obvious goal of wanting the audience to understand and feel the importance and urgency of keeping the arts in education. Image #1 http://www.americansforthearts.org/connect Image #2 http://www.americansforthearts.org/ Works Cited Americans for the  Americans for the Arts. Robert L. Lynch, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://www.americansforthearts.org/>. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text.