Ernst 1 Katie Ernst Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Dilemma of College Athletes and their Possible Income The subject of whether college athletes should receive a salary through their sports or not creates an unstable controversial topic through the past several years. Some organizations may command this issue to become reality in all college campuses since athletes deserve that type of special treatment. On the other hand, some associations may depict that paying college athletes is unethical since education comes first and it is quite impossible to afford that kind of commitment to money. In compliance to the well-known management, ESPN, they are set on that college athletes should be paid since they are assumed and titled as employees of the university they attend. However, the NCAA are against this idea since they believe education comes first and that it is not necessary to allow college athletes to intake an income. A compromise between these two associations is possible but they just have to agree with all aspects in this accommodation. ESPN should research to see the numerical value of students who earn scholarships where they already have their college paid for and the NCAA should realize how much dedication college athletes invest into their desired sport. The action these two groups should comply on doing is to communicate with the government and testify their views in court cases and see if they can satisfy both parties to come up with a fair arrangement. A reasonable compromise could include allowing colleges to give a decent amount of money to all college athletes but no too much so they can still keep their scholarship and still focus on their education to the best of their ability. Ernst 2 To begin with, ESPN is spoken to be a prominent sports cast channel that provides a mission statement serve sports fans wherever sports are watched, listened to, discussed, debated, read, or mission statement (with tweet) They are precisely involved in the sporting world and the commentators on the college athletes pay issue have one set opinion on this contention within this country. According to Jay Bilas, an individual who works for ESPN, he states various reasons to prove that college athletes have the right to receive income for the time and effort they invest into the sport they are most passionate about. The concern he has developed is that a multi-billion-dollar business where the only people who are restricted in their earnings in any way, are the (Bilas). This situation is uncommonly biased due to the fact that no other student on campus, like a music student, get kicked out of the program for consulting with any professional or in any professional sense, like with money (Bilas). Another involvement in this topic would be people suppose that if college athletes start assimilating money into their accounts from their playing time in their sport, then other athletics will be cancelled as a result of this payment. This reaction to this theory is a lie. all a lie. They are not going to cancel these programs if in their interest to have (Bilas). Lastly, he emphasizes that paying college athletes will not change how powerful each of the top teams are since they are previously caked in skill and talent (Bilas). Overall, his opinion towards this issue speaks for itself and his words comply to those other individuals in the ESPN community. For example, Michael Wilbon has similar views to depict why college athletes deserve to be salaried. Wilbon understands that it is impractical to pay every single college athlete; however, another thing entirely for the students who play for revenue-producing teams to be somehow compensated from the lucrative Ernst 3 TV/radio/Internet rights fees they make wholly (Wilbon). Likewise, he has determined that since millions of dollars are funded into categories like special assistance and student-athlete opportunities, questions arise to the fact that why those funds relocate to different funds to help athletes apply that money to regular activities during the day? (Wilbon). This action would help them, exclusively since some jobs are not compliable to intercollegiate athletes. As a result, individuals within the ESPN system seem to be pushing for the college pay since they are considered employees of the school and with everything they accomplish within the school, income is a definite for these courageous individuals. Accordingly, in perspective, their main goal is to come together and devote their time to try to give college athletes success throughout their whole life This organization stands for the National Collegiate Athletic Association and included in their values as a group are to have pursuit of excellence in both academics and athletics, highest levels of integrity and sportsmanship, and In order to be classified in a collegiate level sport, players must follow NCAA protocols which include not obtaining a salary for participating in athletics, no rewarding money about the classified expenses, and no contracts are allowed with any professional team They classify this as a part of amateurism which puts satisfying education before anything in college, like sports. NCAA considers the athletes would not exist in collegiate sports if it was not for the learning aspects in the classroom. They virtue the rule of thumb that these students are more competing in academics, not athletics. Their overall assumption to this matter involves a college scholarship is pay enough-though in truth, most of those taking this position are athletic directors and (Nocera). Even though court cases have rose from the NCAA violating anti-trust Ernst 4 laws, like the case, this organization still has their eyes set on the prize: to cease from any income getting to college athletes. Even though both organizations seem to be at odds with each other, they still seem to share a common goal with these college athletes. They both strive to give these individuals their effort into what they believe is best for the athlete. Like ESPN is fighting for college students to receive income since they deserve it with all of the hours of consolidated work they put into their sport and the NCAA is attempting to convince the athletes that they care about their education and that academics always comes first above all sporting events, which is why they consider paying athletes is unnecessary in the long run. Since both of these associations share a common goal of trying to support the athlete in the best way they see possible, a candid compromise would include giving the athletes a per semester stipend to student-athletes [since will help ease their concerns of daily living expenses while still maintaining the integrity of receiving a college (Rose). This would satisfy both institutions since the college athletes would be getting paid, in favor of ESPN, and they will not give out an excessive amount of money in order to keep the college scholarship. Although NCAA does state that they do not approve paying college athletes, in reality however, an scholarship can be taken away instantly even if the player has a high GPA and the coach depicts that they are not suited for the team. Also, this compromise is applicable due to the fact that since these athletes are committed to many hours during the day towards team sessions, it is utterly impossible for them to maintain a job in that situation (Rose). Overall, if both parties and the government agree to this plan of action, all athletes will be fulfilled with joy and prosper to succeed in both education and athletics. Ernst 5 In essence, this controversy of whether college athletes should get paid or not has been going on for years at a time. Even though both of these organizations have opposing thoughts on the subject, they both contain a common goal: to help and guide the college athletes in the best way they think is possible for their well-being. ESPN should conduct research to make sure the scholarship will not be affected with the incoming salary they could be receiving and NCAA should realize all of the dedication these athletes invest into their sport and also realize that maintaining a job is out of the question for those individuals. But ESPN and NCAA can communicate with each other and this $2,000 salary into consideration. This settlement would solve unnecessary problems in the future and will hopefully have this income rally come to an end to appease both athletes and all other individuals concerned with this issue. Ernst 6 Works Cited  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 24 Apr. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Co-host, Michael WilbonPardon the Interruption. College athletes deserve to be  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 18 July 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. ESPN mission statement (with tweet)  Storify. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Maurice PeeblesDeputy Editor Complex Sports. Twitter. IG. 7 Common Sense Reasons Why College Athletes Should Be Paid (According to Jay  Complex. N.p., 03 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Nocera, Joe. A Way to Start Paying College  The New York Times. N.p., 8 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2016. Rose, Jalen. Paid College Athletes: A Reasonable  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.