Student 1 Student Doctor Thornton ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Pennies Need to Go Pennies are everywhere. From those on the ground to wishing fountains, there is no denying that they exist. But do people really need pennies? You cannot buy anything with a single penny. It costs more than a penny to even mint a penny. If so many are found lying on the ground or sunken in wishing fountains, why are pennies still being minted? A non-partisan stakeholder named to Retire the aims to persuade and educate people toward the goal of removing the penny (Gore). According to Citizens to Retire the Penny, Lobbyists and Congress officials are the ones who decide what is to be minted (Gore). The thought of removing pennies is portrayed on the website http://www.retirethepenny.org/, which shows images of powerful officials not wanting the penny to be produced and that pennies need to be retired. The first image is a photo of previous president Barack Obama with a quote. (Obama) The quote conveys the message that pennies are indeed useless. Logos is the use of logic and reasoning (Lane). The 44 th President of the United States believes pennies should be abolished. More money is spent creating the penny compared to the face value of a penny. The United States is losing money by creating pennies. However, no one uses pennies all the time. Pennies are normally found in water fountains because people do not want pennies. No one picks up pennies off the ground because you cannot purchase anything with a single penny. Saving pennies are not worth the time, since it takes 100 individual pennies to create 1 single dollar. Student 2 Why waste money on something consumers do not even use? Under these examples of people not wanting pennies, is it logical to continue production of something if the citizens do not even use them? Ethos is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or authority (Lane). Generally, people believe the President is the most powerful man in the country. This is true to some extent. On the contrast, citizens tend to blame the president for everything wrong with America specifically. If the 44 th President of the United States believes that pennies should cease production, then perhaps people would be persuaded to agree? The most powerful man in the country is voicing his opinion on something many people dislike. The president will make such statements in a press conference broadcasted to millions. His credibility will not be overlooked. Kairos is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing do (Lane). The time to cease the production of pennies is now. The United States is losing more money each year to produce pennies that inevitably end up on the sidewalks of the country. America needs to change this deficit. If the President believes something needs to be changed, then the people should listen. The second picture displays a giant penny playing shuffleboard (Whaples). There is an assumption that elderly people who are retired enjoy playing shuffleboard. Logos is being used in this image based from the assumption that retired people feel like they are too old to continue working and just want to enjoy the rest of their life. Likewise, pennies do not work very well with people and become an inconvenience. Why waste time counting pennies at the register? How upsetting is it to only receive one single penny as change? Again, what can you buy with a Student 3 single penny? Nothing! Logically, pennies are a waste of time and just do not work in the consumer world. Time would be saved, and pennies would be a thing of the past. Pathos is the appeal to emotion (Lane). The emotional appeal in this image is about happiness. Retired people are happy because they no longer work and are finally able to enjoy themselves. The image may correlate to the happiness of consumers when they learn pennies are slowly phasing out of the currency circulation. No more counting pennies at a register. People spend less time at the register, and stores will maximize profits. People are happy with what they purchase, and businesses are happy with their profits. Kairos is being portrayed in this image as well. By displaying a giant penny in retirement, this shows that it is feasible to cease production of pennies in present time. Lobbyists and Congress workers can make the call to cease the production of pennies at ease. The pennies will not go away completely. No more pennies would be in production. The pennies that still exist after the cease of production will slowly become non-existent, ending up on the ground or in various wishing fountains across the United States. No longer will people have to deal with such a useless form of currency. The stakeholder, to Retire the is obviously against pennies (Browning). Both images send the message of retiring the penny. The previous president of the United States believes the penny should cease production. It is very logical to remove the penny because of the cost to create them. Less money will be spent into making something that people end up throwing away. It is feasible to cease production of pennies. Citizens should know the benefits of not having the penny in circulation. Millions are lost every single year to make pennies. If America successfully put an end to the half-dollar coin, then America should be able to put an end to pennies as well. Student 4 Works Cited Browning and Rea. Understanding Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 371 - 374. E-text. Gore, Jeff. Can You Buy with a Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, Sept. 2013, www.retirethepenny.org/. Lane, Lee, McKee, McIntyre, and Pantelides. The Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20 - 58. E-text. Obama, Barack. Obama Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, Sept. 2013, www.retirethepenny.org/images/obama.jpg. Whaples, Robert. Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, Sept. 2013,