Correa 1 Henrique Faria Brito Martini Correa Instructor: Noah Pearlstone ENC1102.024F17 January 27, 2017 Genetically Modified Organisms in Food Production In the last centuries, society has struggled to increase food production. Only in the past two hundred years, the human population increased about 6 billion people (Roser and Ortiz-Ospina), who need to be fed. Great advances in agricultural technologies had to be created and implemented throughout the years in order to ensure that the growing population will have access to quality food. However, even with the development of new technologies that improved agricultural production, farmers all around the world kept losing crop yields due to caterpillars, grasshoppers, beetles, fungi, and other types of plague. Thus, in 1996 agriculturalists started to incorporate genetically modified organisms (GMOs) which are living organisms whose DNA had been modified using genetic engineering techniques in their crops. These modified plants were much more resistant to the main pests, environmental conditions and some diseases (Robaey 768). Hence, the crop yields increased astonishingly, contributing to the increase in food production all around the world. The introduction of GMOs in the food market generated a whole discussion about whether or not it is safe and healthy and if it should be tested and labeled. In this debate, there are two main stakeholders: huge private companies (Monsanto, DuPont, Pepsi, and Coca-Cola) that believe their GMO-based products are safe and do not need to be neither tested nor labeled; and nonprofit organizations (Center for Food Safety, GMO Free USA, and Just Label It) that defend Correa 2 that GMO food must be tested and labeled or even completely banned from America. However, for the purpose of this project, this paper is going to be analyzing two of them, which have had a direct disagreement with each other in the past two and a half years: and GMO Free USA. To begin with, Company is an American multinational food processing company, founded in 1906 in Battle Creek, Michigan. Its products are manufactured in 18 countries and sold in over 180 countries around the globe. It produces breakfast cereals, potato chips, cookies, crackers and cereal bars. Frosted Flakes, Eggo, Pringles, and Sunshine Biscuits are among its main brands (Gale, Kellogg ). website says: more than 100 years, worked passionately to help families be their best. And it all starts with breakfast. why always looking to provide new ways to make a positive impact on the people we touch every and its core belief is when you start with a great breakfast, great things can happen. why we make foods that you and your family know, trust and What We ). Nevertheless, it is widely known that largely uses GMO-based food in the manufacture of its products and whenever their executives are questioned about getting rid of GMOs, testing and labeling their products, they insist that GMOs increase food production, resulting in lower prices; that their products are completely safe and do not need to be tested and/or labeled. This position has annoyed many consumers and organizations. On the other hand, GMO Free USA is a nonprofit organization against the use of GMOs in food production. Its main goal is to independent science and agroecological concepts to advocate for clean and healthy food and ecological systems. We will educate consumers and other stakeholders about the potential Correa 3 hazards of genetically engineered organisms, synthetic pesticides, and advance the application of the Precautionary (GMO Free USA, ). The institution was an initiative of Diana Reeves, a mother of three, that got upset after the interruption of the process that would make the labeling of GMO-based products in the state of Connecticut due to the actions of the giant agrochemical company Monsanto. The organization was initiated in May of 2012 the intent of organizing national boycotts of food companies that used GMO ingredients in their products, and pressuring them to remove those GMO (GMO Free USA, ) and it rapidly achieved a remarkable number of members, launching the Boycott GMOs campaign a few months later. As one can see, while the private food companies argue GMO food is already well regulated, the organization claims that GMOs should be kept away from human consumption. Before start figuring the common ground between these two stakeholders out, this paper has to introduce a third one, which would play a crucial role in a possible compromise. FDA (US Food and Drug Administration) is the federal agency responsible for protecting and promoting the public health by regulating and supervising the production of food and tobacco products, pharmaceutical drugs, medical devices, among others (FDA, What We ). There is a clear divergence and maybe a conflict of interest in the core beliefs of both and GMO Free USA, one has to sell GMO-based products to make profit and think it is not necessary to test and label them; the other, maintain that GMO food is dangerous and should not be consumed by humans, but if it has to be in the market, it must at least be previously tested to ensure its safety and quality, and labeled. However, analyzing their goals, one can notice that they share some values in common, which can be used to come up with a compromise. GMO Free USA advocates clean and healthy food, Correa 4 transparency in the food industry and, most importantly, collaboration. believe in working with others without regard for self-benefit, whether they be other organizations or individuals (GMO Free USA, ). Similarly, goal is to help families be their best and make a positive impact on the people they every What We ). Therefore, their ultimate intention is, in other words, to provide consumers with safe and quality food, just as GMO Free USA does. Nonetheless, in order to achieve a compromise, each stakeholder would have to give up of part of their stances. The best compromise would be the approval of a federal law that regulates the safety standards for of GMO food products, the test of each of them prior the entry in the market, and the proper label of their packages. get the full right to sell their GMO-based products, but would have to submit their products to tests before launching them into the market and develop new packaging in accordance with the new labeling pattern. GMO Free USA, on the other hand, would have to give up its position to ban all GMO-based food and accept their presence in the industry, but it would get the proper testing and labeling of each and every GMO product entering the market, ensuring the quality and safety of the products for consumers, which is its ultimate goal. FDA would be the agency in charge for the regulation and testing of the products, being also responsible for establishing the safety patterns. This way, everyone would have accomplished their goal. In conclusion, the debate around genetically modified food products is one of the most relevant issues today. It has to do with many other fields, such as population growth, food safety, politics, and environmental issues. Even so, many people are not aware of it; and even those who are, think it is a complicated and complex topic. However, this paper shows that some considerably simple solutions Correa 5 achieved through an agreement between only two of the stakeholders can help breaking the whole panorama down into elementary pieces that everyone can understand, take a position and act. This paper perceives its solution is viable because it only needs a simple regulation to be implemented and, once it is applied, it is going to be able to set a basis for the whole market of GMO-based products, establishing a base for the industry, credibility to the companies, improved food supply to the nation, and ensure the safety and wellbeing of consumers. Through this compromise, it will be possible to make lives better, increasing confidence in the food they eat every day and enhancing society as a whole. Correa 6 Works Cited Gale, Thomson. Kellogg  International Directory of Company Histories. Encyclopedia.com, 2006. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.  GMO Free USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Robaey, Zoe. Transferring Moral Responsibility for Technological Hazards: The Case of GMOs in  Journal of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics 29.5 (2016): 767-87. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Roser, Max, and Esteban Ortiz-Ospina. World Population  Our World In Data. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. What We  N.p., 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. What We  FDA. N.p., 24 Oct. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.