Student 1 Student ENC 1102 Dr. Thornton 28 January 2017 Are pennies becoming worthless? If any U.S. citizen was presented with two options of either finding a penny on the ground, or finding a one dollar bill on the ground, their answer seems quite obvious. Unlike any paper money or silver coin the penny has nearly zero monetary value. It is the lowest denomination of U.S. currency, and many people believe it is time to get rid of it. One website in favor of the elimination of the penny www.retirethepenny.org is a non for profit organization that believes the penny has run its course. Not only does the penny cost more than it is worth to make, but now the penny is only worth 1/26 of what it was when Abraham Lincoln was president. On the website, they display images to help support their cause. One image shows the famous best-selling author John Green with a quote next to him Abraham Lincoln were alive today, he would say is my face on a coin that is worth 1/26 of what a penny was worth when I was A second image can be found on the website showing a penny relaxing in a hammock with big and bold text at the bottom stating THE These images both give support to the organizations mission to retire the penny. Citizens to retire the penny is a non-partisan organization that tries to promote the retiring of the penny for many valid reasons. The organization accepts no corporate sponsorship and is set out to the public on the advantages of retiring from general The website uses multiple visual and rhetorical strategies to get Student 2 a specific mission across which is to retire the penny from U.S. circulation. On the homepage of the website the top of the page has scrolling images most of which use famous or well-known individuals and quotes that promote the message of retiring the penny. Using these pictures with people on them such as President Barack Obama, Author John Green, and The Wall street Journal gives the images and the organization more credibility. They are using ethos to reach out to their audience, and their audience being U.S. citizens. The image of focus which is the image with author John Green uses ethos to display that a famous author agrees with the organizations message and mission, especially utilizing his quote that mentioned past President Abraham Lincoln. This adds to the relevancy and credibility of the organization and their goal of removing the penny from currency. Another rhetorical strategy used was Kairos. On the side located in the menu bar there is a tab labeled which in the name itself is promoting that the time is now. Within the tab there are links to help them eliminate the penny by getting involved and staying connected, and information on how to contact elected government official with the request to remove the penny. Using this need to act now and promoting the urge to help is using Kairos to influence the audience. By implementing a face that many Americans trust the image is increasing the credibility of the organization and increasing the success of the organizations mission. Located on the website within the tab, there is an image of a penny resting in a hammock outside with text beneath it saying THE This image is full of rhetorical strategies. The organization is trying to get across the message that, the penny has been around for a long time, and was a significant piece of U.S. currency, but it is not doing much for the U.S. anymore therefore it is time to retire it. In the image the penny is enlarged and the side with Abraham Lincoln is showing; this uses ethos to display a more credible feel. Seeing Student 3 Abraham Lincoln on the face of the penny in the hammock gives the audience someone who was vastly respected to relate the organizations goal to. Pathos can be found when looking at the rest of the image, the penny laying comfortably in a hammock that is strewn outside in between two trees on a nice day. This employs the common view of what retirement is like, presenting the retirement of the penny as a good thing to do. The design of the image that stands out is the large text at the bottom that clearly states the goal of the organization the bold text is also written in almost red white and blue font as well as it is accompanied by tiny patriotic stars, using this text design gives more respect to the penny while still trying to carry out the goal. Also being in all caps gives a sense of urgency that invokes the sense to act now, implementing Kairos. The organizations main goal in the end is to eliminate the penny from U.S. circulation, and by using these two images the goal is becoming valid to the audience. In both images the use of logos is employed by using not only the logic that the penny is not worth what it once was, but that it has been around for a long time and is no longer of use the U.S. economy. Each photo displays logical reasons as to why the penny has little to no use anymore. Working with each other, the images both incorporate someone the American public has learned to trust and respect which provides credibility to the organizations mission. John green is a well-known and respected author and Abraham Lincoln was a president of the United States giving them both a sense of authority, by using ethos. To promote the goal further the organization wants to be able to connect to the audience, this means providing an aspect of rhetoric that pulls at their emotions. Again by using two respected and well-known individuals this uses the emotions in favor of the organizations mission. Time is of the utmost importance in this case, the organization provides information on how pennies are putting more of a burden on the U.S. Student 4 economy rather than doing any good. To stop the slight economic downfall the penny is causing the time to act is now, by presenting facts about how drastically the worth of a penny has decreased and urging the audience to retire the penny is provoking reason for swift action. The stakeholder uses these images because they go hand in hand assisting each other in supporting the mission and goal. The penny was once a prime piece of U.S. currency, but over the years has lost its worth. Costing more to make than it is worth, the penny has lost the usefulness it once had, which is why the stakeholder promotes that it is officially time to the Works cited Student 5 What can you buy with a  Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny. N.p., http://www.retirethepenny.org/index.html n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily, Jessica McKee and Megan McIntyre . Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-35. E-text.