Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 24 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Genetically modified organisms, better known by the acronym GMOs, are primarily organisms used for consumption that have been genetically changed in a lab. The traits changed in the GMOs do not occur naturally and have potentially harmful side effects. An example would be adding a natural toxin found in an animal to a plant so that insects do not feed on the plants as they grow. GMOs are banned in countries all over the world but in North America, where they are allowed and not required to have labeling of any sort. The reason people have mixed opinions about GMOs is because countries cannot come to agreement as to whether these products are safe. Some scientists argue about their negative side effects such as destructing the natural food chains of ecosystems and health problems to humans. Organizations have formed like GMO Free USA to try and move the United States away from relying on these organisms. The first step they are trying to make is to at least get food companies to be required to tell consumers that the products they are buying contains these genetically modified organisms, but in the future, they want to eliminate them all together. Many Americans do not realize just how many companies, such as and use these products without letting the consumers know. GMOs are a highly controversial subject that are strongly opposed by GMOfreeUSA.org, a foundation that believes the genetically modified food products are dangerous and should be boycotted in the United States of America. Student 2 When the exploration of the website GMOfreeUSA.org began, the first things many will notice are the vibrant pictures that stretch across the screen. These images are strategically placed to grab the attention and send a very specific message to them. On the website one of the first images a viewer sees depicts a girl holding a sign with big letters reading that GMO To the left of the girl are two piles of buttons that can be attached to something that read with a big red circle and a line though the middle. The message of this image is clear stating that the audience should refuse to support the breakfast company because they use GMOs to create their foods. The website creators use an array of rhetorical appeals, or strategies used mainly to persuade an audience to take their stance. One of these strategies is called ethos, which is way of establishing trust with his or her (Lane 20) In the image, ethos is used with the buttons that look very official and almost political. This lets the audience see a sense of authority on the topic and thus more trust in the cause to boycott. Another popular rhetorical appeal is called which pertains to the experience of or sensitivity toward (Lane 22) The young girl holding the sign creates a feeling of empathy in the audience and draws their compassion for what she is standing up for. The third rhetorical device, named logos to logic and (Lane 22) Since many people know the negative side effects to consuming products containing GMOs, they will feel the logical thing to do is stop buying products when they gain the knowledge about the containment of these ingredients. The final rhetorical device used on this website is known as Kairos, which is the type of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right (Lane 25) Kairos often references current and the image shows a perfect example of one. This stakeholder takes the GMO topic very seriously and thinks that the Student 3 allowance of GMOs will bring bad things to consumers. This is shown with the big letters on the sign indicating to the audience that the time is now to make a change. The first image that is being analyzed has several other features that help get their message across. The obvious feature is the bright colors used to draw in the attention and make them take the time to see what they must say. A clever phrase that rhymes like the one on the poster also has a better chance of staying in the head for a longer period. Overall the image does an excellent job of portraying the direction. Rhetorical appeals are portrayed all through the second image being analyzed in the website. This image shows a yellow background with two identical pieces of corn labeled as organic and GMO with a large yellow safety sign in the middle. The cob of corn labeled organic has no text over it while the cob labeled GMO has white text reading various negative features across. The message of this picture is to watch out for crops that contain GMOs because they can look identical to organic crops, but have horrible things hidden inside. The attention of the audience is grabbed with the bright sign in the middle and text over the corn that requires reading to figure out what they are talking about. Ethos is shown with the big safety sign indicating authority of the subject and drawing the attention to believe it. Pathos has a presence in this image with the array of bright yellow in the middle. This creates a sense of caution in the viewer and makes their emotions feel more alert. The white text across the GMO cob of corn gives solid reason organic corn is much more advantageous. Logos appears there from the evidence drawing the attention to side with their own. Kairos is the last device and is present with the presented health issues. These serious issues make the audience feel like they need to act right away for the cause to make it stop as soon as possible. All of these combine to form a very informative and eye-opening message about the risk of GMOs. Student 4 GMO Free USA has some very effective images placed on their website to provide visual representations of what they stand for. The visual cues present snatch the attention of anyone who might visit their website and give a solid summary of the message. GMOs are a very controversial topic to make a stand for, and this website is a perfect example of how to persuade someone to join what they believe in. Student 5 Works Cited GMO Free USA. GMO Free USA, 2017, http://gmofreeusa.org Accessed 26 Jan 2017 GMO Free USA. Http://gmofreeusa.org/wp- 2017. N.p. Accessed 26 January 2017 GMO Free USA. http://gmofreeusa.org/wp- 2017. N.p. Accessed 26 January 2017 Lane, Emily. Chapter 01 Rhetoric  N.p., n.d. Web. file:///C:/Users/Richy/Downloads/ENC1102.RRM.Chapter-1-1%20(1).pdf Accessed 26 January 2017 Royce, Katherine. 8.1 What is a Rhetorical Analysis? N.p., n.d. Web. file:///C:/Users/Richy/Downloads/ENC1102.RRM.Chapter-8.1-8.2%20(1).pdf Accessed 26 January 2017