Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative It is evident that homelessness has become a controversial topic throughout, not only the United States, but also the rest of the world. It has been seen in many countries throughout the world, but has impacted the United States specifically. This issue has impacted the United States due to its rising numbers in the homeless population in the country. Homelessness in the United States has resulted in the establishment of many organizations that contribute to helping end it, one being the Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative. This organization provides two images which help contribute to the purpose of the images and also the purpose of the organization, which is to end and reduce homelessness in the Tampa-Hillsborough area. The first image displayed by Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative depicts a black- and-white photograph of a homeless father and his two sons at an event by the organization. The primary visual message the organization is trying to communicate is that homeless people can look just like every other individual and that homelessness can happen to anyone. This intended message is conveyed through visual cues, such as how the family is dressed in normal attire and appear to be a normal family. To an individual without knowledge that they are homeless, it would not be apparent that this family is homeless. As a result of the image depicting the family at an event hosted by Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative, ethos is established by displaying how the organization is credible and how they actually aid the homeless. The timeliness of the image and how it is a recent picture establishes Kairos and how homelessness is still relevant to Student 2 this day in age. The image itself establishes logos because it is using reason to convince people to help homeless individuals. The lack of color displays pathos and impacts how the viewer sees the image by revealing that, although the family looks happy, they are lacking something in their lives 2013). The second image displayed by Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative is a photograph of volunteers preparing to conduct the annual homeless count in Hillsborough county. The primary visual image the organization is trying to communicate is that their volunteers are extremely dedicated and hardworking when helping the homeless. The picture displays visual cues that helps to convey this intended message. In the image, all the volunteers appear to be working hard in preparation for the annual homeless count, which supports the intended message of the image. All the volunteers are also wearing the same t-shirts, which not only signals ethos and the credibility of the organization, but also unity and order in Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative. The colorfulness and bright colors the image showcases reveals to the viewer that helping homeless people has the ability to make lives more colorful and joyful. The colorfulness of the picture and the emotions displayed by the volunteers and their dedication to helping presents pathos, and impacts the viewer by making them want to help the homeless as well. The embedded text in the image states, prepare to take the streets to conduct the annual homeless count in Hillsborough 2013). This not only informs the viewer of what is taking place in the picture, but it also shows logos because it provides the viewer with the reason behind the actions of the volunteers. Kairos is used in this image through the fact that the image was taken not too long ago, further revealing the effectiveness of its timeliness and how the image is still relevant. Student 3 These two images presented by Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative are both extremely effective in providing the purpose of the organization, as well as the purposes behind the images. Through the use of visual cues, elements of design and composition, and rhetorical appeals, both images are similar and different in relaying their visual messages. Both images displayed help in relaying the purpose if the organization in different ways. The first image of the family in black-and-white shows the viewer how homelessness can happen to anyone, which makes the viewer see the reality of homelessness. The second image of the volunteers preparing for the annual homeless count shows the viewer how dedicated the volunteers are in the organization and how much they want to help the homeless. These images display their direct intended messages, but also contribute to the purpose of the organization, which is to, and end homelessness in Tampa and Hillsborough Hillsborough Homeless 2013). The lack of color of the first image reveals a somewhat sadness in the lives of the homeless family, and that they are lacking something in their lives. The colorfulness of the image of the volunteers shows how, through the help of volunteers, joyfulness and colorfulness can result in the lives of the volunteers and the homeless being helped. The contrast in the colors of both images helps to show two sides in the organization and of the issue, which reveals the sad side of the homeless and also the joyful side resulting from the homeless being helped by Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative. Through all of this, both images are effective in relaying the intended purpose of the images and also the organization. Through the showcase of the two images by the Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative, the purpose of the organization is successfully communicated, as well as the intended visual message of each image. Both images display visual cues, elements of design and composition, Student 4 rhetorical appeals, and other factors to relay the purpose of the organization and to make its intended impact on the viewer. (WC: 1,002) Through all of this, both images are effective in relaying the intended purpose of the images and also the organization. Through the showcase of the two images by the Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative, the purpose of the organization is successfully communicated, as well as the intended visual message of each image. Both images display visual cues, elements of design and composition, Student 5 Works Cited Ella Browning, and Joshua M. Rea. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 371-374. E-text. Katherine Royce. is a Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 364-370. E-text. THHI Job Opening UNITY System  THHI. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.