Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Vivint Solar Imagine a picture of a dirty beach covered in litter, with oily water lapping up onto the sand. It is a sad reality of the risks and dangers that come with using oil as an energy source. This scene is not alone when thinking about typical energy sources like oil, gas, and coal. Imagine a factory with smoke stacks on the top, with constant smoke bellowing out of the top. It is a scary sight for environmentalists who want to protect the Earth. Vivint Solar is a company that is offering clean solar energy for households around the U.S. Solar energy is energy taken in from the sun using thin dark panels that take in the sunlight and convert it into electrical energy. In comparison to typical fuels, it is incredibly clean. Vivint Solar uses clean images of nature in their advertisements to make the appeal that they are protecting that natural environment with their pure energy. Vivint website has many pictures on it that have positive statements about the environment and their mission. One such picture is of their very tall building with the logo on it, and in the reflection of the windows of the building you can see snow-capped mountains in the distance, underneath a pure blue sky. The image has words in a white font on it, but right above it to the left you see the company logo on the building so you know it is theirs, and you are thinking of them when you read the statement, using solar power to simplify your life, reduce your energy bill, and clean up the (vivintsolar.com). With that statement, Vivint Solar is aiming at two primary audiences which are: people who want to reduce their energy bill, and those who want to make a difference about the environment. The use of Logos is Student 2 here regarding saving money on an alternative solution and protecting the environment that everyone is a part of. The appeal of Kairos also fits here because the sooner you switch to Vivint Solar and start saving money the more you will have over the course of time. There is a subtle use of color here that is easily noticed but stand out. The sun is shining on the building and the windows which gets the audience thinking about the sun subconsciously while reading the advertisement about solar energy. Vivint Solar promises that their solar energy is a great clean energy source that will not harm the environment. The next picture is an image of two children standing on a rocky mountain top that overlooks a very expansive evergreen forest. There is a statement in white letters in the center that reads, We Do It: Today, electricity generated by fossil fuels accounts for 80% of carbon emissions. Plus, expensive. We offer a cleaner and safer alternative so we can all feel good about energy (vivintsolar.com). The kids are an appeal to pathos because they are young, cute, and innocent of the world around them. The kids also have a second appeal of Kairos, since they are only kids and will grow into full grown adults, the hope is that they will be able to live their full life without the consequence of our energy choice here in the present. The appeal to logos is in the statement because Vivint Solar is offering an alternative solution that behaves the same way as other energy sources other than the fact that solar energy hurt the environment, and this begs the question from the audience, not switch to Vivint Again, Vivint Solar is promising to protect the environment like the one in this picture with their safe energy solutions. The incredibly large forest is supposed to take the audience by surprise. The subtle gray color of the forest helps show that the forest is very large and some parts of it are very far off into the distance. The vastness of the forest reminds us how big the world is and how much there is to it, and what is at stake if the environment protected. Student 3 Vivint Solar is attempting to better society by offering clean solar energy to households as an alternative to fossil fuels that are harmful to the earth. Vivint Solar uses techniques in their advertisements to appeal to its audience and draw them in to their product. By showing beautiful pictures of the environment and connecting them to their mission statements, they are able to associate themselves with being a clean energy provider that is for the environment. (Word Count: 767) Student 4 Works Cited Vivint  Simple & Affordable Home Solar Power Solutions Vivint Solar. N.p., n.d. https://www.vivintsolar.com. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017.