Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 20 January 2017 National Center for PTSD awareness Countless numbers of American soldiers returning from the traumas of war experience Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD): an emotional disorder characterized by the failure to recover from a terrifying event, that is rarely acknowledged or even fully understood by health professionals. Through the two images chosen and the visual appeals accompanying them, the organization presents the information known about this illness, and the ability everybody has to expand their knowledge while connecting to a larger group that supports PTSD. By using ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in the two advertisements the organization is showing the reality of victims suffering from this disorder. Ending PTSD is presented when viewing the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs: National Center for PTSD website, which encourages the need to raise the awareness of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, research, education, and training in the science, diagnosis, and treatment of PTSD and stress-related (National Center for PTSD). Although the National Center for PTSD is a government based site, many individuals do not know about their organization and the work they accomplish. The Veterans Affairs provide treatment for Veterans and continue to conduct research on PTSD, including the cure towards stress disorders. They carried out the two largest psychotherapy studies conducted specifically for PTSD knowledge (National Center for PTSD). As mentioned on their website, the National Student 2 Centers purpose is to advance the understanding of PTSD through research and educational awareness. Post Traumatic Stress Disorder is more important to learn about than some of society proclaims it is. It is a serious disorder that can affect an entire family. The first image intends to impact all individuals by portraying the support patients and volunteers receive through this organization. The Veterans Affairs are promoting the need to learn, connect, and share PTSD awareness. By using bright colors throughout this image it sets up a feeling of happiness and funding, putting Connect, each on a separate colored block brings attention to those three words (National Center for PTSD). Allowing spectators to see and understand the main purpose of this organization. The National Center is trying to explain that a disorder that is not seen physically is still a disorder, and should be treated seriously. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs: National Center for PTSD uses ethos to establish the readers trust (1.2 Rhetoric Matters) and portray authority. Their experience with psychotherapy studies and the knowledge they already have with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder shows the audience that the National Center has higher education and experience with the disorder. Logos, which appeals to the logic and reasoning within an image (1.3 Rhetoric Matters), is used in advertisement one. By depicting several photos of people with the text awareness- June (National Center for PTSD) it proves the individuals in the ad are helping, or are being helped, due to the spread of awareness through this organization. With image one clearly stating, Connect, it makes it logical for individuals to do just that. Because the photo is telling them to do something that will help others, they feel obligated to be a part of mission for PTSD treatments. The photo makes individuals happy when they notice people getting the help they need, and witnessing numerous amounts of people stepping Student 3 up to be supportive and giving the organization a purpose. Pathos is displayed through the sensitivity towards emotions through the image (1.4 Rhetoric Matters). While image one connects to emotions, it also portrays June as the PTSD awareness month; it is showing everyone the importance of the awareness and that this is the time to take a stand and help others in need. Pertaining to the timeliness and urgency of an event deals with the kairos of the advertisement (1.5 Rhetoric Matters). Many people do not believe this disorder is harmful and can effect entire life, it is vital to prove that PTSD is a life changing cause. The second photo, presented in a black and white shading, is showing a few of the symptoms and how PTSD can affect mental health. Victims and their families do not realize that these signs can be a cause of the illness. This is a crucial situation that many stakeholders are trying to accomplish, but cannot succeed without the help of more individuals. The use of dark coloring portrays the feeling both, the patient and doctor, are feeling during the moment of their meeting. The writing contributed in this image is explaining some of the known symptoms victims of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder deal with. Within this image the organization is trying to appeal to everyone and reveal the need for volunteers to help find treatments and spread awareness. PTSD can happen to anybody that dealt with a traumatic event. Represented in image two is a patient sharing certain symptoms to a doctor, giving authority to someone with a higher achieved status and sharing the knowledge the health professionals have. Noticeably, as ethos is described, proving their authority and giving the credibility and trustworthiness of their association (1.2 Rhetoric Matters). The logos, representing the logical reasoning (1.3 Rhetoric Matters), shows that it is in human nature to help someone in need when you know they are down. Seeing image two gives people the rational feeling to support the beneficial purpose of the advertisement. This image uses the texts from the poster to utilize the Student 4 need for change and suitable treatments. While both pictures obviously show the credibility and logic of the organizations, it also hits the audience emotions and portrays the organizations use of pathos (1.4 Rhetoric Matters). This advertisement makes spectators feel sympathetic towards the patient, feeling symptoms that they cannot escape from. It is obvious that both individuals are concerned in this image, making others worried about people they may or may not know suffering from PTSD. It portrays black and white shading that produces a sense of grievance to the audience. What seems to be in a office, kairos uses a sense of urgency (1.5 Rhetoric Matters) to signify image two, and organizes this ad by illustrating that the awareness is crucial, and it should be taken seriously to prevent reoccurring trauma. The purpose of both, the organization and the images, is to spread the word of this mental disorder. Many veterans are suffering from a problem that many doctors do not even know the cause of. Post Traumatic Stress Disorder was discovered years ago and it needs a definite cure and diagnoses. The two photos appeal to anybody who feels it is necessary to expand the awareness: finding a treatment and allowing support to the victims. Although the images provide knowledge about the illness, there is further information that needs to be discovered to completely help the patients. Many veterans do not receive help because they are unsure of their symptoms, individuals -and societies as a whole- must raise awareness of this tragic ordeal. Photos one and two use their appeals to have people contribute to the research within their study of PTSD, proving everybody has the ability to connect to a group that will bring achievement to the organization. (WC: 1148) Student 5 Works Cited: Browning, Ella, Joshua M. Rea, Katherine Royce, Jeffrey Spicer, and Katie Walkup. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 363-379. E-text Hoffman, Allyson, Emily Lane, Kendra G. Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, Kate Pantelides, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 17-44. E-text. PTSD: National Center for  U.S. Department of National Center for PTSD. 11 Feb. 2016. http://www.ptsd.va.gov/. Accessed 21 January 2017. PTSD: National Center for  PTSD Awareness Month - PTSD: National Center for PTSD. N.p., 11 Jan. 2017. http://www.ptsd.va.gov/about/ptsd-awareness/index.asp. Accessed 28 January 2017. PTSD: National Center for  Videos - PTSD: National Center for PTSD. N.p., 11 Jan. 2017. http://www.ptsd.va.gov/PTSD/public/materials/videos/index.asp. Accessed 28 January 2017. Student 6 Images: Image One: http://www.ptsd.va.gov/about/ptsd-awareness/index.asp Image Two: http://www.ptsd.va.gov/PTSD/public/materials/videos/index.asp