Student 1 Student Instructor Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 GMNOS You know those labels you see at the supermarket that say or (Genetically Modified Organism) and wonder what is the big deal about these things called GMOs? Asking questions such as, are they better than regular foods, what is so different about them, or can they cause any harm? Well there are plenty of people and websites out there willing to answer your questions such as GMO Awareness. Fighting against the use of GMOs is a topic that is dealt within the website gmoawareness.com which raises awareness about the risks of GMOs, shows our food is changing over time, and shows the reaction about the use of GMOs. To start off, the websites main goal or mission is to raise awareness about the risks of these things we know as GMOs. This site uses numerous amounts of information to inform the readers about the risks of GMOs such as pictures, articles, and even external links to movies and books. One image the organization has on their website displays a line of carrots in order from smallest to largest and as each carrot gets bigger and bigger there are more and more needles being injected into the carrots. This image can be portrayed as a timeline of food. The smallest carrot represents the past when the foods we were consuming contained little to none GMOs. As you move through this timeline of food, more and bigger needles appear representing that in the world we live in today there is an outrageous amount of GMOs in our food. Something that stood out in this image was the use of the needles injecting some sort of chemical into our food Student 2 because that a normal thing to see. This image allows the viewers to see the horrifying differences of the amount of GMOs that humans are consuming in world compared to the past. Thus resulting in this image using Kairos. According to Allyson Hoffman is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman 41). This image uses an appeal to timeliness because throughout time the food that is being consumed contains more and more GMOs and will continue to be infiltrated unless we act fast. Also, because needles often carry a negative connotation, pathos is also used in this image. As defined by Emily Lane may want to think of pathos as which pertains to the experience of or sensitivity toward (Lane 22). This image appeals to the emotions because when anyone sees a needle injecting some chemical in their food they will either be scared of what they are consuming or mad that they are consuming something they know about. Something that could be changed to the image to help support the websites goal could be to change the background color of the right side of the image to a darker gloomier color to help the viewer better understand that GMOs are not good and have risks. Another image that the website uses to help support its main goal is a picture that was taken of a group of people from San Diego California protesting the use of GMOs. This protest is known as the March against Monsanto. The March against Monsanto is an international movement and protest against the Monsanto company, a company that produces GMOs. Because this march is a movement that is happening internationally this image is using ethos as an appeal to the viewers. Jessica McKee states is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (McKee 27). The March against Monsanto is credible because it has been happening Student 3 for several years now and millions of people are involved that are passionate about stopping the use of GMOs. In this picture it displays that there are a lot of people out in the world who disagree with the use of GMOs and what Monsanto stands for and believe that they should not be allowed to continue producing GMOs. The March against Monsanto is compiled with angry protestors expressing their feeling and attitudes towards the Monsanto company which is why this image uses pathos as an appeal because everyone in the march are expressing their emotions. A way to think about all the emotions that are being expressed is to look throughout the entire image and notice that there are many colors that are presented, there colors can represent the different emotions that being expressed by all of the angry protestors in the crowd. The purpose of including this image in the website was to show that the fight against the use of GMOs is not something to take lightly because of the amount of people that are involved in trying to find a solution. The use of this particular image helps the audience understand that this matter at hand is something happening worldwide and millions of people are involved in attempting to terminate the use of GMOs. Some pros of this image is that this picture does clearly support the fight against the use of GMOs. However, to improve the use of this picture and to help support the organizations goal the picture could be taken from a higher position to capture more people in the march allowing the viewers see it as a bigger event. Finally, the fight over the use of GMOs is still present and occurring today but there are organizations out there who are trying to end this problem. Gmoawareness.com is helping this problem by raising awareness about the risks of GMOs, informing people that our food is changing due to GMOs, and shows the reaction of the use of GMOs. Both images presented in the website use ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to appeal to the viewers and help them better understand the organizations goal and purpose. Overall, gmoawareness is helping to Student 4 inform the public about the risks of GMOs and why we should be fighting against the use of GMOs. (WC:1023) https://gmoawareness.files.wordpress.com/2013/03/carrots-injected.jpg https://gmoawareness.files.wordpress.com/2011/04/protest-march-monsanto.jpg Student 5 Works Cited Allyson Hoffman, Alysia Sawchyn Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41. E-text. Carrots Injected. Digital image. GMO Awareness. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <https://gmoawareness.files.wordpress.com/2011/04/protest-march-monsanto.jpg>. GMO  GMO Awareness. https://gmo-awareness.com/ Accessed Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27. E-text. Lane, Emily , Lee, Kendra G. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 22 E-text. Protest March Monsanto. Digital image. GMO Awareness. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <https://gmoawareness.files.wordpress.com/2011/04/protest-march-monsanto.jpg>.