Terry 1 Taquon Terry January 29th, 2017 ENC 1102 Determining whether Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) should be put out of production due to potential harms to human health has been a heated topic for many years. There are many organizations with biased opinions as to why these modified crops are or are not dangerous. The most known company in supporting the continued production of GMOs is the company Monsanto. This group works closely with the FDA to assure that each of their GMO seeds are safe for consumers. While this organization and many other producers are in favor of GMOs, there are still those who are against it. The organization GMO specifically aimed at having GMOs put out of production is an organization who believes that Monsanto is responsible for the within GMOs. Although Monsanto and many other producers believe that GMOs are not harmful and they should continue to be produced, many anti-GMO organizations such as the GMO believe they should be banned for health and safety reasons. In order for the tension between these two stakeholders to boil down, they should consider compromising on having GMOs labeled so that consumers have a choice when purchasing their groceries. Monsanto, established in 1901, is a company that works closely with farmers all around the world helping to create more sustainable agriculture. They strive to produce more efficient harvests in order to make balanced meals more accessible to families in need (Monsanto.com). They do so by providing farmers with plant seeds that have undergone Terry 2 which is the process of transferring genes with dominant survival traits into vegetable or fruit plants (Monsanto.com). These types of plants are what most would call Genetically Modified Organisms or GMOs for short. Knowing that many people are averse to the thought of consuming such products, Monsanto has been working closely with many regulatory agencies to ensure safety among consumers. As stated on their website, Monsanto.com, each of their seeds undergo many years of testing and harsh approval processes. seeds have been tested more than any other crop in the history of no evidence of harm to humans, animals or the environment (Monsanto.com). Many consumers, mostly those who eat organic, detest the fact GMOs are being sold. There are also those who have no idea what GMOs are and continue to purchase goods without knowing what putting in their body. This is why the organization GMO stepped up to the plate. This organization was established in 2007 with its mission being to preserve and build upon non GMO goods, and educate consumers on how to make smarter choices when purchasing goods. Labeling also plays a significant role in this organization going against these modified goods. As mentioned on their website, 64 countries around the world require that GMOs be labeled, it is not required in the United States (nongmoproject.org). the absence of mandatory labeling, the Non-GMO Project was created to give consumers the informed choice they They not only believe that GMOs are harmful to consumers in general but to our environment also. crops are responsible for the emergence of herbicide resistant and which can only be killed with more toxic (nongmoproject.org). This stakeholder mentions to its readers that GMOs should be restricted because they have only been tested by the corporations that produced them Terry 3 and are making profits from their sale. Through outreach programs and marketing support to other anti-GMO companies, the Non GMO Project has become the market leader in GMO avoidance (nongmoproject.org). Also, this organization has come up with a standard in hopes of assisting farmers and manufacturers on avoiding GMO contamination within their products (nongmoproject.org). They do so by informing them on certain methodology, and teaching them how to test for high-risk ingredients. The standard aims to reduce the amount of genetically modified crops worldwide. Although these two stakeholders have opposing views on whether GMOs should be allowed, they do share one thing in common: neither of them know for sure whether GMOs are safe or harmful for humans in the long run. According to both Monsanto and the Non GMO Project, there have been no epidemiological studies investigating potential effects of GMO food on human health. In other words, there have been no studies investigating the health of GMO foods amongst different populations. Another area where these two stakeholders share similar views is the consumers. Although they propose going about it differently, each company lives off of providing consumers with cheaper, healthier foods and a cleaner environment. To keep each stakeholder from bumping heads with one another, maybe they should meet in the middle and come up with some type of compromise. A suitable suggestion would be labeling. As mentioned in the Non GMO mission statement, they believe that consumers have a right to know what is in their food. Therefore if Monsanto begins to label their products, then the consumers will begin to have a choice of what they put in their bodies rather than going in blind. Terry 4 In conclusion, the GMO debate is one that has quietly snuck its way into to lives of many. It is one that has been overlooked by many because no one really knows if it is potentially harmful in the long run. Monsanto, leading producer of GMO seeds believes that these seeds should continue to be produced because each of their products have been tested to ensure safety, and it is very beneficial to the crops of farmers. However, many non supporters, such as the Non GMO believe that GMOs should stop being produced because they could be harming consumers and they are bad for the environment. By meeting in the middle and having GMOs labeled, consumers will have a choice and the debate can be silenced once and for all. Terry 5 Works Cited  Sustainable Agriculture Company . Monsanto, 2002. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. MOST TRUSTED  NonGMO Project . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.