Hampton 1 Hampton Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft The topic chosen to write about is treatment of depression. This topic hits home for me because my mom has been dealing with severe depression for four years. taken a toll out of all of us and searched and searched and found something that steadily helps her depression. So, the website I chose was for a nonprofit organization called Anxiety and Depression Association of America. This website looks to find ways to help people with any form of anxiety or depression with various treatment options and in home solutions. The stakeholders claim on the website is over anxiety and which I think is beautiful. It gives people hope that their methods really do work. The thing that really caught my eye when I first looked at the website was all the pictures of people overcoming obstacles and banning together to fight something. With these pictures, inspirational quotes that are unique to each story and what going through. With all of these components clear that the stakeholders primary purpose of this is to support growth and help people of all kids deal and cure what struggling with. The way the website is laid out and the design it has leads me to believe targeting people who are at dead ends and are not really sure what to do with whatever dealing Hampton 2 with. a hard thing to have this weight on your shoulder and this website is looking for people who need someone to just help them along or give them the pick-me-up that they need. ADAA was founded in 1979 and has always been nonprofit. They focus on people and they educate others in any way they can. always been about improving the quality of life to those who think that they deserve the nice things in life. Those who are down on themselves and have nowhere to turn. The way they help other is by evidence based treatments that have proven effective time after time. They have a diverse staff that all are directed towards the same thing; helping find, treat, and recover from disorders. Another main point they make on their website is that people are uneducated about what disorders are and the signs to look for. People dismiss their signs because scared of disorders and what they might bring. But nothing to be afraid of, with the right support and treatment you can overcome everything. With that being said, with so many people uneducated one of their main goals is to go out in the community and educate as many people as they can, so that people who were afraid can now come forth and get the help they need. They organization started out as The Phobia Society of America and since then they have incorporated science and more education to expand into what they are today. Hampton 3 This is a visual that is offered on the website, the message of this image is that with the love and support from your community your child can overcome anything. It gives a sense of belonging which brings kids to feel unafraid about coming forward about their issues. The cues that bring that message out are the kids with their arms wrapped around each other. The elements that really make this image stand out is the fact that they chose bright kids with friendly faces and smiles that really make the viewer believe that the message is sincere. The color especially impacts the picture, they used bright, eye catching colors that complement each other and draw the viewer in. The use of logos in this picture is represented by the use of the word treatment. where the use of logic and reason come in, you believe someone would overcome anxiety and depression just with support. The credibility comes in with the fact that these are their own pictures, they use random ones from the internet. how ethos is represented in this picture. The emotion that stirs up, and the use of pathos, is that they used 3 different types of kids, showing that this could be happening to child no matter the race or gender. a picture that can strike with all parents. The use of Kairos in this picture is represented with how timeless the photo seems. They picked such basic clothing these kids could be from any time period. Hampton 4 This second image I also got from this amazing website. The message they are trying to convey through this image is families all over are being affected by the aftermaths of their tours. Depression caused from this effects the entire family. The cue that conveys this message the most is the fact that the father is in his uniform and has his arms wrapped around his family. The closeness of the family really stands out, you look at the picture and you want anything to tear them apart. The way the color really impacts the viewer is the fact that the family is wearing the same colors. It really gives a sense of unity. The bolded text really brings out the meaning, that war affects not only you but your entire family. There are many rhetorical devices expressed through this picture. The use of logos is represented because people may try to block out effects of depression from the war but this brings it out in the open and says happening and there are ways to help. The ethos aspect of this picture is essentially brought out through the text in the image. The fact that the father is in his uniform really pulls on sympathy and where pathos comes into play. Kairos is represented in the colors of the image and the way it was set up. Overall, this website has many components helpful to their cause. They are efficient and very educational. They explain their mission openly and with care. Treatment for depression has Hampton 5 always been something my family has struggled with and so happy to see that websites like this exist. Especially ones so though out and thorough. (W.C 1,038) Works Cited Mission and  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.