Student 1 Student Dr. Tornton ENC 2203 29 January 2017 Treatment of Depression. Great health is obviously one of the essential things and people are ready to spend billions on their health just to live a little longer. However, for some reasons, people value their physical health more than their mental health. This phenomenon can be easily explained since physical health issues cause pain and notable inconvenience, while mental health issues are less noticeable and develop symptomless. Moreover, some people mistakenly assume that mental disorders are made up and appear to be an imaginary thing to give people with disorders an excuse to be sick. This belief is completely wrong because mental health issues are real, they might cause physical issues and most of the times they are dangerous. Those disorders need a treatment as well as physical ones, and deserve to be considered an actual disease. One of the most serious mental disorders is depression, which is a complicated illness with a no less complex treatment. Nevertheless, what do people know about depression? According to Dictionary.com, the word depression came from the Latin verb deprimere - to press and can be described as to be sad, deject; dispirit or to be lower in spirits. The disorder was described by Hippocrates in his which points on the fact that the illness was recorded in ancient times. Depression is a complex disorder which was described in article by National Institute of Mental Health as of the most common mental illness but serious mood disorder, that causes severe symptoms that affect the way people feel, think, and handle their daily activities, such as sleeping, eating, or The disorder includes Student 2 different types such as Persistent depressive disorder, Perinatal depression, Psychotic depression and Seasonal affective disorder, although this is not the full list of other types. All these types obviously have common symptoms: feelings of hopelessness, pessimism, guilt, worthlessness, helplessness, irritability, difficulty sleeping, early-morning awakening, or oversleeping, appetite and/or weight changes, self-harm and thoughts of death or suicide, or suicide attempts. It is notable that the illness itself in general is a horrific state of mind, moreover, the last symptoms in the list are pointing on how dangerous is depression. The threat of the disorder is obvious, thus, psychiatrists and concealing centers found a treatment and they are constantly trying to improve it. Nevertheless, even though it is a brain disorder, scientists continue to argue what causes it. On the physical level, the illness caused by changes in brain chemistry, whilst the triggers for its development on mental level still vary. According to Mental Health Fitness website, some of the most common factors are characteristics, changes in hormone levels, certain medical illnesses, stress, grief, or substance Nevertheless, depression has a big nuance as well as other mental disorders. Depression is an individual disorder, which can affect people differently and might be triggered by different factors. Therefore, scientists consider those factors and basing on them they developed a personal treatment for each patient. The treatment has three types of therapy medical therapy, electroconvulsive therapy and psychotherapies also known as talk therapies. Medical treatment medicine treatment is antidepressants with many different types of them are available, and they can be assigned only basing on a personal and health characteristics. Since depression affects brain chemistry, medicine stimulates certain brain parts to make the chemicals, which are called neurotransmitters, send signals between nerve cells in the brain. According to eMedExpert website, antidepressants can be classified for three main Student 3 types: Non-selective Antidepressants, Selective Reuptake Inhibitors and Receptor Blockers. The difference between them in the brain chemicals they affect and side effects. The medical treatment needs time to adjust, which is usually 2 to 4 weeks. One course takes about from 6 to 12 months, however, the curing doctor can change the course duration. According on patients condition, the psychiatrist might decide to extend or to stop the course, and if it was decided to stop, doctors can help to decreases the dose slowly and safely. However, some antidepressants can affect differently, sometimes doctors might change the medicine or its type (National Institute of Mental Health, National Library of Medicine). Electroconvulsive therapy the therapy consists of small electric impulses that passes the brain and causes a brief seizure. The procedure stimulates brain cells and is done under general anesthesia. Usually this treatment is administrated for 3 times a week and in total, the depression improves after 6 to 12 procedures (National Institute of Mental Health, National Library of Medicine). Psychotherapies psychotherapies is a generalized name for a variety of therapy techniques but their main aim is to help a patient to find the root of the illness, change troubling behavior, thoughts and/or emotions. There is three main types of psychotherapies: Cognitive behavioral therapy, Interpersonal therapy and Psychodynamic therapy. The goal is to change the unhealthy patters and replace negative patterns of thinking to positive. Interpersonal therapy focuses on the relationships between the patient and his or her relationships with other people. The last type of therapies Psychodynamic therapy is a therapy where a therapist and patient try to find the root of the issues and negativity, to help the patient to understand himself/herself and exterminate the issues. Psychotherapies do not have course time limits and Student 4 might last from a few weeks to several years. The course of psychotherapy varies and assigns only individually. To sum up, scientists have developed helpful therapies to cure mental disorder as complex as depression. Considering that the disease itself is highly complicated, the real causes, besides brain chemical disorder, are difficult to find. Despite that, doctors managed to find a way to help people to cope with depression and cure it. According to National Institute of Mental Health, the best cure for depression is a combination of two treatments, medical and psychotherapy. Since depression consists of two, mental and physical sides of health, combination of treatments can provide the important treatment for both sides. Medical therapy helps to fix brain chemical disorder, while talk therapies help to heal mind and emotions. (Word Count: 1002) Student 5 Works Cited Hippocrates, Aphorisms, Section 6.23 Online Etymology Dictionary. June 30, 2008, web, Dictionary.com National Institute of Mental Health, Depression, March 20, 2015, web, Antidepressants: MedlinePlus, U.S. National Library of Medicine, web, https://medlineplus.gov/antidepressants.html Types of Antidepressants, May 05, 2007, web, http://www.emedexpert.com/classes/antidepressants.shtml Joseph Goldberg, MD, Depression Treatments and Care, August 21, 2014, web, http://www.webmd.com/depression/guide/depression-treatment-care