Hackett !1 Josephine Hackett Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 The Treatment of Prostitution Prostitution is a highly controversial and polarizing concept. The idea of selling body for sexual activity divides many, leaving sex workers in the balance. According to the Support Project all prostitution is exploitative of the person being prostituted, regard- less of context and should not be considered work or legitimate employment In contrast Amnesty International proposes the the decriminalization of sex work in order for sex workers to receive their basic human rights. The compromise between both parties can be reached regarding the prosecution and treatment that sex workers face by police officers. Chang- ing the current policies used against prostitutes such as profiling and using condoms as basis for arrest would be a suitable compromise as it would make the conditions for sex workers much safer while still enforcing the current prostitution laws. The Support Project is a group that has devoted themselves to exposing prosti- tution by revealing root causes and harmful impacts, on a small individual scale and to the world. The group believes that prostitution should not be a choice available to women and that men should not have the right to buy sex Despite the fact that there are approximately 40 million prostitutes currently in the world; prostitution is rarely the ideal career choice for women. The majority of prostitutes are not happy with their sex roles. Women sex workers often feel forced into the trade due to homelessness, child sexual Hackett !2 abuse, mental illness, trauma, previous sexual violence, drug and alcohol misuse, money pres- sures and poverty Already in a job they do not want, prostitutes find it extremely hard to leave sex work once they have begun. 92% of female prostitutes want to quit prostitution but feel like they cannot due to to their financial hardship. At the root of prostitution is the de- mand of purchasing sex: with approximately 10% of all men having purchased a prostitute at some point in their lives In order to change prostitution the mindset that society has of sex must be changed. Amnesty International is an organization goal is to maintain and preserve human rights around the world. Amnesty International is requesting the attainment of the highest possi- ble protection of the human rights of sex workers. (It is important to note that Amnesty In- ternational is only advocating for the prostitution of consensual adult sex and does not support any exploitation or abuse.) Amnesty main goal is to keep sex workers safe and empower them to have access to their human rights. While prostitution itself is not a human right sex workers still have human rights that should be upheld and abided by. Amnesty International believes that the decriminalization of prostitution is essential to protecting and giving sex work- ers the rights that they deserve. The criminalization of prostitution leads to many unsafe prac- tices and forces an entire underground network of trafficking that could be reduced. Sex workers are one of the most disadvantaged groups of people and they are often subjected to discrimina- tion, beatings, rape and harassment. The harsh reality these sex workers face is also in conjunc- tion with the denial they are often faced with when trying to obtain access to basic health and housing services, a violation of many basic human rights. The treatment and the harassment that sex workers face is brought to a head by police officers in their efforts to enforce the law against Hackett !3 prostitution. Police searches for condoms are often a result of profiling, a practice of targeting individuals as suspected offenders for who they are, what they are wearing and where they are standing, rather than on the basis of any observed illegal activity Workers at The anti-prostitution loitering laws in New York, California, and Washington, DC are inconsistent with human rights principles and use condoms as evidence for arrests, discouraging sex workers from using and carrying condoms based on fear. Condom confiscations and fear of condom pos- session lead to higher STD rates and truly endanger all parties involved in the sexual acts. Despite the fact that both and the Support Project seem to be on complete op- posite ends of the spectrum regarding prostitution they both share common ground between them. Both organizations want to reduce the negative impacts of prostitution and the effects it has on the sex workers themselves. Amnesty International believes that the way to protect sex workers and keep them safe is to decriminalize prostitution to limit discrimination and protect the sex workers. On the other hand, the Support Project believes fears that legitimizing prostitution would increase the frequency and enable more prostitution. Both groups know that prostitution is not a human right and that the safety and health of sex workers is at risk when dealing with prostitution. Since the common goal of both organizations is to reduce the harmful impacts of prostitu- tion the compromise between Amnesty International and the Support Project would be to change the current policies of prosecution of sex workers. The current policy, loitering with intent to commit prostitution. This law allows police to arrest someone who has not actually en- gaged in or solicited prostitution, but on the belief that someone has the intention to engage in prostitution. This law allows police officers to engage in biased profiling where a cloth- Hackett !4 ing and overall appearance are judged and scrutinized. Where the policy truly crosses the line however is that having condoms in your possession serves as a basis of evidence to make some- one a prostitute. Sex workers already face discrimination and judgement from the police and they are often harassed about the possession of condoms. If they are not arrested at that moment the sex workers are often told to get rid of and throw away their condoms in efforts to reduce their ability to have sex. This effort completely backfires on the safety and well being of the prosti- tutes and their clientele because many are too scared to carry condoms on them and are commit- ting sexual acts without them. The solution would be for police officers to change the basis for arrests of prostitution. The way that police officers profile the suspected prostitutes is biased and promotes discrimination for many people such as those in the transgender community. While having condoms should not provide evidence or a basis for arrest that a person is a prostitute. Condoms are an extremely vital sexual health tool that help maintain sexual and somatic health and are useful for the sexual health of many not just prostitutes. If prostitutes are going to engage in sexual acts it is much safer for them to use condoms and prevent as many STDs as possible. Despite the differences that Amnesty International and the Support Project have with the problem of prostitution they share the same ideal that prostitution is not currently safe or conducive to prostitutes. Amnesty International would need to lesson their stance on decriminal- ization and focus on the current policy and treatment of arresting for prostitution. While the Support Project would have to understand that while prostitution may not be the ideal choice for women, is an option and that the women who are currently prostitutes need help. This compromise would help prostitutes immensely and improve their quality of life. Profiling and condom harassment are only harming and making the difficult lives of prostitutes worse. The Hackett !5 change in policy would allow prostitutes to maintain healthier lives with less risk, making up for some of the discrimination and lack of rights that they currently face. Word Count: 1,254 Hackett !6 Works Cited Decision on State Obligations to Respect, Protect, and Fulfill the Human Rights of Sex  Amnesty International, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Julia Lurie. When Having Condoms Gets You  Mother Jones. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Loitering with Intent to Commit Prostitution CA Penal Code 653.22  Loitering with Intent to Commit Prostitution CA Penal Code 653.22 PC. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Project, Support. Support Project -  Support Project - Prostitution. Support Project, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Prostitution  Statistic Brain. US Health Department, Delancey Street Founda- tion, Christian Science Monitor, 14 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sex Workers at  Sex Workers At Risk. Human Rights Watch, 06 July 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sex Rights Are Human  Sex Rights Are Human Rights. Amnesty International, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.