Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Americans for the Arts Analysis Americans for the Arts is an organization that claims to enforce access to art education through raising money and demonstrating the importance of the arts. The organization says that the arts can society and all students deserve to at least have the opportunity to pursue art education. Throughout its over 50 years of operation, Americans for the Arts advocated for all things art related; the organization also has four sub-categories such as The Arts Action Fund, National Arts Marketing Project, pARTnership, and Animating Democracy (Americans for the Arts). Through the images on its website that will be dissected, Americans for the Arts gives the audience a sense of togetherness and involvement in the movement. The first image chosen uses text to give a literal meaning to the mission to pursuing art education together. In order to draw this conclusion, one must break down an image by considering the major points in the photo, such as color, purpose, audience, and text (Sheffiled). The part that stands out the most is the white, bold text that takes up most of the image. The text states we are Americans for the in capital letters; the words are about 70 times larger than the other words, which throws the message into the face. The words give a literal meaning and are a powerful way to make the audience feel like it is a part of the movement. Deeper in the photograph, there are colors that change from left to right starting from yellow and making it down to indigo; the color patterns along with the pointillism-like style Student 2 make the image stand out more than it would if there was only one flat color in the background. One could even go as far as to say the collection of colors go together just like the audience can come together for the organization. Along with the colors, the background has a few pieces of artwork incorporated in it to depict all works of art coming together as well. The image is placed on the A page, which includes information about who can be a part of the organization. The description includes facts such as there are more than 7,000 people who are part of 1,500 organizations that are brought together through the arts by Americans for the Arts; the description also lists the types of people who are members from government agencies to teachers (Americans for the Arts). The use of logos, or logic, in this case is in the description under the photograph where it lists the number of people and organizations involved serves as numerical evidence to compel the audience (McIntyre). Logos is not the only rhetorical appeal that is used in the image on the A page. Pathos is the rhetorical appeal that triggers emotions of the audience, and in this situation, the image triggers the emotion by making it feel special because it is a part of something bigger (McIntyre). The image uses pathos by telling the audience which relates to everybody who wants to be included. Two other logical appeals are ethos and Kairos, which relate to credibility and timeliness respectively, are used subtly in the image as well (McIntyre). Ethos gives credibility to everyone in the audience, because it implies that every viewer is a part of the organization. Kairos is used because people in society have a need to be a part of something, especially when one can feel so little compared to the changing world, and this image gives every viewer the opportunity to be a part of the organization. This image makes the viewers feel like they, together, make a positive impact on the art community. Student 3 The second image Americans for the Arts uses brings together all art forms, and says that they are powerful together; the organization compels, and motivates, the audience through the orange propaganda-like image for National Arts and Humanities Month. The part that stands out the most in the image is the contrast between the background and the foreground; the purple fists and lettering stand out on the orange poster because they are opposite colors. There are four fists, all different heights, with different art instruments in hand. The instruments include a computer mouse, paint brush, microphone, and a pencil; the reason the inclusion of four different instruments is significant is because it depicts the idea that all mediums of art are powerful. The text on the photograph even says to the in capital letters, because Americans for the Arts wants the audience to know that art has the power to society. This photo was posted on the Americans for the Arts website because it was October, the month declared National Arts and Humanities Month. Though this picture was posted in October of 2014, during the most recent National Arts and Humanities Month, former President Barack Obama said in his proclamation about the month to to harness the unparalleled ways the arts and humanities bring people (United States). Thus, former President Obama agrees that the arts bring people together, and it is conveyed through his speech and through this image. The multiple art utensils represent a use of pathos by applying to all mediums of art; if members in the audience use any of these utensils to create art, those members will feel important in the movement. The reason the sense of being important is the rhetorical appeal pathos is because it is centered around emotion, and this photograph will make an audience member feel included and empowered. Kairos, the to is incorporated in this photo because during this day in age, the arts have been a growing debate on whether they are useful. (McIntyre). This photo tells the audience that the arts are not only useful, but powerful. Ethos is stronger in the Student 4 second photo than the first photo because this photo has the Americans for the Arts logo in the right-hand corner of the image; the logo gives credibility to the photo because the organization is centered around the arts, so it is a believable source. Logos is the least used appeal in the image, but all ways to create art are included in the picture, so nobody can argue their version of art is not included in the photo. The organization is being realistic, or logical, in the sense that all art is power. A member of the will audience feel empowered if his version of art is included in the powerful arts; this image gives both a sense of empowerment and inclusion to the audience. Americans for the Arts has been advocating for art education for over 50 years, and in those years, it witnessed multiple changes in the art community. In order to raise awareness to how beneficial art is, Americans for the Arts plans to bring people together through all art forms, to promote art education. Through the two images chosen, Americans for the Arts makes the audience feel involved and important in this action. (WC: 1178) Student 5 Works Cited Americans for the Arts. Americans for the Arts, 2015. americansforthearts.org. Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text. Sheffiled, Jenna Pack. Down an Writing Commons. writingcommons.org. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. United States. The White House. Office of the Press Secretary. Presidential Proclamation -- National Arts and Humanities Month, 2016. By Barack Obama. The White House, 28 Sept. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.