Student 1 Student Dr. Thorton ENC 1102 20 January 2017 Visual and Rhetorical Analysis of Soldiers The Soldiers Project was founded in 2004 with a commitment to providing lifelong support for post-9/11 veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Services are provided for veterans free of charge, 100 percent confidential, and guaranteed for as long as the individual requires support While the commitment to soldiers is clearly stated on the website, it is possible to review the images used by the organization to better understand the message being conveyed to the public. Using this as a foundation for investigation, the current research provides a visual and rhetorical analysis of two images from The Soldiers Project (Appendix A and B). The analysis provided in this investigation supports the argument that both images have similar features which, when combined, augment the central message of the organization to provide free and confidential therapy for post-9/11 veterans who have not gotten the mental health treatment that they need from the government. Overview and Analysis Image 1 The first image selected for review can be found in Appendix A and includes a picture of a young adult male wearing a grey hoodie and grey fatigues. Examination of the visual rhetoric provided in the image suggests that there are several cues which convey a central message of an individual seeking help. The individual in the picture is dressed in a neutral color and wears an expression of sadness. Images of red and white in the background of the photo, coupled with the fatigues being worn by the man in the photo, provide subtle links to the target audience: veterans. 2 The muted and blurred colors covey the serious of the situation: a solider suffering from PTSD. Visual rhetoric, according to Gerdes, can be dangerously manipulative (332). Although the image does not appear to be intentionally manipulative, the visual rhetoric in the photo does adequately convey the message of desperation faced by many returning soldiers with PTSD. Rhetorical analysis of the image supports a similar message. Rhetorical analysis involves the strategies used by the author to make the argument effective and for the purposes of this investigation includes a review of logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos (Royce 364-5). Logos is the appeal to logic (Lane et al. 23). Logos in the image is present through a combination of visual effects and text. Specifically, logos demonstrates that there is an effort to heal the hidden wounds of war. Ethos, the appeal to ethics or credibility, can also be seen in the image (27). Use of an individual who appears to be veteran who is suffering establishes a credibility with those who are in a similar situation. Pathos, the appeal to emotion, was described in the visual analysis of the image (22). In particular, the facial expression of the individual is one that conveys sadness and distress, despite the fact that no overt signs of harm can be seen. Kairos, the appeal to timeliness, was also emphasized in the visual analysis (24). The red and white background and the use of fatigues indicates military service for young veterans. The image is not dated and suggests a presence that will be available over the long-term. What can be seen from this analysis is that visual and rhetorical analysis of the image are congruent. The central message being conveyed is one of distress by an individual who appears to be associated with the military. This image is commensurate with the intent of the website to provide mental health services for veterans that have not had their needs met by the government. The central figure in the image does not demonstrate any signs of overt anguish, but does communicate a sense of sadness, distress, and desperation, suggesting that he is suffering and has 3 been abandoned. Given this analysis it seems evident that the message of the image is congruent with the focus and intent of the organization. Overview and Analysis of Image 2 The second image selected for review can be found in Appendix B. This image includes the banner used by the organization to advertise its services. The image includes three gold military stars which appear to be projected forward along with the name of the organization, its tag line, and a brief overview of the services offered. The primary visual message is to communicate the purpose of the organization while upholding the integrity and honor of service provided by veterans. The message is succinct and coveys the idea that the organization is available to provide help post-9/11 veterans in need. Rhetorical analysis of logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos in the image demonstrate that these elements reinforce the visual rhetoric. Specifically, logos can be seen in the direct message sent by the organization. It is possible to logically connect the message of the organization with its purpose. Ethos is achieved through the use of the military stars, which conveys to the viewer that the organization works with military personnel and veterans. The stars used are often included in military honors and awards further supporting the respect and integrity veterans. Pathos is also conveyed through the military stars and the text. The stars suggest honor for the veteran while the text notes the presence of hidden wounds. The text provides an acknowledgement that these wounds are present and that they have been recognized. Kairos can also be identified through the use of military stars which have not changed much in design over the course of military history. When comparing the visual and rhetorical analysis there are overlaps in the message conveyed. In particular, the analysis provided here indicates the presence of honor and helping those in need. Brining the hidden wounds to the surface in an environment of dignity is also 4 aligned with the purpose of the organization: to provide services that heal the wounds of veterans. Visual and rhetorical elements of the image therefore reinforce each other and contribute to understanding the overall message of the organization to help those in need. Combining the Images Although the analysis provided here does indicate that the visual and rhetorical elements of the images are reinforcing, it is the combined message of both images which provides a complete understanding of the organization. Image 1 highlights the personal aspect of who is being helped through the services provided: post-9/11 veterans. Image 2, to some extent, completes the message by demonstrating that the help provided is delivered in an environment of honor, dignity, and respect. Veterans suffering from PTSD often find that reaching out for help can be difficult (Brown et al. 419). The organization, however, conveys a message that this will be done with utmost respect, encouraging those in need to make contact. All of this is reinforced through the images provided. Conclusion Visual and rhetorical analysis of the two images from The Soldiers Project does indicate that there are different messages being sent. However, visual and rhetorical analysis of each image separately does indicate overlaps between these areas, suggesting that the message sent in each image is consistent. Further, when the images are combined the message provides a comprehensive overview of the mission and purpose of the organization, making the imagery effective for attracting the target market: post-9/11 veterans. (WC: 1,191) 5 Appendix A: Image 1 6 Appendix B: Image 2 7 Works Cited Brown, Wilson, et al. between Service Era, PTSD Symptom Expression, and Treatment Completion among Military Psychology, vol. 28, no. 1, 2016, pp. 418-428. Gerdes, Julie, et al. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, edited by Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs, XanEdu, 2016, pp. 331- 351. Homepage. The Soldiers Project, 2017, https://www.thesoldiersproject.org. Accessed 29 January 2017. Lane, Emily et al. Rhetorical Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, edited by Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs, XanEdu, 2016, pp. 20-52. Royce, Katherine. is a Rhetorical Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, edited by Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs, XanEdu, 2016, pp. 364-374.