Student 1 Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Earth is slowly diminishing and deteriorating due to the lack of importance of recycling. This is caused by the ignorance of the issue in itself. Ever since we were little kids we were taught to take care of our environment but yet we still see that earth is not capable of what us humans are doing to it. So why not promote the use of recycling to better the future of our living enviorment.Paper Recycling is a topic dealt with in the website waste management, which shows ways in which as a community or local business can invest in recycling methods that will promote for a greener environment in the future. The waste management website used the visual of a green home to convey the message of promoting for a greener neighborhood through recycling. In the image we see a panorama of a neighborhood street with small businesses. a total of five buildings in which their all brick color except the one in the main view which is painted in green. The visual used almost all four of the rhetorical appeals in different ways. First we analyze the rhetorical situation which includes the audience, context and purpose. To begin with the audience, we see how the image is pertaining to the local businesses and those who reside there. The image has a set of bold white letters saying helping small businesses see more green This text directly relates to the audience in which the image is pertaining too. The visual also has cars parked around the businesses which demonstrate that the residents are enjoying and utilizing their community stores. We now move on to context which means background information that will help you understand and analyze an (McIntyre 346). This image include much context since not much text is being provided on the company itself. Next comes purpose which is easily understood through this visual. For example, in the image we read the text and it directly is targeting local businesses to reach out to the waste management company in order to better their overall service standards. After analyzing its rhetorical situation, we now can view it from the rhetorical appeals which include Ethos, Pathos, Logos and Kairos. The rhetorical appeal that stands out the most is the appeal to pathos. Pathos refers to when it appeals to emotion. This visual appeals to emotion through their use of bright colors and just an overall appealing image to look at. The audience views the image as It being accepted into the community due to the vast cars parked outside the local stores. The bold and bright colors bring a sense of joy. In the book Rhetoric Matters it was talking about how through the use of specific colors or expressions an image can portray a thousand words. In this visual we also see the rhetorical appeal of Kairos which stands for timeliness. Because the text included states that this company helps local businesses become greener everyday it sets a time period in which the audience Is pulled into. For example, when the audience views this image they will view the company as ongoing progress towards the right direction. Both logos and ethos as present in this visual as the other two. But overall this image gives a positive light into the argument of paper recycling and how something positive that will help the local communities. Then the waste management company also included a visual on their website that included an image of a human hand and a floating green leaf above it. This image conveys the message of how if we all work together we can recuperate the green environment. We start by analyzing the rhetorical situation that we previously mentioned included context, purpose and audience. Not much context is shown on the image because it really only has a white background and a floating hand. The purpose of the image includes the need of union among the people. The company chose this image in order to convey the message of are the helping Which leads me to audience, the audience includes all those who are interested in our environment and those who take interest in helping achieve the goal of a better future. After analyzing the rhetorical situation, we now move onto the use of rhetorical appeals in the image. To start off the rhetorical appeal that stands out the most in this image is Pathos as well. The use of the white background signifies the purity of the image in itself. Then we see the floating gentle hand with the green leaf on top which illustrates the importance of taking care of one owns environment and how we as humans can make the difference. Overall, both images conveyed the same message the company is trying to release which is that paper recycling is an important subject we must all work together on to not only better the planet we live in but also in the local communities in which people reside in. Both images used similar colors which included green and white because when you think of the planet the first color that pops into your head is green. So this company showcases both of these images to convey the overall messages of unity and commitment towards a better tomorrow. Works Cited Page McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. E-text. How we think green  Home ThinkGreen Waste Management. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.wm.com/thinkgreen/index.jsp>. Waste disposal, Collection and Removal, Recycling Centers Waste Management. N.p., 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.wm.com/index.jsp>.