Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft People in age hear that common phrase reuse and but how can that be applied that to their lives? The American Forest and Paper Association is a stakeholder with a strong concern regarding the recycling of paper. Their website is a perfect source for education on the subject. It contains informative statistics, recycling news and argumentative articles to persuade the readers to recycle more. Their goal is to public policies that promote a strong and sustainable United States forest product industry in the global (Paper Recycles) The American Forest and Paper Association achieves their goal through advertisements. The advertisements use all four rhetoric strategies to persuade the readers to recycle and promote recycling to others. Two advertisements that were created by the association will be examined to see how they work together to promote the mission, goals and/or purpose. Background information about the American Forest and Paper Association will be given to establish context. The history of the American Forest and Paper Association contains a long list of accomplishments. The Association was formed in 1993 when two groups combined. The first association was called Merger of National Forest Products Association and the second was called American Paper Institute. Former congressman Henson Moore was named president and CEO of the new association in 1993. In 1995, the association launched Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) principles. From the beginning, their main goals were to raise the paper recovery rate each year. In 1996, the association achieved their 40% paper recovery goal two Student 2 years early and set a higher goal of 50% by the year 2000. The most recent update from the website states they exceeded 63% paper recovery rate for the fourth consecutive year in 2015. On top of raising the paper recovery rate each year, their other goals are to public policies that promote a strong and sustainable United States forest product industry in the global (Paper Recycles) The primary visual message that the American Paper and Forest Association is communicating through this image can be easy to understand. Most advertisements used by the association are bright and colorful to attract younger audiences. The stakeholder is communicating through the image to show the audience a literal example of recycling that occurs every day. The visual cues used in the image show how much is recycled that fills up the boxcars of a train. Elements of the design that stand out to the viewer is the landscape that surrounds the train. With big open fields of green grass along the train tracks, it makes the image seem more real to help convey the message. The use of color impacts the viewer by catching their eyes like previously mentioned. The front of the train is bright red which first catches the eye. With further viewing, they come to understand the message of the image and its impact. The text Student 3 flows with the theme of the image and communicates that the U.S. papermakers recycle enough paper daily to fill a fifteen-mile-long train of boxcars. After coming to understand the visual analysis of the image, one can come to understand the rhetorical analysis of the image as well. Multiple rhetoric appeals can be found in the advertisement to persuade the viewers. The first rhetoric appeal found is logos. Logos is an appeal to logic and is a way of persuading the audience by reason. A common misconception of the public is that recycling does not add up overall. This rhetoric appeal is used in the image with the proof that recycling can fill a fifteen-mile-long train of boxcars. The next rhetoric appeal found in the image is ethos. Ethos is an appeal to ethics, and it is a means of convincing someone of the character or credibility of the persuader. It can be found in the image when the text states that the U.S. papermakers complete that much recycling. If they are recycling for the entire United States, they have credibility about recycling and its importance. Next, Pathos is used to appeal to emotion, and is a way of convincing an argument by creating an emotional response. In the image, it can be a way to appeal to the happiness about the amount of recycling that occurs daily. Lastly, Kairos is used as an appeal to timeliness. It can be displayed in the image to inspire the audience to recycle even more. Recycling is done to protect the environment. It always should be considered as a call to act now. The primary visual message that the American Forest and Paper Association is communicating through this image is the easy capability to reach recycling resources. The Student 4 picture of the family is a visual cue used in the image to convey the message that anyone can use the recycling resources. The words are displayed first on the left in a big font. This allows the audience to read it first and then look at the image of the family to connect the two ideas. The colors on the left are there to compliment the right side of the image with the family. Both work together to make the image more presentable and professional to the audience. The text communicates the main idea of the image and what recycling resources are available. With the rhetoric analysis, the viewers can see that all four rhetoric appeals are used in this advertisement just like the first. The rise of recycling contributes to the Kairos used in the image. The environment is vital and every little piece of paper recycled matters. The image displays a way to help recycle with the resources available. Logos is used in the image by showing physical evidence of the recycling resources. Recycling bins are proof to appeal to the logic and reason of the audience. Ethos is used in the image by the color scheme. The colors flow to tie everything together and make the image more presentable and professional. With a more professional image, the more credible the source. Lastly, pathos is used with the family appearance in the image on the right. That part of the image makes the audience feel inspired to recycle just like the family. By analyzing the images visually and rhetorically, the audience can come to understand the goals and missions of the American Forest and Paper Association. They clearly exemplify logos, pathos, ethos and kairos to persuade the viewers to recycle. This in turn helps their goal of raising the paper recovery rate every year, as well as being a preferred source for paper recycling education. The association has come a long way since 1993, and is staying strong. (WC: 1,115) Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson and Wiggs, Kimber. 1.1 The Rhetoric Appeals. Rhetoric (Really) Matters, University of South Florida, 2016, pp. 20-26. Hoffman, Allyson and Wiggs, Kimber. 7.7 Breaking Down an Image. Rhetoric (Really) Matters, University of South Florida, 2016, pp. 345-351. Paper Recycles. American Forest and Paper Association, 2013, http://www.paperrecycles.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017