Kozma 1 Robert Kozma Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Violence in video games The case has been made many times, that violence in the entertainment culture, particularly with the extraordinary realism to video games and movies now, does cause vulnerable young men, particularly, to be more (Gardner). This is especially true for young teens, who have unintentionally become an audience to online first person shooter games (Duwell). With the youth of the world in mind the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) rating system was put into place, and even though it is not required for a game to be rated by them most vendors will not sell the game unless it has been rated by the ESRB system Even with the ESRB system in place the Parents Television Council (PTC) believes that more needs to be done in order to prevent violent video games from being able to influence the youth of the world. While EA DICE would be the opposite side of the coin striving to influence the world of games by creating the next big thing or using more realistic designs. The compromise that would work best between these two groups would be to enforce the ESRB Rating system onto games and limit selling it to the proper age groups. The Parents Television Council aims to protect children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the PTC The media includes video games, movies, and television, in order to make sure that they are not unintentionally or intentionally corrupted at a young age. The PTC organization is looking out for the future of the Kozma 2 world as children will lead the future. The PTC produced an experiment to test the availability of mature rated games to minors and got somewhat shocking results with some stores having over 50% availability Secret Shopper Campaign This shows that even with the regulation of the ESRB even a 13-year-old was able to buy a mature rated game from some stores. Of course, this is not much without the actual meaning of a mature rated game. Usually a mature rated game intense violence, blood and gore, sexual content and/or strong Ratings Considering that a 13-year-old was able to buy such a game, that could potentially be mentally scaring, shows the lack of concern that they have towards the future generation. EA DICE strives to create games of what is popular now and what will be in the future, as the industry of games is always changing Is As EA DICE strives to create the future of games they try to create games that will appeal to their fan base/audience, as battlefield has brought about the interesting characteristic of destructible terrain. With them striving to create the future of games for their audience they have created a new As they have progressed to the future their games have progressive gotten more gory and violent ESRB As they reach towards the future they have technically left behind some of their audience as their games went from a teen rating to a mature rating. It is only technically because there is not that much of a regulation restricting them from purchasing such games. Considering that children between the age of 12 and 17 are more than likely to be a gamer as 97% of them play video games, it would seem that they would make a great target audience (Scutti). Even if it is unintentional they are likely going to find interest in the games designed by EA DICE as they are innovative in the way they make an online first person shooter. Kozma 3 To say that EA DICE is purposefully making their games interesting and appeasing to the youth of the world would be a misunderstanding, as EA DICE stated is something that permeates our everyday life, in the office and outside of it. This is reflected in everything we Is For those who work at EA DICE creativity is a part of their life and to make them be less creative and make their games less interesting would be more difficult for them then actually creating the games. As one of the founding members of the ESRB, EA DICE wants to uphold the system that is the ESRB Rating system EXIST TO INSPIRE THE WORLD TO The Parents Television Council strives for the rating system to be upheld by game developers, along with a few minor changes being made to it in order to better limit extremely violent games from minors Asks ESRB President to Reinstate Manhunt s Original AO The best compromise between these two groups would be to create a law that would limit the selling of video games only to the proper age groups, and the vendors that do not comply would be fined. This was brought up before in California before but the law was never actually passed (Mears). I believe this idea would actually work in limiting minors from being able to buy the games as companies would force employees to actually follow the rules since it could end up costing the business a bit of money. In this compromise EA DICE would have to deal with selling fewer of their games as part of their audience would not be able to actually purchase the game. However, this would allow for EA DICE to maintain the creativity that they like to put into their games that they make. The PTC organization would have to accept that games were not going to lower the violence that they put into games as they would lose more sales from that. However, the PTC organization would be guaranteed to limit minors from being able to go into a Kozma 4 store and purchase a mature rated game. This compromise works out best for both EA DICE and PTC by taking care of their major concerns when it comes to the audience of the game. Kozma 5 Works Cited ESRB Mission and Additional Information, ESRB, www.esrb.org/about/. Duwell, Ron. Battlefield 1: EA Worried younger  Know There Was a World War  TechnoBuffalo. TechnoBuffalo, 02 June 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Ratings Rating Categories, Content Descriptors, and Interactive Elements from ESRB, ESRB, Gardner, Joshua. Video Games Make Kids ABC News, ABC News Network, 17 Dec. 2012, abcnews.go.com/blogs/health/2012/12/17/do-video-games-make-kids- violent/. Mears, Bill. California Ban on Sale of Video Games to Children  CNN. Cable News Network, 27 June 2011. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Asks ESRB President to Reinstate Manhunt s Original AO PTC Asks ESRB President to Reinstate Manhunt s Original AO Rating, PTC. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Secret Shopper Campaign PTC Secret Shopper Campaign Results, PTC, www.parentstv.org/PTC/publications/reports/secretshopper/main.asp. Scutti, Susan. Do Video Games Lead to  CNN. Cable News Network, 26 July 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. ESRB ESRB Rating Search, www.esrb.org/ratings/search.aspx?searchType=title&titleOrPublisher=battlefield. Kozma 6 The PTC  PTC Mission. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. This Is  DICE. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. EXIST TO INSPIRE THE WORLD TO About EA l Electronic Arts, EA DICE. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.