Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Solar Energy Intermediate Draft Solar energy is a very important topic in society. People are constantly worrying about global warming due to all the pollution happening in the world, but there are many ways people can lower the amount of pollution they create. Solar energy is an obvious, yet effective way of doing this. The company SolarCity has one objective, and that is to provide affordable, quality solar panels to consumers located in the United States of America. One trip to their website will entice the viewer with short slogans and vivid images of their products in use. These images aim to attract people in the market for solar panels, or even get the attention of people who did not initially consider the use of solar panels. After analyzing two images on the website, it is easy to see the connection between them and the goal of the company. The images used on the SolarCity website use various visual and rhetorical techniques to provide the viewer with an idea of what life with solar energy could be like, they are able to connect to the goals of the company and successfully promote their product. SolarCity is a large, successful company that aims to provide affordable solar energy for individuals and companies located in the United States. The company is national leader in clean energy services and #1 solar power (SolarCity). The professionalism and success of the company is clearly shown constantly throughout their website. Anyone can easily interpret, from the well-organized website, the hard work and dedication Solar City has made to providing affordable and quality forms of solar energy. With further research on their Student 2 website, it can be seen how much they value their customers and their own work. With the purchase of solar panels from SolarCity they will take of every part of your project, including financing, custom system engineering, installation and ongoing system maintenance and (SolarCity). This company seems to be very proud of their work and values their customers more than anything. Their website clearly shows how dedicated they are to limiting pollution by using solar energy in numerous paragraphs on each page, but even the picture can interpret the goals and values in the same way. One of the pictures on the SolarCity website, located in the powerwall tab under the residential section, clearly depicts the goals of their product. At first glance, the picture shows a house surrounded by dark, gloomy clouds with the caption through any (SolarCity). It is instantly shown that the company is trying to tell the audience that, even when there is a power outage, the consumer can still have electricity if they use solar panels on their home. In the middle of the picture is the house, but unlike the other houses on the road, this house has electricity, this further supports their claim in the caption. Overall the picture successfully makes the claim that, in many different circumstances, solar energy will triumph above traditional forms of energy. Along with the obvious messages depicted, the picture shows many kinds of rhetorical appeals, appeals are how rhetoricians engage their (Rhetoric really Matters). Logos is used because it provides a statement declaring that the consumer can get power even when there is an outage, then it shows a picture of a house with power during an outage. Ethos is used because the photo uses language that is understandable to the audience. Pathos is used because it uses a sense of gloominess due to the storm, but uses a bright, cheerful part of a house in the middle to depict the upside of using solar energy. Lastly Kairos is used due to the timeliness and importance in society of the argument of solar Student 3 energy over traditional energy. Through various forms of visual and rhetorical, this image is able to depict a simple, yet valuable message relating to the goals of the company and what they seek to bring forth when you work with them. The viewers of this image would typically be anyone in the market for solar energy due to cost savings, environmental reasons, or even pure curiosity. It is able to tell the viewers that even when there is a storm or other factor that can cause a power outage, solar energy will still be available when traditional energy Another image on the website, located in the residential section, clearly depicts the mindset and goals, much like the first image referred to. In the picture, a nice looking house with solar panels as well as light emanating from inside, is shown. Four people are located on the front porch, greeting each other, with smiles on their faces. Surrounding the house is a beautiful, bight, green forest with bright blue skies and mountains in the back. This picture clearly aims to show how happy and beautiful the world would be if people used solar energy more. With the use of solar energy, these people are causing less damage to their environment and are able to enjoy nature. On the top of the picture there is a caption reading with #1 solar (SolarCity). This further shows how the viewer and or user of products can save money, produce less pollution, and be happier. While the visual techniques of the picture are obvious, there are still rhetorical techniques strategically placed throughout the image. Logos is used because the image claims that SolarCity is Americas #1 solar provider. Ethos is used because of the confidence and numerous claims on their credibility as a company. This image has pathos because it shows how happy the people are in the picture (they are around nature and have energy that harmful to it). This picture also uses Kairos, the decision between buying solar panels or using traditional ways of energy is relevant in society. Overall this image clearly depicts many Student 4 visual and rhetorical strategies to attract the viewer to purchase products. These viewers can range from anyone looking for a cheap alternative to traditional energy or people who want to pollute the world less. This picture is a great example of what the company aims to do, as well as the results that will come from working with the company. SolarCity is a successful, and impressive company that seeks to provide the best solar energy to their valued clients. With these pictures analyzed, the company was able to clearly depict their goals for their company, as well as the outcomes of their clients after using their product. They used numerous visual and rhetorical techniques to do this in a visually pleasing way, that attracts new customers who want to save money, limit the pollution they produce, or even pure curiosity for an alternative form of energy. SolarCity is able to successfully create images that depict their goals for their company as well as promote their product in a visually pleasing way. (Word Count: 1164) Student 5 Works Cited Discover How You Can Power Your Home with Clean and Affordable Solar Power  Clean, Affordable Solar Power for Your Home SolarCity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Chapter  Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. N. pag. Print. Power through Any  The Powerwall Is Better than Generators SolarCity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. See the Advantages and Disadvantages of Solar Energy and Solar  Advantages and Disadvantages of Solar Energy & Solar Power - SolarCity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.