Ciabaton 1 George Ciabaton English Composition 2 Professor de Carion 29 January 2017 Juveniles in Adult Prisons Right now, there are tons of adults in prisons who are serving time for offenses that they committed as youth. In 2005 and 2012 the Supreme Court made vital rulings that aimed at establishing a difference between the sentencing of adults and youth in part due to adolescent brain research (Rovener, Paragraph 4). Many researchers have believed that adolescents do not have as developed judgement abilities when compared to adults. Still, there are many youths who will end up getting long sentences in adult prisons which prevents them from freely living their young adult lives. The Democrat and Republican parties have many conflicting views on criminal justice reform in general, but both support decreasing the amount of youth criminal activity in the United States. Therefore, both parties could agree that increasing the funding of mentoring and rehabilitation programs for at-risk youth across the United States in order to increase the amount of and improve the quality of these types of programs would most likely result in a decrease of juveniles being sentenced into adult prisons. Reforming the U.S. criminal justice system in a way that involves reducing criminal sentences, getting rid of the death penalty, and establishing more education and rehabilitation programs within jails tend to be considered as liberal approaches that can be associated with the U.S. Democrat party. The article Criminal Justice Survey: Full Answers From The consisted of questions asked by the reporter Ryan Relly and responses by the 2 Ciabaton 2 possible Democratic Party candidates Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton which concern their views toward the criminal justice system in the United States. Clinton stated that she supported executive action that attempted to end the solitary confinement of youth in prisons (Relly). Meanwhile, both Sanders and Clinton were in favor of disallowing youth under the age of 18 from being put into adult prisons (Relly). If these two largely supported Democrat political figures have these opinions, it says a lot about the overall opinions. The article written by Barry Krisberg titled Do You Eat an Elephant? Reducing Mass Incarceration in California One Small Bite at a gave examples of relatively recently implemented reforms that have played a factor in the success in reducing its large inmate population. These reforms led to the many drug offenders and nonviolent offenders from its overburdened state (Krisberg). Perhaps other states could attempt to follow the example that was recently set by California in order to reduce their prison population and therefore simultaneously reduce the population of juveniles in adult jails. Seeing that California legislation is more strongly affiliated with the Democrat Party, it could be said that the Democrat values toward this issue played a role in success in reducing their prison population. Meanwhile, criminal reforms involving the establishment of longer sentences for particular crimes and the use of the death penalty are more often associated as values held by conservatives and Republican elected officials. In fact, the article Views On explained how Republicans tend to be in favor of stricter policies concerning punishments for crimes such as the use of the death penalty and opposing parole for dangerous or repeat felons. As can be imagined, most Democrats would most likely not be in favor in the implementation of such policies. An article written by Jonathan Caudill and Chad Trulson titled hazards of premature release: Recidivism outcomes of blended-sentenced juvenile homicide Ciabaton 3 gave results of a decade- long study on 221 juvenile homicide offenders in Texas. The results from this study showed that the more time the offenders spent incarcerated, the less likely they were to engage in recidivism (get arrested again after being released) (Caudill and Trulson). This result could be interpreted in a way that shows how a view that would be considered more conservative and supported by the Republican Party involving the support of longer sentencing for juveniles in prisons results in less criminal activity committed by previous offenders. The establishment of better mentoring and rehabilitation programs for at-risk youth throughout the U.S. can play an effective role in obtaining a goal held by both political parties to decrease the amount of crime committed by youth in the United States. An article written by Michael Weinrath titled A Missing Piece to Manage Juvenile Intensive Supervision Programs and Youth argues that mentorship needs to be used more often to effectively guide high-risk youth in certain communities to get on the right path. It includes a study done in Canadian communities that showed that street mentors had a more positive effect on at-risk youth when compared to intensive supervision probation workers (Weinrath). Perhaps this example, which demonstrated how mentorship programs had a good impact on youth with criminal records in Canada, could encourage the U.S. to implement more mentorship programs for at-risk youth. more These programs could give youth a positive role model who have overcome similar situations associated with criminal activity. The article Substance Misuse Programs and Offender by Sharon Casey and Andrew Day provided numerous studies which provided evidence substance misuse treatment can have positive effects on reducing Substance misuse treatment is an essential form of rehabilitation seeing that drug abuse can be related to criminal activity in a variety of different ways. For at-risk and drug-abusing youth in particular, the establishment of effective drug-abuse Ciabaton 4 rehabilitation programs would most likely make a positive difference in reducing youth criminal activities which often times correlate with substance abuse. For example, an adolescent addicted to heroin may commit a crime in order to get money to pay for heroin. Overall, the arguing and lack of compromise between the Democrat and Republican parties in the U.S. government, which has led to a lack of criminal justice reform for juveniles in adult prisons, could be improved upon if the government made the decision to increase the funding for mentoring and rehabilitation programs for at-risk youth. This increased funding would likely lead to an improvement in quality of these programs which can effectively decrease criminal activity of at-risk youth. Both the liberal criminal reform involving denying more minor offenders from being incarcerated and the conservative criminal reform of giving juveniles longer sentences have proved to make a positive difference under certain circumstances. However, the likelihood that the other political party will agree to either of these reform ideas and that these reform ideas are guaranteed to prove successful is rather doubtful. Meanwhile, if government representatives of both parties got together to discuss whether or not it would be worth it to increase funding for at-risk youth mentoring and rehabilitation programs, perhaps both parties would be able to envision the benefits that would be associated with this decision. The government could earn the extra money used to establish these programs by eventually having the opportunity to decrease funds associated with housing inmates seeing that these programs could likely result in a decrease of criminal activity causing a decrease in the U.S. prison population. If the establishment of the mentorship and rehabilitation programs proved successful for at-risk youth in the U.S., perhaps it would convince other countries around the world to improve upon their programs that aim at reducing youth crime rates. Ciabaton 5 Works Cited Berry, Krisberg Do You Eat an Elephant? Reducing Mass Incarceration in California One Small Bite at a Annals of the American Academy of Political & Social Science, Vol. 664 Issue 1, March 2016, pages 136-154. Casey, Sharon and Day, Andrew. Substance Misuse Programs and Offender Psychiatry, Psychology and Law, Vol. 21, Issue 3 (2014), pp. 360-369 Caudill, Jonathan and Trulson, Chad. hazards of premature release: Recidivism outcomes of blended-sentenced juvenile homicide Journal of Criminal Justice, Volume 46, September 2016, Pages Relly, Ryan. Criminal Justice Survey: Full Answers From The Huffingtonpost.com, Febuary 2016, Accessed 1/22/17. Web. Rovner, Joshua. Life Without Parole: An sentencingproject.org, July 2016, Accessed 1/29/17. Web. Weinrath, Michael et al. A Missing Piece to Manage Juvenile Intensive Supervision Programs and Youth Canadian Journal of Criminology & Criminal Justice Vol. 58, Issue 3, July 2016, Pgs. 291-321. Views On republicanviews.org, August 2015, Accessed 1/22/17. Ciabaton 6