Plouffe 1 Michaela Plouffe Ryan Phillips ENC 1102.022 29 January 2017 Opportunity Through Free College Tuition In recent years, higher education has become more important and pivotal for success. Of course, there are the exceptions were people can become successful without a college degree, but most people are unable to enter the career they desire without a college education. People who further their education at universities find it to be very beneficial. However, many people discouraged to further their education because of the expenses of associated with attending a university. The amount of student debt acquired in America is a huge problem. The United States Students Association reported that Student debt sits at $1.3 trillion and the average student graduates with $28,400 in student Higher As higher education becomes more and more critical for success and as the amount of student debt increases tremendously in America the thought of having free tuition at universities has become highly discussed. If higher education was free for undergraduate programs higher education would become more accessible and the student debt would decrease. A stakeholder in the issue of student debt in United States that is most directly affected in the students. The United States Student Association is an organization dedicated to stop injustice in education. They believe education is a natural right and that everyone should be granted equal access to an education that can make them successful. They have developed a campaign and are fighting for free higher education. They state on their webpage that, want four years of tuition- free, public higher education, while expanding existing financial aid for housing, food, textbooks, Plouffe 2 transportation, and other costs of (Free Higher Education). The USSA believes they can achieve this goal by being attention to the problem and by changing the way people think. Their goal is, in fact, very achievable. Jon Weiner in his article Aiming Higher: Make College Tuition Free gives evidence to just how achievable it is. Tuition-free community colleges have been established in Tennessee and President Obama was making efforts while he was in office to make two-year community colleges tuition free. Jon Weiner, however, argues that this is not enough, like the USSA, he believes free college at four-year universities is necessary and do-able. He uses Germany, who has established tuition free universities, as an example of just how United States can achieve it. He says in his article: German citizens organized the Alliance Against Tuition In Hamburg, they organized a fee strike; in the state of Hesse, which includes Frankfurt, they occupied the universities, and 70,000 people signed a petition in support. The Christian Democratic government in Hesse, facing an election in 2008, reversed course and promised to eliminate (Weiner 224). If an organization could lobby the German government enough for them to establish free tuition, then why the USSA do the same for the American government? Jon Weiner also makes the point that government could, in fact, afford to provide free college tuition. He proposes the question, Tennessee can afford free tuition, so can everybody else. But how did Tennessee do (Weiner 225). The United States Student Association believes that free college tuition could solve the problem of student debt and make higher education more accessible to all. However free college tuition is not beneficial for everyone. Another stakeholder in the issue of student debt in the United States that profits from student debt are student loan providers. Sallie Mae is one of the biggest student loan providers Plouffe 3 in the United States. Their website states that, Mae is the No. 1 financial services company specializing in (For Investor). On their Fourth Quarter 2016 Earnings Release they reported that, 2016, the company grew private education loan originations 8 percent to $4.7 billion, expanded its private education loan portfolio 34 percent to $14.1 billion, and increased net interest income 27 percent to $891 million, all compared to (1). Along with providing student loans, Sallie Mae also offers other banking services such as Money Market Accounts, Savings Accounts, and CDs. They want higher education to be accessible to everyone. They encourage students and their families to be responsible with their money while paying for higher education by using savings, scholarships, and federal student loans before taking out private education loans. They also offer a variety of interest rates and payment plans for their customers and encourage to pick the best option for their financial situation. Scholarships, Grants, and Federal Loans Not Enough? Consider a Responsible Private Student Loan from Sallie Mae to Cover Remaining Costs of College, an article in Business Wire, describes all the services offered by Sallie Mae to ensure that their customers can borrow money affordably and responsibly. It promotes the Sallie Mae Smart Option Student Loan. The article says that, Smart Option Student Loan offers competitive fixed and variable interest rates and no origination fees or prepayment and that, the Sallie Mae Smart Option Student Loan offers: Choice and Flexibility: Customers may select from three repayment options: monthly interest-only payments while in school; a fixed monthly payment while in school; or payments deferred until after (Business Wire). Sallie Mae does their best to provide the best services for their customers and want to ensure their success as they further their education. While profiting from student debt, they are offering services that do make higher education more accessible. Plouffe 4 The United States Student Association wants tuition at four-year public universities completely free for students. Although this does completely solve the problem of student debt in the United States, it would hurt the Sallie Mae company very much and could put them out of business. While both stakeholders appear to be at odds ends they both see value in higher education work to make it more accessible to all. A compromise for both stakeholders would be if tuition became free for two-year community colleges. This would allow students who would otherwise not be able to attend college at all attend college. This would also allow students to work and save their money while attending their first two years of college so that they can borrow less money and acquire less debt. Fran Cubberley expresses in her article The Reality of Free Community College Tuition that, limited resources preclude a number of people from considering college, having the opportunity to enroll in community college for free could inspire, and prepare, many to realize their dream of obtaining a (Cubberley 22). Tuition free community college could decrease student debt greatly in the United States. In Conclusion, higher education can be extremely beneficial and can be necessary for some to be successful. The abundance of student debt in the United States is alarming and needs to be decreased. One stakeholder in student debt is the students, who are represented by the United States Student Association. The USSA wants public four-year universities to become completely tuition free. Another stakeholder in student debt is private loan providers, who are represented by Sallie Mae, the biggest student loan provider in the United States. Sallie Mae profits from student debt and could possibly go out of business without it. However, both stakeholder do work to promote education and to make it accessible to all. A compromise would be making two-year community colleges tuition free. This would decrease the student debt in the United States and would give everyone the opportunity to further their education. Plouffe 5 Works Cited Cubberley, Fran. The Reality Of Free Community College  Journal Of College Admission 227 (2015): 21-23. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Free Higher  United States Student Association. United States Student Association, 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Meet Sallie  Sallie Mae - About Us. Sallie Mae Bank, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sallie, Mae. Scholarships, Grants, and Federal Loans Not Enough? Consider a Responsible Private Student Loan from Sallie Mae to Cover Remaining Costs of  Business Wire (English) 6: Regional Business News. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. WIENER, JON. Aiming Higher: Make College Tuition  Nation 300.14 (2015): 224-226. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.