Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Can Keep Up With In the first two decades of the current century and millennium a major social and sex based conflict has arisen within our society and culture, and especially within our military as well. It is all based around one conflicting question, women serve in the military in a combat based occupation and skill in the same manner that men can, and if so should they be allowed to do On one side of this argument are those individuals who say that the physical and mental demands and obstacles that would require men to endure combat successfully are too demanding for women to endure as effectively as the male counterparts. The opposition to this statement would say that sex does not matter as much as the physical and mental abilities of the individual soldier who has to engage in combat and the horrors of war that often times accompanies it. Most of the evidence acquired over the past decade, especially in the past five years, shows that women as a sex and as individuals are more than capable of enduring combat just as effectively as their fellow soldiers and male counterparts. As this decade passes us by, it seems that there is not only a significant amount of support for women to be allowed to enlist in not only the United States military but also to able to pick any occupation that they want, including combat occupations such as infantry, artillery, and fighter pilots and even special operations such as the Army Rangers and Navy SEALs. One case that has been able to actually prove that women are able to not only theoretically be capable of meeting the minimum requirements of this current task of proving that they belong on the Student 2 battlefield alongside their fellow male soldiers, but were also able to prove that they can actually show what they can do in a real world scenario is the case of two female Army officers that were able to not only pass the rigorous entry training and selection program for the elite U.S. combat unit known as the Army Rangers, but were also able to thrive in this chaotic and physically demanding program and environment as well. According to the article titled Rangers Should End the Debate About Women in found on Time website, morning, two West Point graduates Captain Kristen Griest and First Lieutenant Shaye Haver will make history as the first women to graduate from the intensely demanding Ranger School. Their remarkable accomplishment is a monumental milestone in the progress of women in the U.S. armed forces and should end the debate about whether women are capable of serving in all combat (Barno and Bensahel, 2015). This program that has been proven to eliminate a large percentage of male soldiers who try to complete it, was not only completed by not one but two female soldiers, who were given no preferential or biased treatment during the entire course of the physically and mentally demanding selection program, is a significant piece of evidence that women are capable of carrying the same weight on their shoulders that men are in a combat environment. Student 3 Fig. 1. Griest, left, is one of two women to successfully graduate from the Army Ranger training Female Rangers Should End the Debate About Women in Combat. Time Magazine. 2015. Nikayla Army. Although the above case points to the fact that women are in fact capable of physically meeting the demands of a combat environment effectively, there is still a great amount of individuals who oppose the idea of a woman stepping onto a battlefield with men. According to an article titled Women Be in which is located on Conservative website restrictions on women in combat is harmful to our primary goal. It exists solely for the purposes of political correctness; it goes against the very emotional, psychological and physiological nature innate within men and women at a great cost of our national (Russell, 2016). Also according to this source, women are not physically capable of enduring combat solely based off of scientific and anatomical facts such as study in the Journal of Applied Physiology found that men had an average of 26 lbs. (12 kilograms) more skeletal muscle mass than women and that they had more upper and lower body (Russell, 2016). If this were indefinite proof of the fact that women are not able to physically keep up with their male counterparts in combat, then how do we explain the actual cases where they have not only kept up with other soldiers of the opposite sex, but have also been able perform at a higher level than some men? Or the fact that there are women serving in combat roles presently in other countries around the world such as Israel. After all, throughout history certain stances and scientific findings have been proven wrong before. Student 4 Fig. 2. Nicole Russell. Why Women Be in Combat. Conservative Review. February 06, 2016. The fact remains that for many people it is very difficult if not impossible to look at this controversial and current event objectively rather than subjectively. On one side of the argument we have those who are supporting women in combat roles based off of the fact that they are women or that they feel as if everyone should have equal employment right, whether it is outside of or in the armed forces. On the other side of the argument we have those individuals who are stating that women are not capable of enduring combat or keeping up with their male counterparts on a physical level while in the military because they are either men who would not want to serve alongside women, or they may be just in capable or not willing to visualize or accept the fact that they could have to one day live with the possibility that one day their daughters or wives or sisters could have to be sent off to war alongside their sons, brothers and husbands. But as a society, we will ultimately not be judged based off of the fact that we accept them as war fighters or soldiers in the true nature of the word, but off of whether or not we actually gave them a chance to prove themselves and did not base our decision off of emotion or Student 5 political stance but off of facts and trials and tests. All we can do is offer the females in the military the chance to prove themselves, and the rest will be in their hands. (WC: 1106) Student 6 Works Cited: Barno, David and Bensahel, Nora. Rangers Should End the Debate About Women in Time Magazine. http://time.com/4004571/female-rangers-should-end-the-debate- about-women-in-combat/ . Accessed: 29 January, 2017. Russell, Nicole. Women Be in Conservative Review. https://www.conservativereview.com/commentary/2016/02/why-women-shouldnt-be-in- combat. Accessed: 29 January, 2017.