Fennell 1 Anna Marie Fennell Andrew de Carion ENC 1102: Composition II Spring 2017 29 January 2017 Intermediate Draft There are some who believe it is an epidemic how much people nowadays are glued to their devices like the dystopian movie, The Matrix. While many aspects of life can be harmful in excess, technology is unique in its recent role in our everyday lives. Since it is such a widespread phenomenon, little is known by the general public about the psychological effects it has on us. Conversely, there are opposing ideologies, such as minimalism, that support unplugging and careful consumption. With two opposing viewpoints and lifestyles, it is important to at least understand the merit and deficits within each side. Social Media outlets, like Apple, and anti- consumerism organizations, like The Minimalists, need to come to a compromise through their common interest of enhancing the daily lives of their followers. The consumerist technological industry and the minimalist movement must find a healthy balance of utilizing and appreciating social media, and making time to reflect and experience the present moment this will lead to an increase in mass well-being and an interconnected economy. Some technological companies, such as Apple, may seem minimal on the surface, with their sleek interface and simple icons, but the constant new releases and upgrades within the functioning of the brand are in conflict with The ideology. For example, a new iPhone every year, and those who want to stay up-to-date fear falling behind and are externally pressured to get the newest model. Some believe that current mission statement has diverged from Steve original purpose for the company. Although Fennell 2 current statement is more or less a list of its recent products, Steve mantra is a committed viewpoint of what place is in our modern world and what our relationship is with it: Man is the creator of change in this world. As such, he should be above systems and structures, and not subordinate to  (Farfan). Steve Jobs believed that technology was a tool for us and not something to become dependent or subservient to. Computers in Human Behavior published an article investigating the phenomenon of being online and permanently connected (PO & Their results were explained as, online in order to retrieve information from the Internet (PO) or to connect with others (PC) has become an almost ubiquitous behavioral pattern, particularly among college students. Underlying this behavioral pattern is most likely a psychological readiness and alertness that is conceptualized here as vigilance, and that needs to be investigated (Vorderer). The psychological implications of constant smartphone use are complex, but what some misunderstand is that people are engaging with their technology and communicating and sharing with others, usually not brainlessly scrolling, like zombies. Although, with a company like Apple, producing smartphones and rapidly growing within an economy that thrives off frequent purchasing and spending, it can seem overwhelming and wasteful to a minimalist, who believes in only the bare necessities. On the opposing side, there are The Minimalists, Joshua Fields Millburn and Ryan Nicodemus. As discussed by this duo, is a tool that can assist you in finding from the trappings of the consumer culture built our lives mean Fennell 3 anything inherently wrong with owning material possessions. problem seems to be the meaning we assign to our stuff: we tend to give too much meaning to our things, often forsaking our health, our relationships, our passions, our personal growth, and our desire to contribute beyond simply allows you to make these decisions more consciously, more (Millburn & Nicodemus). It aligns more with an Eastern philosophy, and may seem incompatible with our Western way of thinking since it rejects what fuels with our current consumerist economic system. The Journal of Happiness Studies published Art of in 2003, examining money and materialism. and materialism scale assesses three values: that happiness comes from possessions, that acquisition is the central goal in life; and that success in life is measured by material achievement. High scorers, compared to low, are less satisfied with life, want more money, are less apt to share, and in general seem to suffer from poor (Tatzel). In other words, having a high attachment to money and material goods is correlated with lower well-being. Minimalism allows us to be content with what we have in the present, instead of metaphorical victims continuously chasing something new. Though Apple and The Minimalists seem like opposite ends of a spectrum, they can thrive simultaneously. Minimalism could be interpreted as a new fad, or a type of trendy lifestyle, but its roots are deep within ancient eastern religions and cultures. The reason a compromise between big companies like Apple, and underground associations like The Minimalists come to surface yet is because so many American people function day to day in a world surrounding by advertisements and controversy, and possibly been exposed to or implemented an essential routine of mindfulness along with their daily browsing of social media. Minimalism intended to villainize big companies, but our economy thrives on a Fennell 4 certain psychological need to consume and keep up, and why minimalism necessarily fit in that equation. Both Apple and The Minimalists believe that their tools better human lives and their communities. With a mindful attitude and appreciation for each ideology, both can live in harmony for the benefit of the wellbeing of the country. Technology serves as a means of uniting friends and family across an interface that would not exist otherwise; it allows people to intimately, or publicly, express themselves and their ideas with others. Minimalism serves as a means of maintaining balance between oneself and the ever- changing technological landscape, and allows those who may be vulnerable to obsession and dependency a chance to reflect and find inner peace. A survey was conducted with people of all ages asking them their attitudes on unplugging and there were mixed results. Some felt like they needed to keep contact with their email or social media out of a fear of missing out, while others were less anxious in regards to being able to be relieved of the drama of texting and social media. asked what they would lose if they unplugged from CMC for 24 h, the most common response for all age groups was loss of connection from friends and family (47%) (n = 208) (see Fig. Internet can facilitate communication with family and friends who are separated, as in the case of 17-year old Mike, who said he would lose, contact with distant 65, shared that he would lose the of being up to date on things, sense of being part of a community, contact with some of my (Thomas) According to the data that was collected, most anticipated gain from unplugging was productivity and time: also reported they wanted to periodically unplug because being on CMC felt like it wasted too much of their time, that it interfered with real-world Fennell 5 experience, and that it overloaded them with too much stimulation and (Thomas). Based on self-reflection there are anticipated pros and cons of social media, and most would agree that it is a great tool for communication, but it excess, it can take a toll of the psyche. The reality of the situation is that technology is not going to be obliterated in our society, and it be, because it is a great asset for our social processes but the ideology of minimalism is important as well to keep an ever-growing force like social media under control. In extremes, both minimalism and consumerism are unrealistic for a modern American and possibly unhealthy. But, a proper compromise would be to embrace both ideologies and realize that we need both to be a balanced nation. Fennell 6 Works Cited Farfan, Barbara. What Is Mission  The Balance. N.p., 18 Sept. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Millburn, Joshua Fields, and Ryan Nicodemus. What Is  The Minimalists. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Tatzel, Miriam. The Art of Buying: Coming to Terms with Money and  Journal of Happiness Studies 4.4 (2003): 405-35. Web. Thomas, Virginia, Margarita Azmitia, and Steve Whittaker. Unplugged: Exploring The Costs And Benefits Of Constant  Computers In Human Behavior 63.(2016): 540- 548. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Vorderer, Peter, Nicola Kramer, and Frank M. Schneider. Permanently Online and Permanently Connected: Explorations into University Use of Social Media and Mobile Smart  Computers in Human Behavior 63 (2016): 694-703. Web.