Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Encourage the Wounded Wounds deserve to be healed, especially those who suffer from depression. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America organization strives towards providing their patients with different effective treatments for depression. The use of images opens the imagination to venture towards their road to recovery and their road towards a new chapter in their life. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA) organization aims towards helping those with anxiety, depression, and other related disorders with treatments that professionals that they support have experiment and study upon. Because the anxiety and depression are disorders that affect the person and the people around the person, the ADAA strives to provide their viewers with full detail about each disorder and many ways on how to get started with treatments. They have been working towards helping their patients for over three decades and are constantly trying to evolve with the changes and discoveries the world makes to provide their patients with the best quality work. Depression makes people feel unmotivated in life. Thus, the ADAA provides their viewers with an encouraging image, figure 1, on their front page to motivate people with depression to seek treatments and conquer over their disorder. This image consists on a person standing in a victory-like pose on top on some mountains overlooking the horizon as the sun begins to rise for the new day. The person and mountains are darkened like they are in the Student 2 shadow, while the sunrise is a mixture of bright yellows and oranges. Because the image is telling the viewers to fight against their disorder and fight for their future, having the person stand in a victory-like pose displays that they will feel accomplish after defeating their disorder. The mountains used in this image symbolizes the many bumps and challenges a person is bound to face but will overcome because it is not impossible to climb up a mountain. Thus, it helps emphasis to the viewers about the accomplishing feeling one will receive, which in turn makes the viewers become more determined towards healing their mind from depression. Another detail about this image is the embedded text which says, over Anxiety and This piece of text helps the viewers understand the aim and allows to viewers to imagine the power they will receive after being victorious from their own disorder. Out of all the elements in the image, the sunrise is the most encouraging part. The stakeholder is using this image because sunrises display the beauty that comes out of seeking to heal a wound. Sunrises signifies the beginning of a new day, thus using the sunrise helps convey to the viewers that conquering over their disorder will bring them to a new beautiful chapter of their life. This image, figure 1, not only expresses the aim through visual cues but also with its use of rhetorical devices. Logos is present in this image with the use of mountain climbing to get to the top. When one is at the bottom, the top seems impossible. This becomes relatable to their patients with depression because at first, one will feel like it is the end of the world which make him/her feel hopeless in life. Thus, using logos emphasizes that it is highly possible to reach the top once a person puts his or her mind to it. While the image displays a logical sense, it also uses pathos to ties the viewers in emotionally. Emotions make the issue more personal, thus, the victory-like pose evokes the emotion of accomplishment and determination to those who are receiving help or want to receive help to treat their depression. Student 3 This will appeal to the audience because feeling accomplish and determine will evoke the simple emotion of happiness that is scarce from their life now with depression. Figure 1 truly expresses mission that they continue to carry for the past three decades which is to help and encourage those with depression and anxiety to seek or continue treatment. The ADAA continues throughout their website in using images to convey their mission. Figure 2 is another image that displays the aim in providing support and treatment for their patients. This image consists of computers and mini towns that all connect with the use of lines. The image is displayed with the use of many different bright colors that would catch the attention. This image goal is to express that one is not alone during the process of receiving treatment for recovery. Support is a part of recovery, thus, if someone ever needs to talk, there are many ways to get into contact with others other there with the same disorder and experiencing the same pain. The computers and Wi-Fi emphasize on how technology is helpful in connections for any distances and for those who want to meet other people without being uncomfortable with meeting face-to-face. The use of the lines to connect everything in the image makes the image more cohesive, which allows the viewers to feel connected to one another. Figure 2 also utilizes rhetoric devices to demonstrate the aim towards treatments. The use of ethos is present with the computers. Computers connect to the audience because they would be using one to view this image that is on website. Therefore, there is credibility towards this organization because the viewers know how strong and trustworthy communication is building over the internet. The use of pathos is also present in this image with the lines connecting the towns and the computers. This allows the emotion of peace and happiness to be evoked as it allows the viewers to know that they are not alone. It demonstrates that those with the same disorder will be receiving similar treatments, and everyone can receive Student 4 support from one another while going through recovery. This allows the audience to be more personal with one another. Figure 2 overall sends the audience an understanding in connections and support as a part of their treatment for depression and related disorders. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America carries a simple but meaningful mission to ease the pain of those with depression and other like disorders. It is the help their patients heal from their wounds and start their journey towards a new, healthy life that will be full of happiness. These two images cohesively promote this mission. They both have the use of pathos to appeal to the audience emotionally. Emotions tend to influence action, thus, with these images evoking positive emotions, it helps guide the audience down the path that will heal their wounds and open their life towards a new chapter. (WC:1112) Student 5 Work Cited Free Online Anxiety and Depression Anxiety and Dpression Association of America, 2016, https://www.adaa.org/finding-help/getting-support. Accessed 20 Jan 2017 Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, 2010, https://www.adaa.org . Accessed 20 Jan 2017. Gerdes, Julie. Hopton, Sarah B. Rea, Jashua M. Visual Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEhu,2016.331-337.E-text. Accessed 20 Jan 2017. Gerdes, Julie. Hopton, Sarah B. Rea, Jashua M. Understanding Visual Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEhu,2016.334-344.E-text. Accessed 20 Jan 2017. Lane, Emily. Lee, Kendra G. McKee, Jessica. Mclyntyre, Megan. Pantelides, Kate. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEhu,2016.19-46. E-text. Accessed 20 Jan 2017. Triumphing Over Anxiety and Depression. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, 2016, https://www.adaa.org. Accessed 20 Jan 2017. Student 6 Figure 1 https://www.adaa.org Student 7 Figure 2 https://www.adaa.org/finding-help/getting-support