Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Stay Calm, Together Dealing with depression is a very difficult task to take on alone. With only 6.7 percent of the world being diagnosed with depression yearly, it does not leave much room for an effective treatment (Facts). Ads for the of depression are often inaccurate and leave the depressed feeling more helpless than before. As a result there is only trail and error for each individual. With the help of the USF Counseling Center, the use of in-group counseling provides the help needed to begin the treatment of depression. The University of South Florida is a very known and well-respected university. With multiple services offered to all students, one particular service offered is the Counseling center, which serves to help culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training (to help) student academic and personal (Counseling Center). Overall the website is easy to navigate, on each tab in the menu it provides specific descriptions of the help offered and contact information. According to the University of South Florida Counseling Center website roughly fifty three percent of student population suffer from depression within the last year. That percentage represents the students who have sought out help, which means that there are more students who have not come-forth to get the help needed to begin to treat depression. Student 2 (Counseling Center) On the Counseling website the image above was found. When one first comes across this image, the first thing that catches the eye of the audience is the color contrast. The colors used in the image are two main contrasting colors; green and orange, as well as other light shades. These specific colors draw in the attention of the audience to entice them to read the message, which also uses a complimentary color to the orange of the background. The dark text colors beside the bright green and white of the stream image allows for the audience to read the message of the stakeholder without any problem. The second item on the image that catches the eye of the audience is the text, MEDITATION. The font used is easy to read and is not a bolded font with adds to the pathos used to make the image successful. The counseling center wanted to evoke the emotion of calmness and serenity which is why the non bolded text is perfect, because bolding a font is usually used to really stand out and make a statement which would not help create the feeling of distressing and serenity, nor will it successfully convey the message. The obvious message the stakeholder is trying to convey is to use meditation as a de-stressor as well as a tool to help treat depression. The stakeholder delivers their message by using ethos because the use of meditation is already widely known for its benefits for the treatment of depression, which adds to their credibility as well as being a very well know university. Student 3 The message sent by the counseling center to students in need of help, provides all the information necessary in order to partake in the treatment of their depression. Placing the time, date, location and contact information on the ad uses Kairos. Furthermore the image does not send any unethical information, which means that logos is used in the image, however it is used as a tool to persuade the targeted audience to feel at peace and to feel that they can go to a safe place to connect with others suffering through the same situations. (Counseling Center) The image above was also found on the Counseling website. Similar to the image mentioned before, this image also is directed to students in need of help. The counseling center has done a great job in creating multiple images/ads to capture the eyes of the audience and send the same message in various ways. In the image above the words are the first item to grab the attention. The message the text communicates is to let go of the past, which also might resonate, with the of the audience (freshman and any Disney fanatic) to think of the song it from the Frozen soundtrack. The images of the balloons are symbolizing letting go of worries like a balloon that floats away into abyss. Pathos is used in the image above though the use of balloons which evokes feelings of being a child, which also correlates to the thinking of the Frozen soundtrack. Student 4 Through the use of different backgrounds for the texts as well as a side image the stakeholder further connects with the audience by making them feel the simplicity in the ad. Simplicity is always affective when trying to calm a person when dealing with the rollercoaster of depression. The colors used in the image are plain primary colors which causes the audience to continue to feel calm and the different shade of blue behind the words continue to stand out and catch the attention. Also the font used is a very straightforward font and the main message is white, which adds to the simplicity of the message. The message uses logos by not showing anything offensive and the usage of an appropriate symbol, which are the balloons. Ethos is used in the image through the text that states which counseling group is meeting; also the stakeholder themselves established the credibility of this specific image. Similar to the previous image, Kairos is used by providing the same information; time, place, date on the image. Both images do a fantastic job at advertising the University of South Florida Counseling Center as well as the services they provide. Individually the images allude to calming and trusting environments. When dealing with the treatment of depression, often one must realize the difficulty and the isolation that the patients are going through. That is why both images are successful in getting their messages across by offering in-group counseling as a suggestion to begin the journey of treating depression. In-group counseling offers emotional support from the counselors as well as the other students that sought out help. (Word Count: 1016) Student 5 Work Cited Counseling  Counseling Center University of South Florida. University of South Florida, n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http://www.usf.edu/student-affairs/counseling-center/>. Facts &  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://www.adaa.org/about-adaa/press-room/facts-statistics>.