Student 1 Devin Mason Taylor Thornton ENC1102 29 January 2017 The Art of Cutting Funds Ever since the the beginning of civilization, the world has been filled with two kind of people: those who are willing to give back, and those who are only wanting to take. Unfortunately, these things are opposites and one always overshadows the other. Today, the greedy people are doing nothing but taking from those who want to give. In this specific scenario, the government is taking away from artists. They have been using their power and control to pull an iron reign on the ones who are creating, who are giving back into the world in ways nobody can imagine. Americans for the Arts is a group who is working to fight the government to keep funding for the arts. They use mediums such as Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter to spread works done my artists from around the world that share the same message: keep funding for the arts. Last Name 2 Figure 1: http://bit.ly/2jkVsqk This image, shared by Americans for the Arts of Facebook, is a very simple statement on how the arts make a huge impact in every aspect of a community. The image is a very simple design, using spatial relation and color to highlight the importance of every word. It catches your attention through the words and as those are the Last Name 3 largest words on the page. After that it lists all the ways the arts help the community, each one a different color to again highlight the importance of the arts. Logos is used in this image by using knowledge gathered to state in what ways the arts have provided a lasting and positive impact on local communities throughout the United States. Pathos is used in this image by applying some areas and subjects that may be very sensitive to individuals: at-risk-youth, crime prevention, and faith to be specific. Ethos is used in this image by transforming the ad itself, just like the arts transforms communities. The ad transforms something so plain and simple, words, into a lasting impression that leaves the viewer feelings more involved in the arts and the fight for the arts. Kairos is used in the image by talking about a subject that may never have an end date. This fight will last if the government keeps deciding that the arts are just something that we can throw to the side. Figure 2 http://bit.ly/2kJKCqd Last Name 4 The next figure is a much more visually challenging piece. We are faced with cool colors, blue and green being very popular, interluded with pictures of actual people supporting and talking about the arts. The message is stating that this movement will only work if people come together and become American for the arts. The pictures are there to show who is already active and helping, and the colors are there to help say that there is room for people to still lend a hand. The words and colors immediately stand out in this figure. The right font is sued and the emphasis is put on the right words, That puts the reader in a situation of empowerment if they are already apart of it, or loneliness as if they are missing out on something. Logos is used in this figure by providing pictures of actual people fighting for the cause that is Americans for the Arts. Ethos is used by the same way; the credibility is drawn by showing actual events that have happened and actual people who have fought for this cause. Pathos is used by the situation the viewers are put in, of empowerment or loneliness, that put the viewers in a more emotional state. In conclusion, Americans for the Arts is a very fruitful cause that is working towards fighting the cutting of funds for the arts. Through social media, they have found a way to create and share pieces of work and visual art that impact the society in positive ways. Last Name 5 Work Cited  Facebook. Americans for the Arts, 27 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Together We  Facebook. Americans for the Arts, 24 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.