Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Mental illness is something that does not seem to be talked about in the public. Many people believe that mental illness is a not a major issue. People often view those of suffer from a mental illness as weak or as weird, but what many do not realize is that having a mental illness is a serious issue and without proper treatment and help, it could lead to other things that are far more serious. In the ADAA website, it clearly states their mission is to help, prevent, and cure mental illness as a whole. On the website they use many images to convey a message. Two images that particularly stood out to me includes a person standing in front of a sunset and of the earth being held on the hands of a person. Both these images, which can be found on the adaa.org website, are similar in the fact that they both give off a positive message about finding help and overcoming a mental illness which is similar to the mission found on the ADAA website. Founded in 1979, The Anxiety and Depression Association of America, or the ADAA is an nonprofit organization dedicated to the prevention, treatment, and cure of anxiety, depressive, obsessive-compulsive, and trauma-related disorders through education, practice, and (adda.org). This organization focuses on the improvement of the lives of those who suffer from mental illness. Another purpose it may have is that it works to reduce the stigma that surrounds mental illness. The intended audience can either be those seeking help because they suffer from a mental illness or it can just be for somebody who may not understand Student 2 these illnesses and want to learn more about it. On this website, anybody can find information on a specific illness. Then by incorporating the information found, people can find the right treatment options for their specific illness. They can also go on website to find emotional support or just to speak to somebody. In the first image, it shows a person with their arms extended upward looking into the sunset. This person seems to be on a cliff. The caption of the picture says over Anxiety and From the image, it is clear that the message being communicated is that mental illness is something difficult to handle, but it is something that can be overcame. First thing that is noticed is a person with their arms and hands up, which stands for victory. You can see something similar at a competition event; usually the winner is the one with the arms up celebrating. The next thing that is noticed is a sun shining which can mean success. Behind the person is what can be assumed as rocks, but they are very dark. This could signify the anxiety or depression the person may be feeling. They are facing away from the rocks into the sun, which can signify that they overcame their respective illness and that they are looking forward to days. The use of color is very effective in this picture with the use of lights and darks. This affects the way the viewer may feel about image. The viewer gets a positive message just from the use of warm colors like yellow and orange. Pathos is defined in the text Rhetoric Really Matters as appeal to (Lee 37). The use of pathos is very apparent in this picture since viewing the image gives off a positive feeling. This image helps show the message of the organization by giving the aspect of it. In the second image, it shows the earth in the hands of a person. The primary message being communicated is that you are not alone in this world and there are many therapists that can help. It is also saying that you have your own world in your own hands. You alone control your Student 3 life so you should seek help when you actually need it. The image is captioned with a Therapist Near When first you see a world that is glowing which could signify that this planet is big and there are plenty of people going through this too. Also there are hands holding the planet, which could mean that these therapists could you The scale of both the hands and the earth really stands out from this image. The reason why the scale is so large is because they want the viewer to understand that there are billions of people in the world; the possibilities of getting help are endless. This image uses light colors to give a more positive attitude and to allow people who suffer from these illnesses to have more motivation to seek treatment. The use of heavy blues gives the audience a calmer attitude, almost like the image is trying to comfort the audience. Ethos is defined in Rhetoric Really Matters as to (McKee 27). Ethos is present in this image because it is coming from a legit organizational website that has content related to mental illness. This image helps convey the organizations message by giving an example of the aspect of it. Both these images support the mission of The Anxiety and Depression Association of America, which is the treatment, and cure of mental The first image explains being from mental illness while the second image offers information on finding nearby. The use of these images helps the audience feel more comfortable with the topic and allows people to feel welcomed. It allows those seeking help to not feel ashamed and to not feel like they are different. The creators of the website makes sure to use the right colors to give off a more positive attitude. The use of rhetorical appeals is very prominent on this website as it tries to invite people to check out the website. This organization informs the audience about the true dangers of an untreated mental illness and it is time that we take this topic more seriously. (Word Count: 1,007) Student 4 Work Cited Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Find a Therapist Near You. Digital image. ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gayle Lee, Kendra, McIntyre, Megan, and McKee, Jessica. Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and McKee, Jessica. Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27. E-text. Triumphing over Anxiety and Depression. Digital image. ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 https://www.adaa.org/node/2608 Student 5 http://treatment.adaa.org/