Student 1 Student Composition II Professor Jamie Thronton 26 January 2017 Improving the World With Genetically Modified Organisms In a world where the human population continues to grow at an alarming rate, it is important to anticipate the negative side effects that could potentially accompany the problem. With the increasing demand for food, the introduction of technology to agriculture has benefitted the industry immensely. One such benefit includes (Genetically Modified Organisms). are an especially vital resource when viewing the Monsanto Website, where they show how they work towards a more efficient way of growing food without increasing the emission of greenhouse gases, while also maintaining the health of their plants and the environment. When exploring the details in Figure 1, the primary message that Monsanto is trying to communicate through the picture is that climate change cannot go unheard of and that it cannot be stopped without the help of the human population. This is interpreted from the text within the picture that states Climate The visual cues can also interpret this message by including colors that are warm and taking the picture in a location that seems to have a warm climate. The usage of warm colors elicits a warm environment to the audience, which could also be an underlying message regarding climate change. Inspecting the elements of design and composition, what stands out the most is the sun beaming behind the truck and the outfit, giving the audience more proof to believe that this picture was taken in a warm environment. Including warm colors and a man wearing light-weight clothing leave the audience thinking more about climate change. Student 2 Analyzing Figure 1 rhetorically, one can instantly pick up on two main appeals: pathos and kairos. Pathos is used in this image by showing a man gazing off into the distance, standing in front of a beaming, orange sunset. Capturing a moment like this, Monsanto makes the audience want to maintain the beauty of this world for themselves and the other people and animals that occupy it. This puts the audience in a position that makes them think about the effects of climate change, to hopefully make the audience also want to get involved with it. Kairos is used in this image by taking the picture at a time when it looks the warmest outside: at sunset. This in itself evokes climate change because climate change is all about warmer weather. Without this element in the photo, the effects of climate change affect the viewer as much being that it give the audience a sense of what climate change actually does. By using these rhetorical appeals, Monsanto hopes to recruit people who care about their environment and who want to join the fight against climate change. Viewing Figure 2, the overall visual message that Monsanto is trying to communicate is that they have hired employees that genuinely care, and that they are trying their best to grow enough crops that will sustain the need for food among the human population. This statement can be supported by the visual cues that are included in this photo: A Monsanto employee reaching out at a plant with a content/endearing facial expression. This is one of the main factors that contribute to the audience believing that Monsanto actually cares about the quality of their crops. The elements of design and composition that stand out in this image are how green the plants are and how tall they are compared to the man standing next to them. Showing healthy plants gives the audience a reason to believe that the Monsanto employees are intelligent when it comes to taking care of plants. The health of the plants is the other main factor that helps persuade the audience into believing that Monsanto genuinely cares about their crops. Student 3 After rhetorically analyzing Figure 2, pathos and kairos are the two appeals that stand out the most. Pathos is used in this image by showing a man with an endearing face reaching out for the plants. It makes the reader feel the need to also want to help with the environment and to want to care for the environment, as is the man in the image. If Monsanto were to choose to show just the plants themselves without the man, it be as personal to the viewer. Showing that there are employees who genuinely care about the well-being of plants gives the viewer hope that Monsanto will help with meeting the demand of food for humans. Moving on, Kairos is used in this photo by taking the image at a time when the crops look their best: green, tall and healthy. Picturing healthy-looking plants persuades the viewer to believe that genetically modified seeds are just as good as naturally produced seeds. Since there are doubts about picturing genetically modified plants that are healthy eliminates the doubts that the viewers may have. Through Figure 1 and Figure 2, Monsanto provides evidence that they are working towards a more efficient way of growing food, while also maintaining the health of the environment. Figure 1 leads the audience to believe that climate change is happening and that Monsanto wants to make sure that no further damage is done. By promoting the issue of climate change with this image, Monsanto gives the audience a reason to believe that this company wants best for this world. This makes the Monsanto company seem trustworthy and determined to make our world a better place. Moving on to Figure 2, it is evident that the Monsanto company gives great care to the crops that they grow. Picturing bright green plants towering over a Monsanto employee gives the company credibility when it comes to producing healthy plants. Adding on, the facial expression is what ties in the whole image, making the audience assume that Monsanto employees care for their plants and, in whole, the Student 4 environment. Monsanto knows that are often frowned upon when viewed by certain people, which is why it was such an importance to establish their intentions and give people a reason to trust in their company. By providing photos that establish these intentions, Monsanto gives people reason to believe in their company and the future of this world. Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allison, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (Really) Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. 19-58. My Reviewers. Web. 22 January 2017. Hoffman, Allison, and Kimber Wiggs. Down an Rhetoric (Really) Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. 345-351. My Reviewers. Web. 22 January 2017. Monsanto. Monsanto Company, 2002-2015, http://www.monsanto.com/pages/default.aspx. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Climate Monsanto. http://www.monsanto.com/improvingagriculture/PublishingImages/tackling-climate- change-alt.jpg. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Efficient Maize For Africa Monsanto. http://www.monsanto.com/SiteCollectionImages/wema-banner.jpg. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1: http://www.monsanto.com/improvingagriculture/PublishingImages/tackling-climate- change-alt.jpg Figure 2: http://www.monsanto.com/SiteCollectionImages/wema-banner.jpg