Francisco 1 David Francisco ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Immigration Controversy Migration from one country to another is an event that majority of people experience in their lifetime but sometimes it is done in illegal ways. In 2006, there was an 10.5 to 11 million unauthorized immigrants residing in the United (Lemay 1). With this many people entering into the United States the question of why should there be control on immigration comes up. Organizations form to protect or oppose the control on immigration and whether they should have rights when they do enter. Two examples of organizations who have different views are Undocumedia and Americans for Immigration Control (AIC). While these two organizations have views that oppose one another it is possible to suggest a compromise to have both of their ideas. Undocumedia is an organization that was founded by Justino Mora, who is an immigrant rights activist, entrepreneur, and self-taught programmer. The organizations mission is to help with the rights of undocumented immigrants by petitioning for acts established. Before Undocumedia became a group, they relentlessly with other leaders and organizations to help pass the CA Dream Act and pressure the Obama Administration to grant Deferred Action for Childhood (Ivan Ceja). Many organizations just like Undocumedia believe that immigrants should have the same rights as citizens. Ramanujan Nadadur is an author who agrees with the effects of illegal immigration by stating, low-wage undocumented workers immigrate to the U.S. to fill the secondary labor market, products and services become cheaper because illegal immigrants work for lower wages, thus providing a kind of subsidy to American While Undocumedia have the same agreement with Nadadur they both Francisco 2 believe having immigrants in the U.S. going to hurt the economy nor create any issues. Nadadur continues giving information on benefit of allowing immigrants as they help boost the U.S. labor market. Some points that help with this belief is the discrimination that occurs over the years. This the only thing as many believe immigrants steal jobs and accept to be paid the minimum wage. While the second part may be true the fact that unskillful workers often take jobs, most Americans do. This is a point that Nadadur states to counter those who believe it. Unfortunately, the opposing side could say the same, meaning both sides have vailed points in their ideas. The AIC has a lot to say about the situation but go against them entirely. The AIC is a foundation that raises public awareness about immigration control. Some of their publications and arguments assisted in establish law to control the flow of immigration. They prevent immigration but just help maintain the flow from chaotic problems. While some may view this as a hate group due to what they do they believe they are many different ethnic groups and backgrounds, AIC Foundation supporters have a deep commitment to preserving our common heritage as Americans, and to help inform American citizens on the disastrous effects of uncontrolled (AIC). An author who agrees with control is Valsamis Mitsilegas who gives in the first sentence why control needs to be established. securitization of immigration control in a global context is evident in the first major multilateral convention aiming to develop global legal norms to counter the threat of transnational organized (Mitsilegas 4). Basically, stating control helps the US to prevent any terrorist threats. This has been the issue since the event on September 11, 2001 which gave America the need to enforce strict laws to prevent the catastrophe from occurring. Thus, criminalization on illegal immigrants was created and somehow allowed the distribution of drugs Francisco 3 to decrease. Both sides cannot come to an agreement therefore creating a compromise requires both ideas. The compromise between those who want a control on immigration and the others who want rights for them in the US is one that would probably end the protests and controversy. There could be multiple solutions to this situation that has its flaws but why it still been solve because of the policy. The proposed solution is to allow that give immigrant works to stay with families but they must work for the labor market of the US. Giving worker the care as regular citizens would favor those who want immigrants to have rights. However, those who work under the system would not be allowed to immigrate. Ana Avendano and Victoria Bruce both wrote their solution on the situation and is like a system that, for improved workplace standards, by maintaining and improving wages and working conditions in the United (1). Some flaws that can come from this include those who are disabled and are trying to flee from their country due to war and chaos. This would be viewed by Americans as a communistic decision as the US would deny entry. Another suggestion that just comes from an unrealistic idea is to allow immigrants to enter but given a certain amount of years depending on their contribution to society. They would receive benefits just like any American but they are given a certain time depending on what they pay. The point is to make a payment to enter and those who have any money to enter get a certain amount of years to make the money to pay it off. This way money can range from spending to gaining revenue and the complaint of giving free healthcare and shelter is no longer an issue. Some flaws again that could happen if this would to be possible is the fact that only the wealthy have a chance to live in the US longer is a unfair advantage as the poor should be the ones the US should take care. While this seems like an unlikely solution it is one that would benefit both those who want control and those who want Francisco 4 the rights of illegal immigrants. Now that both the Undocumedia and the AIC have their ideas mixed in a compromise they can work together to make an organization that sustains a flow of who enters while giving right to those who are eligible to enter. Overall, Undocumedia and the AIC have different goals. With the discrimination occurring over the years it is not a surprise the organizations like Undocumedia want the right for illegal immigrants, but with the rights and access like citizens more will be influenced to enter the US which causes an unstable increase of people in the US. There may not be enough resources to help all the new incoming people. So, AIC grew into an organization that helps raise awareness of an unstable economy. With both having a valid view, a compromise that has both of their ideas may prove to be a difficult setup. Some suggestions to a future solution would be to have right for the working immigrants but to have only those who assist with the economy of the US, but the few flaws prevent from this happening. In a simple term having both, the US and the immigrants, a safe procedure. Ever since the threats of terrorism and illegal smuggling finding a solution is a troublesome experience as many viewpoints can arise from the immigration controversy. Francisco 5 Works Cited Avendano, Ana and Bruce, Victoria. Labor Solution to Illegal Social Policy Spring2009, Vol. 39 Issue 1, p17-19, 3p. Mitsilegas, Valsamis. Control in an Era of Globalization: Deflecting Foreigners, Weakening Citizens, and Strengthening the Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies Vol. 19, No. 1 (Winter 2012), pp. 3-60 Mora, Justino. http://www.undocumedia.org DA: Jan. 28 2017 Nadadur, Ramanujan. Immigration: A Positive Economic Contribution to the United Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies Vol. 35, No. 6, July 2009, pp. 1037-1052 Vinson, John. AIC http://www.aicfoundation.com/about-us DA: Jan 27 2017