Corredor 1 Andres Corredor Project 1 Intermediate Draft ENC1102 January 29, 2017 Banning Homework in Schools For a long time, being assigned homework by school teachers has been a normal function of school and education throughout the world. Homework consists of assignments or projects outside of the classroom to be done at home and returned to the teacher at a certain due date. Whether or not homework is actually effective in the learning capabilities and performance in school subjects is being debated. Two stakeholders are on opposite sides of the argument: The Department of Education on one side and some, but not all, students, teachers, parents and other experts on the other. Both sides offer opposing views on the effectiveness of homework and whether it helps or hinders students on an educational and a social level as well. In order for both stakeholders to come to an agreement, schools should offer partially longer schooldays with that extra time being dedicated to tutoring and test prep help from all staff and completely eliminating assignments outside of the classroom. The U.S. Department of Education is the federal governing body for all things education and oversees schools and institutions at the local, state and private levels. The Department was established in 1980 and currently employs 4,400 individuals and also has a $68 million budget (U.S. Department of Education). It sets standards and regulations like standardized testing, Corredor 2 school hours, curriculums and hiring requirements for teachers, staff and administrators alike. Their mission to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal (U.S. Department of Education). Although the Education Department does not set obligatory measures for schools to assign homework, it strongly encourages its use and provide context into why most teachers assign it such as and practice what covered in class, learn to use resources, such as libraries, reference materials and computer Web sites to find information about a subject, explore subjects more fully than classroom time (U.S. Department of Education). It also claims can help create greater understanding between families and teachers and provide opportunities for increased communication. Monitoring homework keeps families informed about what their children are learning and about the policies and programs of the teacher and the The Education Department has a huge role in monitoring schools and their success and promoting homework and parent involvement in assignments is a crucial part of its agenda to ensure effective teaching. On the other side of the discussion of homework and its usefulness to students are some students themselves along with some parents, teachers and experts on education and study habit research. Josephine Campbell, a writer for the Salem Press Encyclopedia claims long-term studies of homework have yielded neutral results, and some show that any academic success linked to homework diminishes over Some studies done, not just in the United States, but in other countries around the world have reached similar conclusions. For example, Richard Walker, author of Reforming Homework: Practices, Learning and Policies wrote in nations where more homework was assigned scored lower on the Program Corredor 3 for International Student Assessment (PISA) test given to fifteen year Critics of the effectiveness of homework often suggest more after-school activities like sports and music classes help students more in engaging with their peers instead of stressing their additional assignments and due dates. Furthermore, author Alfie Kohn states which he believes may offer little or no academic benefit, takes time away from family activities and other experiences and may exhaust and frustrate students Students are the party most affected by homework and its benefits and/or uselessness. Many of them at the grade school level reject the idea of homework for reasons like time being taken out of their day, added stress, and sometimes even confusion between certain assignments and lessons discussed in the classroom. Although parents almost always want to be involved in their education and do what they can to help them succeed, many also get flustered with either the amount of the level of difficulty of certain projects or assignments. The parents, students, teachers who are at the receiving end of the education system and the experts who have researched homework and its effects have a vested interest in pushing to eliminate homework from their local schools if they see more cons than pros. The U.S. Department of Education and the students, teachers and parents that make up school populations can work towards a compromise in order for both parties to gain something and not lose anything. A viable solution is for the Department of Education to order a nationwide mandate to extend the school day by two hours by starting the schoolday an hour earlier than usual. This compromise allows students to gain extra time in learning and receiving tutoring while on school grounds and being able to have more free and family time when at home. The Education Department also benefits by not risking failing grades due to incomplete Corredor 4 homework assignments for the students and added stressors that have negative consequences on them. Corredor 5 Works Cited Campbell, Josephine. Students And  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Kohn, Alfie. Do Students Really Need Practice  The Homework Myth. Boston: Da Capo Press, 2006. Print. The Basics -- Helping Your Child With  U.S. Department of Education. N.p., 30 Aug. 2003. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <https://ed.gov/parents/academic/help/homework/part4.html>. Winsor, Morgan. Growing Debate About Homework, One School Bans ABC News. N.p., 06 Sept. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. http://abcnews.go.com/US/amid-growing-debate- homework-school-bans/story?id=41843594.