Cushing 1 Richard Brigham Cushing Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 1/21/17 The Future of Space Exploration Space exploration efforts have been getting increasingly more advanced as time goes on. Humanity has been taking ever growing strides towards the final frontier since the early 20th century. Since then people have gone from sending up unmanned rockets to planning manned exploration of mars within the next few years. Space exploration will be becoming more advanced in the future as more and more people look to the stars. The technology needed for advanced space exploration will result in many technological breakthroughs in other fields of science. The technology and methods used in space missions will find many immediate applications on Earth: power generation, energy storage, recycling and waste management, advanced robotics, health and medicine, transportation, engineering, computing and software. Long-term space missions will eventually lead to people living in space full time, and the effects of this on people will also have tremendous scientific impact. The eventual colonization of Mars will also have tremendous impact on humankind, not just limited to the scientific discoveries that could be made from the long term human occupation of Mars. Establishing a lunar outpost is also one of the various things planned to further our knowledge of outer space. The future of space exploration will lead us further among the stars, and people are only just beginning to scratch the surface of the many possibilities that will eventually be available to us. Krishen, Kumar1, krishen59@gmail.com. Technology Needs For Future Space  IETE Technical Review 26.4 (2009): 228-235. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. This article is written to explain the technological benefits and the technological requirements of space exploration. The author explains the various reasons for the attention many nations put on space exploration as well as the side benefits to doing so. Among these benefits is the fact that most technology developed for various space technologies can find immediate use outside of said field. Krishen also goes on to explain that for increasingly Cushing 2 advanced missions to space, such as orbiting observatories and lunar and mars outposts, many new innovative technologies and methodologies will need to be created. Maintaining the systems and crew safety and productivity will need extensive upgrades to the current technological levels of equipment. Kumar Hrishen is the lead technologist and RandD lead for the Technology Transfer Office, NASA Johnson Space Center (JSC). He is the person in charge of developing plans for joint research and technology projects with universities, industries, other NASA centers and government agencies. He has degrees in electronics, electrical engineering, radio physics, physics and mathematics. He has also served as a professor in several different institutions. His article concerning technological needs for future space exploration is what will be used to examine the technological requirements and benefits of space travel in this article. It also shows how the various technologies developed for space travel can be almost immediately repurposed for general use. Borowitz, Mariel, and Jonathan Battat. Multidisciplinary Evaluation Of Next Steps For Human Space Exploration: Technical And Strategic Analysis Of  Space Policy 35.(2016): 33-42. Academic Search Premier. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. This article argues that the long-term goal of human space exploration is the long- duration presence of humans on the surface of mars, and that there are only four realistic proposals for initial human exploration: a cis-lunar habitat, asteroid redirect, Mars flyby, and a short lunar surface sortie. It also evaluates the missions by five different criteria: technological and economic viability, how it contributes to the eventual goal of exploring Mars, the potential for increased international cooperation, readiness for the mission across the world, and the political feasibility to create a non-biased assessment of the advantages and disadvantages of each mission. It goes on to evaluate that while they are all feasible that the cis-lunar habitat would be the most beneficial overall. Mariel Borowitz is an Assistant Professor in the Sam Nunn School of Internation Affairs in Georgia Tech. She earned a PhD in Public Policy, a degree in International Science Cushing 3 and Technology Policy, and a Bachelor of Science in Aerospace Engineering. She also worked as a research analyst in the Space Foundation in Washington, DC. This article will be used to help explain the currently viable missions and the eventual direction that space exploration is heading towards internationally. International Space Exploration Coordination Group. Benefits Stemming from Space Exploration, International Space Exploration Coordination Group, 20 Aug. 2013, www.nasa.gov/sites/default/files/files/Benefits-Stemming-from-Space-Exploration-2013- TAGGED.pdf#page=1&zoom=auto,-37,798. This paper describes the benefits that are anticipated to come from continued ventures in the missions and expansions that are likely to occur. This paper groups the fundamental benefits generated by space exploration as: innovation; culture and inspiration; and new means to address global challenges. It states that, the benefits from space exploration are firmly entrenched in the generation of new knowledge, which is the first reward and which has an inherent value to humankind. That technological knowledge is developed to address the many difficulties of space missions and yields many innovations that benefit the public. It also states that in the long-term the knowledge gained over multiple missions and the expansion of presence into the Solar System will help people gain more perspective on the fragility and rarity of life in the Universe. This paper was developed by the International Space Exploration Coordination Group. The ISECG is a group of which fourteen space agencies are members of. The ISECG was established by these fourteen space agencies as a means to exchange information pertaining to interests, objectives, and plans in space exploration; it was released in May 2007. This paper helps explain the various benefits which space exploration brings to all of humankind. Baum, Seth D. Viewpoint: Analysis Of Space Exploration: Some Ethical  Space Policy 25.(2009): 75-80. ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Cushing 4 This article examines a key but controversial point; cost-benefit analysis (CBA). It discusses ethical considerations in CBA that are important in space exploration, including how people define costs and benefits; space non-market value; the position of future humans and of extraterrestrials; and the role of discounting in assessing long-term space exploration projects. The article goes on to explain how CBA itself is controversial mainly on ethical reasons. It also explains that while it is commonly expressed in units of money, CBA broadly understood offers significant flexibility in how it is expressed. It states that how these issues are addressed can significantly affect space exploration decision making. Seth D. Baum is an interdisciplinary researcher working across a wide range of fields: natural and social science, engineering, philosophy, and policy. His primary focus is global catastrophic risk, meaning risk of events that could destroy global human civilization. He also works in astrobiology. He is Co-Founder and Executive Director of the Global Catastrophic Risk Institute. He is also associated with the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, Blue Marble Space Institute of Science, and the Columbia University Center for Research on Environmental Decisions. This article aids in explaining the varying decisions that go into the field of space exploration. It also helps illuminate the various ethical concerns that go with it.