Matos 1 Adrian Matos Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 01/21/17 Yesterday vs. Today The use of Performing Enhancing Drugs have become more and more of an issue in professional, collegiate, and high school sports. As research on this subject revealed new possible threats from the use of organizations are constantly in debate and are constantly creating policies regarding theses illegal substances. In the a team of scientist created a synthetic form of testosterone that promote extraordinary growth in skeletal muscles that significantly increased optimal performance. But, overtime athletes and competitors began abuse this substance. Evidence on this portrayed on professional bodybuilders and Soviet athletes (mostly wrestling). Soon they became the ever so popular Anabolic Steroids. Over time , committees have placed policies on and created organizations such as the World Anti- doping Agency. These committees claimed that not only leads to play, but people were developing health abnormalities that had a potential of being life threatening. Committees claimed that these drugs were becoming very dangerous to athletes who were taking them. However After reading several research articles, It comes to an understanding that sports committees are in constant controversy on whether or not health risks are involved in the use of As well as how has current research has been affiliated in the decision making of constantly new policies regarding these substances in sports. The question that this writing will cover is , How has further discoveries affect the overview of Performing Enhancing substances? Matos 1 Nikolopoulos, Dimitrios D., Chara Spiliopoulou, and Stamatios E. Theocharis. Doping And Musculoskeletal System: Short-Term And Long-Lasting Effects Of Doping  Fundamental & Clinical Pharmacology 25.5 (2011): 535. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article starts with a brief history on how performing enhancing substances has become a rising issue from the beginning of times. The author discusses a time period in which people in ancient Greece were looking for ways to not only to improve physical attributes, but also heighten the individuals mind. He also, goes on to say how the World Anti-Doping Agency is updating their list of prohibited substances yearly. After reading this article, it proves another point that are not only a question on far play principle, but it also brings about an awareness on the possible hazards to the health and well-being of athletes. This article brings light to the controversy on the effects on health that was mentioned earlier. For instance, human growth hormones, hGH, is one of the most widely use of in sports. This ar6ticle claims that in one case that hGH has the potential of improving muscular strength and improve protein synthesis which results in the rate of healing from injuries. However, hGH, under different studies have revealed to cause diabetes mellitus, Tachyvardia, hypertension, and more. But this was in the case that hGH was taken in an unhealthy dosage. Dr.Nikolopoulos Dimitrios is an MD,With a PhD in sports medicine and is a consultant in private clinics located in Athens, Greece. HE received his degree at the National & Kapodistrian University of Athens as well as his PhD. The fact that he is an expert on traumatology and reconstruction therapy, makes him well equipped to identify the possible damage that could have on an athletes body. Matos 1 Hassan, N. A., M. F. Salem, and M. A. E. L. Sayed. Doping And Effects Of Anabolic Androgenic Steroids On The Heart: Histological, Ultrastructural, And Echocardiographic Assessment In Strength  Human & Experimental Toxicology 28.5 (2009): 273-283. Academic Search Premier. Web. 19 Jan. 2017 This article uses Anabolic androgenic steroids(AAS) in a case study to show how this drug could alter the structural and alterations in the heart using models from tested athletes. In this case study, Echocardiographic results revealed that bodybuilders that were subjected to AAS have smaller left ventricular dimensions with thicker walls that could lead to difficulty in blood flow from and to the heart. Light microscopy has also shown how the cardiac muscles fibers have gradually degenerated over time. So, this is an example of how Anabolic androgenic steroids effect a heart on a physiological level. The case study involves healthy and young individuals, so that proves that AAS can affect different kinds of people. This has given the Human & Experimental Toxicology an opportunity to not only show the public what AAS does first hand, but find alternative ways to detect AAS use in athletes when traditional testing fails. One of the leading authors of this article is Mostafa El-Sayed. He is a Egyptian-American chemical physicist. HE is a member of the National Academy of Sciences. He is a leading expert on spectroscopy, which is the study or interactions between matter and electromagnetic radiation. So, it would be wise to have an expert like this while using microscopy. And he would act as an appropriate consultant to this experiment that requires too-dimensional mapping of the structure of am human heart. Matos 1 Hartgens, F. & Kuipers, Effects of Androgenic-Anabolic Steroids in Med (2004) 34: 513. In this researched case study, it shows certain side effects that Androgen-anabolic steroids have on the human athlete. In this case, an athletes body. Their were reports taken from subjects that showed hormonal imbalances, high blood pressure, and irregular heat rhythm. But their were inconclusive evidence showing that the use of AAS did not result in long term illnesses. For example, in this instance the athletes that were tested show any signs of cardiovascular problems or effected cardiovascular function. So Hartgens case study shows that there are variables that can either cause or prevent health risks. In fact, this case study showed that with a small dosage over periods of time, athletes increased their strength by 5%-20%. This shows how there is controversy on this topic because there is still inconsistent outcomes that could result from taking There really definite proof of health risk. Fred Hartgens is a member of the executive Board of at Netherlands Association of Sports Medicine. In 1991, he earned his medical at Maastricht University , after which he specialized in sports medicine. Hartgens has an MD, PT, and PhD in both physical therapy and physiology. His focus was on how Anabolic-androgenic steroids had on athletes, and was determine to keep exploring different ways AAS effects the human body. This makes him a perfect candidate because he has a first hand knowledge on the human body, especially when it comes to athletes. Matos 1 Mazzeo, Filomena, and Antonio Ascione. Anabolic Androgenic Steroids And Doping In  Sports Medicine Journal / Medicina 9.1 (2013): 2009- 2020. SPORTDiscus. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Dr. Mazzeo wrote this article regarding the use of Anabolic- Androgenic steroids(AAS). They give a brief description of of its chemical make up and what type of athletes that this drug is typically used by, as well as the results from taking these steroids at a high dosage in increase physical attributes. Although this article uncovers the possible health risks that came from prolonged use of Anabolic steroids. As well as the dosage. So even though this article reveals that Anabolic steroids cause cardiovascular problems and hepatocellular damage. Taking these substances is not a direct cause, rather abusing these substance is. Filomena Mazzeo completed her Phd at Parthenope University of Naples, Napoli. Her studies have contributed to the of the Romanian Sports Medicine Society. She has written 66 articles in her career in Sports medicine. Her area of expertise is in the field that involves pharmaceutical and recreational drugs and their adverse effects. So she has an idea on how bad PEDs are in sports and how this problem is constantly arising.