ENC 1102: Project 1 Early Draft Guiding Questions In Project 1, you will evaluate two key stakeholders with conflicting views on a given issue, and you will use empathetic tone and language while finding common ground between their two perspectives that allows you to propose a viable compromise. Goal: You will choose two specific stakeholder organizations with seemingly incompatible goals regarding a facet of your issue/topic. Note: Feel free to use all the space on this assignment sheet to do whatever brainstorming technique you find most helpful. This might be outlining, mapping, or any other organizing or idea-generating method. In preparing for Project 1, please answer the following questions: 1. Who do you consider to be the multiple stakeholders connected or involved with your issue/topic? Write down as many stakeholders as you can think of that might have an opinion/perspective/agenda relative to your topic and list them here. 2. Consider the various stakeholders involved in your issue or topic. What are they trying to accomplish? What are their core beliefs? Choose four specific organizations and write their goals and core beliefs below. You might consider exploring each slogan or mission statement as listed on a website, commercial, article, advertisement, etc. Some of the numerous stakeholders that are invested in the gun rights issue would be The National Rifle Association, The National Association for Gun Rights, The Second Amendment Foundation, The Gun Owners of America, and The Constitutional Rights PAC, Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, Everytown for Gun Safety, The Brady Campaign, New Yorkers Against Gun Violence, Violence Policy Center, Americans For Responsible Solutions, and Stop Handgun Violence. The core beliefs of the stake holders that are pro gun on my list are pretty much holding with keeping the Second Amendment right to bear arms and do it in a safe, educated and responsible way; the only exception would be the National Association for Gun Rights and they are insanely radical and I fully believe in their belief of constitutional carry and just being able to have a gun without any license or education. The two stakeholders I choose to use that share these same mission statements are the National Rifle Association and The Second Amendment Foundation. The core beliefs held by the foundations that I listed that are more supporting of education and are against guns because of the violence that tends to come out of having a gun in the picture; but they necessarily completely anti guns which I also admire about these groups; Coalition to Stop Gun Violence and Stop Handgun Violence. 3. Do any of these stakeholders seem to be at with one another? Which ones? In what ways? 4. Do any of the stakeholders that seem to be share any goals or values that might help them agree on certain aspects or outcomes relative to your issue/topic? What are these shared goals or values? (This is the part where you outside the You have the chance here to open your minds to the possibility of compromise. Think about what they have in common that they might not see themselves. I definitely think that these organizations could be at odds, I know for certain that the National Association of Gun Rights would most certainly be at odds with any association that has anything against guns, especially the ones that I chose as my main two for the anti gun violence groups. I feel like a my groups I chose would disagree on having as much freedom as we do with guns nowdays and would need to work out agreements and concessions on what to do with the amount of access people have to guns and how lenient places are with allowing whoever to buy them. I think that the stakeholders that I chose are definitely at odds with each other in the respects that they are different on their stance on guns and the amount of gun violence that stems from owning guns. I think that the organizations I chose as my pro guns and second amendment rights will agree with my anti gun stakeholders to an extent because for the most part they agree that there should be educated, responsible and safe gun owners. They agree that gun violence stems from uneducated gun owners that doing all they can to be safe. Maybe making a compromise that would benefit each other in the end would be allowing guns and requiring gun owners to take educational courses before you can purchase a permit or a gun; and the thing being given up would basically be as much freedom as we allow now and not being so strict on how much they wanna limit the gun use and control.