Yanfeng WU ENC1102 Adam Philips 1/29/2017 Air pollution The Ford motor company and Greenpeace are two organization that have opposite goals on the air pollution Air pollution nowadays is around the world. Smog problem is not only serious in developing countries, but also happens in the developed countries, even in USA, which is becoming one of most serious environment problem. In addition, air pollution has negative impact on life. In some places, citizens must wear mask before they go out Ford company is one of biggest company in USA which sold about 2.5 million vehicles in 2013.Car exhaust is one of mainly factor cause air pollution, which will generate some small particle in the air called PM 2.5. Meanwhile, Greenpeace is an environmental organization which focus on the environmental issues, such as water and air pollution. The difference between those two stakeholders are that Ford is car production company which is contributing to the air pollution, but Greenpeace is appealing people to use more clean energies transportation instead of car. Although Ford and Greenpeace have incompatible goals, they do have chances to collaborate to figure out the air pollution problem. Ford and Greenpeace can donate some money to develop new energies car. They could reduce the air pollution and get benefit if they are willing to work with each other. The first stakeholder is Ford company. The main goal of Ford company is producing car as many as they can. Ford company was found in 1903, which is a long history car company in the world. In the 21 centuries, Ford had already become the most famous company and sell millions of Ford cars to the world. With the developing of technologies, there are many new alternative energies has been found. However, Ford company and other car company are still using gasoline as their main fuel. Car exhaust can generate some toxic gas from gasoline burning, such as CO,NOX,PB,NO,and NO2. NO2 during pregnancy was associated with differential offspring DNA methylation in mitochondria-related genes. Exposure to NO2 was also linked to differential methylation as well as expression of genes involved in antioxidant defense Gruzieva, Olena page 104). NO2 is a toxic gas which will harm for pregnant people. When pregnant people breath in the NO2, it is likely to change DNA or lead to other unpredictable diseases. According to Ajmina, journal called of Ambient Air Pollution Exposure on Olfaction: A said that is evidence in human epidemiologic and pathologic studies that increased exposure to ambient air pollutants is associated with olfactory Form this journal, people can notice that the air pollution might have chance to cause the diseases of noise. The air pollution not only pollute our environment, but also threat to health. Every year, there are about 2.5 million people dead because of air pollution. To prevent the air pollution, Greenpeace had been trying to figure out a method to solve it. Another stakeholder is Greenpeace. The main goal of this organization is trying to reduce the pollution around the world. Greenpeace is a non-governmental organization which are in 40 countries. This organization was found by Canadian and American environmental activists in 1971, mainly dealing with the environmental issues and appealing more people to protect our earth and join them. Additionally, Greenpeace also detect the air quality and report to the citizen. alleviate such problems, one solution is to promote households to purchase small placement(engine) Rubino,Ann page 80). It is hard for people to stop using car nowadays, which is a feasible way. Therefore, trying to buy some less displacement car is most effective way to reduce the air pollution. Those two stakeholders are totally different on the air pollution. Ford is an investment company. Therefore, they only focus on profit and how many cars they had sold. Without any doubt, Ford cares about the customer and how comfortable when they sit in their car, but they do not care about the air qualities. Ford will not notice that how the car exhaust is detrimental to the air. With the same time, Greenpeace is completely an environmental organization. Greenpeace cares about the environment protection. It is obviously that these two stakeholders conflict with each other. Nonetheless, they do have common ground. Both sides of stakeholders are trying to make our cities, countries, and the world better. Nowadays, the world cannot run without car. Car is necessity for most of people. Car can be viewed as the important factor to the development of the world. People cannot deny that without car, our life will become inconvenient and the economics of the world will fall immediately. Meanwhile, Greenpeace is trying to make our world cleaner for human and our next generation. Thus, both sides of stakeholder want to make our world better, although people cannot deny that Ford motor company want to make money. Although Ford and Greenpeace have the interest confliction with each other and it is difficult for them to give up on their main goal, they still can have collaboration. The best way for them to solve this issues is that Ford motor company and Greenpeace organization raise a part of money to develop their Ford car or use new cleaning energies. With the same time, Ford can pay a partial of money that earn from the car selling to Greenpeace or other environmental organization. Then, Greenpeace can use those money to educate people some knowledge about air pollution, telling them to use environmental friendly transportation, such as bicycle. Environmental Protection is the tendency of this era. Ford is a big company, if they start to improve their car and use new alternative energies, the other companies will follow the way Ford did. Bibliography Ajmani, Gaurav S., Helen H. Suh, and Jayant M. Pinto. Effects of Ambient Air Pollution Exposure on Olfaction: A  Environmental Health Perspectives 124.11 (2016): n. pag.1683 Web. Gruzieva, Olena, Cheng-Jian Xu, Carrie V. Breton, Isabella Annesi-Maesano, Josep M. Charles Auffray, Ballereau, Tom Bellander, Jean Bousquet, Mariona Bustamante, Marie-Aline Charles, Yvonne De Kluizenaar, Herman T. Den Dekker, Liesbeth Duijts, Janine F. Felix, Ulrike Gehring, Guxens, Vincent V.w. Jaddoe, Soesma A. Jankipersadsing, Simon Kebede Merid, Juha Kere, Ashish Kumar, Nathanael Lemonnier, Johanna Lepeule, Wenche Nystad, Christian Magnus Page, Sviatlana Panasevich, Dirkje Postma, Slama, Jordi Sunyer, Cilla Jin Yao, Stephanie J. London, Pershagen, Gerard H. Koppelman, and Erik Epigenome-Wide Meta-Analysis of Methylation in Children Related to Prenatal NO2 Air Pollution  Environmental Health Perspectives 125.1 (2016): n. pag.104 Web.5 Rubino,Ann Air pollution:Problem and  The Science Teacher .Summer 2008,vol.75 Issue 5,80