Daria Tkach Adam Phillips ENC 1102 January 29 The Popularity of The Genre of Horror and Impact on Human Psychology For centuries the popularity of the genre of horror has been increasing. The interest in this kind of production actively began to flourish in the middle of the 20th century. Eventually, horror became an important part of pop culture. As a result, lots of debates concerning the dangers of undergoing fear and terror and possible side effects produce a lot of confusion among people. According to psychological studies, modern horror movies and literature promote the formation of stereotypical phobias as constant fear of darkness and steady associations related to which places and situations lead to disturbing and deadly events. Suchlike propaganda has a huge impact on teenagers and children and may cause the emergence of paranoia and anxiety. Obvious dangers associated with horror provoked the nascency of anti-horror movements. One of the opposite organizations is presented by parents who actively protect their opinions via various websites as and and related forums. On the other hand, there is a position of the admirers of this particular genre and corresponding products. The majority of the representatives of adverse beliefs could be found in social networks as Facebook and independent communities, for instance, Horror . Despite lots of controversies, both sides rely on psychological studies. While the anti-horror party articulates negative aftermaths of interest in fear and terror, the pro-horror group presents new-found evidences which state that experiencing negative emotions has a lot of benefits and contributes emotional control and learning. The main question leads to whether advantages of horror culture overweight disadvantages or vice versa and how the results of related studies can affect the attitude towards horror industry and admirers. By combining ideas of both of positions it is possible to find a compromise which could equally satisfy all parties of the conflict. First of all, mental and physical health of the young generation is one of the most important issues for parents. As the Internet access becomes more and more common, more and more opportunities become available for people of all ages. The ready approachability of information allows anyone to become familiar with any type of content. The youngsters could be characterized by high level of curiosity, especially when it comes to so-called  topics, and the horror industry fits this definition. After all, has been an important genre for (Kawin, 2012, p. 3, Winter 151). As an element of pop culture, horror proclaims some kinds of standards of what exactly should instill unconditional fear in humans. The speculation on popular themes for horror movies and literature quickly led to the formation of common stereotypes since the majority of them appeals to primitive animal instincts. According to Bodo Winter and their article Horror Movies and the Cognitive Ecology of Primary , stereotypical thinking provokes sustainable association in relation to the position in space and the overall state of the environment. For example, there are numerous vertical metaphors (see Lakoff & Johnson, 1980, Ch. 4; 2002, pp. which also include IS UP/SAD IS IS UP/SICK IS IS UP/ SUBMISSION IS and IS UP/LACK OF VIRTUE IS One important similarity among these metaphors is that upward orientation goes together with positive evaluation; downward orientation with negative evaluation 2002, p. 36). In the context of horror movies, it will suffice to call the metaphors IS and IS bearing in mind that these metaphors are intended to also encompass such phenomena as and Surely, children and teenagers are most susceptible to suggestions and manipulations. Suchlike receptivity helps to develop sustained fear of primitive things in masses from an early age. Notwithstanding, the susceptibility of the mind naturally instigate the hypertrophy of the features of learned material. While adults are able to cope with shock , children are likely to be traumatized by the event and develop confirming associations based on their experience which is grounded on simple instincts. ... with respect to negative associations with darkness, many children experience fear of darkness (King, Ollendick, & Tonge, 1997; Muris, Merckelbach, Meesters, & Van Lier, 1997), a fear that is perhaps innate (Mineka & 2002) because it protects us from dangers that may lie within the darkness. Darkness is indeed dangerous for applies to cities, where street lighting is inversely associated with crime prevalence (Pease, 1999), as well as to the natural world, where most man-eating predators attack at night (Packer, Swanson, Ikanda & Kushnir, 2011). In general, we are more vulnerable to attacks when it is dark, and we are also more likely to stumble, trip, or hurt ourselves (cf. discussion in Forceville & Renckens, 2013, p. 163). Thus, darkness is, in fact, correlated with negative matters such as danger and fear. ( Winter 152). Nevertheless, the others claim that experiencing horror could be considered as enjoyable activity with healthy tendencies for human psychology. This belief is based on various scientific researches and is actively distributed by the horror admirers who are mostly embodied by Internet communities. According to Katerina article The Paradox of Horror: Fear as a Positive , the pleasure derived from horror fiction is cognitive. Usual antagonists of horror novels and movies are usually our standing conceptual Since people are trying to find a logical definition for the nature of unknown creature, along with fear goes curiosity. The most accurate explanation of attraction to the subject of fear is given in the work of Stephen Asma Monsters on the Brain: An Evolutionary Epistemology of . The study presents an examination of a woman with an impairment of amygdala, the brain part responsible for fear. Respectively, the woman was defined as absolutely fearless. During experiment the subject had contacts with frightening materials as horror movies, venomous species, objects of common human phobias, etc. However, the woman showed extreme interest in horrific matter and strong desire to touch and observe provided material. Even though the identification error usually leads to fright, in that case inability to identify scaring object caused an aspiration to interaction and examination. Fear, in this view, is not a result of cognitive confusion, but runs on a different physiological pathway altogether. Placing fear before cognition (rather than as a consequence) is more consistent with our understanding of evolution. Mammal emotional adaptations (like fear) were under construction for hundreds of millions of years before symbolic cognition arose in Homo. Relying on the results of the test, it was proven that humans can decouple two pathways (indicative and imperative) and fear can be reattached to alternative kinds of creatures/perceptions. We may need to distill the horror experience, and other emotionally charged judgments, into a parallel process of affect and cognition, a process usually so interwoven that it appears as one united experience (and in animals always remains so) ( Asma 951). Familiarization with products of the genre of horror could be claimed to be an important part of emotional learning. Via observing unknown creatures and situations, people replay various scenes in their mind in order to find out how to act efficiently. As all opinions are based on psychological response to cognitive confusion, there is a suitable way to find a compromise. Due to the fact that there are conventional stereos in horror industries related to darkness and downward direction, people are got affected by primal animal instincts. Children are able to understand the simplest methods to scare as they are still in process of getting to know the world. An interesting alternative could be an opportunity to hold a regular competition oriented on fresh and unusual ideas among horror filmmakers. Screenwriters with most extraordinary and intriguing finds will be rewarded by budget and equipment provision. This method will provide the arrival of new employees to the industry and help to move away from bored stereotypes. Moreover, as scenarists will look for completely new concept of dread, they have to give up previous primitive fears of humanity and choose alternative recipe based on psychological horror, strained life situations, and grave sullen atmosphere. Such content will be complicated for children and even if they are aquatinted with the source they will not understand the meaning and will not be scared. Furthermore, parents may take roles of guides and start their familiarization with horror genre under appropriate control. The leading role of a parent will protect children from experiencing frights which are too harsh for their age, but will let them try some sources which are not fully horrific but contain only few elements of frightening. With parental control children may have a slight introduction to the concept of the genre and allow them to avoid traumatizing practices. To sum it up, modern horror products mostly rely on basic human fears. Primitivism of contemporary dreads is too understandable for young minds, and they usually end up traumatized with formed concepts of what must frighten them. At the same time, experiencing fear is an important part of emotional learning and finding best ways to cope with stressful situations. As horror is inevitable piece of life, exploring possible and impossible situations supplies practically useful information. The best way to prevent the ones who are too young for extreme fear from emotional trauma is parental control and gradual introduction to the genre with the help of parental assistance. Though, for global progress of the genre it is necessary to hold regular competitions on behalf of new ideas from scenarists. Searching for new concept will help to give up typical horror standards and discover new opportunities for filmmakers. Furthermore, plot complication will make horror products more interesting for adults and less understandable for children. Work cited Asma, Stephen T. on the Brain: An Evolutionary Epistemology of Social Research, Winter 2014, Vol. 81 Issue 4, p941-968. 28p. Bantinaki, Katerina. Paradox of Horror: Fear as a Positive Journal of Aesthetics & Art Criticism, Fall 2012, Vol. 70 Issue 4, p383-392, 10p. Winter, Bodo. Movies and the Cognitive Ecology of Primary Metaphor & Symbol, 2014, Vol. 29 Issue 3, p151-170, 20p.