Kulow !1 Nathan Kulow Professor Phillips ENC1102 January 29 2017 The Federal Reserve The Federal Reserve (or the Fed) has been controversial since creation in 1913. The Fed is a privately run central bank that controls the financial sector of the economy, purpose is to promote the stability of the U.S. economy and the financial system. The Democratic Party, and the Constitution Party are at opposite ends of the spectrum in terms of their opinion on the Fed; in order to satisfy both stakeholders, the most reasonable compromise would be to heavily audit or democratize the Fed. The Democrats believe that the Fed is very crucial to the U.S. economy as a whole and should remain private, while the Constitution Party is lobbying for the complete abolishment of the Fed. The Fed is known for not only printing money, but also implementing certain policies in order to encourage economic growth, creating employment, profits, etc. The Fed does this by using several tools to control the lending and interest rates of big banks. Though how the Fed works is very complex, the Salem Press Encyclopedia writes an eloquent segment to make things clear on how the Fed attempts to achieve these goals, most important actions of the Federal Reserve involve lowering the discount rate and the federal funds rate to deal with unemployment problems or financial crises, and raising them when the economy experiences inflationary problems. Lowering these rates make it cheaper for banks to obtain money to lend out. Banks can then lend money at lower interest rates, which encourages borrowing and spending by individuals and business firms. This generates more production, Kulow !2 profits, employment, and economic (Pressman). The Fed operates with a unique structure; it is labelled to be part of the government, but is completely isolated from the government to apparently insulate them from any political pressures. Though how exactly it is a part of government is still unclear. The main reason there are so many who oppose the fed, is because it is unconstitutional, and because the entire money supply is controlled by the Fed. According to the Salem Press Encyclopedia, main criticism of the Federal Reserve has been that it protects banks and the U.S. financial system but not average citizens. The Federal Reserve tends to worry more about inflation (which hurts banks, whose loans get repaid in dollars that are worth less) than about unemployment (which hurts the average citizen through job loss and stagnating wages). It also protects financial institutions (for example, bailing out Bear Stearns when it was near default from making bad mortgages) but does little to help individuals unable to make mortgage (Pressman). Assuming both opinion on the Fed is based on their motives to help society prosper as a whole, a compromise must take place in order to achieve this. The majority of the Democratic Party has faith in the Fed, unlike many, they blame much of the recent economic crises solely on Wall Street. The Democratic party makes this obvious on their official site, will protect and defend the Federal independence to carry out the dual mandate assigned to it by both full employment and low against threats from new To restore economic fairness, Democrats will fight against the greed and recklessness of Wall This party believes the Fed to be essential to the U.S. economy. One problem many people see with the Fed is the fact that many of the members of the board are actually executives of the financial institutions. Note that these Kulow !3 members of the Fed are the same people the democrats blame for the inequality of wealth in America. because of this issue the Democrats address this their site, will also reform the Federal Reserve to make it more representative of America as a whole, and we will fight to enhance its independence by ensuring that executives of financial institutions are not allowed to serve on the boards of regional Federal Reserve banks or to select members of those Aside from this proposition, the Democrats wish to do nothing but protect the Fed from any new policies that could jeopardize independence. This party is also responsible for the initial creation of the Fed; according to financial expert and writer, Henry Parker Willis, The Federal Reserve Act signed by President Woodrow (Willis) who was a Democrat. While Democrats are in favor of the Fed the Constitution Party is lobbying to completely abolish the Fed. This party believes strictly in the Constitution; anything considered unconstitutional is opposed by this party. The Constitution Party writes this in their Platform, stand opposed to any regionalization of governments, at any level, which results in removal of decision-making powers from the people or those directly elected by the This statement applies to the Federal Reserve. They consider the current monetary and banking system to be unconstitutional. federal government has departed from the principle of  money as defined by the U.S. Constitution and the Mint Act of 1792 and has granted unconstitutional control of the monetary and banking system to the private Federal Reserve The Constitution party has created a small list on what must be done to reform this unconstitutional system; to the money system set forth in the Constitution; Repeal the Federal Reserve Act, and reform the current Federal Reserve banks to become clearing houses only; Prohibit fractional reserve More and more people are beginning to Kulow !4 consider the aforementioned list of acts the Constitution Party wishes to implement. Former columnist for the Wall Street Journal George Melloan writes, popular pressure for serious monetary reform is building as consumers see their buying power eroded by the sinking value of the (Melloan 16). Melloan goes on to reiterate comments that were said at a conference in Washington assembled by a number of first-rate economists; at the conference used words like  to describe an inflationary policy that robs the poor, destroys the savings of the elderly, erodes the middle class as living standards fall even for people with jobs, and accommodates government profligacy that enriches the politically (Melloan 17). These are the main reasons why the Constitution Party and many people wish to abolish the Fed and return to the gold standard. While the Fed may seem utterly corrupt to some, the Fed has the ability to help the U.S. economy if their policies are used correctly. The Constitution Party would have to give up their idea of completely abolishing the Fed, and the Democratic Party must give up their wish to protect the independence. A viable compromise to help the financial system of the U.S. would be to give congress complete oversight of the Federal Reserve. As of now, Congress has no oversight of the Fed. Paul Kupiec states the current of the Fed is unable to see, with or for foreign central banks, governments, or non-private international financing organizations; Deliberations or actions concerning monetary policy; Federal Open Market Committee transactions; Discussions and communications between Federal Reserve members, officers or employees associated with the prior three (Kupiec 97) If Congress were given oversight of the Fed these transactions, meetings, etc. could be monitored. Kulow !5 This compromise would be beneficial to both and their goal for the economy to prosper. In order for the Fed to be beneficial, Congress should know how exactly the Fed uses their powerful instruments and where the trillions of dollars is spent during economic crises such as the housing bubble in 2008. Kulow !6 Works Cited Democratic National Committee. Reining in Wall Street and Fixing our Financial . Democrats. Democrats.org. N. p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Kupiec, Paul H.1. Federal Reserve Accountability And  Assurances Et Gestion Des Risques 82.3/4 (2015): 95-110. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Melloan, George. Return To The Gold  American Spectator 45.1 (2012): 16-21. Academic Search Premier. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Pressman, Steven. Federal  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Willis, Henry Parker. The Federal Reserve  American Economic Review 4.1 (1914): 1. Business Source Premier. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.