Suarez Vanegas 1 Jouline Suarez Vanegas Mr. Phillips ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Intermediate Draft: Censorship in Schools Many people argue whether it is necessary for censorship to exist in schools. Others argue about to what extent schools should promote censorship. Censorship is essential to the learning environment but not necessarily to a great extent. The Academic Journals organization with the Journal of Law and Conflict Resolution is about how censorship is necessary because it promotes a safe environment. However, ERIC, the Institute of Educational Sciences is really against censorship because of how it limits the education students receive and how it allow them to learn about important things in life. The Institute of Educational Sciences and The Academic Journals organization with the Journal of Law and Conflict Resolution should monitor their views towards censorship. They should agree to include censorship in school to a small extent that will benefit students academically and socially. Both sources should motivate schools to include an agreement for students to be against hate speech, racism, and violence because of their moral values. They should also provide a good explanation as to why they should censor certain things that will cause violence and try to promote the safest learning environment possible. The Academic Journals organization with the Journal of Law and Conflict Resolution talks about how censorship is something that is necessary. It talks about the different Acts and laws that have been put in favor of censorship in the environment. It mentions how The Suarez Vanegas 2 Espionage Act was to include any disloyal, profane, scurrilous, or abusive language concerning the United States (Abbasi, Al-Sharqi, 23). It mentions how laws are against censorship in order to maintain peace within society and also to maintain the country in favor of the government. Also, it mentions how also hunt down citizens and journalists accessing disallowed websites to create a ubiquitous atmosphere of fear, harassment, and (Abbasi, Al-Sharqi, 21). This organization believes that it is terrible to have a violent atmosphere because of not having censorship. It encourages the thought of governments being against citizens and punishing them for not censoring their materials. It also mentions how it is against people posting things on social media can potentially harm people, sets, races, and religions, (Abbasi, Al-Sharqi). This article about censorship in the environment promotes people to censor their words that are against other morals. This article is therefore in favor of students censoring their materials and words in order to have a safe learning environment without harming other feelings for being against their morals or beliefs. Just like the Academic Journals organization with the Journal of Law and Conflict Resolution, the Journal of Instructional Psychology is in favor of censorship in schools and the learning environment. The Journal of Instructional Psychology states that is argued here that censorship is only valid, ethical, and required when it appears to be the only way to provable physical, social, emotional, or intellectual harmful outcomes for students, teachers, or the school (Petress, Ken). This article therefore provides a list of exact things that should be censored in school and gives an explanation of why they should be censored. It want students to feel excluded or offended by racist comments against their morals. Another thing this article mentions is that when things are censored in schools, is the most expedient, safe, and familiar way to keep salacious, frightening, inciting, overwhelming, words or Suarez Vanegas 3 images out of reach of students that might likely or contradict what is intended to be taught in the (Petress, Ken). This journal, just like the Academic Journals organization with the Journal of Law and conflict Resolution, promotes a safe and peaceful learning environment. It also encourages the students to agree to what they are being taught about important subjects instead of viewing censored articles or things that will make them be against their teachers. Even though it is important to have censorship in schools, it is also important to limit the amount of censorship in order to encourage freedom of speech in school. The Institute of Educational Sciences is against censorship in schools to a great extent. It has many articles in favor of freedom of speech and encouraging students to be able to express themselves freely. In one of their peer reviewed articles, Intellectual Freedom for Young Adolescents, Katherine Bucher and Lee Manning mention that adolescents need to be aware of the problems caused by censorship and must support and protect intellectual They mention how students should still be able to learn about the censored things in society that are important. Also, they encourage students to support others and the freedom in the country. Another article in the Institute of Educational Sciences is Developing a Curriculum in Intellectual Freedom: What Our Students Need to Know.