1 Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102 1/28/2017 Video Game Effect on Children Video games are a growing entertainment medium in age. Their popularity grows to challenge even television and movies in some aspects. Video Games can be violent, and their popularity among children is large. Many people believe that Video Game violence can have a negative lasting effect on youth. The Television Council (PTC) is an organization that has turned its attention towards Video Game violence and aims to reduce exposure to it. Play is a charity that believes Video Games are a positive force for children and families and that violence as depicted in videogames is not mentally damaging to children. Both of these organizations have opposing viewpoints in their view of the effect that violence in videogames has on children, but there is an option for them to compromise. If the two groups collaborated to create a presentation for students in schools to inform and educate students about the possible dangers of violence as depicted in Video Games the result would be a net-positive for both groups. The Television mission states their goal is protect children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the media, because of their proven long-term harmful They originally were founded with their attention towards television, but as Video Games found their way into more possession they spread their gaze towards that medium. In the Journal an article written by Neil McLatchie and Tobias Greitmeyer found that behavior is triggered when victimizers perceive the victim to be less human. In the study 2 subjects were told to play three different games, a violent game, a neutral game, and a pro-social (with the goal to help rather than defeat or help) game (GreitMeyer and McLatchie 660). They found that those that played violent games were observed to have a higher behavior of and Mclatchie 661). This information lead the authors to form the belief that this dehumanization of subjects and video games makes it easier to act aggressive or violent in real life as one dehumanizes for a differing opinion or for being of an outgroup (GreitMeyer and McLatchie 664). On the own website they have published an article entitled Violence: An Examination of Violence, Graphic Violence and Gun Violence in the in the article The PTC investigates the amount of violent acts, depictions, or graphic language present in media and how it these examples are becoming more prevalent and numerous with time. They then examine the amount of children that are exposed to the programs in question. They conclude this study by referencing school shootings and listing violence in the media alongside other topical issues such as mental health, and access to firearms. From this conclusion their position on the importance of the issue of violence in video games is clear. They do not believe it is beneficial to children and that its spread should be diminished. On the opposing side of the issue lies the charity, Play. They are charity that dedicates themselves to the lives of children hospitals and domestic violence shelters through the generosity and kindness of the videogame industry through the power of On their website banner its stated that since 2003 they have raised over 40 million dollars for their cause. Play was founded by two web comic artists to challenge their readers to refute the negative depiction of games and gamers in general media, largely directed at a article entitled Video games are training children to On their website they have a guide posted entitled the Video Game The guide was created with the goal of providing children in hospitals a sense of comfort and normalcy as they grow through what is often a life changing trial or experience. For various 3 symptoms such as pain, anxiety, sadness or even the duration of their stay different video games are recommended to children. On this list games such as Street Fighter and Order of or displayed, each with strong themes of violence, war and horror respectively. This guide displays that play believes that violence in video games can be beneficial to children, even therapeutic. As opposed to the PTC, play prefers looks at the good that is possible to accomplish using video games as a medium, rather than the negatives. AN article published in English by Kristie Jolley titled Games to Reading: Reaching out to Reluctant supports the Play stance that games can be beneficial to children, but from an educational perspective. In the article, reluctant readers are motivated by reading material inspired by games from being unengaged with reading as an activity entirely (Jolley 83). The books most discussed were those from franchises such as Warcraft, and all with strong themes of violence. The author also found the opposite to be true, books from franchises with movie, or video game adaptations were found to be more attractive to the students in question as well (Jolley 85). This information illustrates that these violent video games can serve as a bridge towards motivating unengaged students and displaying video games as a force of good in lives. Both Play and the PTC have opposing opinions on what role they believe violence in video games has in lives. Play believes they can be used to improve lives and provide relief and therapeutic treatment. However, the PTC believes that violence in games is a growing trend with negative effects on children, socially and mentally impacting them negatively. The two groups can reach compromise that is mutually beneficial to their goals however. If the two groups collaborated to create a presentation to students to educate them on these depictions of violence and explain to them the meaning and imagery behind several images or situations present within games it would be a successful endeavor for both organizations. However, both sides would be forced to compromise, The PTC would have to both accept that students are playing these games and that they 4 will be exposed to these themes, but they will be able to warn students of their dangers and prepare them mentally. Play would have to compromise on their values by acknowledging that violence in video games can be damaging without context and, they would have to represent games in a somewhat negative light by showing a darker side of what they believe is a force of good. Joy D. Osofsky writes in Future of how exposure to various types of violence affects children and what best enables them to cope can point to important This information shows that a presentation that properly presents depictions of violence with a certain context and understanding can help children better understand violent imagery, in relation to separating those depictions to real life. If the presentation by Play and PTC can be extended to include a separate portion for education that would prove even more beneficial, as parents a crucial in understanding of violence that they see and witness (Osofsky 42). This compromise be too difficult to enact. Two things are crucial to seeing this actuality, Play and the PTC must agree upon the exact content within the presentations, and they must organize the presentation with the principal or school board in order to have access to students within a school setting. Neither of these goals are out of the realm of reason as schools have often been open to from 3 rd party entities and both organizations dedicate themselves to children and well-being, neither would staunchly oppose a compromise with the other. Out of all the information presented, it is evident that violence in video effect on children is not a clear science. It can be used to benefit children, both mentally and educationally, however there is also evidence and widespread belief that it can be damaging to children. More than anything else it is important to educate our children on the growing phenomenon around them in the internet age, as well as traditional education. As the gaming industry keeps growing larger it will become an issue that needs to be addressed more and more. 5 Works Cited Greitemeyer, Tobias, and Neil Mclatchie. Denying Humanness to  Psychological Science 22.5 (2011): 659-65. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Jolley, Kristie. Games to Reading: Reaching out to Reluctant The English Journal, vol. 97, no. 4, 2008, pp. Web. 29 Jan 2017. Osofsky, Joy D. Impact of Violence on The Future of Children, vol. 9, no. 3, 1999, pp. Web. 29 Jan 2017.  Therapeutic Video Game Recommendations. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://childsplaycharity.org/>. Media Violence: an Examination of Violence, Graphic Violence, and Gun Violence in the  Parents Television Council . N.p., Oct. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://w2.parentstv.org/>.