Mr. Adam Phillips ENC 1102.026S17 1/29/2017 RNC and the DNC: Immigration There are many facets to the issue of immigration. The two stakeholders that hold the most sway in the issue are the Republican National Committee (RNC) and the Democratic National Committee (DNC). These two stakeholders disagree on many subtopics in immigration and, historically, the collaboration between the two that is necessary to make changes and fix the issues has been less than successful. Both stakeholders desire to make the country a better place and allow immigrants to enter the country and contribute their own, individual qualities to move this country forward. The differences between the two are the proposed ideas that will make the most improvement. However, due to the common interest, there is a compromise that will satisfy some of the key platform ideals, given the two committees be willing to collaborate in the interest of improving upon the broken system. The elimination of such as Atlanta and Miami in conjunction with the cessation of deportation raids of neighborhoods due to the majority ethnicity would vastly improve the immigration system and satisfy the two stakeholders platform agendas. The RNC platform agenda for immigration focuses heavily on deportation and building better defenses against those who wish to enter by illegal means. The committee proposes to build a wall across the entire southern border, to defend against drug, weapons and human trafficking. To the same effect, those who help people cross the borders illegally by either trafficking, forging fake documents, or harboring those who have made it across safely, should be punished to the full extent of the law. The committee also wishes to abolish the idea of amnesty and enforcing the SAVE program (Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements) to ensure that public funds have not been granted to those who have arrived and are staying illegally. The idea of a sanctuary city is to allow immigrants to more easily live without the fear of being deported. One initial problem with the idea is it encourages growth in those cities and that leads to more sanctuary cities in that region. As Richard Cebula said other things, then, the results in this study imply that the well-being of the undocumented immigrant population residing in the U.S. was positively affected by a greater number of Sanctuary (Cebula 1). The municipality has created laws that keep law enforcement from requiring documentation for people suspected of being in the country illegally and distributing documentation to these immigrants such as licenses as well as the ability to be employed by not requiring the enforcement of the federal immigration laws. The committee even goes so far to say, violate federal law and endanger their own citizens, they should not be eligible for federal funding. Using state licenses to reward people in the country illegally is an affront to the rule of law and must be (Platform 1). The reason for these claims is the idea of somebody actively not engaging is the same thing as aiding and abetting, which is illegal to do for someone who is a fugitive of the law. The DNC has had a long-standing platform of streamlining the process of immigration and advocating for the passing of the allowing underage persons who have illegally obtained entry into the country to become temporary citizens and if they meet further qualifications, permanent citizenship. These, along with the ending of raids on neighborhoods of immigrants by governments officials to deport those who live in cities illegally are the policies that the DNC believes will be the best way to better the immigration policies in this country. The DNC, while not having the same strong stance for deportations, has the same strength of stance for ending raids. They are quoted as saying will end raids and roundups of children and families, which unnecessarily sow fear in immigrant (Democratic National Committee 1). These raids not only sow fear but also, as stated by Nathan Treadwell the past several years, United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement ) has made warrantless home raids a key component of interior immigration enforcement. Such raids, which frequently bring in otherwise law-abiding undocumented immigrants, violate the Fourth Amendment when they take place without the consent of a member of the (Treadwell 1). For the reasons of legality and the outright disregard for the rights that citizens and those legally in this country share, the DNC is very against these raids, and wishes to end them. Since there are many differences in ideals that lead to a divide between the committees and the ideals on the issue of immigration are no different. However, there are many compromises that can be made to allow for both parties ideals and desires to be met. The main issue with proposing a compromise to the two parties is their willingness to work together to build a better nation and come up with better policies. The best way to initiate a change and start an open dialogue between the two biggest stakeholders in the issue is to provide a small compromise that will hope fully lead to better and more frequent agreements. Since the RNC places a huge emphasis on deportation and prosecution of those illegally in the country or those who aid in the process, the initial compromise will eliminate the protection of illegal immigrants by harboring them in cities where they can work and obtain drivers licenses. The other half of this compromise will eliminate the use of by the state and federal government by going into neighborhoods that have strong immigrant representation and raiding the tenements looking for those who came illegally. It can also be stated that both sides need a strong ethnic vote to win elections and this compromise will leave both sides appearing to be supportive of Latino persons. (50%) of all Latinos say that the situation of Latinos in this country is worse now than it was a year ago, according to a new nationwide survey of 2,015 Hispanic adults conducted by the Pew Hispanic (Lopez 1). If this compromise were to happen, another benefit would be the positive image amongst this demographic and would start a change there as well. This is a good compromise because both sides have their main ideals intact while only giving up a little. The RNC may have to find other means to prosecute and deport those illegally in the United States but they will do so in other, less invasive means, including in cities where they previously had no ability to. The DNC must allow for more deportations to happen to minors and those who would be previously protected and endorsed by the DREAM act, but they do gain a lot through means of peace of mind for those peoples who live in neighborhoods that predominantly consist of immigrants. To conclude, this compromise is an ideal starting point for both parties. Since there has been such a historically, long standing debate that has come to an utter stand still, there needs to be and original compromise that is small enough for both committees to become used to the idea of working together, but also large enough to make some real change. The persons that lead these committees are the biggest stakeholders in any issue the government must face, and that includes immigration. The DNC and RNC will work together on this issue because both sides have something to lose, but so much more to gain. If the government can remove the sanctuaries that those who are hidden illegally in this country reside in, while also removing the fear of men raiding neighborhoods, it provides a sufficient compromise for both sides as well as enables the immigrants who live in this country legally more comfortable. It will also push those who might otherwise try and enter illegally, to rethink their position and come illegally due to the increased hardships they will face by being in this country illegitimately. The elimination of such as Atlanta and Miami in conjunction with the cessation of deportation raids of neighborhoods due to the majority ethnicity would vastly improve the immigration system and satisfy the two stakeholders platform agendas. Push this plan forward into congress, and immigration reform can begin to happen in a way that will benefit all. Works Cited Cebula, Richard J. Give Me Sanctuary! The Impact of Personal Freedom Afforded by Sanctuary Cities on the 2010 Undocumented Immigrant Settlement Pattern within the U.S., 2SLS  Give Me Sanctuary! The Impact of Personal Freedom Afforded by Sanctuary Cities on the 2010 Undocumented Immigrant Settlement Pattern within the U.S., 2SLS Estimates (2015): n. pag. Journal of Enconomics and Finance. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/docview/1817498306/fulltextPDF/4F434D25C7 8D4AB9PQ/1?accountid=14745>. Chip, William W. Immigration Made  The American Conservative (2013): n. pag. Ebsco Host. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=2fa6d259-111c- 406c-95a5-00e5d6998ca9%40sessionmgr103&vid=1&hid=103>. Democratic National Comittee.  Democrats.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.democrats.org/party-platform#broken-immigration>. Lopez, Mark Hugo, and Susan Minushkin. Hispanics See Their Situation in U.S. Deteriorating; Oppose Key Immigration Enforcement  Hispanics See Their Situation in U.S. Deteriorating; Oppose Key Immigration Enforcement Measures (2008): n. pag. Pew Hispanic Center. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pewhispanic.org/files/reports/93.pdf>. Lopez, Mark Hugo, and Susan Minushkin. Hispanics See Their Situation in U.S. Deteriorating; Oppose Key Immigration Enforcement  Hispanics See Their Situation in U.S. Deteriorating; Oppose Key Immigration Enforcement Measures (2008): n. pag. Pew Hispanic Center. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pewhispanic.org/files/reports/93.pdf>.  GOP. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.gop.com/platform/reforming- government/>. Sullivan, Michael J., and Roger Enriquez. THE IMPACT OF INTERIOR IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT ON MIXED-CITIZENSHIP  THE IMPACT OF INTERIOR IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT ON MIXED-CITIZENSHIP FAMILIES (2016): n. pag. Ebsco Host. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=93b12dd4-d775- 4e13-8c2a-3683fd6c98ff@sessionmgr101&vid=4&hid=103>. Treadwell, Nathan. FUGITIVE OPERATIONS AND THE FOURTH AMENDMENT: REPRESENTING IMMIGRANTS ARRESTED IN WARRANTLESS HOME  Lexis Nexis. North Carolina Law Review Association, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/?verb=sr&csi=7349&sr= AUTHOR(Treadwell)%2BAND%2BTITLE(Fugitive+operations+and+the+Fourth+Amendment +representing+immigrants+arrested+in+warrantless+home+raids)%2BAND%2BDATE%2BIS% 2B2011>.