Adoption Children are source of life, community and future. Taking care of a child and rising him or her to be valuable person in the community is a huge burden that could be challenging for single parents to be able to create a balanced life for the child. When applying for adoption a certain criteria you have to have to be able to adopt, as of now lgbt are not allowed to adopt, why some organization are with, and some organization are against, and finding a way to coexist both sides. LGBTQ people say that they have the wright to adopting and having a family. One of the stakeholder that fight for this wright is Family Equality Council. The Family Equality Council its goal is to create equal families for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer. There moto is love, justice, family, equality. All parents care worry about the same thing which is their children. Even lgbtq parents have the same worries as a normal men and women parents. Research showed that children with lgbtq parents are raised with quality of respect and bright future. Whereas American Family Association are against LGBTQ adopting a child. Their goal is to keep and apprise traditional family. A father figure, a mother figure, and a child figure. Most of these stakeholder are religious regime. Where it is believed that family should only consist of to parents a man and a woman. Having a man and a woman relation is reasonable to adopt a child where they can create balance between two genders. Like in some aspects a man is better than a women in do and it would be easy for the man to teach that stuff to the child. Both sides and every human agreed that there are many babies and children in urgent need to a family, love and home. Children will be healthier to be in loving family than a foster or orphan place. Love cannot be found outside a family, regardless of the family if it is guy or lesbian or the tradition parent. The love is the essential nutrition for children to grow. These children will grow up in the community to be good men and women the fruit of love of a parents. As Pope Francis says should not be defined only by their sexual tendencies: let us not forget that God loves all his creatures and we are destined to receive his infinite So we all agreed of the value and the important of love for children, let us come to a compromise between both sides to have as in lgbt community to live as nearby of group of two houses hold with two lesbian parents and another house with two guy parents so that way the can provide to the children the absent element that both families could be missing but they can offer it to each other. The Gay & Lesbian Parents Coalition International is one of the organization has facilitated this idea. As for the organizations that are against accepting the new family look. It would for everyone benefit that the new family look to be with some effort that have a similar structure of a traditional family but with a new flavor. The children will grow up with an open mindless without having the rules and boundaries of you are a girl cannot do that or you are a boy you should not do this. In the end everyone in the universal is human and no one is similar to the other person. We creature that sometimes prefer the ideal image of one plus one equals two. And other times admit that being human is enjoying imperfection and live thankfully. Works Cited Family Equality Familyequality.org - http://www.familyequality.org/ Home https://www.afa.net/ Regnerus, Mark. How Different Are The Adult Children Of Parents Who Have Same- Sex Relationships? Findings From The New Family Structures  Social Science Research 41.(2012): 752-770. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Cianciaruso, Lauren B., and Adrienne N. Zavala. Culturally Competent Care For Nontraditional Family  Osteopathic Family Physician 5.(2013): 217- 224. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Fedewa, Alicia L., Whitney W. Black, and Soyeon Ahn. Children And Adolescents With Same-Gender Parents: A Meta-Analytic Approach In Assessing  Journal Of GLBT Family Studies 11.1 (2015): 1. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.