1 Project 1 Intermediate Draft The National Alliance on Mental Illness acknowledges mental illness as real diseases, and promotes the education of mental health, helping people find proper help for their illness and promoting healthy psychiatry practices. The Antipsychiatry Coalition believes that mental illnesses are made up by people who cannot cope with life and believe that certain forms of psychiatry is abuse. They promote the belief that psychiatrists torture their patients and seek to help people who are being by their psychiatrist or therapist. They are in conflict with each other. The only thing these two organizations have in common are the belief in promoting safe psychiatry practices. To make a compromise, they could help each other find and shut down unsafe psychiatry institutions and together promote the belief of safe psychiatry. The National Alliance on Mental Illnesses main goal as our first stakeholder, is to help build better lives for millions of Americans dealing with mental illnesses. Founded in 1979, NAMI started out as a group of families promoting mental health, and is now todays leading voice in our nation on mental health. NAMI is an association with community centers all around America to promote awareness and provide support for those with mental illnesses in need. They rely on donations and gifts to fund their works. Nami runs a toll-free help line that provides free referrals, support and information and also is used just a support for someone who just needs to talk. They also run education programs, help shape public policies for mental health in states, and hold public 2 awareness events. They have a magazine that is published three times a year and covers topics relating to mental health. They also have a mental awareness week and hold NAMIWalks successfully fight stigma and encourage The second stakeholder, The Antipsychiatry Coalition is a organization consisting of people who feel we have been harmed by psychiatry-and of our supporters. We created this organization to warn you of the harm routinely inflicted on those who receive psychiatric and to promote the democratic ideal of liberty for all law-abiding people that has been abandoned in the USA, Canada, and other supposedly democratic This organization runs a serious website/forum that promotes the belief that mental illness is a myth that people made up with and society made up to help people avoid their problems in life. They list many accredited about topics like liberating mental patients, myths of depression and mental illnesses, how psychiatry is torture, electroshock therapy is archaic and abuse and things like how psychiatry should be abolished as a medical specialty. They hold marches all over the world to protest electroshock therapy. They believe psychiatry should be abolished as a medical specialty because school education is not needed, nor even helpful for doing counselling or so-called psychotherapy, because the perception of mental illness as a biological entity is mistaken, because other than counseling or psychotherapy (primarily drugs and electroshock) hurt rather than help 3 To create a compromise between these stakeholders will not be a challenge, more like the plan I propose would not work for quite some time due to the lack of funding and our current feelings on mental illness. While the Antipsychiatry Coalition does not believe in mental illness and sees psychiatric help as a sham, they are right about electroshock therapy and institutions/therapists that do actually abuse their patients as being wrong and immoral. No one should be abused/tortured or used just as a guinea pig for research without their consent and sadly there is many institutions that still do that to this day. The National Alliance on Mental Illnesses tries to help people find the right help for their mental illness and seeks to help people who have been abused by their psychiatric help, get the right healing and support they deserve. Both the Antipsychiatry Coalition and The National Alliance on Mental Illnesses have this goal in common. I believe that over time and with the right funding, these organizations could come together and locate these psychiatrists and institutions that abuse their patients and put them to an end, while also helping choose the right healing option for said abused patients. While both organizations would still have different beliefs on mental illness, at least with helping the abused patients, they could offer two different sides of the topic and give the patients many options for healing and support. The National Alliance on Mental Illnesses and The Antipsychiatry Coalition could work together over time to put an end to abusive institutions/psychiatrists and help offer support and healing for people with mental illnesses. It would just require copious amounts of funding to put into action and for our nations treatment and feelings on mental illnesses in society to change. Together both of these organizations could just offer many options for people suffering with mental illnesses. Work Citations 1. http://www.nami.org/About-NAMI 2. http://www.antipsychiatry.org/ 3. http://www.antipsychiatry.org/abolish.htm