Gill 1 Jordan Gill Murray ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Clothing for Animals For as long as history records, humans have always worn clothing. However, never in history has it been normal for an animal to wear clothing. What exactly defines who can and cannot wear clothing? Animals should be held to the same regard as humans and start to wear clothing because it is considered public indecency to be naked in public, it will keep the animals warm regardless of the surrounding climate, and the clothes can give the animals a sense of fashion. Animals should start to wear clothing because it is considered public indecency when one is naked and in public. If a human were in public with no clothing, he or she would get arrested. Nonhuman animals should be held to this standard as well because technically we are both considered animals and we both live together on the same Earth. It is simple fact that clothes keep humans warm, so why not for animals as well? There are two types of animals: those who are warm-blooded and those who are cold-blooded. Warm- blooded animals, such as humans and dogs, maintain a steady body temperature regardless of the surrounding climate. According to Alan Mulhall, an editorial for NASA, a warm-blooded animals eats plenty of food to keep warm, in which small amount of the food that a warm- blooded animal eats is converted into body mass. The rest is used to fuel a constant body (Mulhall). If all animals were clothed, their bodies would use less energy to maintain the body temperature and could instead be directed toward something else. On the other Gill 2 hand, cold-blooded body temperatures are similar to the temperature of the climate they are in. animals are much more active in warm environments and are very sluggish in cold environments. This is because their muscle activity depends on chemical reactions, which run quickly when it is hot, and slowly when it is Mulhall). To some animals, this could mean life or death. Whether the animal is catching food or running from predators, the mobility would depend on the temperature. Now, if a cold-blooded animal was wearing something to keep it warm always, the animal could then either successfully catch its food or run away. Animals have no sense of style or sense of individuality. According to Samantha Hurn, a social anthropologist, is one of the myriad of ways in which humans attempt to separate themselves from or align themselves with each (Hurn 110). If animals start to wear clothing, it could promote a sense of individuality among the animals by them deciding what to wear and how to wear it. All animals could have distinguishing clothing, similar to how American clothing is different from Asian clothing, which is different from Hispanic clothing. In doing this, this will provide people with more jobs to make and design animal clothing. Plus, both the animals clothing and the animals in the clothing would be adorable and entertaining to look at. Some people would be against the idea of animal clothing, saying that tend to rely exclusively on their own skins, fur and plumage for protection from the (Hurn 110) and therefore do not need clothes. However, animals and society is always evolving, so why not let clothing evolve as well. Some animals are more susceptible to harsh weather, such as baby penguins who need the warmth of their parents to keep them alive, and would live an easier life if they did not always have to worry about how to find warmth. This idea is not a relatively Gill 3 new idea, either. According to an article written by Alex Boese, a museum curator, man named G. Clifford Prout also brought up this idea in the 1950s. He created SINA, or Society For Indecency To Naked Animals, in which he tried to clothe all animals. His society used catchy slogans such as: today means morality and nude horse is a rude (Boese) In summary, animals should wear clothing due to the public indecency laws, to be kept warm, and to be fashionable. History is always changing and evolving, so should the rule regarding animal clothing. Gill 4 Works Cited Boese, Alex. The Society for Indecency to Naked  Museum of Hoaxes. Museum of Hoaxes, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hurn, Samantha. Dressing Down: Clothing animals, disguising  Civilisations 59.2 (2011):109. Web. Mulhall, Alan. Warm and Cold Blooded  Warm and Cold Blooded Animals. NASA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.