Miller 1 Chase Miller TJ Murray ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Examining The Reason Why Instructors Should Assign More Essays On Absurd Topics At first glance, the idea of assigning essays on seems rather counterintuitive to improving a academic success. What may be surprising is that, as with many things, these hereby referred to as do quite the opposite. To examine this viewpoint and make sense of what seems to be the rambling of an immature student, important to first bring into question what an absurd essay is. The word absurd is defined as being inappropriate and illogical, which when applied to an essay or academic writing seems to clash rather strongly. Trying to write an academic essay, specifically to make and support and argument professionally on a topic that is inherently seems to defeat the purpose and function as busy work. On the other hand, writing is seen as an intrinsically creative process which implies a degree of illogicality. The idea that an academic essay can be both logical and appropriate while also utilizing creativity now seems to have some discrepancy, meaning that there must be a balance between the two polar opposites. All be it, a professional argument should be based off a rational idea, learning and instruction on the topic of writing should incorporate absurdity into the process to build the creativity of students minds to allow a more productive writing process on future endeavors. Now that the connection between absurd essays and an improvement in academic success has been somewhat established, the reasoning behind why absurdity should be incorporated into comprehension instruction can be more effectively examined. Writing and comprehension Miller 2 instructors, regardless of their location, should choose to assign more essays on absurd topics in order to promote creativity as well as the added consequence of desensitizing students to the fear of writing on topics that seem difficult to discuss or lack ample direct evidence to support. Although, as previously mentioned, absurd essays seem counterproductive to academic success due to their level of immaturity. Despite this reasonable and common conclusion, introducing absurdity, and thusly a degree of immaturity, into writing and comprehension instruction benefits the students academic and developmental progress. First and foremost, the benefits of creativity in academic success are undeniable and thus largely rationalize the implementation of absurd essays into the rubric for writing and comprehension courses. Creativity is something that is difficult to impart on an individual and even more tenuous to teach to an individual, but none the less is vital to success in academia and life. An article written by Dee titled golden thread: educator connectivity as a central pillar in the development of creativity through childhood education. An Irish life history shows the direct results of an ability to promote creativity in academia by outlining multiple experiences and success in life juxtaposed to subjects of similar upbringing that lacked this development of creativity. One of the specific compared in study consists of Rachel; a self described happy individual who makes crafts and established a dynamic private school; and Mannus; a leading research health scientist with a PhD. When asked to describe their experiences in primary school Rachel has happy memories of instructors allowing her freedom and aiding in her engagement, promoting her creativity and thusly empowering her academic success. Compared to experience, Mannus had his creativity stymied and his freedom held at ransom for his unwilling engagement in the classroom, leading him to describe more negative events of the time and having a barrier to Miller 3 his learning 675). Not only have past experiences shown that developing creativity in an academic setting is vital to success, even current instructors are lobbying for more creative writing in literature classes. Jessica article is Not a Luxury: Students (Re)Writing American entirely discusses assignments and methodologies behind implementing creative writing assignments into literature classes to improve creativity, and thus build upon the architecture of our (Labbe 50). Considering the information presented should be fairly obvious as to how creativity is a well worth while consequence of incorporating absurd essays into writing and comprehension instruction. Creativity not only correlates to success in academia and life in general, but allows a new and improved approach to difficult and unfamiliar tasks and thus, as previously stated, largely rationalizes the implementation of absurdity into literature instruction. Keeping in mind the innate difficulty and uncomfortability associated with absurd essays, the addition of improved creativity as well and continued exposure to absurdity in a writing environment desensitizes students to the fear of future more serious and important academic ventures. Absurd essays require a bit of creativity to work with due to the estranged nature of their topics, meaning that direct evidence for these topics may be absent or unreasonable to acquire. This combined with the general discomfort of having to find a way to write on a topic that is more illogical and difficult to discuss can create aversion behaviors in students and even associate a fear with the assignments. This is taken to the extreme due to the absurd essays requiring more strangeness and creativity to write on, and thus helps desensitize students to that level and type of obstacle in academia and life. The method and benefits of systematic desensitization, the type of desensitization discussed with absurd essay assignments, can be better explained in the article of emotive imagery in the treatment of childhood Miller 4 phobias: clinical guidelines, case examples and by King et al. The general idea behind it is that childhood phobias, like the fear of difficult or hard to support topics, can be conditioned out of the subject by continually exposing the subject to varying degrees of their fear. Many students get to college and discover that the topics for their essays and reports are very specific and require some level of thought to fully compose. Exposure to absurd essays throughout the academic career as well as in a college setting would vastly improve the ability to perform more difficult academic writing tasks, as well as assist later in life with difficult to overcome obstacles requiring more creativity and composure. The benefits of absurd essays in academic setting are difficult to contest but there exists a degree of opposition to the idea when applied to a broader audience. While the benefits of absurdity in an academic setting are, as mentioned, rationalized rather well, there exists a body of opposition due to the general immaturity associated with the ideology. Absurdity has a degree of connotative immaturity associated with the name and thus an absurd essay has immaturity associated with it that tends to lead people to disregard it as useless. The article written by Mullola et al titled temperament and educational attainment: A population-based cohort embodies, to a degree, this opposition to the implementation of absurd essays. The study outlines the 4 hypothesis of personality types affecting academic success and finds that the factors that one could attribute to maturity; i.e. harm avoidance, novelty seeking and reward dependence, persistence, and reliability; directly affect academic performance (Mullola et al. 43). While these ideas make sense that the components of the factors representing immaturity correspond to lower academic ability, some degree of immaturity is natural and adaptive. The article Adaptive Nature of Cognitive by Bjorklund and Green discusses how cognitive immaturity develops through the lifetime of individuals and Miller 5 tells of its adaptive nature when presented with obstacles. The article explains how older people consider poor metacognition, a common side effect of immaturity, to be a disadvantage but then explains that who are out of touch with their own intellectual and motoric abilities may, in some situations, have an advantage. One benefit of poor metacognition, we believe, is motivational. beliefs in their good track record foster feelings of (Bjorklund and Green 47). Some level of immaturity can be helpful to students success even if the idea seems maladaptive to the general eye. After considering all of the benefits of improved creativity and exposure to absurdity and its fearful components, the small negative consequence of immaturity can be overlooked. This immaturity can even be used as a spring board to improve academic ability through self efficacy and self image, thereby eliminating the hindrance of a healthy degree of immaturity. Taking into account all of these factors, writing and composition instructors should more seriously consider utilizing more absurd essays in their agendas to improve students creativity as well as eliminate the fear of difficult to overcome obstacles later in life, regardless of the small backlash of a manageable amount of immaturity. Miller 6 Work Cited Bjorklund, David F., and Brandi L. Green. The Adaptive Nature of Cognitive  American Psychologist 47.1 (1992): 46-54. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. King, Neville J., David Heyne, Eleonora Gullone, and Geoffrey N. Molloy. Usefulness of Emotive Imagery in the Treatment of Childhood Phobias: Clinical Guidelines, Case Examples and  Counselling Psychology Quarterly 14.2 (2001): 95-101. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Jessica. Creativity Is Not A Luxury: Students (Re)Writing American  Teaching American Literature 8.2 (2016): 50. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mullola, S., M. Hintsanen, M. Elovainio, L. J. Lipsanen, K. Josefsson, T. O.t. Raitakari, and L. Adulthood Temperament and Educational Attainment: A Population-based Cohort  Learning and Instruction 40 (2015): 39-53. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dee. The Golden Thread: Educator Connectivity as a Central Pillar in the Development of Creativity through Childhood Education. An Irish Life History  Education 3-13 44.6 (2015): 671-81. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.