Clark 1 Gabrielle Clark Instructor: TJ Murray ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Speed Limit Reduction The definition of as defined by the Mirriam-Webster dictionary states that it is act or state of moving For some the word can generally be associated with the poor habit of speeding while operating a personal vehicle. A reduced speed has been shown to lower road fatalities, lower vehicle emission rates, and increase situational awareness. Posted speed limits should be reduced in order to promote a safer driving environment. Reducing the posted speed limit has been shown to lead to a lowered road fatality rate. Within the past few years news of deaths on the highway and local roads had plagued society leading to hesitant travel. In a report presented by the New York Post it is shown that with a speed reduction to 25 miles per hour in 2014, New York City saw a 10.5 percent decrease in all fatalities. Moss, a professor of urban planning at NYU and the director of the Rudin Center for Transportation Policy and Management. think very important that New York City has a continuing trend in an effort to control speed and to design for pedestrian  Lowered posted speed limits leads to lower vehicle emission rates. Various studies have been conducted to show the correlation between vehicle emissions and global warming. One such study was conducted by the London Congestion Charge System in which they studied how lowered vehicle traffic in the accompanied with lowered speed limits led to a lower rate of NOx emissions. Clark 2 With a lower speed limit it will promote more situational awareness amongst drivers. To most drivers a posted sign is simply a rather than a law and see it as okay to go a few miles per hour over the limit. This justification is proven incorrect by the amounts of distracted drivers and crashes. A lower speed limit will lead to a better chance of increased reaction times. What many drivers realize and take into consideration is the road terrain and how this factor is already weighed into the speed limit imposed by the state or local agency. Although research has been shown to back the idea of lowering posted speed limits, various amounts of contradicting research has also been presented. For example, little research has been provided to show the overall effectiveness of lowering speed limits compared to NOx emission rates. With increased technology in personal vehicles the government and car manufacturers have been able to cooperate and therefore adequately advance the Eco boost technology in modern cars. This has led to the ability to increase the amount of commuters on the roads while simultaneously lowering emission rates. In conclusion a reduced speed has been shown to lower road fatalities, lower vehicle emission rates, and increase situational awareness. Although controversial this topic should be heavily considered in age of increased personal travel. Posted speed limits should be reduced in order to promote a safer driving environment. Clark 3 Citations Keller, Johannes. The impact of reducing the maximum speed limit on motorways in Switzerland to 80 km on emissions and peak  Environmental Modelling & Software 23.3 (2008): 322-32. Web. Islam, M.D. Tazul. The impact of lowered residential speed limits on vehicle speed  Safety Science (2014): 483-94. Web. Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web Road deaths drop after speed limit  New York Post [New York, 2 Jan. 2016. Sayed, Tarek. Evaluating the safety impact of increased speed limits on rural highways in British  Accident Analysis & Prevention 95 (2016): 172-77. Web. Wang, Xu, Yuwei Bie, Tony Z. Qiu, and Lei Niu. Effect of speed limits at speed transition  Canadian Journal of Civil Engineering 44.1 (2017): 10-17. Web.