Jordan Santos Spencer ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Effects of Anesthesia on the Human Body If you have ever had surgery you know then it is hard not to be nervous and a little antsy. Imagine not being able to have anesthesia while you are having surgery, and the pain you would experience just at the beginning stages of the surgery. Anesthesia plays a huge role in the comfort of the patients as well as the comfort for the surgeon. What if that necessity in every surgery was causing postoperative effects for several hundreds of patients. After everything that they have already been through now they have to deal with this new or even reoccurring problem. The topic of this paper is go over how this topic is affecting people and how we could even solve this problem. The two main stakeholders in this paper are specific researchers who are studying how anesthesia effects the brain and The United States Public Health Services. The disagreement between these two stakeholders is The United States Public Health Services believes the issue is not quite a detrimental occurring case where the researches believe the case numbers can only increase from here on out. A possible compromise for the two is to set protocols for the group of people who are most afflicted by this topic while funding for research could increase to better understand the effects anesthesia has on the body. Furthermore, the first stakeholder on this topic is The United States Public Health Services (USPHS). The mission of the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps is to protect, Santos !2 promote, and advance the health and safety of our Nation. As uniformed service of public health professionals, the Commissioned Corps achieves its mission through:Rapid and effective response to public health need ,leadership and excellence in public health practices, and advancement of public health science (usphs.gov). Regarding the topic at hand USPHS believes the affects anesthesia are not dangerous and do not affect the patient for long periods of time. The side effects are not harmful and are common after most surgeries. In all USPHS believes the issue is not critical and there are other more important issues at hand. With respect to the patients who do have these side effects but they do acknowledge where more serious side effects occur but the are considered rare and nothing in the medical field is certain. Secondly, the view that my second stakeholder have has some differences in the topic. Researchers have been constantly putting out information about the effects on how anesthesia may be effecting and cognitive brain function and in the human body itself. Researchers have found an increase anesthesia has on postoperative cognitive dysfunction, as well as reoccurrence of cancer, within the elderly population and young children (Ologunde and Ma 151). Along with more common affects like emergence agitation, loss of cognitive function for motor control, and delirium, a confused state of mind (Lee et al 58). Also researchers have already been looking at a possible solution to the problem with a replacement to anesthesia. GTS-21 is the solution to anesthesia still in the early stages of studies with current trials with rat subjects. The point of view researchers are taking is to solve the problem as early as possible while they can still control it. Since anesthesia is such a big part in the medical field and a lot has been done with it. There is understanding that there is still a minute of cases where serious effects have reoccured Santos !3 but research is leading to more knowledge how anesthesia is affecting the population and believe some protocols should be adjusted due to what has been learned. Next, the reason why these two stakeholders cannot agree on a compromise is USPHS look upon the bigger pictures in the country. Issues that need immediate attention. Like disease outbreaks and naturally occurring disasters that have left people deprived go supplies (usphs.gov). On the other hand the researchers are looking at smaller details and are looking at future issues that may become a major issues later on. That is why there is issues coming up with a compromise because USPHS and researchers have different point of views and different ways of dealing with issues at hand. Nothing against either of them they just have different jobs and different protocols within their communities. They could work hand in hand since the researchers could warn USPHS on future events so they can work together to save lives. That is why a compromise could be gathered for these two stakeholders. A realistic compromise between the two stakeholders could be a simply as putting protocols on anesthesia for the people that are most effected. In doing so which the most most people that are affected are the elderly population and young children. That may sound easy but these protocols must precise for several situations and determines situations where anesthesia but be used and how to handle these situations. These protocols can be used to save several cases where effects occur in situations anesthesia is used but could be avoided with different protocols for certain situations. In doing so patients can be happier and money could be saved for hospitalls and government agencies. The second part of the compromise is USPHS could find more funding for researchers to continue finding results anesthesia may have on cognitive brain function and on the human body. This could serve as a base for finding a solution to a problem Santos !4 that could increase it cases yearly and increase in number of dangerous and life threatening postoperative effects. In conclusion, the stakeholders have several difference on their view of the topic but the both are working for the better of all people. USPHS may look at bigger issues at hand while researches are looking at all the same details but they is no resign for a compromise to be found that benefits all point of views. This compromise could better society and save lives and unnecessary pain for many people. Santos !5 Work Cited Fei-Juan Kong, MD, Lei-Lei Ma, MD, Hong-Hai Zhang, PhD, and Jia-Qiang Zhou, 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist GTS-21 mitigates isoflurane-induced cognitive impairment in aged of Surgical web. Rele Ologunde, Daqing inhalational anesthetics cause cognitive Anaesthesiologica web. UnCheol Lee a, George A. Mashour b, Seunghwan Kim c,*, Gyu-Jeong Noh d, Byung-Moon Choi induction reduces the capacity for neural information integration: Implications for the mechanism of consciousness and general and cognition journal web. N.d. Web, 5, September, 2014 Sellbrant , M. Brattwall , P. , M. Warren-Stomberg , S. Forsberg , J.G. Jakobsson. and analgesics; neurocognitive effects, organ protection and cancer reoccurrence an Journal of 41-46 web.