Student 1 Student Professor Nancy Lewis ENC 11002 27 January 2017 Food Waste and Preventative Methods In order to help reduce the amount of food being wasted in America, food recovery agencies are doing their part to reach restaurants, farms, markets, and farmers markets to collect fresh food that is unsellable and otherwise headed to the trash. Food Forward is an organization founded in 2009, they rescue food from wholesale produce markets, markets, and even produce from back yards of neighborhoods. Their purpose is to reduce food waste by gathering as much food from the 8 counties they service. Based on the efforts of this one organization, they manage to rescue about 300,000 pounds of produce each week and then they donate to hunger relief groups. On their website they show images of large amounts of food waste along with some pictures documenting their efforts and impact in the southern California community. A powerful image on the Food website shows a dumpster full of a large amount of produce along with some trash. Seeing the amount of food in the trash makes the viewer think about how much each household contributes to food waste. As side from households the majority of food waste comes from restaurants and markets disposing of what they can no longer sell or use. In figure 1 Waste In is at the top of the image in bold white letters, so it cannot be overlooked. The wording is in larger font emphasizing the problem and to get the viewers attention. In the background the bold color draws in the eye to the red tomatoes and the green zucchini. The majority of the food in Student 2 the dumpster does not look like to it should be thrown away, and it can be put to better use. This is to show the amount of perfectly good produce discarded when it can be consumed by those in need. Food Forward is trying to make a point of the issue in America and what their organization is trying to fight against. The image proves that they have a logical concern by the amount of food in the picture that is wasted. Based off of the evidence in the dumpster is one of the reasons why the organization was started. In viewing this image Americans can agree that this an issue that needs to be addressed. Another rhetorical device that this image appeals to would be a sense of pathos. When a viewer first sees this image, one of the thoughts that should first come to mind is how much food gets thrown away in their own home. By realizing the amount of that is disposed of in their household, and multiplying it by other neighborhoods across America. Sympathy for those in need that have even a meal a day, while others throw away perfectly good food. The organization has a tab labeled we that documents their efforts in the community, by recovering produce and providing it to those in need. Figure 2 displays three people that could be either staff or volunteers. There are two females and one male, of different diverse backgrounds and walks of life to show that anyone can be part of this organization. They are all smiling and happy to be helping out by providing food to their community, which makes the viewer want to be a part of. The people in the image are standing behind boxes of produce that seems to be collected from different areas in the community to be distributed. In the boxes are fresh produce, they stacked the boxes almost as tall as the people in the picture to show the quantity of food they have rescued. Some of the produce is visible, but the majority are inside the boxes that have the name Food Forward with the image of an orange on them. Student 3 Since the company logo is all over the boxes, it shows that the nonprofit is a credible source and the amount of food they collect is being put to good use. Food Forward has been involved in retrieving food that would otherwise be discarded since 2009. The ethos is shown by the trustworthy brand displayed on about 22 boxes that they have saved which is great progress, but without Food Forward all that food would have been wasted. When viewers see these boxes with the logo of the organization they want to know who it is, where it comes from, and how they can be a part of the movement. This is because the volunteers and staff dedicating their time to help out in any way they can. Since those in the image are smiling and show a sense of pride based on their efforts, one feels good that there are groups that show some concern and want to help feed others. It is a great picture showing people coming together for a great cause. The effervescences of the group rub off on the viewer in hopes of the audience wanting to contribute as well. The organization carefully put images on their website that make the viewer understand that food waste is a problem and that Food Forward is assisting by retrieving usable food. These images make a clear statement of the amount of food they contribute to the community from markets, wholesale markets, and The images also help promote making a change and to help get people involved in the issue of food waste. The intention is to reach out to as many people as they can that can help the cause. On the website they document both extremes of food waste. Showing the large amounts of food wasted in America to the large amount of recovered food by the non-profit group. Food Forward displays their groups goals to help by diminishing the amount of food wasted in America. Their website encourages people to become informed on the issue and shows them ways to aid in their efforts to reduce the waste of food that is still edible. E.g. Word Count:1,013 Student 4 Work Cited Lane, Emily et al. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text. Donnelly, Dianne. Audience, Purpose, and Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentaion. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 71-81. E-text. Student 5 Figure 1: https://foodforward.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/Food-Waste-in-America.jpg Figure 2: https://foodforward.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/Where-We-Work.jpg