Emily Schonder Prof. Spenser ENC1102.019S17 29 January 2017 A Laissez-Faire Stance on Animal Rehabilitation Solution Are acts of terrorism justified if for the well-being of animals? How about keeping them in cages many times smaller than their natural habitat range? Both the Animal Liberation Front (ALF), and Sea World Parks (SWP) see each other in this hateful light, but if we take a step back we realize both of these organizations have well-being at the heart of their causes. ALF fights to free animals from research facilities and other places that prevent animals from being left to their own devices in the wild. SWP has a rehabilitation division that cares for injured wildlife and more often than not releases them back to the wild. ALF believes there should be no human-animal interaction since humans are the main reason animals are hurt so they too thrilled when SWP takes wildlife in and cages them to rehabilitate them. also not feasible for SWP to stop caring for these animals who would likely die if not treated. I propose that ALF donates the funds it would use towards terrorism to SWP so they can have state-of-the-art technologies to rehabilitate these animals thus expediting the process and making human-animal interactions minimal. Also, to ensure SWP holds true to their end of the bargain ALF could have a supervisor of rehabilitations placed at each park to oversee the rehabilitation process to ensure the process is done as quickly as possible. SWP has had their fair share of negative publicity, most notably the movie Blackfish. It follows the story of a captive Orca named Tilikum, who had killed a few trainers in his lifetime because of his but this movie, and self-proclaimed documentary, has been combated by a website called Sea World Cares. Their website contains a plethora of viable information negating the premise of Blackfish, not only that but their rehabilitation and animal care page is on the same site. The Sea World Cares webpage informs readers that SWP takes care of about 85000 animals within their park on top of rescuing, rehabilitating and releasing thousands more. The have one of only 19 Zoo Nutritionists in the world full time on staff. They also have a building at Busch Gardens (one of sea parks) called the Animal care center where visitors can watch the 4 doctors on staff perform surgeries, which widely opens them up to scrutiny, fully exposing the process in which they care for these animals. They are members of the Association of Zoos and Aquariums as well as the Alliance of Marine Mammal Parks & Aquariums. Which is impressive because less than 10% of Animal exhibitors are AZA certified. (Entertainment, n.d.) SWP are not only members of these prestigious institutions, they are also regulated by a multitude of federal laws and bylaws such as the Animal Welfare Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the Marine Mammal Protection Act. Their mission statement, simply put, is as follows Inspire, Act. We inspire people to protect animals and the wild wonders of our world. Committed to the safety of our guests and employees and the health and wellbeing of our (Ambassador, 2017) The Explore relates to the exploring the guests do and the freedom they have to choose what the learn. The Inspire is the learning aspect, learning about these animals will inspire a change within the guests and open their eyes to the wonders of nature. The Act is acting upon that inspiration through the rescue and rehabilitation of wildlife and the care of the animals in their parks. ALF only agrees with 1/3 of SWP mission statement. They want people to be in awe of and respect animals but to not interfere with their lives unless the humans are liberating the animals from research facilities or any place that causes them harm. mission statement, taken from their official website is as follows ALF Mission Statement: To effectively allocate resources (time and money) to end the  status of nonhuman animals. The Objective of the Mission: To abolish institutionalized animal exploitation because it assumes that animals are (Berlin, n.d) which seems to be stated rather well in terms. ALF also has its own plethora of negative press. Acts of terror, such as firebombing in Huntingdon, PA of a vivisection car. But ALF reject the negative press as SWP does. In fact, they embrace it and boast of it on their website. But they think of it as negative press, they boast of their acts of terror but label it as rescue. For example, when talking about activism in the US they state example for North America is the University of Oregon, Breeding Facility which saw 264 animals (12 hamsters, 28 cats, 24 rabbits, 100 rats and pigeons) rescued October 26, 1986. $120,000 worth of damage was inflicted on the boasting in the amount of monetary damage they did to the facility. They even have a page on their website trying to discredit SWP by calling them industry of n.d.) This cite contains links that either exist anymore or are not credible. For example, one of the links leads to a blog page aimed towards saving Japanese dolphins with no mention of Sea World or any of their parks on the blog page. They do consent on the hypocrisy page that SWP does save a few marine mammals but they say its nominal in value compared to the revenue made by the industry. The most credible part of website is its official Press page. (North, n.d.) This is when the terror personally kicked in. They have a portion of their page titled to ALF. It includes subsets called Agents, Infiltrators, and Snitches that contains names and pictures of federal agents and a couple of their license plates along with civilians that they believe in one way or another oppose ALF. (Agents, n.d.) The purpose of this section, although not directly stated but amply implied, is to insinuate and promote violence towards these people. One of these stakeholders radically attempts to care for the wellbeing of animals while the other strictly follows all the rules. Therefore, finding a compromise that would please both parties involved seemed to be a nearly insurmountable task. I propose that in order to protect both humans and animals ALF should donate what funds they would use terrorizing SWP to SWP rehabilitation centers in order to get state-of-the-art equipment to expedite the rehabilitation of these injured animals thus minimizing the human-animal interactions. In order to assure their money is in fact going towards the expedited healing of these animals ALF would have a supervisor of rehabilitations at each of parks. This would both ensure funds are properly being used and allocated to the correct areas of the parks and also keep an eye on the rehabilitations themselves to avoid any unnecessary human-animal interactions. Works Cited Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. Our Passion for Animals and the World-Class Care They  Care. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <https://seaworldcares.com/en/care/>. >Miscellaneous citation below? Handbook an option. (accessed 30 January 2017) Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. 2017 Ambassador Handbook. 2017. SeaWorld Parks Employee Handbook. Tampa. Berlin, Ann. Worldwide news and information about the  Animal Liberation Front. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://animalliberationfront.com/index.html>.  Animal Liberation Front. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://www.animalliberationfront.com/Practical/Entertainment/SeaWorldsHypocrisy.ht m>. North American Animal Liberation Press Office. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://animalliberationpressoffice.org/NAALPO/>.  North American Animal Liberation Press Office. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://animalliberationpressoffice.org/NAALPO/agents/>.