Choto Segovia 1 Alicia M. Choto Segovia Mr. Spencer Bennington ENC1102.008 01/29/2017 The Bitter Taste of Chocolate: Child Labor The chocolate candy industry represents a $100 billion market, and the settlement of this empire is in the cocoa bean. The cocoa bean is the seed of the cacao tree (Theobroma cacao) a tropical plant from Mesoamerica. With the pasta of the cocoa beans the chocolate liquor is obtained, and with this, the cocoa powder and chocolate candy. The harvest of the cocoa occurs in two periods: from October to February, and from May to August. The seeds of the cacao are cut from the trees to opened with machetes (a broad blade); then, the beans are remove from the pods and cover with plantain leaves to dry them (Cook). However, the harvest process is a dangerous hard work, special for children, who, for different circumstances, are forced to work in the cocoa farms in precarious conditions. According with the International Labor Organization more than 200,000 children are working in cocoa farms in Ivory Coast and Ghana in the forms of child (IPEC). Child labor in the cocoa farms have been presented since the popularization of chocolate, but the controversy started in the late 2000 when several international media reported that children were trafficked and employed in large cocoa fields in West Africa. After this information was public, the major chocolate companies expressed their concern with the issue and started to create initiatives to solve the problem. One of these initiatives is the Nestle Cocoa Plan, which aims to address supply chain issues such as child labor, gender inequality and poor social conditions by giving access to education to the communities and training the farmers to improve their productivity to increase their income. The most ambitious aspect of Choto Segovia 2 this project is to reduce child labor in West Africa by 70% by 2020. Nestle Cocoa Plan claims that they are on the way of achieving their goal, and that they exceeded their expectations in 2015. On the other hand, the U.S Department of Labor in collaboration with the Payson Center for International Affairs at Tulane University have conducted a research in Ivory Coast and Ghana (West Africa) to collect objective data of children working in the worst forms of child labor in the cocoa growing areas. The first results of the survey showed that 2.1 million children had been engaged in child labor in Ivory Coast and Ghana a 21% increase over the 1.75 million identified in its survey five years earlier The contradictions with this two organizations in notorious, but both share a main objective: end with child labor in the cocoa fields. This can be done by creating a collaboration plan between private companies, labor organization, and governments in which they share funds and logistic data to identify the affected children and to create the correct intervention for them. The Nestle Company is aware that children are working in cocoa areas. Also, they argue that not company sourcing cocoa can guarantee they have eliminated the risk of children working in their supply chain, but they are determinate to tackle the problem. In words of Jose Lopez, Nestle Executive Vice President for Operations, use of child labor in our cocoa supply chain goes against everything we stand The strategy of Nestle Cocoa Plan to avoid child labor has several steps; the first step is addressing the root causes of child labor by training farmers to improve their productivity to increase their income. Second, making sure farming communities have schools nearby by building them or renovating them. Third, enabling mothers of children at risk to generate their own income to cover the school cost. And fourth, providing children with school equipment and uniforms. The Nestle Cocoa Plan website displays their progress in 2015 exceeded our objective of purchasing 100 000 tons of cocoa 25% of our total through the Cocoa Plan. We Choto Segovia 3 also trained 44 617 farmers, distributed 1.6 million plants and achieved our ambition to build or refurbish 40 schools over four Even though all these accomplishments, international organizations, like the Payson Center for International Affairs, deem that the progress is slow and that there are still a lot of children suffering child labor. The research of U.S Department of Labor, in collaboration with Payson Center for International Affairs at Tulane University, is focus in create estimates for the prevalence of children working in the worst forms of child labor in the cocoa growing areas in West Africa, and to measure percent changes in the prevalence of the worst forms of child labor in the cocoa plantations. The results of this ongoing research are concerning, the research found that the number of children performing dangerous tasks decrease by 6% in Ghana but increase by 46% in Ivory coast. This means that 2.1 million of children have been involve in dangerous forms of child labor in the 2014-2015 harvest season. After the release of the results, the pressure over the chocolate companies from the U.S Department of Labor to eradicate the problem increased, and questions about the effeteness of foundations such as the Nestle Cocoa Plan emerged. Why is this hard to fix? is clearly a complex problem that has its roots in poverty, and rural poverty no less. And if the problem is rooted in poverty, then the solution, in a way, is as complex as poverty eradication. And in the grand scheme of things, you know, 15 years on a journey of poverty eradication that says Nick Wetherill, executive director of the International Cocoa Initiative The common ground with Nestle Cocoa Plan and the U.S Department of Labor is eradicating child labor from the cocoa plantation. Unfortunately, this process cannot be as fast as the U.S Department of Labor requests. The decrease by 6% of child labor in Ghana is not coincidence, noticed that Ghana was the first country in which The Nestle Cocoa Plan Choto Segovia 4 started working. Nevertheless, the efforts to solve the issue must continue, and it can be more effective if the stakeholders collaborate with each other. It is possible to create a compromise with Nestle Cocoa Plan and the U.S Department of labor by implementing a program of collaboration between them. Through the Survey of the Payson Center, the U.S Department of Labor has complete statistics of the areas where the child labor is functioning. By sharing this data with the Nestle Cocoa Plan, the two stakeholders can design the best way to improve the lives of the children in this communities. To be more specific, the data that the U.S Department of Labor will improve the steps that the Nestle Cocoa Plan has already taken because it will identify and organize the specific intervention that each child needs. In addition, the U.S Department of Labor already had child labor agents that are supporting the data collection process, with the correct training of these agents, they can make sure that the interventions efforts of the Nestle Cocoa plan are taking place. To summarize, child labor is a complex problem and it will take decades to be eradicate, but advances in the subject can be achieve if private companies, labor organizations, and governments started to worked together instead of doing insolates interventions plans. Choto Segovia 5 Works Cited Bertrand, Willian E. Elke de Buhr. Research on Child Labor in West African Cocoa Growing Payson Center at Tulane University. 2012- Ongoing. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. http://www.payson.tulane.edu/projects/survey-research-child-labor-west- african-cocoa-growing-areas Nestle Cocoa Plan Web. 27 Jan. 2017. http://www.nestlecocoaplan.com/ Cook, L. Russell, and Ed.  Encyclopedia Britannica (2014): Research Starters. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. International Programmed on the Elimination of Child Labor (IPEC) Child Labor in Cocoa Web. 28 Jan.2017. Brian. Bitter  Fortune 173.3 (2016): 54-73. Business Source Premier. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.