Weber 1 Holly Weber Benningtion ENC 1102 27 January 2017 The Great GMO Debate GMO labeling has recently become an increasingly controversial issue in the United States, creating a sharp divide between many food production agencies and organizations throughout the country. Genetically modified organisms, GMOs, include any and all organisms that have been genetically changed or modified using genetic engineering systems (Facts About GMOs). Large food production companies generally advocate the use of GMOs in farming and crop growing industries, by implementing the use of genetically modified seeds and insecticides. GMOs often provide greater crop yield than a non-GMO product, along with a decreased amount of energy and resources needed to grow GMO crops (Facts About GMOs). Through the use of GMOs, the rate of food production increases for the least amount of time and money. For large food production companies, such as General Mills, the use of GMOs is essential to providing the customer with the most amount of variety, and the cheapest price (Facts About GMOs). These companies may also use GMOs to increase their crop yield, which subsequently decreases the amount of time, effort, and resources needed to produce crops. However, many organizations would like the use of GMOs to be disclosed, through the use of a labeling system that would inform the general public and average customer with information regarding the ingredients in the food they are consuming. Organizations such as Just Label It, advocate for the use of a mandatory labeling system that would ensure that every customer is able to gain knowledge about what is in the food they are consuming. These organizations commonly believe that the customer has the to what is in their Weber 2 food, and food production companies should respect this right by providing a label on their products that allow customers to understand what is in the food products they are buying, and whether or not they contain GMOs. Food production companies such as General Mills seem to be completely at odds with organizations such as Just Label It on the subject of GMO labeling, however a compromise could be proposed that can benefit both organizations. To inform customers about what is in the food products they are consuming, General Mills could provide a QR code on their food products that would lead to a webpage detailing information about the use of GMOs in their food products, ultimately providing the customer with the knowledge of ingredients that are present in the food products they consume. Just Label It is an organization that advocates for the implementation of a government mandated GMO labeling system. Just Label It firmly believes that customers have the to what is in the food products they consume (Just Label It). JLI argues that the vast majority of the world, roughly 40 countries, have implemented a mandatory labeling of GMOs in food products, and regulate the use of GMOs in their food products (Newswire). The United States is one of the only developed nations in the world that does not have a regulated labeling system (Just Label It). In order for customers to make the most informed decision about the food they are consuming, JLI believes that customers need to be aware of whether or not they contain GMOs. The idea that customers have the right to know what is in their food is central to their campaign. JLI states that than 90% of Americans support the mandatory labeling of genetically modified foods (Just Label It). Since well over three-quarters of the US population supports the labeling of GMOs, JLI argues that the government is infringing on the to by withholding information about the use of GMOs in food products, in favor of the interests of large food production companies, such as General Mills (Just Label It). In order to Weber 3 grant customers their to Just Label It has partnered with multiple organizations the healthcare community, consumer advocates, farmers, concerned parents, environmentalists, food and farming organizations, businesses, the faith-based community, and many more. . to raise awareness of GMO labeling and inform the government of the issue (Just Label It). Of these partners, concerned parents make up a vast majority of JLI supporters, and JLI is urging parents to the one million other Americans who have already expressed their support for labeling so that they will be able to know about the food they feed their (Newswire). General Mills is a large food production company that is against the implementation of a mandatory GMO labeling system. They produce many food products including Cheetos, Betty Crocker products, Pillsbury products, among others. General Mills states that GMOs have been approved by multiple health agencies and have been used by farmers in food crops for more than 20 (General Mills) They believe if there is no immediate danger to a health by using GMOs, they can be a viable way to achieve the greatest crop yield by using the least amount of natural resources and sustaining the environment (General Mills). Along with their support for global sustainability, GM also recognizes the impact of food scarcity around the world, stating that shows promise to address such issues as strengthening crops against drought and extreme temperature, and delivering more nutritious food, even in poor soil (General Mills). Therefore, General Mills believes that GMOs can provide ways in which food production can reach a broader scale and, in time, decrease the amount of worldwide hunger (Bain, Carmen, Dandachi). General Mills has continued to emphasize their opposition of the implementation of a mandatory GMO labeling system, stating that GMOs are and that shifting to a non-GMO labeling system would be relatively impossible, given the Weber 4 use of (Bain, Carmen, Dandachi). However, General Mills continues to strive to produce the best products for their customers, stating that care about the foods they eat so we care about the foods we (General Mills). Both Just Label It and General Mills have proven to be invested in the average customer, and strive to provide the average customer with the best products and knowledge about their products. GM and JLI put customers at the forefront of their mission, and therefore could not be as successful as they are without the support of the average customer. Since each of these organizations value the needs of the a compromise may propose a way in which JLI and GM can work together with the common goal of providing the customer with the best products and knowledge possible. In order to propose a compromise that would benefit both stakeholders, information would have to be given about the use of GMOs in products, however it necessarily have to be a label. Profit is one of the main concerns for General Mills, and they are worried that through the implementation of a non-GMO labeling system, the informed customer would shy away from products that contain GMOs, therefore reducing customer base and overall profit. To help combat this issue, General Mills could provide a QR code, instead of a non-GMO label, that enables the customer to scan the code and be directed to a webpage informing the customer about the use of GMOs in the specific product they are interested in. With the implementation of a QR code, it would not be an immediate clue as to whether or not the product contains GMOs, but the interested customer could gain this information if they felt it was necessary. Through the implementation of this compromise, General Mills would have to agree to provide the QR code, and give up not putting any label on their products. However, General Mills would be still able to generate a generous profit, since the QR does not provide an obvious clue as to whether or not GM Weber 5 products contain GMOs. Just Label It would have to be willing to settle for a QR code, instead of a clear label. However, Just Label It would still be able to give the customers access to information on GMOs in products, since the QR code would enable customers to find this information. Recently, Nestle incorporated a labeling system, and it has been very successful in its implementation (Nestle). Despite concerns about profit being hindered through the implementation of a labeling system, Nestle has been able to keep a steady profit comparable to the profit they were making before its implementation (Nestle). Although Nestle did not implement a QR code, it did implement a type of labeling system and it was very successful in doing so. This successful implementation by Nestle provides important clues as to the success that could be achieved by a QR code, which would provide similar information, although not as obvious, as a non-GMO label. Even though General Mills and Just Label It seem to be on opposite ends of the spectrum concerning GMO labeling, through the use of a QR code labeling system, each of these stakeholders would benefit from its implementation. Customers would be able to view information on GMOs to make an informed decision; however, it would be more discrete than a label. Through the implementation of the proposed compromise, both General Mills and Just Label It would be able to provide the best products and best knowledge, ultimately benefiting the customer. Weber 6 Works Cited Bain, Carmen, and Tamera Dandachi. Governing Gmos: The (Counter) Movement For Mandatory And Voluntary Non-GMO  Sustainability (2071-1050) 6.12 (2014): 9456. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. General Mills: Genetically-modified (GM)  General Mills: Genetically-modified (GM) Ingredients. General Mills, 2014. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. It, Just Label. Right to  Just Label It. N.p., 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://www.justlabelit.org/right-to-know-center/right-to-know/>. Nestle.  On GMOs. Nestle USA, 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://www.nestleusa.com/about-us/gmo>. PR, Newswire. Just Label It Survey: Parents Overwhelmingly Say Label Genetically Engineered  PR Newswire US 10 Sept. 2012: Regional Business News. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. The Facts About  The Facts About GMO. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <https://www.factsaboutgmos.org/>.