Schlecker 1 Emily Schlecker ENC 1102 Professor Spencer Bennington 29 January 2017 Testing for Knowledge or Testing Good Test Takers The school system has been becoming more robotic, in a sense, they only seem to care about the scores that are produced, rather than the knowledge students are actually retaining. The National Education Association (NEA) has seen this happen ever since the Child Left act was implemented. This organization does not agree with the way this system has been working, it seems to only benefit the economy of the school system, not the children themselves. But, not everyone sees testing to be as cynical. The Nation Council of Teachers of English (NCTE) believe that standardize testing has benefited the teachers in figuring out what students need help and where they excel. Although, these organizations have different views on this issue at hand, there is a common ground, they want the students to benefit in the school system, therefore, there is a process called descriptive inquiry. With the descriptive inquiry system becoming an option, it will allow for the two stakeholders to come together and be able to better the education system for the students not just the system. The school system is there to better the students understand and comprehension rather than better the finical stability of the school system. Standardized test, test what? Knowledge? How to take test? The answer may vary depending on who you talk to. If you are talking to the National Education Association, they would agree that testing always test the knowledge of a student because they have tested Schlecker 2 the data and saw it was not specific enough to full test a strengths and weaknesses (Nea.org). Students testing ability has been decreasing over the years, this could be due to the high stakes put on testing. Testing used to be about the knowledge learned in school, but it has been transforming. Now it is about learning how to take test, not just about knowing the information learned in the classroom. This is due to schools getting paid for their students to pass exams, this includes Advance Place courses, IB courses, Cambridge courses, and so on. With this incentive, schools put a load of pressure on its students to pass, so they have begun to teach it students on how to take the test and gain the correct answers, without gaining the knowledge- or only memorizing the knowledge for the exam. All this pressure can lead to anxiety, known as test anxiety. The fear of failure, lack of preparation, and poor test history are all causes of test anxiety (ADAA). With this issue arising, it has caused parents to refuse letting their children participate in taking the standardized test because it has become more of a political issue (Brown). As stated in ProQuest, opting out of tests say that their children are losing valuable learning time as teachers prepare them for the exams, which some find of dubious (Brown 2015). The time spent in classrooms pertain to learning new information and trying to retain that information through test and activities. Days spent on reviewing how to take exams and what is needed for exam testing, this is what has troubled parents is. This plan is there to help get the school board to understand that school is for learning and making students stress over just passing exams is harming to children, and it needs to be fixed. On the other hand, testing students has helped some school better the retention rate of their students. The testing they were given has help them to determine what their students are lacking and where they are exceeding in the academic status. According to the NCTE, test can teachers develop competence in using various forms of data about how students are doing Schlecker 3 and what they need in order to continue to grow- assessment for both formative and summative (ncte.org). The NCTE believes that the testing material standardized test give out do test a ability to comprehend information given to them throughout the year. Standardize test are set in place to compare schools on their achievements, the accountability on their work, and the ability to inform instructors on what needs to be educated (study.com). This process allows the school board to be evaluated and scored, along with getting a pay raise if scores have gone up. These test let the school know where they are lacking in resources and need to improve academically. Testing is also a good way to figure out which students are good at taking test and which ones need improvement. But an issue to so many standardized test, is testing the students to much to the point where they cannot think outside of the testing bubble. The testing bubble consist of students only thinking how test want them to think, and not think outside the box critically. Standardized test are composed of math, reading comprehension, science, and a writing prompt. This test, test common knowledge which is all that is required for the school system. However, there is a resolution that can combine both of the needs. Descriptive inquiry is an alternative to standardize testing, this process allows students to be tested on their abilities but in elements that can succeed in. According to Kittaka, Inquiry enables the participants to see the unique strengths of each child instead of diagnosing and (1). This compromise will allow students to feel more at ease when it comes to being assessed on their learning ability and retention rate. They are placed in a more comfortable space, where they are using knowledge and skills that they are good at. This new way of testing knowledge will be more productive to the well-being, along with a more accurate way of testing a knowledge based off of their personal way of expressing intelligence. This Schlecker 4 process also allows for the teacher to have an input on what the students are being ask. This allows the people working with the students, personally, test them on what they know they are good with. This process works for both the NEA and the NCTE, this is due to this testing process focusing on the strengths of the student, along with bringing in results for the school system to grade the schools. Bettering the school system for the students should be the main goal of the school board, and that is exactly what the descriptive inquiry does. It implements the want for testing abilities, but with a twist that benefits the students better. Making a change in the way students are being tested on knowledge can really help those who have been suffering from test anxiety and those who are just not good test takers. The school system needs to stray away from its robotic style testing, and only wanting to see test scores rather than actual knowledge. With the help of the descriptive inquiry and other source (that are soon to come) could really help the students who have been struggling. This could also help with the Child Left act, allowing students to pass their grade level. Along with excel throughout the rest of their academic career. Allowing students to work with what they are best with, is the best for for students to exceed and not get left behind. Schlecker 5 Work Cited Brown, Emma. Some parents across the country are revolting against standardized testing (Posted 2015-03-06 14:11:44): Parents are refusing to let their children take standardized tests as the issue becomes more political. http://search.proquest.com.ezp roxy.lib.usf.edu/doc view/1660998964?accountid=14745. ProQuest, 06 March, 2015. Identifying Responsibilities for Closing Achievement Gaps: Stakeholder Actions. http://www.nea.org/home/12469.htm. Nation Education Association, Kittaka, Yoshie. Descriptive Inquiry as an Alternative to Standardized Testing: Patricia Carini and Her Progressive Philosophy. Teaching & Learning, Spring 2016 Mulholland, Quinn. The Case Against Standardized Testing. http://harvardpolitics.com/united- states/case-standardized-testing/. Harvard Political Review, 14 May, 2015 Testing and Assessment. http://www.ncte.org/governance/Assessment. National Council of Teachers of English. 26 November Reasons and Purposes for Standardized Testing-Video and Lesson Transcript. Study.com. N.p.,n.d. Wed 27 Jan. 2017.