Bradley Davison DeCarion ENC1102 Campus Concealed Weapons Carry With ongoing criminal involvement on campus, some organizations are in support of allowing students with a concealed weapons permit to carry a firearm on campus. While others are not so supportive of this idea, the problem lies in the inability to come to a consensus. Several organizations are at odds in this ongoing issue causing them to rather than solving the true problem involving the amount of students who are being Robbed, Kidnapped, etc. or involved in criminal acts. Students for Concealed Carry is an Organization that is ran by students who believe in their human right to self-defense regardless of the location. While on the opposing side, The Campaign to Keep Guns off Campus, as you can tell by the name has a very specific goal seek. This organization is the only National organization of its kind and has helped stop concealed carry on campus legislation in 18 states. The purpose of this paper is to merge both of these organizations ideas and create a common ground between the two of them without bias. I believe that is possible if a separate state ran agency is implemented to help examine the physical and mental capabilities of concealed weapons permit holders to ensure that the students and/or faculty have the ability to carry on campus. Students for Concealed Carry on Campus is an organization ran by students who feel it is necessary to be able to defend themselves to any life threatening situation regardless of the location, specifically on Students for Concealed Carry plays a crucial part in the concealed carry and gun rights community. The organization is widely supported with advocates and followers in all 50 states. The organization also specifies that they are a non-partisan organization meaning that they support members from any political party or beliefs. SCCC focuses not on partisanship, but on the ability to form a common goal of an organization based on evidence and statistics. The organization uses evidence and statistics to prove that college campuses are not the safest places on earth. campuses, though typically safe, do play host to every type of violent crime found in the rest of society, from assault to rape to murder. Recent high-profile shootings and armed abductions on college campuses clearly demonstrate that free serve to disarm only those law-abiding citizens who might otherwise be able to protect The organization argues that campuses being free is just an enabler to criminals that see a highly populated area with individuals who have no means of protection or self-defense as an advantage. Placing individuals on campus with a means of self- defense could not only protect themselves but could protect others. numerous independent researchers and state agencies agree that concealed handgun license holders are five times less likely than non-license holders to commit violent crimes; because no other type of location has seen an increased rate of violent crime since concealed carry became legal Some organizations would argue that most all campuses have safety precautions implemented already so that students have a means of communication with a nearby by police agency or an on campus security agency. SCCC argues that these precautions are useful in practical situations and realize that in not every situation does the individual have the ability to reach an emergency communication device and if they have the ability to contact a security agency the ratio of students to officers is extremely small. The Campaign to Keep Guns of Campus is an organization with a purpose as simple as the title. They feel that guns being on campus would cause a rise in crime. The Campaign to Keep Guns of Campus believes that there are other ways to lower the amount of campus crime without the implementation of more firearms. gun proposed legislation would preempt an academic current policies restricting firearms on campus and allow students to possess and carry concealed handguns in classrooms, at sporting events, and other school activities and to keep guns in their dormitory rooms. The gun legislation would not stop college shootings: allowing guns on campus could, in fact, make mass shootings even The organization believes that allowing students to carry would in fact create a worse situation involving more mass shootings and campus crimes. The Campaign to Keep Guns of Campus feels that the ongoing security of campuses is already keeping college campuses safe enough. Colorado, the instances of forcible rape, robbery, and aggravated assault increased over the past four years with the last two years allowing concealed carry on campuses. In Utah, the rate of forcible rape fluctuated over the 10 year period but ultimately increased in 2012 and 2013. Robbery and aggravated assault increased (gavran 2). By conducting this comparison study of two universities that allow and do not allow concealed carry on campus they were able to see that the implementation of guns on campus does not actually lower the crime rate through statistics. They also have posted a study that shows that the relationship between gun free zones and mass shootings does not exist and that it is a myth. The beliefs of these two organizations are opposite to say the least so building a compromise will not be easy but it is the only way to make both of the and their supporters feel successful, because of the fact that their ideas are so contrasting you cannot pursue one of the organizations beliefs without completely overlooking the others. This is why common ground needs to be formed so that we can lessen the crime rate on college campuses while enacting both beliefs. This is very possible by creating a separate agency that would monitor all concealed weapons permit holding individuals on campus. Individuals who wish to carry on campus would have to undergo extensive tests and checks further than just having an average concealed carry permit. The agency would create ways of evaluating an capabilities both physically and mentally. This would rule out the common thought process that people have were they think that anybody and everybody with a concealed carry permit could just walk on campus not knowing anything about the protection of others. This would also limit the amount of individuals carrying on campus and ensure that the ones who are carrying are in fact individuals who meet the criteria and are not going to have a mental breakdown and cause another mass shooting on campus. Works Cited About - The Campaign to Keep Guns off  Keep Guns Off Campus. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://keepgunsoffcampus.org/about/>. Students for Concealed  Students for Concealed Carry RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://concealedcampus.org/about/bout/>. Gavran, Julie. on Campuses That Permit Concealed Campaign to Keep Guns off Campus. 2015