Boward 1 Mark Boward . . 29 January 2016 Compromise for the Humane Treatment of Animals Prior to Slaughter Did you know that Tyson Inc. is one of the largest, if not the largest meat packing company in the world! They make millions upon millions of dollars daily by shipping their meats throughout the global U.S. Although when money is involved, it can cause some companies to turn a blind eye to the things that should really be deemed as important when running a company with livestock as its foundation. Providing food to people all over the world is not an easy job and can not be run by any one individual, making it hard to establish new terms and conditions when it comes to animal treatment and slaughter .Although it would be difficult, doing so is far from impossible. On the other side of the spectrum are the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals or PETA who aim to demolish the harsh living environments that animals experience prior to slaughter. Where main goal is to assure us that are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment or abuse in any other People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals). Both organizations may not see eye to eye on everything although they both share the common goal of improving living conditions for animals raised for slaughter. If both of these organizations joined forces, they could produce a compromise that takes into consideration both companies/organizations goals and or prerogatives for the greater good of both of the companies and for the animals involved. A fitting compromise could include having Tyson treat their animals to more favorable living and slaughtering conditions whereas Boward 2 PETA could continue in their efforts to improve such conditions abroad as well as calming their harsh words against the multimillion-dollar company to ensure that Tysons reputation is not diminished any further. Tyson Inc. has a major hold on meatpacking in the United States as well as around the world. They provide for millions and millions of people the best quality meats they can offer with no added hormones or drugs. Taken from Tysons website products are sold to retailers and foodservice operators through the U.S. as well as about 130 (Tyson Foods Inc.). In each of those countries, they aim to promote responsible and sustainable business, ensure food safety and support their team members and local communities. Tysons core values spoken from their word of mouth include being engaged in production of food, seeking to pursue truth and integrity, and being committed to creating value for our shareholders, our customers, our team members, and our (Tyson Foods Inc.). While Tyson continues to grow, their mission stays one in the same for the most part, strive to earn consistent and satisfactory profits for our shareholders and to invest in our people, products, and (Tyson Foods Inc.). As of recent Tyson has come to terms with how they should be treating their animals according to their counterpart PETA .In a response to how important the treatment of their animals prior to being slaughtered is to Tyson, said it takes animal welfare and said it would investigate (Turner, Lance). Regardless of their opinion on animal treatment prior to slaughter Tyson holds a very large and important role in the providing of food for the world and changing something so subtle could provide a lot of benefits for this company. Boward 3 People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals or PETA for short, is the largest animal rights organization globally, with over a shocking five million members and supporters worldwide. According to their website focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals). Animal protection is the top priority of PETA members and they do what they can in order to assure their safety. By shedding light on the harsh conditions, animals have to endure during their lives in captivity, under a microscope or in slaughterhouses; more and more people have opened their eyes to where their food comes from and have decided to join their cause. In any case with over five million supporters and a voice that stretches across the world, works through public education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescue, legislation, special events, celebrity involvement, and protest (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.), in order to spread awareness toward companies that inhumanely slaughter their animals. Tyson a multimillion-dollar company that thrives off its profits made by slaughtering over million pounds of chicken on a weekly marketing & Where on the other side of the spectrum is an international nonprofit charitable organization based in Norfolk, Virginia, with affiliates for the Ethical Treatment of Animals), whose main concern is protecting animals and their rights making it easy to assume that a compromise could never be made between the two that satisfies both of their goals. If these two companies were to put their differences aside and come together to provide suitable living conditions and humane slaughtering methods for the animals in question things would be better off in the long run for both Tyson and PETA as well as all of the animals Boward 4 involved. Where establishing a working compromise would certainly be a challenge, doing so is far from impossible. Tyson and PETA certainly do have two goals that seem to be at odds with one another but they both share the same end goal of wanting to provide animals with better living conditions and more humane slaughtering methods. A realistic compromise could be made where Tyson provides its to be slaughtered animals with more humane methods of slaughter rather than just chopping off their heads and in turn PETA could continue their efforts globally as well as calming their harsh words against Tyson to assure that their reputation is not diminished any further. In such a case PETA provided the alternative method of killing, a method of using gas that Tyson says it is for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, the animal rights group that holds shares in Tyson Foods ). By establishing controlled atmosphere killing as their method of slaughter PETA would be more than happy to step off of Tysons back when it comes to discrediting them in terms of inhumane animal treatment and a compromise could certainly be made. Overall if all these conditions were met both Tyson and PETA could come to a compromise suitable for both of their purposes. By Tyson taking up more humane slaughter methods, PETA can continue in their efforts to establish animal rights everywhere while ceasing to diminish Tysons reputation. Looking to the future, if this compromise were made Tyson would increase its sales substantially by satisfying those people concerned with where their food comes from and how it was treated prior to it being slaughtered. In addition, PETA would have a major accomplishment under their belt preparing them for similar situations in the near future as well as giving them more credibility as a nonprofit animal rights organization. Boward 5 Works Cited Feed marketing &  Feedstuffs, 16 Sept. 2015, p. 3+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE %7CA430393149&it=r&asid=e7b0c3fea586eb181f65582589d1d01a. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Turner, Lance. Tyson to investigate PETA  Arkansas Business 30 May 2005: 10. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, the animal rights group that holds shares in Tyson Foods Inc., has filed a shareholder resolution asking the largest meat company to phase in a more humane method of chicken  Arkansas Business 5 Sept. 2005: 13. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of for the Ethical Treatment of PETA. 29 Jan. 2017. http://www.peta.org/ Tyson Foods Inc. Foods: Our Tyson Foods Inc. 29 Jan. 2017. http://www.tysonfoods.com/our-story