Duyen Nguyen ENC 1102 Bennington January 29, 2017 Gender Pay Gap no longer a surprise that women get paid less than men. The pay gap is reported to be 20 percent and since the process to pay equity has stalled in recent years, not until 150 more years that women will reach that equity. This controversial inequality is considered fundamentally unfair by many organizations around the world. Highly involved in the issue in America is the Equal Employment Opportunity (EEOC) and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). The EEOC, powered by Congress, prohibits sex discrimination at workplace by enforcing federal laws. The ACLU works to ensure everyone receives the right earning despite his or her gender, age, or racial background while advocating the passage of a new stricter law. Despite taking the same role as advocators against gender pay gap, the EEOC and ACLU approach the issue with different aspects and different laws. While the EEOC implements the Equal Pay Act of 1963 (EPA) to secure equal pay and states to strictly enforce only federal laws that are passed by Congress, the ACLU finds the EPA very limited and avidly advocates the passage of the Paycheck Fairness Act to update the EPA since the law has not been able to fulfill its purpose because, according to the ACLU, limited enforcement tools and inadequate even though the Paycheck Fairness Act has failed to move forward to floor. Established by Congress upon the enforcement of the Civil Right Acts of 1964, the EEOC promotes its mission of creating an equal workplace for all. One of their main roles is to enforce federal laws and investigate charges, protecting employers against discrimination of the ethnicity, religion, age, disability, or gender (Overview). Upon gender discrimination, the Equal Pay Act (EPA) is enforced to prohibit gender wage discrimination between men and women carrying the same job under the same workplace. While recognizing the accomplishment of the EPA over the past 50 years, the ACLU believes that a new act will help defend people in need like how they have been for nearly 100 years. The ACLU was founded as a group civil liberties activists in 1920 to ensure that the Bill of Rights will provide justice and protection to every American. Now as a nationwide organization, the ACLU defends rights before both state and federal and often the Supreme Court (About the ACLU). The ACLU advocates for the Paycheck Fairness Act to strengthen the law enforcement of gender-based wage disparity. The Paycheck Fairness Act would conduct stricter penalties for violations, require employers to show evidence that the pay difference between men and women are not gender- related, and direct the Labor Department to assist employers and oversee data wage-related, broken down by race and gender (Equal Pay). Under the EPA, unequal pay is justified with unlimited excuses including reasons that are irrelevant to the economic state. Even when a case does make it to court, employee often is demanded to show endless record and justification upon his or her unjustified earning. However, the founder, Congress is composed of senators and representatives who are responsible to reflect upon the consequences upon the passage of the Paycheck bill. Many of them think that the bill will only bring more lawsuits and nothing will be accomplished. The Paycheck Fairness Act had been reintroduced four times and every time, blocked before it could move forward by either Senate or House of Representative (Convert). There are always different aspects on the passage of the new bill. Scott Brown (R- Mass.) signaled Monday night that he support it because he thinks it may burden small businesses. Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) told reporters Tuesday that he think the bill would do the job and said it more to me like some sort of welfare plan for trial published by The Huffington Post. Due to common belief of equal pay and significant political roles that both stakeholders share and hold, a passage of an essential law could be efficiently compromised but does not ensure that the law will solve the problem and not making it more complicated. Both the EEOC and ACLU will compromise not on the signing the Paycheck Fairness Act but on strengthening the existed Equal Pay Act and praising the awareness of the prohibition to create a workplace that is fair for all men and women, for all Americans. Word Cited  About the EEOC: Overview. The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. About the  American Civil Liberties Union. American Civil Liberties Union, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Equal Pay for Equal Work: Pass the Paycheck Fairness  American Civil Liberties Union. American Civil Liberties Union, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Bendery, Jennifer. Paycheck Fairness Act Fails Senate  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Covert, Bryce. Marco Rubio Explains His Opposition To Equal Pay  ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 23 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.