Mohammad Fattah U4297-1573 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Water is a resource that composes sixty percent of the adult human body and just over seventy percent of the surface. Even though water is a valuable resource necessary to the continuation of life on Earth, it suffers from extreme levels of pollution. This is due to the rise of industrialization and the necessity to allocate waste outside of inhabited areas. This issue is a serious problem in Florida because of the coastlines that generate massive revenue from tourism and the issue of toxic algae blooms arising from water pollution (Cuevas). Companies based along coastlines and companies that dump into the ocean must come to an agreement and restrictions must be placed on the amount of waste that can be dumped while the coastline based companies allocate funds to compensate for lost revenue from companies that must dump. Before such a compromise can be reached it is necessary for the background of each company to be established. The state of Florida is constantly referred to as the sunshine state, a place for vacationers to come and unwind from the weary days and tiresome hours, a place where many Americans go after retiring to spend the last of their lives relaxing. Coastline based companies in Florida capitalize on the bounties of nature using coastlines for the generation of revenue. Increased tourism resulting from the beauty of coastlines and beaches often leads to the creation of new jobs. In conjunction to this the growth of companies and beautification of coastlines and oceans results in an increase in tourism and revenue resulting from said tourism. However, the growth of coastline based production is not all positive. While tourism is a major source of revenue for Florida, the uncontrolled expansion and development of coastline based companies destroys the environment and results in the endangerment of species and pollution of the oceans and coastlines. Although uncontrolled expansion of coastline based companies can be and is Mohammad Fattah U4297-1573 detrimental to the continued survival of marine ecosystems, a controlled growth and development of such companies allows for successful development of the coastline, protection for marine ecosystems and a growth in tourism to the state of Florida. Water pollution is a major issue in regards to the state of Florida and coastline based companies in Florida because they result in major loss of revenue, tourism and marine life. Between 1995 and 1999, it is estimated that algal reduced restaurant and lodging revenues in the localized study area by $2.8 million and $3.7 million per month, respectively, which represents a 29% to 35% decline in average monthly revenues for each sector during months of red tide (Larkin). To put this into perspective the same journal found that tropical storm was found to reduce monthly restaurant revenues by $0.5 million, and each inch of rainfall reduced revenues an additional (Larkin). Such significant loss of revenue has a massive impact on the economy of Florida as it decreases tourism and interferes with the continued existence of coastline based companies and the marine life of the oceans around Florida. Although coastline based companies appear to get the short end of the stick in this debate, it is still important to look at the other side of the argument in the form of companies that pollute the water through dumping and other such means. Although dumping is a major issue today it has been a thing since the industrial revolution and the rise of industrialization as the dominant means of production in the United States. Although it is common knowledge that such dumping is harmful to the environment and results in damage to marine ecosystems and the beaches and coastlines of Florida, it is important to note that most daily functions would be impossible if this dumping was forbidden or extremely restricted. Due to the rise of industrialization, more and more waste has been produced by humanity and said waste must be disposed of in one way or another. According to Duke Mohammad Fattah U4297-1573 University, the United States of America produces around Two-hundred twenty million tons of waste each year of which around fifty five percent is thrown into landfills. Some of this waste ends up dumped into the ocean due to a lack of space to put it in on land resulting in the contamination of water and increases in the pollution of water. As time has gone on humanity has kept producing more and more waste from around one-hundred fifty tons in 1990 to one- hundred eighty tons in 2008. It is important to note that many regulations are currently in place to regulate how much can be disposed into the ocean and how waste must be disposed of overall due to regulations set in place by the EPA (40 C.P.R. 273.1-273.81). These regulations range from how employees must be trained to the rejection of excessive sized universal waste as well as the precautions that must be undertaken to properly dispose of such waste. Now that a basis of understanding has been established between the backgrounds of the two stake holders it is important to formulate a compromise that both stakeholders can agree upon and work together to achieve. For this compromise to succeed there are three necessary conditions that must be met to ensure the continued prosperity of both stakeholders as well as the marine environment which both stakeholders have grown aptly reliant upon for their continued existence. The first condition is that further restrictions must be imposed upon companies that use oceans and coastlines as a dumping ground for waste to ensure that it can continue to be used for dumping but to also ensure that the marine ecosystem is not destroyed or damaged beyond repair so that coastline based companies can continue to exist. The second condition that must be established is that coastline based companies must limit their expansion rate in order to reduce the waste produced that ends up returning to the water and destroying coastlines as well as to mitigate the losses of companies that require large bodies of water for dumping purposes. The last condition of this Mohammad Fattah U4297-1573 compromise is that coastline based companies must pay a loyalty or tax of a certain amount to companies that require oceans and coastlines for the disposal of waste to compensate the latter for lost income due to the restrictions placed on it for the protection of coastline based companies. This compromise is suitable for both parties as it allows companies that must dump to reduce their dumping without suffering significant economic loss due to the loyalty they are paid while it allows coastline based companies to profit through the loyalty due to an increase in tourism and revenue because of a reduction of water pollution and a reduction in the growth of harmful algal blooms. In conclusion, companies based along coastlines and companies that dump into the ocean must come to an agreement and restrictions must be placed on the amount of waste that can be dumped while the coastline based companies allocate funds to compensate for lost revenue from companies that must dump. Although this compromise might not be the greatest possible way of reducing water pollution, it is one of the most reasonable compromises possible that benefits both stakeholders without negatively impacting a single side. Mohammad Fattah U4297-1573 Works Cited 40 C.P.R. 273.1-273.81 Center for Sustainability &  How much do we waste daily? Center for Sustainability & Commerce at the Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions. Duke University, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cuevas, Mayra. Toxic algae bloom blankets Florida beaches, prompts state of  CNN. Cable News Network, 1 July 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Fleshler, David. algae problem stems from decades of Lake Okeechobee  Phys.org - News and Articles on Science and Technology. N.p., 11 July 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Larkin, Sherry L., and Charles M. Adams. Harmful algal blooms and coastal business: economic consequences in  Society and Natural Resources 20.9 (2007): 849-859.