Davis 1 Lakirah Davis Professor Seth Spencer ENC1102 26 January 2017 Links Between Higher Education and the Prison Industry Universities throughout the United States do a superior job at portraying themselves as pathways towards opportunity and knowledge. Have any of the students who attend American universities set-aside time to further evaluate policies instilled within the schools that allow the higher education faculties to acquire a profit? After looking through the policies one might often be lead to barbed wire gates of Corrections Corporation of America (CCA) and GEO Group, the two largest private prison operators in the United (Rolling Stones, N.p) Universities are starting to invest in the caging of convicted criminals, those predominately filled with minorities. Corrections Corporation of America (CCA) states, We recognize the inherent dignity of the human person and the need to treat every individual with respect. As we have since our inception, we share the responsibility of our government partners when they entrust individuals to our  (Human Rights Policy, N.P). While the National Private Prison Divestment targets the investors of both CCA and GEO to break their lobbying power and to make CCA and abuses so visible that public and private institutions will disavow any connection to private (Campaign Victories, N.p) To integrate the stances of both organizations first universities should educate its students more on why they invest in such corporations and it should then be voted upon by not only the higher officials within the university, but also its students, deciding on if the university should invest in private prisons. Davis 2 Men and women who have not been directly or indirectly affected by the prison industry do not consider what goes in to actually running private prison. Corrections Corporation of America (CCA) is a business that is involved directly in the prison industry. CCA strives to make a difference across the United States through providing safety, security and care to inmates and detainees that are placed into the corrections system. CCA states that the corporation offers of rehabilitation and education programs, including substance abuse treatment using the cognitive behavioral approach, a specialized program, onsite Alcoholics Anonymous/Narcotics Anonymous meetings, life skills lessons, employment readiness, cultural diversity workshops, release planning and assistance in re-establishing family (Who we are, N.P) CCA runs off of capital investment that allow for CCA to continue building more and more correctional facilities which produce hundreds of jobs including those well known such as officers, chaplains, teachers, nurses and many Development Benefits, N.p) With having such partnerships with investors, CCA utilizes taxpayer dollars to address common issues that lie within the prison industry such as over crowding, and out dated and undersized buildings. With help from federal, state, and local agencies CCA can continue producing creative solution towards getting rid of the challenges that the prison industry faces. There are multiple organizations that are against investing in private prisons with The National Private Prison Divestment campaign (NPPDC) being one of the main organizations striving for change going forward. NPPDC believes that the CCA relies on financial assistance and support from investors to employ their powerful lobbying efforts in Congress, federal agencies, and state capitols across the (About, N.p) This means that investors are aiding these corporations such as CCA efforts to put more people into the prison system so that the corporation may stay a float by filling up these private prisons and the more prisons that are Davis 3 built and filled up, the more investors and other government agencies are able make a direct profit. The National Private Prison Divestment Campaign on the underlying source of undignified immigration policy, namely the connection between major financial institutions and the for-profit prison industry and their joint role in the accelerated incarceration of (About, N.p) The more policies that are made up geared towards putting people into the prison system, the more people from communities of color and immigrations that are taken into incarceration, the more money that the corporations who provide these prisons make, the more profit the investors make. For these reasons, NPPDC makes a call to actions for investors to divest from and incarceration, and demand reparations and reinvestment in our (Campaign Updates, N.p) The Corrections Corporation of America and The National Private Prison Divestment Campaign have completely opposite views on why they functions as they do but offer similar goals towards helping out the individuals within the community. With Multiple Universities partaking in investment within businesses such as CCA, it should be made known so that the students are aware of how the school goes about making money besides allowing its students to simply think that their tuition pays for the bills. Students, faculty and staff should be educated on both topics of the corporations schools invest in and why these schools invest in such companies and how the money gets dispersed throughout the school itself. Once the higher officials within the universities have taken the time to educate the ones who attend and work at the schools, it should then be voted upon by the board of trustees, students, faculty and staff on if the university should continue to invest in such corporations. While states are selling their correctional facilities to private prison companies such as CCA, investors remain profiting, policies are being created more and more each day, the prison Davis 4 populations keeps rising especially for minorities and immigrants and taxpayers remain clueless to what really goes on within the prison industry. Universities who are investing in such companies should bring awareness to those who attend, work at or even aspire to apply so that no one is kept in the blind about how the university makes a portion of its money. Also noticing that this issue goes even deeper than just making money but also how the university hires its employees, accepts college applicants, and receives certain funding for projects and research that go on within the university. That ties into the university explaining how the investment money the university receives being applied to the school itself. Once the CCA and the NPPDC find common ground to stand upon, then the rise in prison populations could be slowed down, the creation of policies that put people in the prison system can be seriously be put into effect to keep violence out of the streets of America and the goal to provide safe communities for people of all races and ethnicities to live within can be achieved through time, effort and dedication. Davis 5 Works Cited 5 Links Between Higher Education and the Prison  RollingStone. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Campaign Updates  National Prison Divestment Campaign . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. National Prison Divestment  National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Who We  Corrections Corporation of America. N.p., n.d. Web. 82 Feb. 2017.