Intermediate draft The death penalty has been a topic widely talked around all of the United States (US) because there are two rather big sides to this argument, which are the fact that some people want it and some people and whenever there is an execution happening there are protest and many people disagreeing outside the place of where the execution is happening. The argument about the death penalty is that it is very inhumane for the state to kill a man no matter what crime they have done most people that are against it believe in such a statement which other people completely disagree with which they believe that these men or women that have done this crime deserve all the punishment in the world and death is pretty suitable for someone that may have killed someone else or may have raped or done some crime of that matter, families are heartbroken because some of their family members have been taken away from them and the man or woman that did such crime is just sitting in jail with food and housing which makes it a problem for some men and women to do such unspeakable acts and to only be in jail with no other punishment. The two sides believe their arguments very strongly making this a very hard thing to resolve. Although a proposal can be done for the two sides to finally come to an agreement to such a debated topic, which is that the death penalty be still implemented but the death penalty only be used will be lethal injection which it is the most humane way for a person to die which is a big argument for the side against the death penalty which they believe that it is not humane. The Organization that believes in these terms that it is not humane is called the National coalition to abolish the death penalty (NCADP). Their mission is abolish the death penalty in the United states and support efforts to abolish the death penalty which makes them a very strong stakeholder on the matter they agree at all with the death penalty and they believe in fixing the root of the problem and the system of police and prisons in the United states instead of just killing the men and women that have committed a crime (ncadp.org). They are known to be the oldest organization in this matter of wanting to ban the death penalty all across the country. Accomplishments they have done so far are for example they have gotten states in the last decade to say no the death and also overall there are 19 states that right now do not have the death penalty thanks to the organization which have made them accomplishes very big for the United states. The organization that is contrary to this organization is called the Marshall project. Although they are not an organization strictly for the death penalty they are an organization of trying to educate the public on the US criminal justice system and also trying to better the criminal justice system so some of their beliefs are to better the death penalty problem making them a stakeholder in the argument of the death penalty. They want to better the death penalty so it is more efficient and they believe the whole death penalty is as stated by district attorneys in California (Chammah, 2015). They achieve all of this by winning journalism, partnerships with other news outlets and public which makes them very known in the topic of death penalty due to them being constantly speaking their mind on the criminal justice system and the death penalty being a part of that (themarshallproject.org). the difference is that although they care for the justice system and they always trying to fix they still want the death penalty it is never stated that they want to get rid of it. They even post articles of how it might even better to have the death penalty for the sake since some of them are going to spend the rest of their life in jail and death would merely save them from all the pain in jail, the article says has lived in extreme isolation in 7x9 cell. He is fed through slot in the solid steel door, and some days allowed out for an hour to alone in a small, barren This describes how bad the conditions are for some inmates inside the jail for example Blake that has been in solitary confinement like this for 27 years which death would be a sweet release of this pain he has to pass by constantly. These two organizations seem to be completely at odds in what their stake is on the matter of the death penalty, it seems one wants one side while the other wants the other completely different side. Although this is true this mean that they have something in common which is that both organization want to fix the death penalty, they know that somehow the way it is right now not the best way for the prisoners to be punished which is the first step for a compromise to come together. Both sides also believe that the criminal should be in jail and they really innocent some of the people going against the death penalty are members that their families have been killed by criminals which means they deserve to be in jail (ncadp.org). A good compromise for this problem is something that has been implemented in many states already and it is the most humane way to kill a human being which this compromise gets to both sides for pro death penalty it is still killing the men or women that deserve the punishment and for the anti-death penalty it is being the most humane way possible which it is a big thing the NCADP believes in which is that they believe is this is very inhumane. Lethal injection is humane due to the components of the injection the components are which are stated by scientific American thiopental (a barbiturate to induce anesthesia), pancuronium bromide (a muscle relaxant that paralyzes all the muscles of the body) and potassium chloride (a salt that speeds the heart until it in no moment in these injection does the person feel any pain they simply go to sleep by the first drug and from there they just never wake up (Greenemeier,2010). This compromise is the only one that seem to make sense for both sides because it is the only way for the criminal that deserved the punishment still get killed and the people not being completely angry at the fact that they are inflicting pain to a human being since in other states people get killed by firing squad or electrocution which cause a serious amount of pain. There is some problem with lethal injection which is the shortage of the materials made for the lethal injection which completely delays the death sentence or even sometimes people try to use replacements of these drugs and it does not work the same way the original drugs work and with help of the marshall project organization this problem could be spoken more often and death penalty could be perfected to make everyone satisfied. Concluding the only way for this problem and argument over the death penalty to stop is for both sides to come to a compromise which has been given and explained how it could work way better for the future. This compromise being the introduction overall of the lethal injection and making it only the right way and using not substitutes as well as also using it more efficiently getting more raw materials. Which in fact keep both sides happy on the argument and will solve the problem of the stakeholders once and for all. Word count: 1324 Works cited 1. Abolish the Death  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 2. Press, Nick Ut/Associated. The Unfolding Campaign to Save the Death  The Marshall Project. N.p., 16 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 3. Greenemeier, Larry. Cruel and Usual?: Is Capital Punishment by Lethal Injection Quick and  Scientific American. N.p., 27 Oct. 2010. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 4. What Death Penalty Opponents  The Marshall Project. N.p., 16 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.