Alshabnan 1 Yousef Alshabnan professor: Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 January 29th, 2017 Is The Recycling System In The U.S Like What Most People Think? When a householder throw his waste in the blue recycling can, he might think that he is protecting the environment or supporting the local economy, but is he? Currently, the pure image of the recycling is in most mind and that because of what the recycling companies commercialise about the positive impacts of the curbside recycling programs toward the environment and the economy. However, only 34.3 percent of the Americans waste got recycled in 2013 (EPA). This low rate of recycling questioning the truth of the recycling system in the United States. Moreover, John Tierney, a journalist of the New York Times, wrote an article on the New York Times titled The Reign of  which arguing the truth of the curbside recycling programs and illustrating that people are wasting their time by doing recycling. On the other hand, the Sustainable Brands (SB) association published an article that explained seven reasons of why the recycling system is not a waste. Therefore, it is important for John Tierney and the Sustainable Brands association to join forces, in order to find a compromise regarding the best recycling method. John Tierney is a critic of environmentalism journalist who has worked for the New York Times. He criticised the recycling system in his article The Reign of  by claiming that recycling is not doing what the people want to do for the environment or the economy. He explained how the recycling system has not achieved what the people are assuming economically by saying that it is typically more expensive for municipalities to recycle household waste than to send it to a  (Tierney). For example, according to Tierney,  In New York City, the net cost of recycling a tonne of trash is now $300 more than it would Alshabnan 2 cost to bury the trash  (Tierney). For the environmental side effect of the recycling, John illustrated that even though recycling can reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases, just a few materials such as paper, cardboard, and aluminium in soda cans can achieve the recycling environmental benefits. Other materials like plastics, food, and yard waste can not save many tonnes of carbon dioxide (Tierney). Moreover, he pointed out some recycling issues for the environment such as the extra recycling trucks and the pollution from the recycling operations. Also, he gave an example of a composting facility in New York and how they annoyed the people in Delaware, after sending the food waste to places close to them. According to Tierney,  Composting facilities around the country have inspired complaints about nauseating odours, swarming rats and defecating sea  ( Tierney). John Tierney believes that the recycling system in the U.S. is not doing enough to the environment or improving the economy. On the other hand, the Sustainable Brands (SB) association, which is a supportive association for any sustainable brand leaders and business, has denied what John Tierney believes about the recycling system by publishing an article wrote by Tom Szaky titled 7 Reasons Why Recycling Is Not a  On this article, Tom explains how recycled materials can build the supply chain security. He thinks that recycling exemplifies a social imperative, just like the education and the health care. Also, he added that recycling is a sustainable strategy which can secure the supply chain and claims that what John proposed about using landfills for the waste instead of recycling them is just a short-term strategy that can not be useful in the future. Tom proved that recycling can build the supply chain security by giving an example of his own company. He said that recycling can  reduces waste and costs, and gives the company a competitive edge in the  (Szaky). Moreover, Tom mentioned that other environment cases that John did not say it when he encouraged to use landfills. For instance, the trillions of pieces of plastics that volatilize from landfills then end Alshabnan 3 up on the top and the bottom of the oceans, which can cause health risks. According to Tom,  Recycled plastics can be a great way for manufacturers to avoid these volatile costs, do something environmentally beneficial, and strengthen supply chain  (Szaky). Therefore, Sustainable Brands (SB) association, with his writer Tom Szaky want to keep the recycling system and believe that it is the only and best way to secure the future from the waste issues. As a compromise, finding a way to satisfy the both sides would be what the Packaging Digest company suggested, which is improving the packaging quality of the products, make them easy to be recycled, and cheaper when recycling (Szaky). Also, forcing the big company to do what the Packaging Digest suggested when packaging. Moreover, exclude the materials that cost a lot of money for recycling with less environmental benefits. Lastly, improving the recycling system in the U.S. in which it becomes a sustainable way for the waste, profitable, and good for the environment. To sum up, John Tierney and the Sustainable Brands (SB) association have been arguing whether the recycling system in U.S. is effective or ineffective for the environment and the economy. John Tierney believes that the current recycling system is simply a waste of time and money. However, the Sustainable Brands (SB) association disagreed with John and thinks that recycling is the best wat to build the supply chain security for the waste. Both of them need to join forces and find out the best way to manage the waste in the United States. This could be done by creating a good recycling system without environmental issues or Financial losses. Word Count: 1054 Alshabnan 4 Woks cited: Tierney, John. Reign of SundayReview. The New York Times, 12 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Szaky, Tom, Sustainable Life Media. 7 reasons why recycling is not a waste: A response to reign of sustainablebrands.com, 13 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Szaky, Tom. Side of the Recycling Debate Are You Packaging Digest, 15 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. EPA, US, OSWER, and Office of Resource Conservation. Municipal solid waste. n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. John Tierney Wikipedia. N.p.: Wikimedia Foundation, 1 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.