Baird 1 Garret Baird Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 27 January 2017 The Liberties and Religious Freedoms of America A very common and controversial topic all throughout the history of the United States has been the topic of civil rights and liberties for Americans. A mass of things have been put in place and have changed since the beginning of the United States, but a great deal of work is still being done for civil rights. The leader of all this change currently is known as the American Civil Liberties Union, also known as the ACLU. The ACLU attacks all sorts of civil rights issues, even including civil rights regarding religion. But when religion comes into place, another stakeholder regarding civil rights comes to challenge. That stakeholder being the Catholic League. The Catholic League and the ACLU have disputed multiple instances concerning multiple aspects of civil rights and religious practices and it seems like they may be at odds for a long time. But with every dispute there can be a compromise. If the Catholic League and the ACLU can come to a compromise by recognizing each ideals and practices and give some leeway that would work in advantage, such as discontinuing pursuit against religion in certain places, while also implementing what ACLU wants in particular areas. As I said earlier, the first stakeholder on this topic of civil rights (including religious civil rights) is the American Civil Liberties Union. Founded nearly one-hundred years ago, and are one of the leading organizations that defends any rights and liberties underneath the Baird 2 Constitution and the laws of the United States (The ACLU Today). The ACLU stands for every American/organization and also battling certain injustices. Some examples being the defense for the LGBT people, setting up new privacy protections for the government, and even fighting for the rights for women to have abortions, which is an essential topic when regarding the Catholic league. And the ACLU has shown some a clear standpoint when it comes to abortions, contraceptives, and other things frowned upon by the Catholic League, trying to abolish the God We from the American coins and the should be taken away from the Pledge of Allegiance (Novak, 1). Now, for the second stakeholder in this topic, the Catholic League. The Catholic League does a multitude of things, all dealing with the Catholic Church and its followers. Whenever there are slanderous accusations made against The Church, The Catholic League is right there to defend the rights of The Church while also attempting to promote its teachings to society (Our Mission). Some examples of their are defending The Church against media, help students who are denied their rights, and defend Catholic interests that are dishonestly represented. Just like the ACLU, The Catholic League has shown a clear standpoint when talking about abortions, contraceptives, and other civil rights related topics. The Catholic League is directly behind The Church whenever it comes to these topics, so they are heavily against abortions and the use of contraceptives. When the ACLU attempted to integrate abortion, contraceptives, and sterilization in Catholic hospitals, The Catholic League called these (Donohue). Without the American Civil Liberties Union or The Catholic League even knowing it, they have way more in common than they could possible imagine. Both of these organizations spend every waking moment of their time looking to immediately defend the rights and liberties Baird 3 of people in the United States, that deserve it of course. The ACLU and The Catholic League may have different perspectives on the issue at hand, but when it comes to rights, it is their forte. If either of the organizations know it or not, they work in the same field, and if they ever came together, leaps and bounds could be made for people. The ACLU and The Catholic League share an exceedingly comprisable common ground. As I previously said, both the ACLU and The Catholic League split a comprisable common ground, and a compromise can just be easily made with just a little bit of understandability. It has been somewhat shown that the ACLU is willing to try to compromise/negotiate with The Catholic League by Raul Cano, saying that if government ever tried to take the Catholic League off the internet, that the ACLU would come to their aid and help (Cano, 1). To continue off of that, a good compromise for these two organizations would be to come to an understanding of each ideas and beliefs. But with every single compromise, both sides have to give something up in order to come to that compromise. The ACLU must need to stop their needless and persistent pursuit to remove the name of God from schools and stop trying to move Catholic beliefs from workplaces and schools. While the Catholic League and The Church might have to give up a little bit more. For this compromise to truly be recognized, The Catholic League would have to begin to understand abortions, and sterilizations are the right and obligated choice. Maybe if The Catholic League and the Church TREMENDOUSLY slowly, implement these types of things into their hospitals. With a beginning like this, both of these organizations can continue to work together and bring about change for the better of America and its people. To conclude, with a compromise including the American Civil Liberties Union and The Catholic League coming to an understanding and becoming empathetic towards each Baird 2 beliefs, meaning the ACLU needs to halt all their ambitious quests for abolition of Catholic beliefs in schools and the Catholic League and the Church executing plans to deal with abortion and other related topics. Just imagine what these two colossal organizations can accomplish if they just work on a few complaints between the two. If The Catholic League and the ACLU come to this compromise, troubled individuals of the United States seeking liberty and freedom from restricting/unfair laws will be able to seek help from these two. The Constitution was written under the basis of freedom and civil rights, with the Catholic League and ACLU, nobody is sure what can be accomplished. Word Count: 1011 Baird 3 Works Cited the American Civil Liberties Union. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Cano, Raul. Clause The BG News. N.p., 27 Sept. 2004. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Donohue, Bill. League for Religious and Civil Rights 2016 Year in Catholic League. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Novak, Michael. Atheist Civil Liberties The Jewish Press. The Jewish Press, 16 Aug. 2002. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Catholic League. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.