Ryan Brautigam Ms. Lay ENC 1102 26 January 2017 All Lives Matter One of the hot in news is police brutality. Everyone sees this topic in a different way and feels different so much so that they created groups to support their feeling and beliefs. Many have heard of the idea of black lives matter and even the opposing view of that which is the idea of blue lives matter. If these groups of people find a common and safe ground where they accept that there is going to be a few bad apples in every industry, and that not every police officer starts a shift wanting to take down black people. I believe they would become more at peace. For many this is a hard topic to talk about because view is so basis towards the way they feel about police brutality. This topic should not be that hard to talk about, everyone should be able to talk about this topic in a controlled manner. If everyone were to look up the facts about police brutality it would be clear why they have created these group but at the same time there is a solution to clear up this topic and have both Black Lives Matter and Blue Lives Matte to come to peace at once. Black live matter is not just worrying about all the people in the street that are belived to be victimized because of their color. They are also going in to school saying they are not being treated right in college at Dartmouth they want to make black lives matter a class on campus. One day in 2015 they were outside Dartmouth library chanting Lives we get it, shut it down, we study, you Goldthree,21). It protest like these that cause the police to engage and make sure no one gets out of hand and that is usually when things get bad for the police officers. The Black Lives Matter group was created in 2012 after the murder of Trayvon Martin(BLM,1). The mission of the black lives matter is are broadening the conversation around state violence to include all of the ways in which Black people are intentionally left powerless at the hands of the state. We are talking about the ways in which Black lives are deprived of our basic human rights and They believe that black people are not getting treat as equal as they should. They feel like they have been shorted of their rights of humans of America. Although this group does focus on the entire topic of black people getting treated wrong by other citizens, other groups, and the government. They have a focus on the black community not treated fairly by law enforcement. They believe that they are targeted just because they are black. Although this puts a lot of stress on the police officers by having a quota to meet, on how much ticket they give out and how many arrest they make. That is a recent change that they have made to help render the problem with people and police. This problem was a big issue that the black lives matter group fought to get rid of it. The group Blue Lives Matter is not as recognized as much as Black Lives Matter but is just as important. The group was created in 2016 after the recent lash back of the people against police officers. Active and retired law enforcement officers started the group. Their mission is to these wrongs to law enforcement and once again shed positive light on heroes to help boost morale and gain much needed (bluelivesmatter,1). They want to change the way law enforcements acts during calls with the exception of the bad police officers that follow how they are supposed to act. They just want the target lifted of police officer backs so they can go to work without feeling like everyone is targeting them. Also many people stereotype police officers as is a fear that cops are lazy and need to be watched like they are little The main reason of they stereotype is because in older shows and even some of the newer shows show police officers eating doughnuts and drinking coffee, being lazy and not doing their jobs well. This is not at all what police days looks like they have a high risk job and most of the time always doing something. The reason why police are trained to act more harshly when dealing with an arrest is because of the rising crime rates in the and In some cases the way police handle an arrest comes off as too much force but they have to do a job that keeps them safe because they need to get back to their families just like everyone else in this world. The sad truth is and Latinos will remain particularly vulnerable to police misconduct no matter what shape law enforcement takes; history supports that (Ossei-Owusu,84). not right and that is the reason why the black lives matter group does what they do because they want to get rid of that mindset completely. That is a big battle to win but black lives matter group knows that and is ready for that long hard battle to make that happen. Everyone wants peace throughout the nation and right now we are anything but at peace. These are two of the many groups that are at because of conflicted beliefs. There is a solution to becoming at peace for once. That is accepting the opposing sides views of the issue at hand and fully understanding why they feel that way. The next to becoming at peace is to bring the two groups together and understand why there is a clash of interest in the topic. Then the topic will resolve its self by everyone coming together and becoming one nation. Bring out these two groups is a great example what a problem that can be solve by just the two side understanding one another and trying to fix what is broken. As stated early these group see each the group as haters and what change. The black lives matter what the black community to be treated better by others especially by law enforcements. On the other hand, the blue lives what police officers to go to work feeling safe. Both groups want safety and through their daily lives. With the work of every working and helping out to make that happen it can become reality. Work Cited Porter, Nicole D. Expanding Public Safety In The Era Of Black Lives  University Of Miami Law Review 2 (2016): 533. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Ossei-Owusu, Shaun. Race And The Tragedy Of Quota-Based Policing: Arrest Targets Compound The Risk Of Racially Biased  The American Prospect 4 (2016): 81. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Cullors, Patrisse. About the Black Lives Matter  Black Lives Matter. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2016. About  Blue Lives Matter. N.p., 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Goldthree, Reena N., and Aimee Bahng. #Blacklivesmatter And Feminist Pedagogy: Teaching A Movement  Radical Teacher 106 (2016): 20-28. Education Source. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.