McCutcheon 1 Caitlyn McCutcheon Dr. Karen Hanson English Composition 1102 29 January 2017 Animal Captivity Animals can be our best friends, family members, and most of all our happiness. Faces are brightened when they see a dog playing fetch or a funny cat video on the internet. This is how we always want to see good animal welfare. Animal captivity is keeping any animal in a habitat that is not their natural environment. Although, animal captivity has been a very extensive topic over the past few years, there are organizations for and against it. Due to the fact that some organizations like the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) believe animal captivity is crucial to engage in the efforts of preventing extinction of species while other organizations like People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) are completely against and feel like animals should be free in their own environment. Zoos and aquariums are examples of common places where animal captivity can occur. The AZA has a program called Saving Animals From Extinction(SAFE) which focuses on working with accredited zoos and aquariums throughout the country to promote capacity to increase direct conservation spending, as well as our impact on saving species through work in the field, in our zoos and aquariums, and though public (AZA SAFE). A goal of AZA is to protect different species from going extinct, which is why they have accredited zoos and aquariums that constantly evolving and standards are continuously being On the other hand, PETA has very different views. PETA is the largest animal rights organization in the world, and states focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest number of McCutcheon 2 animas suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (About PETA). Both organizations have a good point to argue but to integrate the stances of both organizations, the charity Wild Welfare(WW) states Welfare has no political agenda, and does not get involved in the captive ethical debate but rather focuses on what it can do now, partnering with organizations who have a mutually agreed goal; to improve the welfare for wild captive (About Us) can promote safe keeping and good animal welfare in all accredited zoos and aquariums. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums is a non-profit organization that dedicates itself to the growth of awareness, conservation and education throughout zoos and aquariums in the United States and overseas. The AZA has a that includes conservation and care of species and their habitats, educating and engaging internal and external audiences and stakeholders, enhancing member services, and developing a robust and sustainable economic (Strategic Plan) to improve the accredited zoos and aquariums. The AZA also created a program called Animals From which focuses on a variety of ten animals whose species are close to extinction. The focus group ranges from the Asian Elephant, to the Western Pond Turtle, the Vaquita Marina, and the Shark and Ray species. The AZA states species exist only because of the efforts aquariums and zoos and our (AZA SAFE) is a reason why the organization believes captivity is best for animals. An article published in the International Zoo Yearbook, focuses on the Zoos located in northern Kenya and the Connect-Understand-Act model can contribute to society in relation to like welfare of animals. The CEO of Zoos Jenny Gray states, can play a critical role in saving species from extinction. We care for amazing wildlife and have access to unique skill- McCutcheon 3 sets and incredible reach. only just discovering how powerful we can (Squires, Lowry, C. Banks). The Toronto Zoo located in Toronto, Canada is partners with AZA. The zoo created a video showing how they help prevent extinction with their efforts of conservation, animal welfare, research and education. numerous species that would be extinct if it for zoos, their expertise of husbandry and care of (Franke). As well as their advertising for conservation and awareness, there is also a reproductive physiologist on staff at the zoo whose main priority is to maintain genetic diversity. play a really important role in terms of protecting species and acting as assurance populations for species that maybe the habitat is no longer there in the wild but if we can keep them for a certain amount of time we can eventually bring them back to (Phillips). These few sources listed show the support with AZA of the importance of animal captivity in zoos to help prevent any animal extinction. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) has a different mindset towards animal captivity. The goal of this organization is to put a stop to animal suffering in the entertainment purposes. PETA has over five million followers, making it the largest animal rights group in the world. This organization believes breeding animals in captivity for protecting species from extinction, but to lure in guests by babies are (Zoos: Pitiful Prisons). PETA states routinely trade, loan, loan, sell, or barter adult animals they no longer (Zoos: Pitiful Prisons) in reference to the cruel approaches zoos take to receive and exchange animals after they are out of the cute baby phase. general, zoos and wildlife parks preclude or severely restrict natural behavior, such as flying, swimming, running, hunting, climbing, scavenging, foraging, digging, exploring, and selecting a (Zoos: Pitiful Prisons) shows the restraints on animals if they are kept in captivity. A study published in the Applied Animal Behaviour Science, academic journal was done on the effects of temporary McCutcheon 4 captivity of red foxes. Researchers captured seven rehabilitated foxes and put GPS tracking devices into thirteen wild red foxes to track them over a two-year period. Over the two years, researchers picked up on the different behaviors on the foxes. The research showed in temporary captivity display irregular and unpredictable behavior on (Tolhurst, Bryony). A UK based charity, Captive Animals Protection Society (CAPS), mentions a government- funded study of elephants found was a welfare concern for every elephant in the (10 Facts About Zoos). The Whale and Dolphin Conservation (WDC) is a non-profit organization whose goal is to have world where every whale and dolphin is safe and (About Us). This organization has campaigned against SeaWorld to end captivity of these species. and dolphins are highly intelligent. They want and need to live in complex society (End Captivity). The WDC has the same idea as PETA in mind regarding to ending animal captivity and letting the animals live in their natural habitat. PETA continues to attract members and supports every day to help put a stop to animal captivity for entertainment purposes in the zoo and aquarium business. The AZA and PETA have different views on whether or not animal captivity is valuable for the sake. Both organizations have a main goal of superior care for the animals, but different reasons to end or continue animal captivity. The charity Wild Welfare believes compassionate and empathy based approach to captive wild animal welfare and out organizational standard of captive wild animal welfare is derived from ongoing reviews of all current relevant literature encompassing the ethics, ethology, and husbandry pertaining to captive wild (About Us). The steps WW can take to compromise on finding common ground between the two organizations is to promote safe keeping of the animals and good animal welfare. The WW assists in providing safe and legal animal trading tactics, and encourages McCutcheon 5 enrichment by choice, so feel more in control of their (Enrichment and Animal Welfare). At the end of the day people will still be arguing whether animal captivity is valuable for the sake or not, there are things that can be done to solve this issue. The AZA provides their view stating that animal captivity is necessary for protecting extinction throughout species over the world and PETA provides their view why animal captivity is unethical and animals should be in their natural habitat. The Wild Welfare charity can provide a common ground between the two organizations. The WW tends to the assistance of fair and legal animal trading between zoos and aquariums, promoting good animal welfare and effort to make the animal environments a better place. With the AZA and PETA agreeing on the standards that WW would bring to zoos and aquariums making them a better and safer environment for the animals, AZA would get to keep protecting extinction of different species and although PETA would not get full release of animals into their natural habitat, the animals would be in a safe and secure area. McCutcheon 6 Works Cited PETA, http://www.peta.org/about-peta/why-peta/zoos/ Accessed 26 Jan. 2017 Association of Zoos and Aquariums, https://www.aza.org/about-us Accessed 26 Jan. 2017 Us: Conservation, Animal Wild Welfare, http://wildwelfare.org/about-wild-welfare/ Accessed 28 Jan. 2017 Staying Association of Zoos and Aquariums, https://www.aza.org/becoming-accredited Accessed 27 Jan. 2017 SAFE: Saving Animals From Association of Zoos and Aquariums, https://www.aza.org/aza-safe Accessed 27 Jan. 2017 Bonnie, Kristin E., Mabel Y. L. Ang, and Stephen R. Ross. Effects Of Crowd Size On Exhibit Use By And Behavior Of Chimpanzees (Pan Troglodytes) And Western Lowland Gorillas (Gorilla Gorilla) At A  Applied Animal Behaviour Science 178.(2016): 102-110. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Activities and Values: Our Wild Welfare, http://wildwelfare.org/core-activities-values/ Accessed 28 Jan. 2017 & Animal Welfare: Wild Welfare, http://wildwelfare.org/enrichment-animal-welfare/ Accessed 28 Jan. 2017 Toronto Zoo, http://www.torontozoo.com/FightingExtinction/ Accessed 28 Jan. 2017 McCutcheon 7 Zoos: Pitiful PETA, http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/animals-used-entertainment- factsheets/zoos-pitiful-prisons/ Accessed 25 Jan. 2017 The Reality of PETA, http://www.peta.org/living/entertainment/reality-zoos/ Accessed 26 Jan. 2017 Views: Animal Rights Uncompromised: PETA, http://www.peta.org/about-peta/why-peta/peta-tactics/ Accessed 26 Jan. 2017 Shan, Lei, et al. Large-Scale Genetic Survey Provides Insights Into The Captive Management And Reintroduction Of Giant  Molecular Biology & Evolution 31.10 (2014): 2663. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Squires, B., R. Lowry, and C. Banks. Utilizing Zoos Connect-Understand-Act Model To Enable Social And Biological Gains In Northern  International Zoo Yearbook 50.1 (2016): 96. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Zoo: Why We Are Toronto Zoo, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j7y78qjf0GY Accessed 27 Jan. 2017 Facts About Captive Animals Protection Society, http://www.captiveanimals.org/news/2010/03/10-facts-about-zoos Accessed 26 Jan. 2017