Matthew McGovern Composition II Professor Spencer Bennington 1/29/17 NFU and GMOs The National Farmers Union, or NFU, stands to protect all farmers that are part of their union, or about 200,000 families. On the topic of Genetically Modified Organisms or GMOs they take no stance as some of the families that stand for them use GMOs while come of them do not. But they do take a stance on GMO labelling. They believe that GMOs should be labelled in a way that is not confusing to the general public. The Food and Drug Administration stands by the belief that GMOs are completely healthy and there is no need to label them which opposes the NFU. I believe that the two groups can go together and make a compromise that could meet in the middle ground such as creating greater knowledge through education of GMOs and labelling in a way that tells the consumer what in the product is made of GMOs and what in it are not made of GMOs. Such as stating that the apples in the apple sauce use a strand of genetically modified material that allows them to grow in a wider range of climates. The NFU stands on the beliefs of Education, Legislation, and Cooperation at the core of their beliefs. This is shown on their picture that shows their principles, it is there logo surrounded by their core values and the second picture which is an advert for the NFU, it is saying when you need experts help, the NFU is there for you. This second picture really drives home the first picture through the principles of education and cooperation. Cooperation as the NFU is there for you when you need help and they are also educated on the matter and filled with experts in the field. This sort of cooperation and education would be seen in the labelling of GMOs as they come together to talk about the issue at hand and also educate the general public on the matter, it matter if you are pro GMO or anti GMO, the labelling act could aide both sides. The NFU has been around since 1902 and was originally created by ten farmers and now supports fishers, and ranchers across the country, with formally organized divisions in 33 (Source 1) . The NFU stands by three main principles, Cooperation between members to reach common goals, Legislation to represent their lobbying efforts, and at the base education as they believe that all members should be educated and being educated will lead to success in the other principles. Their main mission is advocate for the economic and social well being, and quality of life of family farmers, ranchers, fisherman, and consumers and their communities through education, cooperation, and legislation. NFU advocates sustainable production of food, fiber, feed, and 1). The first picture uses imagery of gardening tools to build the idea that they are all in fact farmers and are more relatable to the people they are trying to reach, this is in a triangle with a word on each side. Cooperation is on one side as it is very important to the union as without it they are nothing and have no power. On the other side, there us Legislation, equally important to the union as that is the only way they are able to do anything in the government is through lobbying and of course legislation. At the base of the triangle, or the most important part, there is education, without education there would be nothing, it is the basis for their beliefs and they focus on the education of their members and local families. On the second picture there are two everyday people in a grass field talking probably about something farming related, it seems more relatable and states that the NFU is there for you. The two people in the picture are close to the ground and squatting but are about level with one another showing that neither one of them is more powerful than the other and that they are equals of each other. Both are smiling and looking as if they are engaged in conversation. Both are again wearing winter farming clothes. Large boots, jeans, and a jacket, showing that they are not outsiders in the farming world. As the NFU stands to support both farmers who use GMOs and those who do not, they do not take a side on the usage of these products, they are believers of the labelling of food products as it is on their mission statement. Sources http://www.pjstar.com/news/20170122/major-farm-groups-to-trump-adopt-gipsa-rules https://nfu.org/2017/01/24/access-to-markets-organic-certification/ https://nfu.org/about/