Student 1 Student Instructor Nancy Lewis ENC 1102 23 January 2017 Internet-Delivered Therapy for Depression and Anxiety Many are led to believe that individuals who suffer from anxiety or depression must either take prescription medication or make costly visits to a psychologist. THIS WAY UP takes a less expensive approach with Internet-delivered cognitive behavior therapy. Suffering from anxiety or depression can be a sensitive subject to many. THIS WAY UP offers the ability for their clients to work in an online environment and not be seen visiting a therapist or caught taking medication. Organizations, like THIS WAY UP, strategically use content, images, and colors to promote a cause, mission, or goal. THIS WAY UP is an organization that uses visual cues and rhetorical appeal to draw in visitors to their website. They help people who suffer from all types of depression, sadness, and anxiety using a more cost effective approach with online courses. Sadness is an emotion that can make someone feel as if there is no way to accomplish a goal or make an improvement in life. THIS WAY UP was developed for this exact issue that many people suffer from. They are a team of psychiatrists lead by Professor Gavin Andrews based out of Australia. This organization helps individuals who suffer from depression, sadness, and anxiety. THIS WAY UP claims that their online courses have been clinically proven to lessen anxiety and depression (THIS WAY UP). It is important to note that depression is a common and natural emotion. When individuals feel sad, it helps to better appreciate the happy moments in life. Depression is a result of sadness which can derive from loss of loved ones, stress from work, school, or family, and from major life changes as well. Depression has Student 2 different types of symptoms, psychological symptoms, and physical symptoms. Understanding the signs of depression will assist in honing in on the issue and ultimately providing a solution the problem. Figure 1 Visually examining THIS WAY web presence, one can conclude that this organization is pro-life and is also committed to bringing happiness into lives. As you can see in Figure 1 there is a mid-aged woman, bowing her head and grasping the top of her nose, clearly states that this woman is in an uneasy state and sad about something. The logos and ethos of this image relate to the vision of helping individuals who suffer from depression as does the woman using a different methodology by hosting online courses.. Visual cues stand out and show the woman is in distress. The stakeholder may also be using this image to show that people of all types suffer from depression. This woman is wearing a nice collared shirt, her hair is up in a bun and she is wearing nice earrings. The content around the image of the depressed woman states common psychological symptoms include feeling miserable, loss of interest in normal activities, poor concentration, feeling unworthy, and thoughts that the sufferer Student 3 would be better off dead. The physical symptoms include a loss of appetite, interest in sexual activities, energy, sleep, and slowed speech. The pathos used in the image relates to a large audience because everyone at one point or time in their life has felt sad over something whether it be a small issue or a big one. The use of this image connects with their audience on a deeper emotional level that would ultimately result in the user interacting with the organization for aid in their purpose. Figure 2 Figure 2 is another image on the website that contains an image of a male sitting at a desk with a little girl in his lap kissing him on the cheek, while visually seeing the man is uneasy with his hand on his forehead. The desk is full of paperwork, a computer, calculator, and tablet. Also included in the image is a graph with large text in the middle that states with a line pointing to text that states of the predisposition for depression is due to genetic (Sad). THIS WAY UP makes the claim that no one knows exactly what causes depression, but it is clear that genetic factor plays an important role. Logos is very Student 4 apparent since the stakeholder is very confident in the thirty percent benchmark. They must have done their research which will help readers know that this is a legitime organization who truly cares about its mission and cause. Taking a closer look at the image, a few assumptions can be made. First, the man could be a father and the little girl is very needy of his time causing him to be stressed out. Second, seeing the computer and calculator on the desk, the man could be doing bills and realizing he have enough money to make all the payments. Third, looking at the paperwork on his desk, each paper has blue highlighter markings that could also indicate that he is doing school work. Lastly, the man could be working on a very important project at work that is time sensitive. Alternatively, the stakeholder could be using this image to sell their online courses, this father may not have time to visit a physcologist on a regular basis and THIS WAY UP solves this by offering online courses. Visually analyzing this image make the author look like a genius that is appealing to many different areas of stress induced sadness and depression. The following was noted, school stress, work stress, stress related to bills, and stress caused by children. One can conclude that this was a rhetorical strategy. Ethos is very apparent in this image due to the much different appeals this image could be referring to. There is credibility in saying or writing something that the audience already believes or that reinforces the experience (McKee and McIntyre. 30). This would make the use of pathos and ethos clear factors in this image. THIS WAY UP is an example of an organization that uses visual rhetoric on their website. This may be by design or even unknowingly. The stakeholder makes it clear that they are empathetic toward individuals who suffer from depression and anxiety. The use of pathos is very important for this type of organization because depression can be a sensitive topic to discuss for many people. Using pathos accurately can greatly increase the trust of the reader and Student 5 persuade them to join in on their cause. Their goal is to help suffers by participating in their online content and better the lives of those who participate. THIS WAY UP organizes their web pages very clearly. On the Sadness page, The stakeholder breaks down depression into the following: what depression is, the signs of depression, the causes, then the author transitions into the solutions with how to deal with depressions and coping with symptoms of depression. Overall, THIS WAY UP accomplishes their goal through visual rhetoric, from the use of images to the context of content on their website. (WC: 1,155) Student 6 Works Cited Lane, Emily and Kendra Gayle Lee and Jessica McKee and Megan McIntyre and Kate Pantelides. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-46. Print. Pack, Jenna. Down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. Print. THIS WAY UP. St Hospital Sydney Limited. Web. 2017. https://thiswayup.org.au/how-do-you-feel/sad/ . Accessed 25 Jan. 2017