Matias 1 Zulymar Matias ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 To Preserve the American Dream America was founded with the belief and assurance of the American Dream. American dream has many different explains Ethan Lazuk in his article of the American Dream for for Synonym.com, citizens usually associate it with such themes as wealth, financial security, freedom and even family. Immigrants in the U.S., however, are more likely to define the American dream as the pursuit of opportunity, a good job, owning a home and in many cases, safety from war or Today however the American dream for immigrants is being threatened by harsh immigration policies that are being put into place. Organizations like, The Allied Educational Foundation (AEF) and Reform Immigration for America (RIA) have tried to preserve the American Dream for Immigrants in their own ways but have not been able to successfully influence our government to make any changes. I propose that both The Allied Educational Foundation and Reform Immigration for America combine their organizations to influence a change of the current immigration reform allowing both, working families with illegal members to be able to obtain their citizenship with a working visa and the deportation of illegal immigrants who have been convicted for a crime in the United States of America. The Allied Educational Foundation is an organization whose mission is empower Americans through education and legal (thealliededucationalfoundation.org). This organization focuses on many values and freedoms of the American people including class actions, international law, election integrity, government oversight, national security, illegal Matias 2 immigration, judicial reform, healthcare, and race-based discrimination (thealliededucationalfoundation.org). The Allied Educational Foundation believes that without a proper program for citizenship, America is paving the way for national security problems by leaving to people but to come to the United States illegally (thealliededucationalfoundaion.org). The AEF support laws that take action on letting those with expired visas overstay their welcome, and have openly corroborated stronger and stricter laws on border patrol, including searching every vehicle that passes the Mexican-American Border (thealliededucationalfoundation.org). There are over 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States of America (thealliededucationalfoundation.org), and this is leading to over population problems that be there in the first place, The Allied Educational Foundation wants to help relieve this problem. Reform Immigration for America is an organization under the belief for their mission is to widespread support for workable, humane, comprehensive immigration (reformimmigrationforamerica.org). RIA works to help both the American people and the immigrants who have come here to experience the American Dream. Reform Immigration for vision for America is and native-born U.S. citizens working shoulder to shoulder to achieve better wages, working conditions, and labor (reformimmigrationforamerica.org). They believe in an Immigration Reform that promotes economic opportunity, is comprehensive to all, and holds long-term solutions. Reform Immigration for America explains how factors shaping immigration are not just domestic; the issue transcends our borders. As such, our relationships with other countries (reformimmigrationforamerica.org), thus we should be incorporating other countries to find a permanent and manageable solution for the 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States. Matias 3 Both The Allied Educational Foundation and Reform Immigration for America have the common goal to make an immigration reform that will help the United States keep its foundations, but have different ideas on how to accomplish this. The Allied Educational Foundation believes in allowing local government to place strict laws and policies that would make it easier to scout out illegal immigrants and encourage illegal immigrants to go back to their country of origin (thealliededucationalfoundation.org). While Reform Immigration for America trusts in inclusive path to citizenship for those working and living in America without papers; a reformed legal immigration system that is fair to families and assures family unity; worker protections that assure fair conditions for both native-born and immigrant workers; fair enforcement that not only secures the borders but enforces labor, civil and human (reformimmigrationforamerica.org). These organizations seem to be at odds with each other (strict laws versus loose restrictions) but both of them have with reasons to disagree. As The Allied Educational Foundation encourage strict laws and policies, so did the 1996 Reform that then-President Clinton wanted to put into place but the backlash was so immense that the reform did not change the situation (Washingtonpost.com). While Reform Immigration for belief in amnesty for families, was put into place in the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 by Ronald Reagan but failed to control illegal immigration rates (Washingtonpost.com). In spite of the different ways that The Allied Educational Foundation and Reform Immigration for America have tried to better the immigration reform I believe that this proposition will benefit both of these organizations and work toward their common goal: to better the immigration reform. By allowing working families with illegal members to obtain citizenship on a working visa we can help those families to stay together and encourage those who are in the United States of America illegally to work (this also leads to an economic improvement), this would provide an effective route to citizenship and would ultimately Matias 4 decrease the amount of illegal activity that goes on. This part of my proposition though similar to Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 by Ronald Reagan, does offer solutions with the problems that it faced, it will not grant Amnesty but a way to ease the those here illegally into work and better opportunity. Whereas the second part of the proposition will reduce the number of illegal immigrants; by deporting those who have been convicted for a crime in the United State. According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, about five percent of the federal and state prison was made out of non-U.S. citizens (CNN), that is unnecessary tax revenue that we spend to hold non-citizens instead of deporting them and reducing the number of illegal immigrants in the US. In conclusion, The Allied Educational Foundation and Reform Immigration for America will have a better chance on improving the current immigration reform by combining their organizations to influence a change of the current immigration reform allowing both, working families with illegal members to be able to obtain their citizenship with a working visa and the deportation of illegal immigrants who have been convicted for a crime in the United States of America. Both organizations ultimately have the same aspirations, to improve the current reform for the long-term, and with this compromise The Allied Educational Foundation and Reform Immigration for America will have a better chance in forming in doing so while holding on to the American Dream. Matias 5 Work Cited About  Reform Immigration FOR America. Reform Immigration for America, 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Carson, E. Ann, PH.D. Prisoners of  Prisoners in 2013 (2013): n. pag. Bureau of Justice Statistics. Bureau of Justice Statistics, Sept. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/p13.pdf>. Illegal Immigration Allied Educational  Allied Educational Foundation. Allied Educational Foundation, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lazuk, Ethan. Meaning of the American Dream for  The Classroom Synonym. Classroom.synonym.com, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Stoichet, Catherine E. Immigrants and Crime: Crunching the  CNN. Cable News Network, 8 July 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Weiner, Rachel. How Immigration Reform Failed, over and  The Washington Post. WP Company, 30 Jan. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.