Patel 1 Cremi Patel Hannah Lay ENC 1102 Jan 25 th , 2016 Should research on Animals be allowed? Utilizing animals as a way of forwarding human advancement has been a widely debated topic for the past thirty years. Most of the advancements in the health department of most are initially tested on animals similar to that of humans, such as rats, monkeys, rabbits, cats and even dogs. This is due to the inability of health products being used on humans at stage-1 testing. Animals are used for testing different products and cosmetics as well as for research by scientists to predict how different medicines will react on humans. One of the main organizations that is against animals testing and experiments is PETA otherwise known as for the Ethical Treatment of Animals PETA believes that have rights and deserve to have their best interests taken into (All About PETA, 2011). Their main goal is to protect animals and stop animal abuse. On the opposite side of the debate, scientists believe that animal testing is crucial in order to protect humans from certain products and there are also many organizations that support animal testing. For example, The American Association of Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS) believes in using laboratory animals for medical research and scientific discoveries in order to protect the quality of human life. Their main goal is to responsibly use laboratory animals to benefit both people and animals. Although these two organizations have different views in terms of animal testing, they both share a common goal of wanting to protect laboratory animals. Both organizations can come up with a compromise by Patel 2 finding an alternative way to test products and do medical research, which would save both human and animal lives. One of focuses on the subject of animal testing is the painful and deadly regulatory tests that are performed on animals every year. The government controls and ensures that the testing done on animals for medicine and cosmetics is ethical through the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). They ensure that the animals involved in the experiments are treated humanely. PETA was successful in getting the EPA to incorporate many of their recommendations. Regulatory Testing Department 1). Dr. Zerhouni, a former U.S. National Institutes of Health director, says that problem is that [animal worked, and its time we stopped dancing around the (Zerhouni 1). and he also believes that animal testing to help humans has been a major failure. website, peta.org, deems experiments on animals as cruel, expensive, inhumane and generally inapplicable to humans. They believe that instead of animals, scientist can use alternatives such as modern methods, which can be cheaper then animal testing. PETA has always been a strong supporter of animal rights and will continue to be for years to come. The American Association for Laboratory Animal science was founded in 1950. According to their official website mission statement, they believe they are an association of professionals that advances responsible laboratory animal care and use to benefit people and animals (About AALAS, 2012). AALAS also believes that animal testing is very efficient because animals share similar human genetic characteristics. Laboratory animals have organs and body systems similar to humans and other animals and are also susceptible to the same diseases that affect humans. This makes it easier for them to use animals for testing. Since animals have a shorter lifespan then that of humans, scientists are also able to study the entire life cycle. AALAS believes in Patel 3 keeping the animals healthy and taking good care of them for producing accurate research results. AALAS, unlike PETA, believes that animals can be large contributors in saving both human and animal lives. (Why are Animals Needed) In terms of differences, PETA believes that animals should not be used in any type of experiments and the AALAS believes that animal testing is humane and beneficial to animals. Despite all the disagreements between the two stakeholders, they share a reasonable amount of commonalities. Although PETA believes that they do not share any common ground with organizations that support animal testing, they technically do. PETA and AALAS both want best for the animals. According to AALAS Care, professionals share a love for animals and ensure that their animals receive high quality, compassionate care. (Caring for all, 2013) This simply means that they just abuse and treat animals unfairly. With that being said, it is clear that both of them want the best treatment for the animals. The only difference is that AALAS believes that it is better to do testing and experiments on the laboratory animals. There can be ongoing arguments about which chose is better and what is better for both humans and animals from each party but that mean that they share anything in common. Both PETA and AALAS are international nonprofit organizations, one being a charitable foundation and the other being a private organization. This means that they both rely on donations. Despite the differences, with the commonalities that they both share, both stakeholders can come up with a compromise. When discussing a compromise between the AALAS and PETA, it is important to keep the similarities in mind. Since PETA and AALAS both wish to protect the animals, they can come up with a compromise where they can meet in the middle. PETA and AALAS have never tried to come up with a compromise before but PETA was successful in reducing the number of Patel 4 animal testing by National Toxicology Program. According to the article seeks less animal testing by National Toxicology PETA asked the U.S. department of health and human services to issue a rule requiring all National Toxicology Program testing to adhere to standards that will reduce, refine or replace animal testing (Buckley 1). This states that PETA was trying to find ways that would reduce the amount of animal testing within the National Toxicology Program. Instead of using a similar approach with AALAS, one solution to the problem between finding a compromise can be developing modern technology that protects the animals and using alternatives such as computer programs that are just as accurate, if not more, then animals. They can come up with a computer testing that reads chemical inputs of what testing and can run a simulation of possible results. The simulations can be modified to simulate other animal types which in turn can provide reliable results without any from of organic testing. These simulations can be used for testing, experimenting and comparing products ranging from cosmetics to medicine. This will reduce the necessity of animal testing which can minimize the cost and in turn increase the efficiency. Using this computer program when possible will reduce the number of animals used in testing and experiments drastically. In summary, both of these stakeholders share their notable differences hut they also share some common grounds too. PETA has always been against using animals for experiments and research, whereas, The AALAS has always been for animal testing for many reasons. The use of a modern computer program can be limited depending on the money the AALAS and PETA have but it can limit the amount of animals used every year in experiments. The compromise AALAS could make is to use alternatives when possible and to reduce the number of animals used. The compromise PETA can make would be to start supporting organizations that use animal testing in a humane way on their website for people to see. While both of these Patel 5 stakeholders have their own opinions and ideas on different ends of the spectrum, they can reach a compromise and work together to achieve peace that can be an advantage for both humans and animals. Patel 6 Work Cited: Buckley, Liz. PETA seeks less animal testing by National Toxicology  Pesticide & Toxic Chemical News, 14 Apr. 2008, p. 6. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CA1 85612841&it=r&asid=8e70cc6aae79e8106df676c002181568. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. Regulatory Testing  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Caring for  We Care. N.p., 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About AALAS. N.p., 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About PETA. N.p., 2011. Wed. 29 Jan. 2017.