Santoro 1 Lena Santoro Professor Spencer Bennington ENC1102 29 January 2017 Child Vaccination From Two Different Perspectives Throughout the years, the technology and research that goes into making vaccinations has greatly improved. With this enhancement, people around the world have been able to become protected against infections and diseases that in past have left people permanently damaged or dead from its exposure. very common for children to receive vaccinations at a young age in order to safeguard them from these threats throughout their lives. Some would think that most parents would jump at the chance to protect their child from lethal infections, however there are some who question the of the benefits that vaccinations have to offer. The National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC) is an organization that has a neutral position when it comes to vaccinations, but encourage the use of preventative healthcare. Their main mission is to educate people on vaccinations for safety reasons, and they also fight for the right consumers have when it comes to making their own choices with healthcare (National Vaccine Information Center - Your Health. Your Family. Your Choice.). Every Child Before Two (ECBT) is an organization whose goal is to protect health with the help of vaccines, by informing parents, and ensuring that everyone has access to vaccinations (Every Child Before Two). These two groups have a common ground, despite their positions. Both of these organizations want to protect the people. Despite there being no federal laws requiring children in school to be vaccinated every state in the US requires children entering public schools to be vaccinated, with medical, religious, Santoro 2 philosophical exemptions. Currently 19 states offer philosophical exemptions. A compromise that would benefit the goals of both NVIC and ECBT would be, that all 50 states allow philosophical exemptions from vaccinations (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). Every Child Before Two is a non-profit organization goal is to reduce vaccine preventable illnesses. Their mission is to increase public awareness in the benefits of vaccinations, guarantee all families have access to vaccines, and support proper vaccination scheduling for children. ECBT was founded by former First Lady Rosalynn Carter and Betty Bumpers, the former First Lady of Arkansas. After a measles outbreak that effected over 55,000 people they worked towards immunization laws for young children. Not only do they run campaigns aimed towards children, but for the whole family to spread awareness for the issue. ECBT also keep healthcare providers up to date on immunization information, and make sure that public health polices and laws are based on accurate scientific evidence (Every Child Before Two). The National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC) is also a non-profit organization founded in 1982. They raise awareness and funds to go towards research to improve the safety and effectiveness of vaccines. They also follow the legislation and policy making that goes with vaccinations in order to protect the rights people have regarding vaccination decisions. The NVIC is a big supporter in research to determine the effects of vaccines, and are actively seeking participants for longitudinal studies for heavily and unvaccinated children. Their goal is, inform and empower all Americans with vaccine information that will prevent vaccine injuries and deaths and protect vaccine choices (National Vaccine Information Center - Your Health. Your Family. Your These two organization have a common interest in mind, but some differences as well. If they were to work together possible that they could make a bigger impact with their combined Santoro 3 voice, but they would need to work together. For a compromise to work each state in the United States would have to change their polices regarding the vaccination exemptions of school children. This would entail all fifty states allowing the exemption of vaccinations for philosophical reasons. A couple of reasons a parent may not vaccinate would include the possibility of injury, or if they feel as if the information available is inadequate due to limitations in vaccination data (Adverse Effects of Pertussis and Rubella Vaccines). Before a parent could make this decision ECBT would give a class on the potential benefits and consequences of vaccines. After receiving the information this would permit a parent who did not want their child vaccinated to still register their child into public school. ECBT may feel uncomfortable with this arrangement because some children may be at risk for illness. However, ECBT and NVIC would have joint fundraisers to raise funds for research regarding the effect of vaccinations on children. This works in favor of both organizations because giving adults a chance to make informed decisions about their health, but also helps research move forward in the area as well. A reason why this proposal would prosper would be because of the similar compromise involving school lunches. The government and public schools had a common goal when it came to the betterment of children, and that was making sure that students are performing at the best standard they possible could at school. Food makes a huge impact on the performance and health of students. why Michelle Obama came up with the National School Lunch Program. After gathering 14 child-nutrition experts it was determined school children consuming the recommended diet for a healthy lifestyle. Michelle Obama decided to implement the National School Lunch Program to improve the diets of students. The National School Lunch Program introduced more fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and less sugar into the cafeteria (Baidal and Taveras). Parents were informed on the change and were told why it was happening. If they Santoro 4 support this new initiative, they could simply have their child bring their own lunch to school. Ultimately, this endeavor started because the of the growing concern for childhood obesity, and despite some parents not believing it is as an actual issue the change to school lunches had a positive impact. With that success in mind, the proposed compromise about child vaccinations should be able to succeed as well. Ultimately, the views parents have on vaccinations can be conflicting. However, if parents were to stay informed with accurate information regarding vaccines the decision to vaccinate their child would be easy to make. where Every Child Before Two and the National Vaccine Information Center come in. They both share the mission to make sure children are protected from infection and disease. If they were to work together to improve a knowledge and the database regarding vaccinations, parents would be able to make informed decisions that could protect their child in the long run. Santoro 5 Works Cited National Vaccine Information Center - Your Health. Your Family. Your  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Every Child By  Every Child By Two. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 21 July 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Read Adverse Effects of Pertussis and Rubella  at  Afterword on Research Needs Adverse Effects of Pertussis and Rubella Vaccines The National Academies Press. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Woo Baidal, Jennifer A., and Elsie M. Taveras. Perspective: Protecting Progress Against Childhood Obesity The National School Lunch  The New England Journal Of Medicine 371.(2014): 1862-1865. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.