Mendez 1 Monica Mendez Bob Botkin ENC1102 063 29 September 2017 Tuition versus Future Derived from the greek universitas, a universities are institutions of higher education and research. They are known for providing undergraduate and post-graduate degrees, the building blocks of a professional career. When the concept of higher education was born back in 1155, academic freedom was crucial. The first major universities, like Oxford and Cambridge, believed that if someone wanted to study, they should have the liberty to do so. Because of the fear of limiting their students, they did not charge tuition and they were, in most cases, subsided by the church (Glater, 2). But this last long. The privatization of academic institutions changed drastically and the education system that was first proposed by the English, disappeared. The impact of this privatization, is lived today by young, 18-year-old students that want to succeed in their future. Why? Because it placed a price on their education. And should the success of a student have a price? In order to comprehend why tuition is a crucial factor in a decision, it is important to briefly discuss the history of tuition in the United States. Back in 1796, Thomas Jefferson introduced an education system completely supported by taxes. Thomas Jefferson believed that in order to have good citizens, everyone must be educated (Gilreath and Jefferson). Even though it was not in his plans to have a 100% free education system, public universities started to be subsided by the government. As years passed, education was still relatively cheap, especially in public universities, however, only families with wealth and power had the ability to Mendez 2 afford the expenses that came with studying in a university. By the early 1900s, 85% of university students were or Scholarship Recipients, or sons and daughters of upper-class families (Seneca, 345). But this gap between the lower-class and the rich was reduced, when the Higher Education Act was implemented by Lyndon B. government in 1965. The HEA, as popularly known as, provided financial assistance to students that could not afford an education by themselves through low interest grants and federal loans. But because of this, the cost of tuition has increased in almost a 200%, and some scholars believe that this inflation will never stop (Curs, Bradley and Larry, 117). Currently, the cost of an undergraduate degree is limiting the possibility of an education for students. Tuition is the major reason why students want to travel abroad and want to study away from home; and even though staying at home presents very important economic advantages, it limits the student from having an integral and an out-of-the-ordinary education. Economically speaking, researchers argue that the quality of public education is not as high as the level of education you would receive in a private institution (Groen, 1802). Private universities, tend to offer more benefits on the long term. For example, internships are really popular in private universities because they provide students professional experience very early in their studies. Private Universities are also significantly smaller, which provides student more one-on-one time with their professors, creating prestigious faculty-student relationships. Despite all of this, aid in private schools is very limited. There is a higher probability that a student will receive financial aid, or a government scholarship, if he or she attends a public school (Curs, Bradley and Larry, 121). Public schools are extremely big. An average public state university, has around 35 thousand students. With lecture halls for 250 students or more, Public State Schools provide an above-average education, but with huge economic and financial advantages. Mendez 3 By staying in their home state, students have the advantage of living with family, avoiding room and board fees, which can cost at least 40% of their annual university budget (Dunnet, 103). If students decide to attend a public university in their home state, they only pay a fraction of what they would pay in a private school, and they also apply for In-State tuition and State-Funded Aid. This meaning, that in the case of needing a student loan, the total amount of debt would be technically low. The only significant disadvantage researchers highlight about studying close to home, is that students are sacrificing knowing different places and experiencing new cultures, just for the fact of not owing the government after graduation. Dr. Mary Dwyer discusses in a study on the importance of Study Abroad, that 75% of students that studied abroad got a job in their first interview and that 85% of these students got into Post-Graduate programs (Dwyer, 14). The debate on the importance of tuition and its impact in a life has been incredibly relevant since the implementation of the Higher Education Act, but the points of view of the different institutions are sometimes ignored. Dr. Jeffrey Groen and Michelle White highlight in their study, that private institutions tend to utilize almost 40% of the Tuition and Fees to pay the professors they hire, and the other 60% is utilized mostly for Institutional Support and Academic Research. On the other hand, Public Universities utilize only 25% of their capital for Instruction Support, but almost 38% for Aid and Government Operations. (Groen and White, 1802). This means, that Public Universities are utilizing the Tuition and Fees, that are mostly composed of student loan money, to re-pay the government any grants or loans they have as an institution. And this is where both, the student and the university, have a common ground. Student loan money is being used to pay other institution loans to the government. A few compromises must be done by the students and the universities to get out of this endless cycle. Universities would need to rely more on private investors, instead of the Mendez 4 government. Especially for big loans. If this could be a possibility, the inflation of Tuition would stop eventually and costs would start going down. And by general expenses going down, more students could have the ability to pay an education without needing a student loan or grant, which in the end will benefit both them and the university. This process of compromise could be very slow, because it requires an active participation and involvement of the government, but surely not something impossible. The education system must be something beyond money and politics, and the first step to purify it, is to finally take a step back from traditional management. Mendez 5 Works Cited Curs, Bradley, and Larry D. Singell. An analysis of the application and enrollment processes for in-state and out-of-state students at a large public  Economics of Education Review 21.2 (2002): 111-124. Dunnett, Andrew. Choosing a university: A conjoint analysis of the impact of higher fees on students applying for university in  Tertiary Education and Management 18.3 (2012): 199-220. Dwyer, Mary M. Charting the impact of studying  International educator 13.1 (2004): 14. Glater, Jonathan D. Colleges reduce out-of-state tuition to lure  The New York Times (2008): 2. Gilreath, James, and Thomas Jefferson. Thomas Jefferson and the Education of a  Library of Congress, 1999. Groen, Jeffrey A., and Michelle J. White. In-state versus out-of-state students: The divergence of interest between public universities and state  Journal of Public Economics 88.9 (2004): 1793-1814. Perna, Laura W., and Marvin A. Titus. Understanding differences in the choice of college attended: The role of state public  The Review of Higher Education 27.4 (2004): 501-525. Seneca, Joseph J., and Michael K. Taussig. The effects of tuition and financial aid on the enrollment decision at a state  Research in Higher Education 26.4 (1987): 337-362.