Roger Pan Composition 2 Seth Spencer 1/28/17 High Demand The constant evolution of increased trade in goods and the ratio of consumer needs have risen over the past few decades. As certain nations and/or populations continue to expand in am wealthier lifestyle, their citizens will start to demand a greater number of products to meet their ever-growing needs. The higher increase of consumer products has led to a higher demand of outsourcing. As companies demand more products to please customers, companies are trying to find cheaper ways to produce the goods their customers desire. Through this crisis, views have widened between corporate industries and worker right activists with the high demand to find a compromise that with satisfy both groups. The first stakeholder in this current situation are the corporate industries. These industries include companies that produce from shirts, shoes, pants, and to handbags. Well-known brands for these products include Ralph Lauren, Nike, Michael Kors, and even to basic cotton wear brand Hanes. Producers such as these retailers provide the best in quality to their customers with the intent to satisfy and lure in more customers to purchase the products that they offer. Of course, industries are similar to individuals. The need to have more and pay less always strikes attention. Product demand continue to rise as first world countries demand more products to spend the extra income they possess along with developing countries such as China for example zooming for this supply opportunity as well. With all these major factors in mind, companies are interested in keeping costs low and profits high as possible while demand increases. Companies think they are doing good for the consumers by keeping all aspects of the production cost low, which therefore equals low cheap prices. Most companies that are interested in lower production costs have outsourced their companies to countries such as China, India, Mexico, Pakistan, Indonesia, And Thailand. Countries such as these are in the process of developing their economy, wages and capital. Workers in these industries are poorly paid and not treated humanely. All of this to satisfy increasing consumer demands. The other stakeholder in this scenario are the worker right activists. These activists include the workers and consumers alike that agree that unfair the production of products should be noticed by everyone. Customers only care about cheap and good for the money in his/her wallet. This in turn causes the industries to find cheaper alternatives to producing the products and it get any cheaper than outsourcing and using workers from other countries as cheaper labor compared to the minimum wages needed in countries such as the United States. The thoughts of these worker activists are simple. To improve the way employees in these industries are treated for the market they are expected to produce in. It is sad to think that an high-end clothing line in stores such as or came from some factory in China or Pakistan while workers are paid very low wage and in dangerous harsh working environments. All of this to only to make the pockets of consumers and corporations happy. All in all, these two stakeholders will not agree on the same terms. However, comprises can be made by both groups to deescalate tension between them. One compromise is to match performance to pay. The higher an individual performs, the higher he or she is paid. Another compromise is the systematic increase of all workers to the same pay and the increase worker pool if needed to balance out production and inventory needed. The use of incentives and worker care packages will make employees feel wanted and willing to meet high demands. After all, high demands always lead to higher demands.