Dr. Oana Cimpean Ishaat Musrur Hussain ENC 1102 Section 51 29 th January 2017 The choice to die Death. This term is the end note of any functioning being. Whether by own choice or by other factors, every living being must taste death. However, could this grim crossroads of human life be beneficial to some? Physician assisted suicide provides the option of death to patients for whom death would be a well-served alternative. Materialized in the form of the Death with Dignity Act, physician assisted suicide has been in effect in Oregon, United States of America since 1997. Death with Dignity law allows Oregonians suffering from terminal illness to request and receive a physician prescribed medication to hasten their inevitable and imminent death (Death with Dignity). However, this has faced a lot of controversy based on human rights and ethics. The nonprofit organization Death with Dignity National Center aims to make all qualified terminally ill Americans capable of making their own end of life choices, including how they die, based on the Oregon Death with Dignity law. On the contrary, Not Dead Yet is a national disability rights group that opposes legalization of assisted suicide as they believe it as a gateway for discrimination against old, ill and disabled people. Although both organizations are at opposing views regarding the Oregon Death with Dignity laws, their end goal is to protect human rights. For the further protection of human rights, an integration of both the goals can be obtained by limiting the demography capable of using physician assisted suicide and making it available only to legible patients who have passed proper health and psychological evaluations. Death with Dignity National Center centers goals around the Oregon Death with Dignity act. They believe, greatest human freedom is to live and die according to our own desires and (Death with Dignity). Alongside promoting the death with dignity laws, they also provide legislative efforts to make this law legal in all states of the United States of America. This law is presently in effect in California, Colorado, Oregon, Vermont and Washington. The Death with Dignity law has multiple safeguards in order to ensure non-abusive patterns of this law. In order to be eligible for a prescribed lethal prescription the patient must prove his/her residency, must be 18 years or older, capable of making their own choices and be diagnosed with an illness that renders life expectancy to six months. Additionally, there are two oral requests and one written request for the prescription and a mandatory 15 day waiting period between the first request and receiving of the medication (Werth Jr 502). The physician prescribing the medication must also consult another physician and both must reach an agreement of mental and physical diagnosis before prescribing the medication (Werth Jr 502). These safeguards are designed to ensure the correct decision is made by the correct patient and physician. However, even in place of such safeguards, this act has faced reasonable opposition as it is considered a violation of moral and ethical codes in medicine. In order to uphold the moral and ethical values in medicine, physicians take Hippocratic Oath which is an oath taken by all physicians and dates back to the third century B.C. (Huntoon 99). A part of this Oath states that, all I must not play Evidently, taking life can be considered by some as an act of playing God (Huntoon 99). Due to this and additional factors, the legalization of physician assisted suicide is being opposed by groups like Not Dead Yet. Not Dead Yet opposes the legalization of physician assisted suicide as they believe old, ill and disabled could be subjected to when their lives would be judged as worthless (Not Dead Yet). Instead of assisted suicide, they promote better and long term end of life care for patients. A common misconception that might arise is that people suffering from intolerable pain sees assisted suicide as a last resort option, however, that is not the case. Per data from the Death with Dignity act Annual reports of 2016, 92% of the people asking for physician assisted suicide were people with loss of autonomy, 90% were people unable to engage in activities and 79% of the people had a feeling of loss of dignity (Death with Dignity Act Annual Reports 2016). This trend shows that, rather than pain, the main issue is disability. Not Dead Yet also believes that physician assisted suicide acts as a gateway for involuntary euthanasia. In the year 1984, Governor Richard D. Lamm stated as a to saying, people who are terminally ill have a duty to die and get out of the way instead of trying to prolong their lives by artificial (Huntoon 99) This demonstrates how the elderly can be subjected to involuntary euthanasia through discrimination. Furthermore, another discrepancy of the Death with Dignity act as pointed out by Not Dead Yet is that physicians are the ultimate decision makers (Not Dead Yet). Although, patients ask for the medication, they are at the mercy of the diagnosis which in case of false diagnosis would result in end of life even though the patient could have had a long life. Although Not Dead Yet aims to stop legislation of the Death of Dignity act, both organizations have the common agenda that is to ensure proper rights. In the light of rights, like the right to life, the right to death is also a human right. However, like all rights, this right must be implemented in a way that steers clear from discrimination and abuse. Statistics over the last four years show that loss of autonomy (85%) and making life enjoyable (77%) are the prime reasons for desire for assisted suicide (Werth Jr 503). Not Dead Yet also points out that assisted suicide might decrease the quality of health care, however statistics showed that it was not the case. Oregon Hospice Association found no evidence that assisted suicide in Oregon has undermined end-of-life care or harmed the best interests of vulnerable (Almagor 436). By prohibiting disabled patients from accessing assisted suicide measures, the discrimination against disability can be removed. If assisted suicide measures were only made available to people who are in intolerable pain and have a diagnosed reason of shortened life and mental health, then both goals can be met as this option would serve only the people who really needed it. Additionally, through financial and psychological evaluation, patients having reasons other than the above-mentioned reasons must be removed as contenders of receiving physician assisted suicide. This compromise would touch upon both the common ground of ensuring proper end of life choices. Although it may seem like Death with Dignity gets the most benefits out of this compromise as they are seeing their act materialize, Not Dead core values are not lost. By limiting the demography of people capable of receiving physician assisted suicide, those who are old and disabled can be saved from discrimination. As it is shown that end of life health care is not affected by the Death with Dignity Act, elderly people and disabled people should be exposed to better health care services. However, the families of the patients must be considered as they might also be going through emotional distress along with the patient. As assisted suicide hands control to the patients until the very last moment of their patients suffering from mental illness are unable to avail this law because of their condition even at the end of their lives (Cohen-Almagor 437). A possible solution to this could be an addition to the compromise where patients can choose physician assisted suicide for a future point of their lives upon diagnosis of a fatal disease or mental disorder. For example, patients can opt for assisted suicide for a future point in their life, by making the decision before they lose the mental capabilities to choose for themselves. This would again ensure that the main benefactors are the patients. Among innumerable factors, financial issues were the cause for only 2% of the people choosing physician assisted suicide. This was because people with proper education are more likely to be financially solvent and these people are likely to be more educated about end of life decisions (Werth Jr. 512). Also 99% of the people choosing physician assisted suicide have health insurance (Werth Jr. 512). This shows that, most people wanting physician assisted suicide do not do it out of external factors like financial pressure. However, to ensure that health is the only reason for assisted suicide it is the duty of organizations like death with dignity and not dead yet to ensure people can have the right to make their end of life decisions with minimal broader consequences and that the term be treated as a last resort form of health care for people who have no other health options left. (1458 words) Work Cited About  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Annual  Annual Reports. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cohen-Almagor, R. Dossier To Live And An Argument For Physician-Assisted Suicide And Against  Ethics, Medicine And Public Health 1.(2015): 431 441. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Huntoon, Lawrence R. Physician-Assisted Suicide And Euthanasia: The Destruction Of Morals, Ethics, And  Journal Of American Physicians And Surgeons 4 (2016): 98. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Not Dead Yet Disability Activists Oppose Assisted Suicide As A Deadly Form of  Not Dead Yet. N.p., 05 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wineberg, Howard, and James L., Jr. Werth. Physician-Assisted Suicide In Oregon: What Are The Key  Death Studies 27.6 (2003): 501-518. AgeLine. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.