Dominic Behn Mr. Spencer ENC. 1102 28 January 17 Life or Death? It is a matter of life or death, it is a matter of revenge or forgiveness, it is a matter of what is right and what is wrong, it is the death penalty. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP) is a large organization working to abolish the death penalty nationwide and eventually worldwide. While, on the other hand, the families of the victims in almost every death penalty case are for the defendant being sentenced to death. Over a long period of time, these two stakeholders can compromise a campaign adjustment to work together to unite as one organization and abolish the death penalty for good. The first stakeholder mentioned on the controversial topic, the NCADP, holds a very strong position on how they feel about the death penalty; they want it abolished. National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty is the oldest organization dedicated exclusively to the abolition of the death penalty. It leads a national movement against the death penalty fueled by a broad-based national constituency and more than 100 Affiliate They stated that through strategic planning, campaign development, and training services they will be able to abolish the death penalty state by state until it is gone for good They offer a variety of jobs to help complete their plan efficiently, and anyone is able to apply for them through the organizations website. Anyone is also able to pledge their allegiance to the organization straight from the website to jump on the abolition train. They have had speakers for their organization speak against the death penalty in large cases or controversial meetings for years. The NCADP spoke out to those voting on the abolition of the death penalty in California in 2012. They stated ways that communities would be safer if the death penalty was repealed They are a very well ran organization that has a lot of experience in the field and are prepared to continue to fight the death penalty for years to come. If you were the family of a victim in a death penalty case, would you want the defendant to be executed? 85% of survivors in death penalty cases would say yes to that question Many reporters wonder how the families of the victims or co- victims feel towards the death sentence of the defendant. Out of 679 analyzed executions, only 15% of co-victims did not want to, and did not attend the executions Therefore, only 15% of co-victims did not want the defendant to be sentenced to death. Obviously that is a large percentage of co-victims who were all for the execution of the offender. Out of the percentage of those who went to the executions, about 1/3 rd of them were for it due to frustration, 1/3 rd for justice, and the majority of the last 3 rd for revenge All of the recorded information regarding the co-victims in death penalty cases shows that most of them are all for the execution of the offender in the case. There is no organization for these families, therefore it is all independent fights out of the frustration, justice, etc. that they feel as mentioned above. So the elephant in the room between these two companies is; where is the wiggling room? If these two stakeholders are to make a compromise they first have to look at their wiggling room in their opinions. The NCADP is obviously a very developed and powerful organization, but there is a glowing statement in their plan to abolish the death penalty that will help to make a compromise work between the two stakeholders. as mentioned above in the section on the NCADP website is that glowing statement involved in their planning. They are always adjusting their campaign model and developing new ways to hasten their goal to abolish the death penalty. Meaning that the two stakeholders can work in a new campaign model to assist each desires over time. The families of the victims have their own wiggling room that the NCADP will be willing to work with to make this compromise possible. As an example in 2012, James Spell killed his ex-wife and his mother in law, which would automatically be considered for the death sentence under Georgia laws. Although the jury believed Spell been sentenced to death, the neighbors and families of the victims said that they were okay with the death penalty not being invoked (Terry Dickson). Spell got off with life in prison and no parole. Of course not co-victims are like this, but over time and with good intentions there is definitely room for compromise with the NCADP as shown it is possible. The campaign itself is a combination of the two stakeholders with a slight but understandable bias towards the NCADP. The NCADP will form a new campaign with an additional integration of the families of the victims in all death penalty cases as a large portion of their campaign model. After convincing the first few families to work with them, the NCADP will work with the families to study and find all of the death penalty cases at the present time and begin implementing their new campaign. This campaign will not only have all the original convincing facts and research conducted by the NCADP for their first campaign, but it will also include the real personal experiences of these families involved in the cases. With these families, they will be able to relate on a personal level with all the remaining co-victims that are for the death penalty, and be able to convince them that it is truly not worth the execution. Obviously these remaining co-victims will be hard to convince. With a personal relation to their experience as well as all of the research done by the NCADP, they should be okay with a compromise for the defendant to be sentenced to life in prison; no parole if necessary. After gathering all the remaining supporters of the death sentence, it will be very hard for the remaining supporting states to continue implementing it. Therefore, the final goal to abolish the death penalty will succeed. This will not be a simple task nor will it be a quick compromise. The death penalty is so controversial that only 19 states have abolished it completely since it has been reinstated in 1976 (Free). Meaning that in the past 40 years 38% of the United States has an abolished the death penalty. Using those statistics, it would take around 105 more years to abolish it in the United states for good. That is not factoring in how powerful this new campaign will be and the state of the death penalty in world. Based off of that, the abolition of the death penalty will be in a much shorter time span than 105 years. This type of compromise can be looked at essentially as a business merger. In this theoretical merger NCADP is the more powerful company, but referencing the NCADP; it is not always their way or they highway, they need to look at everything the other company is benefiting them (King). Business mergers are a realistic and common tactic in world for growing industries, and be (Smith). That is why this compromise will be able to be a huge success over time if both stakeholders are open and dedicated to abolishing the death penalty together! Works Cited Abolish the Death  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ncadp.org/>. I Forgive You, but You Must Die: Murder Victim Family Members, the Death Penalty, and Restorative Justice. Ed. Leo G. Barrile. Taylor & Francis Online, 26 Sept. 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.tandfonline.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/full/10.1080/15564886.2014.92502 2?scroll=top&needAccess=true>. Dickson, Terry. Killer gets life, twice; no parole; Family and neighbors of the victims say OK with no death penalty being  Florida Times-Union, 28 Jan. 2012. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/?verb=sr&csi=155 140&sr=HEADLINE(Killer gets life%2C twice)%2BAND%2BDATE%2BIS%2B2012>. Eaton, Judy, and Tony Christensen. Closure and its myths: families, the death penalty, and the closure  International Review of Victimology, 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://journals.sagepub.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/pdf/10.1177/0269758014537148>. Free, Marvin D. Historical Timeline - Death Penalty -  Procon.org, 13 Aug. 2013. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://deathpenalty.procon.org/view.timeline.php?timelineID=000025>. National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. Making Communities Safer By Abolishing The Death Penalty: Live Internet Video Teleconference To Explore Views of Law Enforcement  Making Communities Safer By Abolishing The Death Penalty: Live Internet Video Teleconference To. PR Newswire, 22 Oct. 2012. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/making-communities-safer-by- abolishing-the-death-penalty-live-internet-video-teleconference-to-explore-views-of-law- enforcement-professionals-175258451.html>. Smith, Kate. Coming together: getting the cultural integration right following a merger or acquisition can be crucial for  Review, May 2016, p. 63+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE %7CA453289403&it=r&asid=4dcb0142733cbdb50829c83172de4b88. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017.