Power 1 Molly Power Adam Phillips ENC 1102.022p 28 Jan 2017 Health Care in America: Public or Private The well-being of America through public or private health care is the driving force behind The Agency for Healthcare Research and the American Action contention. Creating an insurance plan that is public, meaning regulated by the government, but increases an options for treatments, similar to private health care, is a fitting compromise between the plans. Government regulated health care is able to affect a broader range of Americans than if it were privatized, but is criticized for infringing on a freedom. The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality argues that poor health care access to individuals will effect the community as a whole. This demonstrates their support for affordable, public health care. Opposition to this support stems from many conservative organizations, like the American Action Network. This network argues that government sponsored health care increases tax dollars and infringes on a personal freedoms. A compromise between the two organizations would allow for a wider range of health care options for the public without privatization, minimizing the blunt cost for an well being. This would increase the percentage of the public impacted by healthcare without effecting their personal freedoms or the need for profit. Public health care supports the well being of the community through limited but affordable options. It is made affordable through government regulation and funding. Power 2 This is supported by the statement made in the Journal of Health Politics, Policy, and Law, designed to contain costs and improve health and health care may need to be combined with much stronger regulation of health care markets if the nation is to achieve a balanced and stable system capable of covering all (Siegel, Mead, and Burke, 649) With this, more people are getting treatments they need to protect their well being along with those around them. An increase in treatments translates to more successful insurance companies and a better economy. Government regulation also implies an increase in public taxes. Public health care rely on profit, making the direct cost of treatment more affordable for the individual. Criticism stems from this system due to the increase in taxes for the public over all. With this said, the reasoning behind supporters of public health care accept tax dollars over direct, and occasionally overpowering, medical costs. The Agency for Healthcare Research and main objective is to gain access to proper, and affordable, health care for the public through data and research (Chapter 9. Access to Healthcare, ahrq.gov). Also known as the AHRQ, the organization uses Evidence Based Reports, EPCs, that report problems and benefits of healthcare plans. (Chapter 9. Access to Healthcare, ahrq.gov) With this, AHRQ can interpret the best possible healthcare for the greater good of the public. Thus leading to a healthier and more responsive society. Society described by the agency considers populations from the disabled, the elderly, minority groups, and more (Chapter 9. Access to Healthcare, ahrq.gov). This, along with EPCs, leads to a more accurate understanding of both public and private health care. Considering all of the populations, AHRQ supports public health care for all. Power 3 Private health care consists of more options for a smaller population. With this, it allows an individual to determine the specifics behind treatments, including the location, time, and what specialist.. Similar to the case made North Carolina Law Review, privatization in American health care allows for improved opportunities in an evolving field (Pasquale, 1661). These opportunities can be seen as the result of more options that are available for an individual. This said, private health care depends on profit unlike the public alternative. Profit can be seen as both an advantage and disadvantage. To organizations like AHRQ, this is a disadvantage due to the blunt cost behind each health care opportunity or treatment. The advantage behind profit is that it decreases the national debt. Supporters want to lower taxes which in turn leads to more expenses within health care for the individual but reduces debt for the country. Organizations like the American Action Network support private health care due to their access to specific treatments and the privacy between patient and care taker. These aspects create opposition to the AHRQ. Also known as the AAN, the network wants to reform public health care. Like many private health care advocates, the AAN supports quality of health care but without raising American tax dollars. As stated by the American Action Network, care should be a physician-patient decision, not a government believe in patient-centered health care solutions that provide Americans access to quality, affordable health care of their (Health Care, americanactionnetwork.org), the priority should be on the quality of service not the quantity. The accepted alternative is for the individual to have the freedom to choose their health care personally and be responsible for those choices. Although this indicates more direct health care costs to each individual involved, the public is not effected as a Power 4 whole. A compromise between AHRQ and AAN begins with the acceptance of both public and private health care. Public health care is a solution that effects more of the community while private health care is a solution to more options for individuals. Combining the two solutions could allow for an increase in people and options involved in an affordable health care plan. The AHRQ, although primarily a supporter of public health care, considers both sides of the argument. The statement, its EPCs, sponsors the development of various reports to assist public- and private-sector organizations in their efforts to improve the quality of health care in the United (Chapter 9. Access to Healthcare, ahrq.gov) demonstrates the aptitude to compromise. As stated in Colleen Lets Call the Whole Thing Off, health care opportunities can be regulated by the government but still predominantly private. With private providers like hospitals and pharmacies, there is a (Grogan, 403). With this said, more can afford health care while there is still aspects of privatization, similar to the Affordable Care Act put in place by President Barack Obama. The contention behind the right to health care for all Americans is a question of either public or private opportunity. This topic is important because without stakeholders like AHRQ and AAN, health care would not be as polarized as it is today. To minimize this polarity, there needs to be a compromise from both stakeholders of public and private options. Supporters of public health care, like the AHRQ, need available health care options for all individuals. The majority of opposition from private health care supporters, like the AAN, stems from the argument that an individual should be Power 5 responsible for their healthcare freedoms. A lack of this responsibility leads to higher taxes for the public. To create a fitting compromise for both AHRQ and AAN, both public and private health care needs need to be met. A wider range of health care options for the public and a lower direct cost for an well being would increase the population impacted by healthcare without effecting their personal freedoms or the need for profit. This compromise would bring both AHRQ and the AAN together, and finally create a stable and effective health care plan for America. Power 6 Works Cited Chapter 9. Access to Healthcare  Agency for Healthcare Research & Quality. U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, 2011. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Agency for Healthcare Research and Chapter 9 discusses the importance of nondiscriminatory, public healthcare. This agency supports the healthcare opportunities that come with the public sector. These include current law, the Affordable Care Act. AHRQ uses scientific evidence to understand the statistics and figures behind public and private sector health care plans. This provides unbiased information about both sectors and the benefits to public health care. This agency is crucial to my topic due to my comparison of both the public and private sectors. With the information given within Chapter 9, I am able to clearly understand the details behind public health care. This information provides analysis for both understanding the agency, the public health care system, and a different view of the private sector. This is the official website which provides me with a reliable source. Grogan, Colleen M. You Call It Public, I Call It Private, Call The Whole Thing  Journal Of Health Politics, Policy & Law 36.3 (2011): 401-411. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Power 7 Although this source is worded heavily in opposition to the Affordable Care Act, an example of public health care, it demonstrates the private aspects to this act. It also discusses the opinions of both conservatives and liberals on public health care. It refers to the health care system now in place as a of both private and public opportunities. This demonstration allows for a better idea of how both private and public health care affect each other. When discussing a compromise, this is very helpful. When reading more about the opinions of both public and private health care supporters, I have a better concept of how to create a compromise. Health  American Action Network. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The American Action Network informed me of their views of the health care system enacted at this time along with why they believe a private system would be more beneficial. Because they are a right wing conservative organization, they oppose the idea of public health care. They believe it is taking away from many Americans personal freedoms. This is contrasting of the AHRQ. This source is crucial to my topic because it provides information not only on the views on healthcare, but as a political organization as well. This allows for analysis based on both political and health care preferences. When incorporating these into the topic, there is a better comparison of the stakeholders. Power 8 Pasquale, Frank A. Health Care Decisions In The New Era Of Health Care Reform: Private Certifiers And Deputies In American Health  North Carolina Law Review 92.(2014): 1661. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This academic journal described privatization in American health care. Due to the fact that privatization is involved heavily in the topic, this source was very informative. This source was also included in the North Carolina Law Review. It is relatively recent, published in 2014. This academic journal helped to fully develop the understanding of the impact of privatized health care. This source was extremely helpful because private health care was the most unknown part of my topic. Although only using the beginning of the journal, it was enlightening. Siegel, Bruce, Holly Mead, and Robert Burke. Private Gain And Public Pain: Financing American Health  Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics 36.4 (2008): 644 651. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. When reading this source, there are clear overlaps with the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. Both believe more Americans should have access to available healthcare and provide facts and statistics behind this claim. This journal discusses the growth of health care overtime, allowing for an unbiased understanding of what is impacting who and when. Power 9 This source is crucial to my development of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. This along with a better understanding of both public and private sectors and their plans for health care helps create a more developed thesis and paper. Top Pro and Con Arguments  ProCon, 26 Aug. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This website discusses the pro and con arguments to many topics. These include the topic of public health care. Not only was I able to see the benefits of public health care, but also why the private sector had opposing views. I was able to analyze each of the pros and cons to public health care to understand the full scope of the topic. Without this source, I would not understand the polarizing difference between public and private. This intention is to find a compromise between two opposing stakeholders which makes a general list of why and why not the public health care opportunities are beneficial very important.