Elliott 1 Taryn Elliott Bennington ENC 1102 27 January 2017 A Really Cool Title That Catches Attention In the past 80 years the world has become increasingly more globalized; promoting a mass of interconnectedness and global flow of communication. More than any other time in history, states rely on other states for prosperity. With this comes international trade, a system that affects every individual. Stakeholders like the North Atlantic Free Trade Agreement most tariff and non-tariff between Canada, Mexico, and the United States to ensure the economic prosperity of the invested countries (NAFTA). On the opposing side, the stakeholder Fair Trade America prominently focus on the prosperity of the worker and farmers in developing countries (FTA). Both of these stakeholders play crucial roles in how trade is accessed and used. While their processes and methods seem like polar opposites, the main goal of each of these stakeholders is very similar and opens up the possibility of a compromise that positively influences both stakeholders. By leveling the playing field and eliminating all market intervention in trade, Fair Trade America and NAFTA can find a common resolution that benefits both of them. The North Atlantic Free Trade Agreement promotes the use of free trade during international trade agreements. Founded in 1994, NAFTA became the largest free trade zone in the world (NAFTA). Free trade is exactly what it sounds like. It is international trade without any tip of barrier or restriction such as tariffs or quotas. According to the NAFTA website, free trade between the three participating countries has led to a remarkable increase in economic prosperity Elliott 2 and has allowed many companies to expand their territory throughout North America (NAFTA). Free Trade and Free Trade agreements are predominantly created to benefit the customers by lowering the prices (NAFTA). However, while prices are lower for customers and exports increase due to the agreement, free trade is not without its flaws nor opposition. In an article written for The Times Leader, Jerry Lynott discusses influence on workers in the United States. Lynott says that workers lose their jobs companies move their work to Mexico and Canada with the opening of borders and elimination of (Lynott). Essentially, Lynott argues that NAFTA is not protecting or economically benefiting workers, which is exactly what the opposing stakeholder, Fair Trade America argues. Fair Trade America pushes for trade that benefits the workers that current free trade agreements disadvantage. Unlike Free Trade, fair trade seeks to protect laborers and farmers through prices, good working conditions, and fairer trade terms for marginalized (FTA). Due to the market power distribution of free trade, workers are often relegated due a lack of rules during trade. So while free trade agreements, such as NAFTA, wish to extinguish trade barriers in order to positively influence consumers with low prices, Fair Trade believes that lack of barriers forgets to protect the workers. Fair Trade model protects farmers and workers by paying producers above-market price (Haight). However, like NAFTA, Fair Trade America has its own flaws. While the producers are more protected than in free trade agreements, consumer prices drastically increase due to the set wages of the fair trade model. One example of this is the high price of coffee. Producers are benefiting from the fair trade model, however, do not see a reason why they should pay any more than the fair trade price for the value that is Fair (Haight). Elliott 3 It is clear that NAFTA and FTA differ greatly in terms of their primary goals and methods of trade. However, both stakeholders have a very crucial attribute in common. Both supporters of free trade and fair trade ultimately desire for economic prosperity. NAFTA was created on a basis to ensure that trade between Mexico, Canada, and the United States would fulfill economic necessities of each state as well as promoting the growth of the nation. In no way does Fair Trade America demote this idea, but rather primarily focus on ensuring that the often marginalized workers responsible for the products being traded are protected and prosperous through creating a minimum wage. NAFTA and FTA both sit on common ground, and because of this, a compromise between the two stakeholders is certainly a possibility that will benefit both sides of trade. David Zetland writes for Global view about the possibility of free trade being fair. In the article, Zetland suggest that free trade agreements are not truly free because the agreements typically restrict the protection of the producer (Zetland 9). Similarly, fair trade is not truly fair because it fewer buyers to more farmers-increasing market power for buyers, not necessarily profits for (Zetland 9). Due to these facts, a compromise can be issued in which free trade become fair trade. The resolution between the two stakeholders occurs when nobody gets special treatment. Agreements often some markets to powerful producers where the can use their market power, while keeping others closed and (Zetland). By destroying market power, trade creates pure competition, which grants freedom and fairness among trade. Through leveling the playing field, NAFTA and FTA can compromise on a resolution that benefits both stakeholders. Through this compromise the flaws of NAFTA and FTA are fixed and both companies are able to succeed in their goals. Elliott 4 Works Cited Trade Fair Trade USA. Fair Trade USA, 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 North American Free Trade Agreement. NAFTA., n.d. Web Jan. 2017. Haight, Colleen. The Problem with Fair Trade Coffee  Stanford Social Innovation Review, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Jerry, Lynott. Impact Hits Manufacturing Workers In Wilkes-Barre, Pa.,  Times Leader, The (Wilkes-Barre, PA) (n.d.): Newspaper Source. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Zetman, David. The Marketing of Fair  Fair Trade: Market-Driven Ethical Consumption Fair Trade: Market-driven Ethical Consumption (n.d.): 151-78. Global View, 2005. Web.