Myat Noe Hnin Myat Noe Hnin Dori Davis ENC 1102 048 1/28/2017 Is saving personal information on internet always safe? Human beings know that their privacy is valuable and important for their daily lives and they do not want their personal information to be controlled by anyone anytime. But since internet is advanced, most of the people have reduced the protection of their personal data and some of them are threatening other private information. Many privacy scandals involve from searching to email to voice mail, social media and online search. Then these privacy scandals are collecting personal data without knowing the knowledge from the internet and use them in bad ways. So saving personal information on internet always According to report from Carolyn Duffy Marsan in Network World, in February 2006, Jason Fortuny who is the network website developer from Seattle Web posed as a submissive woman seeking for sex on Craigslist to see how many responses and comments that he would get in a day. After doing that research, he got 178 responses with including full e-mail addresses, telephone numbers, photos and names of men who answered that advertisement. Then he published every single response without censored all personal information to Encyclopedia Dramatic website. Instantly, after happening the incident, media and the men who knew they were scammed started identifying Jason Fortuny. In May 2009, Fortuny was sued in Illinois court for scamming their information and in the end, he received $75,000 default judgement (Network World 2). By looking at that incident, people should aware of their private information and not giving their personal information recklessly. Myat Noe Hnin The two stakeholders will be debated on how important internet privacy is by two government organization called EPIC (Electronic Privacy Information Center) and FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation). EPIC is one of the most popular privacy websites in the world and it defends consumer privacy through technology and public policy. On the other hand, FBI is also one of the biggest government organization which protects national security and privacy safety concerns to the citizens. By looking at these two organizations, they have their own ways of protection the private information. However, their ways of protecting are what they are debating each other. EPIC wants to protect people by tightening the security of internet privacy while FBI intruded personal information to protect the people. EPIC was a public interest research center established in 1994, Washington DC. It focuses on public emerging privacy and to protect privacy data in the information ages. EPIC also make a lot of privacy researches to show that a information can be very dangerous and it is their job to defend it from thefts. EPIC plays a leading role in developing consumer privacy and the Federal Trade Commission and to protect rights (EPIC/ Consumer privacy project). Their goal is to ensure that Federal Trade Commission and Federal Communications Commission help protect the privacy of internet users. In 2010, with the help from other organizations, EPIC made complain to one of the project Buzz that they are intruding other privacy information by asking for their personal information like Uber application trying to abuse people locations. EPIC also complained Facebook that they are asking out information by asking for their ID in other to make an account on their website. In other words, EPIC wants to make the feel safe by using the website and wants to defend their own information as much as possible. Myat Noe Hnin FBI is an intelligence-driven and threat-focused national security organization with both intelligence and law enforcement responsibilities (FBI/About). FBI protects the people by intruding privacy information through internet. Their mission is to protect the people and their communities, business and most of all, their privacy information. However, they have one option, they intrude other information whom they do not trust and try to help them out by identifying the suspect. Therefore, FBI cases always include famous cases and criminals, counterterrorism and civil rights. Everything they have done is through intruding personal information in order to protect their people. There was an incident that a child in Brentwood went missing in Maryland and FBI has to do door-to-door investigations to unfold that case. They found a suspect in the neighborhood and intruded his private online information and discovered that he has a crime case of child abuse in his record. In 1995, the case went public and finally FBI launched Images National in order to prevent illegal activities about cyber child abuse by posting child pornography on the internet. By judging from their point of view, FBI also wants to protect the people in every way even when they have to lower themselves by hacking their private information. (FBI/ History) These two stakeholders share the same purpose which is to protect people personal information. However, they seem to have their different points of views and tries to argue each other with their own. First, EPIC complained to FBI that they are hacking personal and they do not care about their permission and intrude to find information and it is disrespectful to the people that their organization is protecting. They also claimed that even though how bad a person can be they have their own personal to protect. On the FBI point of view, they believe that intruding to get information to help others is a good thing when it is a suspected person. They are helping the country by revealing the information by hacking Myat Noe Hnin them back so if they ignore them, they would have the upper advantage and try to attack other people. if EPIC has highest protection system, they will not be able to find where the terrorist will be. So, it will cause more dangerous and will get more targeted from terrorist for citizens. For the compromises for these stakeholders will be first government should make a law and action about internet privacy so that both of the stakeholders will come to a compromise. Secondly, people should control their own data so that companies do not collect personal information in the first place. Thirdly, government should educate people about pros and cons of internet privacy so that they are aware of their own privacy. Also, most of the older people do not have enough knowledge about internet privacy. That is why people should be educated to know about the internet privacy when it can be dangerous if they are not aware of these situations. In the conclusion, both of the two stakeholders are protecting the personal data in different ways. EPIC wants to protect internet privacy information with higher technology but FBI wants to protect internet privacy information with intruding privacy information. So instead of complaining each other, if they are cooperating each other, it will have more benefits for the people and also they will have extra privacy layer so that people cannot hack easily than usual. Moreover, educating about internet privacy is good for all the counties because some developing countries do not know about internet privacy and they are posting their privacy to the internet. Having compromises are helping people to be more awareness about what is internet privacy and they will know how much dangerous for saving their privacy information in the internet. Myat Noe Hnin References Epic.org. 2015, Web. 28 Jan 2017. Consumer Privacy Epic.org. N.p. Web. 28 Jan 2017. Halpern, M. the FBI: Expectations of Privacy: Balancing Liberty, Security, and Public FBI Audio. April 7, 2016, Web. 28 Jan 2017. Hoven, V. and Information The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University, 2016, https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/it-privacy/ . Accessed 28 Jan 2017. & FBI about. N.p. Web. 28 Jan 2017.