Mary Barr Bob Botkin Enc 1102 29th of January, 2017 Today the institutional system housing the most mentally ill people is not the mental hospital, but the prison system. Twenty percent of Americans in jail and fifteen percent of Americans in prison are diagnosed with having a mental illness; leaving 356,000 mentally ill people in the legal system. The issue that surrounds these shocking numbers are, if incarcerating the mentally ill is effective after they have committed a crime. The division of this situation falls among police officers sworn duty to protect the community and the National Alliance on Mental Illness(NAMI) to advocate for the well-being of their clients. Police officers are the first ones to arrive on the scene, they dictate how the interaction between them and the suspect will go and whether the suspect will be booked or sent to a hospital. The NAMI was built with the purpose to raise awareness, advocate and provide programs for those who have a mental health While the police and NAMI disagree on the process of the assessment and interaction with mentally ill suspects, the frequency of the mentally ill who are incarcerated needs to be reevaluated. Police officers are civil servants who enforce the laws made and help keep the community safe. Along with this job, police officers must not only use what they were taught in academy camp but they must rely on their instinct to make decisions while they are in the field. Many officers say that their main goal when arriving on the scene is to assess the situation, identify the threat and de-escalate the situation; this will help them ensure the safety of the victim or victims. These steps can sometimes become complex when the suspect has a mental illness. Once they are on the scene, the decision to whether a suspect is taken to be booked or goes to the hospital to receive treatment is solely up to the officer. This can sometimes be hard when an officer is not educated enough to identify the behaviors and symptoms of a mental illness and classifies the person as being in a state of inebriation. In the heat of the moment, when things are chaotic, and there seems to be an immediate threat to someone or the community police officers will do anything to protect the community. For example in the spring of 2015, police officers were called to a Dallas home after a neighbor reported a man walking around outside with a screwdriver; the caller said the man was talking to himself and seem to be dangerous. For example police officers were dispatched to a New York convenience store after a strange man was seen walking around; this young man was diagnosed by doctors as having autism. When police officers arrived on the scene the man was still walking around, talking loudly and appearing as if he was looking for something. The police officers approached him and the man immediately tensed up and tried to run from the police; the police shouted for him to stop and when he did not they tackled him and took him to the local jail for booking. The immediate response to the officers coming close to him is a characteristics of people with autism, and because he has autism he was not able to properly process what was happening. Police officers not being able to identify these characteristics will oftentimes have them to believe the person is being defiant and trying to escape the crime scene, just this one factor has contributed to 2 million people having a mental illness taken to jail to be This is very essential, because most times those with a mental illness are unaware of the wrong doing they are doing. the academy police officers are taught state laws, criminal investigations, patrol procedures, firearms training, traffic control, defensive driving, self-defense, first aid and computer skills; among all these skills there not one that helps to educate them on mental illnesses and how to interact with people with a mental illness. With this mixture of little education on the subject and a big responsibility. Officers hope to receive more training on mental illness to utilize while they are in the field. The second stakeholder involved in this situation is the National Alliance on Mental Illness also known as NAMI. NAMI is accredited as the largest grassroot organization dedicated to enhancing the lives of those with mental illness and their family, Their main goal is to make sure that people who have a mental illness are able to live in society successfully, with equal rights, protect funding for treatments/services and educate others on mental health. These goals are implemented to help create an environment where those with a mental illness can feel safe and live a normal life like everyone else. The organization is responsible for funding research and gaining mental health parity. NAMI has a great attachment to the interaction seen between police officers and those with a mental illness. When people who have a mental illness are arrested because they were labeled a danger or threat to the community by the police officers they are breaking down efforts to dismantle those stereotypes of the mentally ill. The jail system in most situations will cause a person symptoms to become worse because the individuals are not receiving the treatment and services they need to help control their symptoms. When a person is schizophrenic and suffers from hallucination, if they are placed in solitary confinement after committing a violations, the time by themselves, bare walls and the inability to go anywhere, will feed their hallucinations and they will become more frequent. People who suffer from hallucinations have a hard time separating the hallucinations from reality and if untreated they begin to interpret the hallucinations as their life. Contrary to if they were taken to a mental institution they would have been able to get treated and receive the services needed to control their hallucinations and realize when they occur and separate it from real life. NAMI stands behind their firm position that law enforcement should undergo more training, as while as county and state leaders, and that suspects should have the options to go to a mental hospital. To help fulfill their wishes in this situation, the National Alliance on Mental Illness started a campaign, challenging counties to reduce their number of people with mental illness in jails. Their end goal is to partner with law enforcement to educate and train them on how to deal with people with mental illness. A mental illness, also referred to as mental disorder, is classified as a wide range of conditions that affect mood, thinking and behavior. These conditions sometimes make it hard for individuals to communicate with others, processing information properly or interacting in a setting with a lot of people. A mental illness is a result of genetics, environment, lifestyle and biological changes in the body. The most abundant mental illnesses are depression, anxiety, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, bipolar disorder, post-traumatic disorder, schizophrenia, autism and personality disorders. The most common arrest of those with a mental illness are those who have bipolar, post-traumatic stress and personality disorder. Because of their symptoms people with a mental illness are sometimes unaware of their actions and can not properly process it. This means that jailing people with a mental illness does not fix the issue that lead to them being arrested, To satisfy both police officers duty to protect the community and the National Alliance on Mental Illness priority to provide services for the mentally ill can be satisfied by making mental health education apart of the academy and establish written policies on how to interact with people who have a mental illness. Making mental health a part of academy will insure that police officers are educated and the written laws will make sure there is a solid foundation on what to do and if violated there will be repercussions. Works Cited An Exploratory Study of Pennsylvania Police Perceptions of Dangerousness and Their Ability to Manage Persons with Mental Illness . , journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1098611103258957. Accessed 1 Sept. 2004. Jailing People with Mental  , www.nami.org/Learn-More/Public-Policy/Jailing-People-with-Mental-Illness. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Lamb, Richard, et al. The Police and Mental  Police and Mental Health . Psychiatric Services , ps.psychiatryonline.org/doi/abs/10.1176/appi.ps.53.10.1266. Accessed 1 Oct. 2002. Steadman, Henry J., et al. Comparing Outcomes of Major Models of Police Responses to Mental Health  Services , 1 May 2000, ps.psychiatryonline.org/doi/abs/10.1176/appi.ps.51.5.645#/doi/full/10.1176/appi.ps.51.5.645. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017.