1 PLASTIC POLLUTION Plastic Pollution David Enix ENC 1102 2 PLASTIC POLLUTION Abstract This paper is a look into the problem of plastic pollution. Although not realized by many, is a growing problem around the world. Two opposing stakeholders with different end goals are analyzed to find a sense of common ground between them. Additionally, a compromise is proposed to try and defuse the situation. Information for this paper is taken from scholarly academic journals related to this topic as well as information from the websites. A closer look is taken to find out why a resolution has not yet been implemented. The two major stakeholders that will be assessed are the naturalists/environmentalists and the plastic producers. These organizations are at odds because plastic is generally harmful towards the environment but that is the only way the production companies make their money. A possible compromise could be to encourage the population to recycle and forcing production companies to reuse their products to make new ones. 3 PLASTIC POLLUTION Plastic Pollution The environment is a global issue that has been up for discussion for a long time. There are many varying opinions on what is best for the environment, and what the best course of action is. Different groups such as environmentalists, citizens, lawmakers, and the producers all have different perspectives and goals. This paper will focus on the opposing views on plastic pollution between the environmentalists and the plastic producers. It is easy to see why these groups are not at ease with each other. The environmentalists generally want to preserve the earth at any cost while the producers want to make money to help build and grow their company. A possible compromise would be to force production companies reuse their old products to make new ones. Joanna Vince and Britta Denise Hardesty discuss the issue of plastic pollution, with a focus on its effects on marine life. The authors mention that this becomes a complex problem when you add the government and its lawmakers as another stakeholder. It is stated that it would be impossible for the ocean to return to its original state before plastic was produced and used daily. The authors hammer home that plastic pollution is a problem on the global scale. However, the more people that actively try to restore the earth, the easier the restoration process will become. Their ideas state that a collective effort is needed to really make a difference. The author describes it as holistic, integrated approach that utilizes scientific expertise, community participation, and market based (Vince and Hardesty, 2016). The biggest thing to take away from this article is that the only way to restore our worlds ocean and save them from destruction is full on participation from everyday people. The movement cannot start unless companies endorse this movement. The authors clearly take the position of trying save the environment, representative of the naturalists/environmentalists. Their main goal is to have a 4 PLASTIC POLLUTION significant reduction in the amount of plastic in the oceans. The easiest way to make direct change would be to have laws in place to reduce pollution. An organization that represents the environmentalists as a stakeholder is The Ocean Cleanup. First founded in 2013, they plan to launch their project called in late 2017. This will include a series of operations where huge objects move with our ocean currents to set up a trap that concentrates the debris into a v shaped net-like structure. This is a promising solution, but will take very many years to make any real difference in our oceans. Nancy D Lamontagne takes a more positive view on plastic production. The author states that is the 3 rd largest industry in the United States, employing almost 900,000 (Lamontagne, 2015). Due to the amount of economic impact plastics have, it is problematic that there is an increasing shortage in workers for the plastics industry. Companies want to attract students into the plastic industry because this generation of students is tech-minded. Some of the benefits of the plastic industry include a well-paying job, quick advancement, and opportunities for development. Employees in the plastic industry often advance quicker than other jobs. The author states that plastics is a skill trade, which gets less attention because of the college focused education system. The author encourages people to get into the plastic industry especially because the anticipation of a work shortage. They are targeting the youth to try and obtain a new generation of tradespersons. This article describes plastic as something that employs many people and brings in a lot of revenue to production companies. Instead of trying to reduce the plastic industry, they are trying to expand it. The author thinks that the plastic industry is an integral part of the economy and very important for growth. While the environmentalists take a global perspective on plastic pollution, the producers seem to only look at the economic effects of plastics in their country. An organization that represents the plastic producers as a stakeholder 5 PLASTIC POLLUTION is Intertech Plastics. Founded in 1980, they began as a small manufacturer in Denver, Colorado making small amounts of plastic containers. Today, they are competitive in the market of plastics and are highly respected in the Rocky Mountain region. With support from engineers and designers, they make custom injection molded plastics that they call products. This company is mainly focused on the customer, making quality products and making one time customers, customers for life. Their mission is to be an innovative leader in turn-key manufacturing, providing superior service and value for our customers in an atmosphere of (Our Mission, 2017) Although they have made some strides to be efficient with their energy and materials to reduce their environmental impact, at the end of the day, they will use as much resources as necessary to create the best product they can create to maintain happy customers. A common ground between these two stakeholders is that they both want everyday citizens to be content. The environmentalists want to preserve the oceans because many people enjoy the beauty of our oceans. Also, they want to keep the oceans clean because it benefits the marine ecosystems. Many scientists, biologists, and tourists can agree that marine life is important for work and enjoyment. These same people, your everyday citizens that enjoy the outdoors are also consumers of plastic. Plastic bags, bottles, and silverware are items commonly used by almost everybody. Plastic producers will do anything it takes to have happy and returning customers. A lot of their consumers are citizens that own companies and sell products. Examples: lip balm, makeup, and even lawn chairs. If these two stakeholders can come together, and put everyday citizens first, compromise would be easy. My proposed compromise is to encourage everyday citizens to recycle all of their plastics. Lawmakers would have to get involved to force production companies to reuse their old products 6 PLASTIC POLLUTION to make new their ones. This way plastic production is not reduced dramatically, however the amount of plastic thrown away into the oceans after it serves its purpose is reduced. Production companies would have to be smarter about to products they create to ensure that they can be reused or at least broken down into something that can reused. If everyday citizens are enthusiastic about recycling, they should be inclined to use recycled materials and products. Production companies are able to keep their customers happy while not losing business and helping the environment at the same time. In turn, to keep the playing field even, the environmentalists would have to fund the research it takes to make all products recyclable. The environmentalists mind funding research that will eventually make the earth cleaner, even if it does not directly help their own projects. A supporter of the idea to make the residual waste of plastic close to zero would be the European Commission (Sobotova et al., 2016). To recap, the hot discussion of plastic pollution is one that deserves the attention of the public. Environmentalists are looking for ways to clean up our worlds ocean one step at a time. Plastic production companies will continue to turn a blind eye to the issue and focus on company growth and happy customers. These two stakeholders need to put their own goals aside and focus on their common ground: their want for a generally happy mankind. With my proposed compromise, these two groups can make the lives of everyday citizens, a lot better. 7 PLASTIC POLLUTION References Cleanup, W. T. (n.d.). Technology. Retrieved January 29, 2017, from https://www.theoceancleanup.com/technology Lamontagne, N. D. (2015). Creative Approaches Attract Students to Plastics. Ground Water Monitoring & Remediation, 35(4), 30-32. Our Core Values Molding with Integrity. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from https://www.intertechplastics.com/who-we-are/values SOBOTOVA, L. l., BADIDA, M. m., DZURO, T. t., MORAVEC, M. m., & LIPTAI, P. p. (2016). RESEARCH OF SELECTED MECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF THE RECYCLED PLASTIC. MM Science Journal, 1555-1559. Vince, J., & Hardesty, B. D. (2017). Plastic pollution challenges in marine and coastal environments: from local to global governance. Restoration Ecology, (1), 123. doi:10.1111/rec.12388 8 PLASTIC POLLUTION