Bauman 1 Madelyn Bauman Prof. Van Winkle ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Testing of the Future Standardized testing is a highly-debated issue in current times. Several factors play a role in the issuing of standardized testing, including cost and efficiency. However, the underlying debate regarding the use of standardized tests is the question of its usefulness. Opposing organizations and parents alike cannot seem to agree upon the degree of standardized testing that should be maintained in schools across America. Specifically, The Leadership Conference on Human and Civil Rights and The National Center for Fair and Open Testing are two groups with distinct views on how standardized testing should be used. If they were to come together, upon compromise, their cause would have more power and success when presenting to the Department of Education. Education in the United States is a relevant and important topic. Over the years, the government has granted itself more control over public schools across the country. The Department of Education was established as a cabinet level agency in 1980. This establishment gave the federal government the power to not only oversee but to articulate and guide state and community level education. Albert Einstein once said, only thing interfering with my learning is my Given the federal increasing power, numerous organizations have formed with varying views and motives in attempt to maintain the voice regarding education. Bauman 2 The Leadership Conference on Human and Civil Rights is a diversified civil rights group, founded in 1950, that works to and protect the civil and human rights of all persons in the United (The Leadership Conference, Civilrights.org) While education is not the only topic they address, it is certainly an important one. TLCHC implements it values just described upon each of the issues it supports. In 1969, a branch of TLCHC was founded, The Leadership Conference Education Fund. The goal of this specialized arm of TLCHC is to and mobilize advocates around the country to push for progressive change at the local, state and federal level in the United (The Leadership Conference, Civilrights.org) At an even more focused level, the TLCHC and its specialized branch, The Leadership Conference Education Fund, have strong views regarding standardized testing. In January of 2015, the CEO of TLCHC, Wade Henderson, spoke on behalf of the entire organization at the Senate Committee of Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions first hearing. According to website, advocated for annual statewide assessments, consistent accountability systems to evaluate progress, and the preservation of a strong federal hand in (At ESEA Hearing, a Focus on Testing and Accountability, Civilrights.org) Essentially, The Leadership Conference on Human and Civil Rights believes that a strong federal government presence is necessary within education system. This leads to their belief that this government intervention requires the use of high-stakes standardized testing in order to evaluate students. Their main goal is to uphold the rights of all persons, no matter their race or level of education. On the other hand, The National Center for Fair and Open Testing Fair Test for short to end the misuses and flaws of standardized testing to ensure that evaluation of students, teachers and schools is fair, open, valid and educationally (fairtest.org) This Bauman 3 organization is more specialized than The Leadership Conference on Human and Civil Rights as it solely focuses on the issue of standardized testing in education without creating an additional focus group. Fair Test is not completely against the use of standardized testing per say, however, it strongly advocates against their misuse. To Fair Test, this refers predominantly to high-stakes standardized testing. In their own words, the misuse of standardized testing equals notion that test scores equal (About, fairtest.org) education system, regulated by the Department of Education, refers mainly to the scores of high-stakes tests, such as the SAT and ACT, to evaluate the level of a education. Fair Test views this as a prejudiced and skewed way to assess students and the success of their teachers and schools. Fair Test goes beyond just protesting the misuse of standardized testing. On their website, Fair Test provides fellow advocates, teachers, and school officials alike with approaches in rejecting the misuse of standardized testing. Per their website, they provide several articles regarding how to do so such as, You Can Boycott Standardized Tests Without Fear of Federal Penalties to Your (Why You Can Boycott Testing Without Fear of Federal Penalties to Your School, fairtest.org) and Guide: Organizing for Testing (Resistance Guide: Organizing for Testing Reform, fairtest.org) These articles are provided as a secondary form of information for viewers when contemplating standing up to the misuse of standardized testing. This organization is extremely focused on this issue and works to revoke certain laws and policies of colleges especially that mistake standardized testing as the only factor assessing a academic achievement. An important note of both the National Center for Fair and Open Testing and The Leadership Conference on Human and Civil Rights is that neither is completely against the use of standardized testing. Fair Test would be the organization that is more against this issue Bauman 4 however, even they are not against the honest purpose of standardized testing to have an equal way to assess students all across the United States. Equality is the reason behind strong advocacy for the maintained use of standardized testing in such a purposeful manner. Essentially, they as a civil rights group are nervous for inequality to further creep in to the education system and preventing children of different races or education levels to be given less due to their diversity. They believe that standardized tests allow for the removal of any prejudice when evaluating students because each child is given the same examination and hopefully provided the same education necessary to succeed on such test. For groups like Fair Test, this is an issue because not all students receive the same education or even learn in the same way or at the same pace. While they too are fighting for equality of students, they disagree that high-stakes standardized testing is the only thing that can measure a abilities. Because of these disagreements regarding the process of ensuring equality for students, these opposing groups are fighting against each other on a shared cause. Ultimately, these groups should realize that they are fighting for the same cause of ensuring equality. They should then acknowledge that they both believe standardized testing can be effective. And finally, they should compromise their beliefs regarding standardized testing and agree that placing high-stakes upon standardized testing can actually work backwards in ensuring a equality. Due to the well-known yet commonly disregarded fact in the education system that not all students learn in the same way or at the same pace. This acknowledgement would allow both groups to maintain their views that standardized tests are necessary and helpful in evaluating students however it should not be the only method of understanding whether a child has received an adequate education (a.k.a. placing high stakes on standardized tests). According to the text, Closing the Opportunity Gap published by Oxford Bauman 5 University, testing is not a viable solution to the problem of academic (Closing the Opportunity Gap, books.google.com) As a surveyor of both organizations I have come to the conclusion that this compromise prevents either groups from perjuring their values. In fact, a compromise between the two would strengthen their values and add to the power of their shared cause. As discovered through the values posted on their websites, The National Center for Fair and Open Testing and The Leadership Conference on Human and Civil Rights are two powerful groups motivated to ensure the equality of every child in the United States, specifically regarding education. Their differences derive from their beliefs in how that can be accomplished. However, even their differences are not so different. As stated, neither group completely denies the helpfulness of standardized testing in assessing children, teachers, and schools. One (Fair Test) simply believes that standardized tests are becoming increasingly misused. TLCHC believes that standardized testing in education system is still completely effective. By coming together with the previously stated compromise, these two groups can lead the stance of providing equal education and evaluation for every student. Bauman 6 Works Cited Closing the Opportunity  Google Books. Oxford University, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017., https://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=sC9pAgAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PA111&dq=co mmon%2Bcore%2Bstandardized%2Btesting&ots=xPqB4byOVd&sig=El9LA46m7Mhj53QT8d LnXAeR6PE#v=onepage&q&f=false. Federal Role in  Home. US Department of Education (ED), n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www2.ed.gov/about/overview/fed/role.html>. Moore, Stephanie. At ESEA Hearing, a Focus on Testing and  The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.civilrights.org/archives/2015/1506-ESEA-hearing.html>. Resistance Guide: Organizing for Testing  Resistance Guide: Organizing for Testing Reform FairTest., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Leadership Conference Education  The Leadership Conference Education Fund. n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://leadershipconferenceedfund.org/>. The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human  The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.civilrights.org/>. The National Center for Fair & Open  The National Center for Fair & Open Testing FairTest., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://fairtest.org/>.