1 Jadian Harlow Mr. Spencer Bennington ENC 1102.008 29 January 2017 Distribution of Cancer Funds Cancer has been an ongoing issue worldwide beginning in the early 1900s. However, the distribution of cancer research funds became a prominent issue in the 1970s when cancer was the second leading cause of death in the United States Cancer Act of In 1971, President Richard Nixon signed into law an act that allowed the director of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) to work alongside a presidentially appointed National Cancer Advisory Board (NCAB) and Cancer Panel (PCP) to develop a National Cancer Program and an annual that is conveyed directly from the NCI director to the President and Congress, bypassing approval from the National Institutes of Health or the Department of Health and Human Services Cancer Act of Budgets created by NCI and similar organizations are usually based on crude mortality and survival rates. Organizations like the Lung Cancer Research Foundation, advocating for increased research funds for lung cancer, and the Cancer Research Fund, which promotes awareness and funding for childhood cancer, seem to be on different sides of the issue concerning the distribution of research funds, as they are both sponsoring different types of cancer. Nevertheless, these two stakeholder groups actually have quite a bit in common with each other. Both parties agree that the way cancer research funds are being allocated currently is not accurately providing funds to the specific cancer types that require the most research. A way to reduce issues between these two organizations, as well as others, is to propose a way to distribute cancer funds based not only on Harlow 2 mortality and survival rates, but also years of life lost (YLL), the quality of life after treatment, and the likelihood of a relapse to provide a more accurate estimation of which types of cancer should receive more funding. Research funding is not distributed equally and some types of cancer research receive more funding because of awareness and support of that specific type of cancer. In 2016, lung cancer received $49,308,100 in research grants, which accounts for 7.64% of cancer research funds in 2016 Grants by Cancer The Lung Cancer Research Foundation believes lung cancer should receive more funding. This organization was founded in 2005 by Laurie Carson after her brother and uncle died of lung cancer six months apart and joined forces with a similar organization, Uniting Against Lung Cancer, in 2015 to become as influential as it is today Cancer Research The Lung Cancer Research Foundation is a organization focused solely on supporting lung cancer whose purpose is to and save lives by funding groundbreaking research for the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and cure of lung Cancer Research It is the single mindedness of this organization that provides improved funding for lung cancer research, but also alienates this stakeholder from other groups that have differing views on the distribution of cancer research. One group with a differing view, is the Cancer Research Fund. In accordance with the Lung Cancer Research Foundation, this organization believes the current allocation of finances for cancer research are unfair. However, the Cancer Research Fund reasons that childhood cancer should receive increased subsidy for research purposes as these children are the future of our society. A total of $20,397,500, or 3.16% of cancer research funding was allocated to childhood cancer in 2016 Grants by Cancer This caused an Harlow 3 outrage in the childhood cancer community and the coinage of the slogan more than which indicates our children deserve more than 4% of cancer research funding. Since its founding in 1981, the Cancer Research Fund has been advocating for improved funding for childhood cancer research and its mission is to in lifesaving, leading-edge research in the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and cure of childhood Cancer Research This is a nonprofit organization that has been supporting the research of the University of Minnesota since 13-year-old Katie Hageboeck decided to donate the money she had been saving for a bike to its research so children that came after her would not have to suffer as much as she did through her battle with leukemia Cancer Research The personal connections between the founders and the organizations provides the inspiration and determination to publicize the need for cancer research funding. From the outside, it may not seem as though the Lung Cancer Research Foundation and the Cancer Research Fund are similar, when in actuality, there are many commonalities between the two stakeholder groups. Both organizations were founded because of a deep personal connection to the problem, their mission statements are very similar except for the specific type of cancer, and they both carry the underlying message that cancer research funds are not being allocated accurately, which is why they are taking a stand. In 2005, Burnet, et al, took a stand against how cancer research funds were being distributed in Great Britain. These scholars suggest a new mortality statistic to determine the subsequent burden of individual tumor types on society called of life which calculated for each individual dying after a diagnosis of cancer by subtracting the actual survival since diagnosis from the life expectancy at the time of (Burnet, et al 242). Going a step further, if these organizations were to come to an agreement on how to accurately distribute funds, Harlow 4 statistics on mortality and survival rates, years of life lost, complications deriving from current treatment methods, and the likelihood of the patient to relapse should all be considered when funding is dispersed to different types of research funding. Although the Lung Cancer Research Foundation and the Cancer Research Fund seem to be on opposing sides of an argument on the distribution of cancer research, as they are both advocating for different cancers to receive more funding, these two organizations share a common belief that the system currently distributing cancer research funds is flawed. One way for these stakeholder groups to form a compromise is by agreeing on a new way of distributing funds that accurately distributes funds to the cancer types with the highest burden on society. This contemporary technique of allocating resources will rely on mortality rates, survival rates, years of life lost, quality of life after treatment, and the likelihood of relapse. Harlow 5 Works Cited Burnet, N. G., et al. Years of life lost (YLL) from cancer is an important measure of population burden - and should be considered when allocating research  British Journal of Cancer, vol. 92, no. 2, 31 Jan. 2005, pp. 241-45. USF Libraries. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Cancer Research  Cancer Research Fund, 2017, www.childrenscancer.org/. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Current Grants by Cancer  American Cancer Society, 1 Aug. 2016, www.cancer.org/research/currentlyfundedcancerresearch/grants-by-cancer-type. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Cancer Research Lung Cancer Research Foundation, 2017, www.lungcancerresearchfoundation.org/. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. National Cancer Act of  National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, 16 Feb. 2016, www.cancer.gov/about-nci/legislative/history/national-cancer-act-1971. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017.