Min Thiha Min Thiha Dori Davis ENC 1102: 048 1/28/2017 Gaming and Violence Since gaming is introduced to the world, almost 95% of people started playing it. There are two kinds of people who play games for fun and competitively. However, a lot of people, especially parents, state that gaming can affect a behavior and start acting differently after playing them. So, does playing violence games affect a behavior especially teenagers? Not long ago, a game named Grand Theft Auto game was famous for 18+ violence which involves killing and adult scene. After the GTAV fifth version is released, 14-year-old boy named Eldon Samuel shot his brother and father dead. It was reported that he was inspired by one of the famous characters in the game called Trevor. Trevor was a person who need extreme anger management issues and able to kill other characters without a single hesitation. According to the report on KXLY, police arrested him after he called them and confessed that he had killed his father right before he was going to kill his brother. The victim was charged on two counts of adult first-degree murder by killing his family. (International Business Times) There are two non-governments associations going on a debate about video games should be banned because they are too violent for children to play and caused any source of violence incidents. These two Associations debate based on their social problems. They are ESA (Entertainment Software Association and ECA (Entertainment Consumer Association). The debate is based on whether video games should be banned because of the development Min Thiha technologies on realistic extreme violent video graphics, perspective and storyline might influence a behavior who plays it. ESA is aware of the situation and they introduced a system in a gaming world, a system that decided whether it should be played or not depending on a rating that the community give. called the Entertainment Software Rating Board hoping that it will reduce and restrict people from playing them to prevent violence (About ESRB). Parents can also check those rating and can decide for their children to play. However, ECA argues that they have made a lot of researches on that matter said highest court of the land has reviewed the scientific research and concluded that video games do not cause violence on (ECA 2). It shows that it is completely safe even for a teenager to play those games and it will be less likely for them to become violent because of it. ECA claims that it is a responsibility and game is not a cause of violence. ESA is the U.S. association dedication to serving the business and public affairs needs of companies that publish computer and video games for video games consoles, handheld devices, personal computers, and the internet (ESA). It was formed in April 1994 Washington D.C as Interactive Digital Software Association and renamed as ESA on July 16, 2003. Its purpose is focused on advance entertainment positive impact on areas of daily life such as education, health, the workplace, and its safety. It also focuses on ensuring that people are safe when playing games by lowering the possibility to go violent. In 1994, ESA introduced ESRB, a non-profit self-regulatory body that assigns rating for video games and apps so parents can make informed choices before buying them. ESRB ensures responsibility web and mobile privacy practice under its Privacy Certified program (ESRB). Its mission is to empower customers, especially parents with guidance to make informed decisions about the age-requirement and suitability of video games and apps (ESRB/Mission). ESA make sure that people cannot get video Min Thiha games easily unless they have a proof and ESRB restricted them from owning the game unless they have it. ESA believes that this will be their best strategy to limit people from playing adult- violent games and lessen the number of people who gone violent because of playing it. This will prevent them from influencing their own social behaviors. Based on the documents, the main argument that the first stakeholder is holding is that the community should follow these policies and ruled that they made so that they cannot become aggressive. ECA, the non-profit membership organization that represents consumers of digital entertainment in the United States and Canada (ECA). It was founded to give gamers a collective voice with which to communicate their concerns, address their issues and focus on their advocacy efforts. They posted on their official web page that studying finds no evidence violent video games makes children aggressive and it is an irresponsible to say that video games can make people aggressive on their behavior. Equally some studies showed that people who played games can perform better in academic and less likely to display aggressiveness. Even though it is impossible to state that video games make people violent, there are some possible effect which would lead them to violence and ECA claims that it should be their responsibility to prevent it from happening. Even though it has proofs, ECA wants to make more games with less restriction from the ESRB which will be their main goal and parents need to be informed and educated to make decision for their children to obtain those kinds of video games. These two stakeholders have one common point on their argument and it is the protection of a behavior affected by the video games. ESA wants to protect it by the rating system and ECA wants to protect it by educating the parents by allowing them to make decisions. For ESA point of view, consumer cannot become violent when their system prevents them from buying violent games unless they have a signature of parents for requirement. However, for ECA, if the Min Thiha parents are educated and prevent their children from playing violent games, there would be a need of the ESRB system. Both Stakeholders wants to protect their consumers but however, they failed to accept each of their view points and keep arguing on each of their points of views. Due to their self-based intentions to protect them, instead of finding their own points of views, they should come up with a compromise which will benefit both of them in the future and finally allowing them to collaborate each other. For both associations to work together, they should sacrifice some of their view points in order to come up with a compromise. First, ESA should let ESRB, their rating system, to allow the announcement of every game to the public including game which are violent and make a community comment section about a game so that if someone wants to buy that game, they can check it on the comment section given by consumers and developers so that they can find out how this game is and can decide themselves to buy, Also, parental signature system is also one of the most useful ways. Second, ECA should try to make education programs for parents to let them know that game is not the main problem causing violence and they must be aware of their children and they must decide for themselves for them to buy that game. Therefore, these two solution would be their compromise and cooperation is the key for both to have their own benefits. To sum up, there are people who still blame violence games for violence incidence is because they believed that games have the skill to change a behavior when they play a character with their own mindsets and attitudes which is different from them. This can lead to unstable behavior and can lead to aggressiveness. In order to find a better compromise, both of the organization should take actions to benefit themselves such as ESA making changes on their rating systems, ESRB and ECA should educate parents more about games and set up a Min Thiha gaming feedback system especially for parents so they can make strong decisions and ensure that their child is safe from becoming violent and aggressive in their hands. Min Thiha Reference: Yalburgi, Vinod. International Business  GTA 5: 14-year-old Boy Kills Father and Brother by Violent Character Trevor. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan 2017 <http://www.ibtimes.co.uk/gta-5-14-year-old-boy-kills-father-brother-inspired-by- violent-character-trevor-1442418>.  Entertainment Software Rating Board. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan 2017 <http://www.esrb.org/about/>.  Entertainment Software Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan 2017 <http://www.theesa.com/about-esa/overview/ >.  Entertainment Consumer Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan 2017