Ana Gutierrez Dr. Davis ENC 1102 1/27/2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Conception to Save Lives Parents are willing to sacrifice anything for their families, especially for their ill child. When in desperate times, parents turn to alternate methods and procedures in hopes for the improvement of their health. In some cases, when medication and doctor appointments are not showing any success, parents turn to the world of technology, after learning about the concept of a The idea of parents conceiving a child with the intention of saving the life of their ill child has been a controversial topic within organizations with polar opposite point of views. Whether the concept of being viewed as an ethical or unethical practice, a compromise should be established that benefits the American Medical Association and the Catholic Church. The term is when a child conceived by in vitro fertilization (IVF), with the intention to help save the life of their older brother or sister. In Kristie Lauren article, Siblings: The Ethical she illustrates the different steps throughout the procedure. During the IVF procedure, the embryo is screened using Preimplantation Genetic Disorder (PGD); a process which prevents IVF embryos to carry any genetic disorders. However, in the case of a savior sibling, PGD is able to detect if the embryo is a tissue and donor match for the ill sibling. If the embryo is a match, the embryo is then implanted inside the uterus (Trifiolis). In the United States, IVF has been procedure, with studies showing that multiple attempts, two thirds of couples who try IVF eventually have a (Trifiolis). In addition, these studies state that of all IVF cases in the United States consist of savior As soon as the savior sibling is born, physicians collect the umbilical cord of the savior sibling, which is usually used to treat the ill sibling. The American Medical (AMA) mission is to results-focused strategies that enable physicians to enhance the delivery of care and improve the health of the A purpose is to provide any possible life saving strategies for the health of their patients. In the case of the ill child, the physician has the responsibility of introducing alternate solutions, one of these being the idea of the parents having a savior sibling. In Mariana Do article, Autonomy and the Rights to Own Body: PGD and Parental Decision , she emphasizes the responsibility and the importance of the Hippocratic Oath. Physicians recite The Hippocratic Oath which states that will remember that do not treat a fever chart, a cancerous growth, but a sick human being, whose illness may affect the family and economic At the end of the day, a code of ethic states that must do as much as possible to save an ill patient, which adheres to the thoughts in such a situation as (Do Carmo). Additionally, the physicians are responsible for the savior child as well. Even though a physician could suggest the concept of a savior sibling to the parents, the physician is responsible for the life of the savior sibling as soon as its born. This responsibility includes procedures that will help develop a remedy for the ill child, however these procedures must be painless and have minimal to no life threatening risks. Savior siblings are largely viewed as an alternate method of saving the life of a loved one, however, it is not viewed as an ethical method according to the Catholic Church. The mission of the Catholic Church is to spread the Roman Catholic religion, and preach the teachings of the Holy Bible as well as bringing into awareness what is and is not morally or ethically acceptable within the religion. In the article Siblings: Manifestation of the Culture of Death and Genetic written by Deacon Fournier, summarizes the unethical and unmoral procedures of IVF and PGD. As illustrated by Fournier, the Catholic Church believes that conceive a child to be used -- even if it is for treatment -- is not respectful of dignity, a child born specifically for use, even a noble use, is to turn a child into an . The Catholic Church believes that a child must be the product of their love, not for a Although the Catholic Church acknowledges their compassion for the parents of ill children, they stand firm on the Natural moral law; persons must never be used as objects. Additionally, the Catholic Church stressed that child is a unique gift to be received and must never be manufactured as a product to be (Fournier). In other words, the Catholic Church believes that it is not morally and ethically acceptable to conceive a child in a very artificial manner. In his article, Fournier also addresses the painful and life threatening medical procedures savior siblings are forced to go through by their parents (Fournier). Depending on the illness that is affecting the ill sibling, the savior sibling will go through procedures such as bone marrow harvesting; collecting bone marrow with a large syringe from the hip or breast bone. Patients must stay in the hospital for 24 to 48 hours due to the complicated side effects after the procedure such as fatigue, and (Fournier). Unfortunately, when a savior sibling undergo these procedures, they are too young to have a say in regards to their body. Additionally, they do not have the choice whether they want to go through the procedure or not. Although the concept of savior siblings has contrasting views, they both share a common ground which is the health and wellbeing for the ill child and savior sibling. There are alternate compromises depending on each case, that both sides can agree on. These compromises can be that does not pose the threat of compromising basic human (Do Carmo). One of the recommended and effective compromises is cord blood banking. This procedure stores and preserves the umbilical cord blood, which contains cells and tissues that can save the child from any future illness. This meets the mission and values since it is providing an alternative solution to a illness. Additionally, cord blood banking is accepted by the Catholic Church since there is no other human harmed or technologically created in this process. This procedure is simple since the umbilical cord carries the necessary genetic materials to save life, as well as keeping another person from suffering through painful medical procedures. However, if the savior child already exists, then an alternate compromise is the choice of medical emancipation. Medical emancipation is legal action taken by someone under 18, which takes the rights away from his/her (Do Carmo). This compromise is aggregable to both the American Medical Association and the Catholic Church, since they are sparing the suffering and life threatening procedures of an innocent child. Works Cited Do Carmo, Mariana. Child Autonomy and the Rights to Own Body: PGD and Parental Decision  The Medically Modified Human. Kent University, 13 Feb. 2013. Web. The article, Child Autonomy and the Rights to Own Body: PGD and Parental Decision  is a very credible and reliable source in regards to savior siblings and their rights. The author, Mariana Do Carmo, addresses the main purpose of savior siblings as well as providing an insight from the parents, the sick sibling, and the savior sibling. I believe this article will strongly develop my essay since it provides an abundance of information. From the IVF procedure, up until the sick child is cured, the author addresses the main points of this medical practice. Additionally, the article also revolves around the different stakeholders in this topic, and how they are affected/react in this procedure. Fournier, Deacon. Siblings: Manifestation of the Culture of Death and Genetic Catholic Online, Catholic Online, 13 Feb. 2011. Web The source I picked is an article from the Website, Catholic Online. This website has many articles about many controversial issues, and are all written from a conservative point of view. The article is called, Siblings: Manifestation of the Culture of Death and Genetic written by Deacon Fournier. In this article he addresses the unethical practice of in vitro fertilization, and how it is using a vulnerable human life in order to be used as an object. I believe this article is appropriate with my project, since it portrays a very conservative side of the argument. It fits in my article as the unethical point of view, and why the Catholic Church is extremely against this medical procedure. Additionally, it will provide me with enough information to create a compromise that will benefit the Catholic Church as well. Trifiolis, Kristie Lauren, Savior Siblings: The Ethical  (2014). Law School Student Scholarship. Paper 432. In Trifiolis article, Siblings; The Ethical points out both the ethical and unethical sides of this medical practice. She describes in sufficient detail the procedure of IVF and PGD as well as the steps taken by both parents and physicians. Additionally, she includes the many laws and regulations that are attempting to regulate the use of PGD. Finally, she addresses both the ethical and unethical views of the argument, and provides information that supports both sides. Trifiolis article contains a lot of information that will strongly develop a compromise for both parties. In addition, the author has enough information that I can use in order to introduce the ethical and unethical sides, as well as supporting it with reliable facts and information.