Sabek 1 Loren Sabek Professor Adam Phillips ENC1102S17 28 January 2017 Guns: The culture-bound theory Guns are undoubtedly one of greatest culturally dissenting issues. With or without violence, history has led us into unforeseen events. Is this violence caused solely by firearms, and could it have been prevented by the same weapon? The debate today is, should the United States abolish the Second amendment or sustain it. Granted that gun abolitionists can come in peace with the 2 nd amendment, the violence embedded in our society will be gone. Maybe an overstatement, but most of the riots and protests cause a great sense of polarity between the two political parties. much like the movement in the mid- 1800s, except instead of slavery now gun control. The NRA big dog for pro-guns, has strong congressional ties through lobbyists and of course their generous Their organization lives and breathes the 2 nd amendment, they also fund gun safety and educational gun projects. On the opposing end, The Brady Campaign is pro-gun control, they want mass restrictions on gun ownership and usage which the NRA could never settle for. At first glance it appears that no middle ground for gun control because between the Brady Campaign and The National Rifle Association, a zero-sum game and this mentality has been hindering the gun control movement. In order to establish reasonable control on guns, both organizations should acknowledge the fact that guns may be socially beneficial as well as dangerous and acclaim for strict gun policies that make guns a weapon used solely for protection. Sabek 1 The main goal for the Brady Campaign is to make guns a safe instrument for everyone to use. They wish to strengthen gun laws by implementing background checks on all gun sales. Despite terrorism being a risk posed in society today there any laws preventing those who are on the watch lists as suspected terrorists to buy guns. Requiring background checks for all gun sales is an ideal policy especially with history involving shootings. In 2012 the deadliest mass shooting at a school in U.S history took place in Sandy Hook Elementary school, where a 20-year old man shot and killed 20 first-graders as well as 6 administrators. In that same year 12 were shot and met their deaths in a movie theatre in Aurora, Colorado. Senator Susan Collins responded to the recent shooting that took place in the Orlando night club known as with a Gun-Control bill. As portrayed in Kristina Wall Street Journal Latest Senate Gun-Control Bill Hits NRA The purpose is at preventing people on two government watch lists -- including the no  list, which prevents certain travelers from boarding commercial flights in the U.S -- from being able to buy The result of this shooting was 49 killed and 53 wounded. Omar Mateen, the shooter had been previously investigated by the FBI twice therefore the shooting been prevented if the gun sold to someone on the FBI watch list. The National Rifle Association are today as a major political force and as foremost defender of Second Amendment and strive to promote and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific By doing so even established rifle clubs at colleges, universities and military academies. created hunting organizations, police and security firearm instructors, and courses to aid in learning how to fire all types of guns. This main priority is backing the 2nd right to bear arms. They fund gun safety and educational projects to benefit the public on how the weaponry is used. And Sabek 1 rigorously defend the 2 nd amendment because not being able to have firearms is the same as not being entitled to freedom in America. Professor Allen Rostor wrote an essay for the Harvard Law and Policy Review known as Fire: A Strategy On Gun Policy For The Obama He favors the presence within the legislative their stance on gun laws. For example, when speaking on gun control supporters and why they should understand certain laws he explains, control proponents have many sensible concerns about these kinds of proposals, but they may be able to find some respects in which they could safely concede some ground while crafting restrictions that ensure the additional legal leeway being given to gun owners will be used (Roster 19) In the light of both organizations, the NRA sees gun control as an issue that prevents people from the right to use guns on intruders in home. For those who work in businesses, employees may keep guns in their car when going to work. These are merely safety precautions because never evident when about to be attacked in a dark parking lot. Referring back to Senator Susan Collins compromise, be best to go forward with a law that enforces background checks in order to vet out potential school shooters and criminals. When this legislation is drafted, those who appear on a will be prevented from buying guns and which individuals are subjected to additional security screening before being allowed to board an (Herszenhorn, David M. Gun Control Compromise Offered by G.O.P. ) coherent as to why gun control advocates draw back at the idea of a compromise with those who create and invest in gun laws. Both sides may have a completely different outlook on this compromise. For example, the NRA may see it as a drawback on their cause and preventing the people of America from their rights to bear arms. The Brady Campaign may want Sabek 1 lockdown on guns and instead of their use for unnecessary causes they should be reserved for military use. One would think that not everyone should have the right to a gun and maybe if this legislative had passed sooner Omar Mateen have had the chance to kill 49 innocent people. America is a nation built on guns but may also be torn down by them. According to the Bureau of justice statistics, are currently about 270 million firearms in civilian hands in the United States, and that approximately thirty-five to forty percent of households have at least one (Rostron 3) And about 30,000 people in our country die every year from violence involving guns. As guns are more available to the public, more casualties will occur. Consequently, to completely strip Americans of guns would increase and decrease violence simultaneously mainly because those who are disarmed are prospective victims. Evidently both organizations either lobby their interests through congress as the NRA does when distributing over $4 million on campaign contributions and when The Brady Campaign spreads ads through media like wildfire. Meaning they can more than likely distribute the enlightenment regarding the utilization of guns through both resources. By doing so they can increase the development of their causes without the growing tension and make America a safer place. Hopefully the legislative considers this compromise and the endless battle between the democratic and conservatives -- as well as the stakeholders mentioned will come to an end at least when it comes to gun politics. Sabek 1 Works cited Herszenhorn, David M. Gun Control Compromise Offered by G.O.P.  New York Times, Jun 18 2016, National Newspapers Core; New York Times; US Newsstream, https://search.proquest.com/docview/1797650102?accountid=14745. Peterson, Kristina, and Siobhan Hughes. Latest Senate Gun-Control Bill Hits NRA Hurdle; Measure Aimed at Preventing People on Two Watch Lists from Buying Firearms Faces Opposition from Gun  Wall Street Journal (Online), Jun 21 2016, ABI/INFORM Collection; National Newspapers Core; US Newsstream; The Wall Street Journal, https://search.proquest.com/docview/1798478143?accountid=14745. National Rifle Association brief history of the Rostron, Allen. GENERAL ESSAY: Cease Fire: A Strategy On Gun Policy For The Obama  Harvard Law & Policy Review 3.(2009): 347. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. STEVE BOUSQUET. influence with Florida lawmakers is 13. Jan 2017 The Brady Campaign Action