Mars Home or Foreign Space the final frontier to some the new beginning to others. Despite the side of the fence you find yourself on there are people challenging the idea that mankind is restricted to just earth. Many are fixated on the ideas of colonizing and exploring mars. Among these groups there are two specific groups planning on sending missions to colonize mars. These two groups consist of SpaceX and Mars One. SpaceX which is widely known as a private company that has heavily funded research toward space faring technology. Mars One on the other hand is a lesser known entity; they are working on gathering a team together to send to colonize mars. Mars One feels that colonizing mars is the next big step for mankind, by colonizing mars they intend to make exploring the solar system a feasible task that can unite humanity and re-ignite interest ins space travel for the next generations. (Mars One) These two groups have focused on different aspects on mars colonization with Mars One predominantly on how to go about colonizing mars and SpaceX on how will humanity reach mars to colonize. Since both groups have focused on these different aspects if they were to come together they should be able to hasten the speed of planning and going to colonize mars. SpaceX has been known to have pioneered space exploration and when it comes to devising a plan for interplanetary space travel they have succeeded. The system they have designed for interplanetary travel is a multi-step process of lifting a payload into orbit around earth, sending up a refueling rocket to refuel the initial payload, then to have the payload leave orbit around earth into a flight path that will allow for interception, and landing onto any celestial body. (SpaceX Mars) While their system has been created SpaceX has yet to its credibility and prove it has the (Dussault J.) With Space travel being the big first obstacle that needs to be overcome to reach other celestial bodies. Once this barrier has been broken down future travel will become easier as SpaceX has mentioned that mars has all the resources necessary to create a propellant plant to benefit further travel. (SpaceX Mars) On the other side, Mars One has spent their time focusing on how to go about setting up a permanent colony on mars. Their current plan is to start training the team they intend to have colonize mars. Preparing the group for traveling and colonizing mars is the next big blockade that needs to be accomplished with colonizing mars. Within the next year, Mars One intends on starting full time training of their prospective groups. The training that they have planned includes to repair components of the habitat and rover, train in medical procedures, and learn to grow food in the along with training ability to deal with prolonged periods of time while sequestered in a remote (Mars One). With this to simulate their living conditions during their planed training they already have designed the habitat that they will be living in and how to best set it up on mars. While the thought of colonizing mars is being tossed around by groups but every group is still years from their missions to colonize mars due to a mixture of traveling to mars, designing the colony, necessary life sustaining tools and prepping the crew for living on mars. With these challenges, Mars One and SpaceX should work together. This is because the goals that they have set are similar and their current progress to completing their mission are in separate areas of the major road blocks they are working to overcome. By working together, they will sacrifice a bit of independence, but at the same time they will create a partner they can depend on. This has been done in the past with many companies in many industries. One of which was two keg producers who worked to eliminate problems with trans-Atlantic transportation. (Chemicals & Chemistry Business) This was where two companies pooled together to solve an issue they both had, which is exactly what SpaceX and Mars One would be doing. Since SpaceX and Mars One both have overlapping goals but have approached the issues from two separate direction allowing for them to continue working on their current and then combining them together to finalize their goals, it seems to reason that they should work together to hasten their project and efficiently work together to complete their goals. Works cited Mars One. (n.d.). Retrieved January 25, 2017, from http://www.mars-one.com/ SpaceX Mars. (n.d.). Retrieved January 25, 2017, from http://www.spacex.com/mars Manufacturing, production; the two largest keg services companies join forces to revolutionize the global draught beer supply chain. (2016). Chemicals & Chemistry Business, , 2096. Retrieved from https://search.proquest.com/docview/1840737164?accountid=14745 Smith, A. (2015, May 30). Can Mars One colonise the red planet? Retrieved January 29, 2017, from https://www.theguardian.com/science/2015/may/30/can-mars-one-colonise-red- planet Dussault, J. (2016, Sep 21). mars colonization plan: Time to get real? The Christian Science Monitor Retrieved from https://search.proquest.com/docview/1821942030?accountid=14745