Conklin 1 Makenzi Conklin Kristen Roussie ENC 1102 Jan 27th 2017 Stakeholders What would happen if you were assaulted while working? You would go to the police and tell them what happened. For sex workers this is not the case, as they would go to jail before the police could even think about investigating the assault. Whether you are for or against prostitution, you can not deny that it is wrong that sex workers cannot receive help from an assault. Amnesty International states that they are for all human rights, including those of sex workers. They feel that legalizing prostitution would give more rights and safety to the women involved. Another group, Demand Abolition, feels that prostitution is dangerous and morally wrong and should be illegal in all circumstances. In order to come to a compromise, the two groups could advocate for the decriminalization of prostitution. Amnesty International is an international group that advocates for human rights for all. They act through research, advocating and lobbying, and campaigns (Murphy). This group believes that legalizing prostitution would give more rights and safety to the workers. Currently, workers face discrimination, abuse, and assault. Since prostitution is considered illegal in the United States, workers have no voice when these terrible acts occur. If they report to the police, they would be arrested for prostitution and could potentially be held longer than their offender. Due to this, many women are unable to speak out against assault, which is not only traumatic for them, but it also gives the public wrong information about sexual assault. The current statistic is Conklin 2 that one out of every five women are raped (RAINN). However if sex workers were able to report their assault without facing criminal charges, the number would be much higher. It is important that the public receives correct information about sexual assault so that people can understand the severity and do something about it, as well as have more women come forward potentially. In some cases, housing and even health centers can deny services to women that are known sex workers (Murphy). Housing and health centers should not be denied to women that can afford them just because they have a job that some people do not agree with. Amnesty International is committed to try to break the negative stigma of prostitution. This group only supports consensual sex, and does not approve of any sex or human trafficking. Demand Abolition is a group that is against the legalization of prostitution. They believe that prostitution lures in uneducated women who will get stuck and not be able to stop doing it. Along with this, they feel that it is morally wrong and damaging for a women to do. One way to combat this is to inflict heavier punishments on the men who pay for sex. If there are stricter punishments (more jail time), the group believes that men will steer away from buying sex. Their belief that legalizing prostitution does not work is based off of studies from countries that have legalized or previously legalized prostitution. They say that in countries that have legalized prostitution, that there is an increase in the amount of human trafficking (Demand Abolition). Although some groups, such as Amnesty International, believe that legalizing prostitution would lower the amount of human trafficking Demand Abolition does not agree with this. Reports from sex workers in New Zealand said that they did not feel that the legalization of their work reduced any of the violence that they faced. Demand Abolition feels that prostitution is an inherently dangerous job and that legalizing it will not stop any of the violence towards women. Conklin 3 Although both Amnesty International and Demand Abolition have opposite viewpoints on legalizing prostitution, they both are against human trafficking and the abuse of women. Amnesty International only approves of prostitution that is between two consensual adults. Both groups work to try to stop the kidnapping and forcing of people into prostitution. They also try to work to prevent the assault and abuse of women. If Amnesty International and Demand Abolition were to join forces to create a compromise, it would be to decriminalize prostitution. Although Amnesty International wants prostitution to be completely legalized, this would be a big step forward. If prostitution were decriminalized, then women could report to the police if they were abused or assaulted. This could also lessen the bad stigma against people who are sex workers. This is similar to the Sex Buyer Law that came about in Sweden. The law decriminalizes prostitution, but criminalizes the act of buying sex, in hopes that this will reduce the demand for prostitution. The point of the law is to attempt to change the behavior of people, instead of criminalizing the women that are involved. This law clears any criminal records from prostitution, provides services to the women, and educates the public (Nordic Model). Nevada takes another approach, as prostitution is legal and not just decriminalized. When prostitution is legalized by the government it is regulated, while decriminalization has no regulation. Nevada has zoning requirements as well as mandatory testing for sexually transmitted diseases (Schwartzbach). Legalizing or decriminalizing prostitution could lower the amount of STDs, as proven by data from Rhode Island. The state legislature reworded a law that accidentally made prostitution legal for twenty three years. The reported cases of gonorrhea decreased by thirty nine percent in this time period (Ehrenfreund). Conklin 4 Demand Abolition would be compromising a lot if prostitution were legalized, but there could be heavy restrictions and regulations in place so that it would not lead to more human trafficking. Sex is part of modern society whether people choose to accept it or not. The demand for sex will always be there, so Amnesty International believes that prostitution should be legalized to reduce the negative stigma and protect the women. Demand Abolition does not agree with this and believes that legalizing prostitution would only harm the women and increase the amount of human trafficking. Both groups may have varying opinions, but they are both combating human trafficking and sexual assault. The two groups should compromise in order to decriminalize prostitution. Word Count: 1008 Conklin 5 Works Cited Ehrenfreund, Max. When Rhode Island Accidentally Legalized  Washington Post . WP Company, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Legalization Is Not the  Abolition . N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Murphy, Catherine. Sex Rights Are Human  Internationa; . N.p., 14 Aug. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Schwartzbach, Micah. Decriminalizing Prostitution Criminal . N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.  . N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. What Is the Nordic  Model Now! N.p., 04 Dec. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.