Monique Bell Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Legalization of Recreational Marijuana Debate Throughout the ages, marijuana has been an issue of continuing conflict in America as new research is released every day showing the benefits as well as the dangers of the stimulant. As issues such as health, safety, and wellbeing are analyzed and their effects from the drug, findings have prompted multiple organizations to put their stance forward on the issue and to promote others around them to take up their same beliefs and values as well. Two organizations who have opposing views on the same spectrum are; Parents Opposed to Pot which is an organization focused on keeping marijuana illegal to protect young adults from misuse and NORML (National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws) who focused on making medical as well as the recreational use of marijuana legal and educating the public on marijuana safety. Although these two credible organizations have opposing viewpoints their shared interest in the safety of young adults gives room for a solution that will protect others as well as benefit the goals of both parties to the fullest extent. Parents Opposed to Pot is an organization created by a group of concerned parents determined to protect their children from the pressure of society to use the stimulant. This organization focuses on the education of parents and children through articles donated by trained medical professionals as well as testimonies from parents who may have had a child with a marijuana drug addiction. POP has a range of articles donated from multiple resources ranging from types of marijuana use all the way to tragic effects of the drug including car crashes, addiction, and even death. Overall this organization focuses on the addictive properties of the drug and preventing the youth of today from accumulating an addiction that may trigger harmful long-term effects. POP suggests that the marijuana being circulated in society is laced Monique Bell Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 29 January 2017 with > 15% THC rather than the CBD in the drug back in the and causing it to be highly addictive and comparable to that of cocaine and heroin (poppot.org). Due to this, the organization fears that children will not be able to of the drug similarly to when the parents of today had to when they were younger and may suffer from extensive biological damage. In 2016 a study was done by Henrietta Szutoriz and colleges on the exposure of THC to children and the effects the drug has on the developing brain and behavior. In her peer-reviewed article, findings shown an increase of locomotive dysfunctions prevalent in females as well as an influx of psychiatric illnesses present in males (Szutoriz 109). It is later signs of dysfunction such as this that the POP strives to prevent in youth through the complete legalization of marijuana nationwide and lobby this goal in their mission statement to the bubbles of the marijuana industry, marijuana lobbyists and marijuana (poppot.org) Our opposing stakeholder, on the other hand, has beliefs entirely their own. NORML or The National Organization For the Reform of Marijuana Laws sets out to also educate the public about marijuana but for its benefits and how the positive implementations of marijuana can change the community. Founded in 1970 the organization acts as a home to those who are for the revocation of marijuana laws both medically and recreationally in efforts to protect users young and old from abuse of the drug and the arrest of those using the drug responsibly. Some of the popular achievements include decriminalizing minor marijuana offenses in 11 states and also significantly lowering marijuana penalties in all of the other states (NORML.org). NORML acts as an informational guide to the uneducated on topics ranging from personal and medical use as well as drug testing. One area that this organization focuses on particularly is the legal aspect of the drug. As previously stated the organization has helped to lower the penalties Monique Bell Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 29 January 2017 for minor drug offenses but strives for total recall of all criminal actions taken towards those who use or possess the drug. According to the organization arrests in the U.S have risen from 2 per hour in 1965 to 73 per hour as of 2015 putting more adolescents in jail over minor offenses preventing them later on from having a normal life and ending the needless arrest of hundreds of thousands of otherwise law abiding citizens each (NORML.org). In fact, research has shown the influx of these arrests juxtapose to the rise of tough crime policies. In her study Arrests, Spike among Youth Donna Leinwand Leger concluded that around 30.2% of youth will be arrested by age 23 for drug or alcohol offenses. Within her research paper Leger also included testimonies from experts in criminology and juvenile arrests. One of which is Megan Kurlychek a professor from the University of Albany studying juvenile delinquency concluded that Arrests have worse consequences than ever for these  she says. Arrest records follow you forever. The average teenager who is arrested for possession of marijuana -- why do we make that define their  (Leger 3A). It is arrests like these that fuel this foundation to continue to work towards the reform of marijuana laws and punishments through the people or the legislator. To this day the organization and sister foundation continue to push towards expanding knowledge to others, gaining the freedom to use the drug as well as reaping the benefits from universal legalization or as their motto states mission is to move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to high-quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (NORML.org). With such opposing viewpoints it is no surprise that these two organizations have not yet reached a compromise. Because each organization has a clearly defined stance on each end of the Monique Bell Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 29 January 2017 same spectrum it is hard to see the commonalities between the two or even think of partnering up with someone opposite of themselves to come up with a compromise. A specific reason why these two organizations have not yet coincided is that Parents Opposed to Pot is set on the strict illegalization of marijuana with no exceptions as well as NORML is set on the complete legalization of the drug for adolescents as well as adults with no exceptions making it hard for the two to give up some of their values and goals in order to please the other as well as themselves. A subject that both organizations share that can help get past their strict beliefs is ensuring the safety of young adults. Parents opposed to pot disagrees with the harmful effects marijuana and bring young adults in brain development and NORML is opposed to the legal dangers that the drug can bring to young adults through incarceration. A solution that will be feasible for both parties beliefs, as well as their commonality, would be to legalize the drug with tough age restrictions. As of the new year the United States has already legalized medical use in all states as well as the legal recreational use in others as of the age of 21 yet this interferes with goal of country wide legalization of both recreational and medical usage as well as the concern for the interference of brain development in young adults considering the brain is not fully developed until the age of 25 (hrweb.mit.edu). If the drug were to be fully legalized for medical and recreational use with an age restriction of 25 this would coincide with the values of other parties as well as be easily implemented into state laws. With enough persuasion, this law could be implemented through congress as well as the states having the option to put other rules in place to the degree of age verification needed to obtain the drug within controlled dispensaries. The nation would have the opportunity to use the drug as they please if the Monique Bell Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 29 January 2017 appropriate age and parents will not have to worry about the endangerment of their children biologically or legally due to strict restrictions on obtaining marijuana. Taking the perspective of this from California, a state that already has recreational legalization has experienced nothing but benefits from its legalization according to Steve DeAngelo the owner of a dispensary in the state who said We see no increases in drug abuse. In fact, declined. We see no increase in traffic  Every prediction of our opponents have proven untrue. We think a pretty big  (Ostrowski 1) Both organizations and their viewpoints would be supported in this situation even if it means that each side must give up a portion of their goals. Parents Opposed to pot and NORML have been at odds with one another and are each separate stakeholders in the long marijuana legalization debate. These two organizations have been butting heads on their different beliefs that blinded them from seeing the similarities that they share. Through their shared passion for keeping the youth safe from the legal and biological impacts, marijuana causes in society have helped these two seemingly different organizations reach an impasse. Through the proposed solution there two foundations can continue to stress their viewpoints on the drug knowing that their best interests were taken into account. Monique Bell Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Works Cited - Bursting the Bubble of Marijuana  - Bursting the Bubble of Marijuana Hype. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Donna Leinwand, Leger, and TODAY USA. Study: Arrests spike among  USA Today n.d.: Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ostrowski, Jeff. Fla. pot proponent: Regulation is key Tight control sought for pot in Fla. Advocates want medical marijuana in Florida, but not like California; A medical marijuana backer envisions a tightly controlled industry here -- unlike in California. Backers of medical marijuana in Florida point to California as an example of how not to do things. Unlike in California, a medical marijuana backer here envisions a tightly controlled industry. Backers of medical marijuana in Florida point to California as an example of how not to do  The Palm Beach Post (West Palm Beach, FL) 2016: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Szutorisz, Henrietta, et al. Original Research Article: Cross-Generational THC Exposure Alters The Developmental Sensitivity Of Ventral And Dorsal Striatal Gene Expression In Male And Female  Neurotoxicology And Teratology 58.SI: Developmental Marijuana (2016): 107- 114. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Working to Reform Marijuana  NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. N.p., 1970. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Young Adult Development  Young Adult Development Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.