de Kort 1 Ashley de Kort Bob Botkin ENC 1102.099 29 January 2017 U.S vs. Russia: Long-Time Rivals The Cold War began around 1947, making the United States enemies with the Soviet Union. This war was unique as both sides did not actually go into battle unlike World War II. Even though the war ended in 1991, the U.S. and Russia have remained rivals throughout the years, especially when it comes to the space industry. Since the United States was having difficulties being funded to safely send people up into space, they decided to make a contract with Russia. For this reason, the U.S. now relies on Russia to send their astronauts up into space while Russia relies on the U.S. for funding and it is the only way Russia will be able to keep their Space Industry. Even though both countries must rely on each other, they are still rivals. The U.S. would feel more comfortable sending their astronauts in their home land as Russia is hostile of the U.S. and their policies, causing the U.S. to grow weary of their unpredicted behavior. This paper investigates without one another, there would not be the space innovations that are currently happening through space exploration. The rivalry between the United States and Russia has come to be known as the According to Musa in his article and America: Crisis on the planet, friendship in it all started when the Soviet Union launched the first satellite up into space known as Sputnik, beating the United States into space. At this point, people were no longer concerned about how Russia could get the satellite into space and how they could have been able to collect de Kort 2 information from the country, instead people were more worried about how they beat the United States as they were known as the strongest and most advanced nation. This situation goes to show how the rivalry became all about competition. Since the first launching of the satellite, the former U.S. President Eisenhower created the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, also known as NASA (Musa). The rivalry took a turn and it became a competition of which country could get the best technology into space. Because of this, the Soviet Union sent the first woman, Valentina Tereshkova, and man, Yuri Gagarin, up into space while the United States focused on putting the first man on the moon (Musa). The first man on the moon, Neil Armstrong, was a monumental success for the United States. From there on, Russia and the U.S. continued to invent and advance their space innovations expanding their countries space exploration. After a few years, Musa went on to describe how Russia and the United States started a joint experiment as they combined both the Apollo and Soyuz projects. The combination of both projects brought both countries together, ending the One may think the United States would be able to send their own astronauts into space in their own shuttles on their own territory but there are several reasons why the U.S. had to give up on this option. As Jeffrey Kluger in the article Outer said, costs $400 million every time they fly, take months to prep for a mission and have a devastatingly poor safety The United States could no longer afford sending astronauts into space as the space program was no longer being funded. Congress did no longer want to fund the space program after both the Challenger and Columbia exploded after launching, as Democrats, Republicans, and those in the White House at that time believed the space program was no longer worthy or important (Dowd). The United States also lost funding from other big companies such as Boeing and SpaceX in which helped the U.S. construct private missiles de Kort 3 NASA inks US $490 million contract with Russia for ISS After several explosions and failed attempts at regaining continuous successes, safety concerns and lack of funding made the United States give up their space shuttle program and had them rely on Russia to send their space members up into space. The United States is also reminded that their relationship with Russia is not completely loyal and trusting. Russia has been known for its hostility towards the U.S. and their interests and policies. The United States is also unable to control when its personnel depart, how long they will stay, what they can take with them, etc. (Dowd). Without this control, the U.S. must trust Russia with all their might. Moreover, the U.S. worries Russia will blackmail them by demanding in exchange for a trip into space to deactivate U.S. missile defenses in Poland or Czech Republic or let Russia finish the war with Georgia (Dowd). These issues are concerning the U.S. as Russia has the most power with their astronauts as it is on their territory. The United States also wants to maintain peace within countries so the thought of blackmailing had the U.S. grow worrisome. As well, in 2015, the U.S. had to suspend talks with Russia as Russia wanted to continue assaulting Aleppo in Syria (Browne). The United patience with Russia is slight after many disagreements. Yet, the United States looks to continue working with Russia in terms of the space program and the International Space Station (ISS) as they focus on the advances in space rather than the problems on land. After the Soviet Union began to be called Russia, the country seemed to have a difficult time retaining their space industry running and intact. According to the article written by NASA -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the through the mid- 1990s space industry steeply declined which made Russia desperately seek deals with foreign partners such as Iran, Iraq, and Western companies. With the help of many foreign de Kort 4 partners, Russia could continue working with their space industry and to continue being an active participant in the International Space Station(ISS). Russia was also able to develop a partnership with a leading U.S. aerospace company, Lockheed Martin With this partnership, Russian aerospace engineers could work with the United States and Russia could gain currency through these commercial contracts. The United States could expand capabilities in their space industry and help it continue and grow. Despite their constant rivalry on land, both Russia and the United States should be able to come to an agreement. Congress should invest into funding the U.S. space program in its own country so the U.S. will not need to rely on Russia to send crewmen into space while still maintaining ties with Russia as they work together on the Internal Space Station. Therefore, the U.S. will be able to work on its own land while Russia retains its space industry and the opportunity to work with the U.S. as together they will be able to develop many advanced space innovations. NASA Administrator Charles Bolden, also believes the U.S. space program should be funded as he says is my sincere hope that we all agree that the greatest nation on Earth should not be dependent on others to launch humans into while requesting Congress to reconsider its funding for the program. Congress has yet to discover the benefits of having a space program as many discoveries can be made through it such as better software, pollution remediation, chemical detection and many more Technologies Benefit Our Without the space program, many discoveries would not have been made and one would not have the advances one has during this time. Despite being rivals, the United States and Russia have made many discoveries together. Because of their combined work, space exploration is advancing and one can learn more about the planet in which they live on and how other circumstances can impact it. Without the space de Kort 5 program, both countries would not have been successful as both countries rely on each other. As technology advances, these countries will be able to discover how the planet can be kept from being destroyed from climate change and pollution as well as how the around other planets are, such as Mar, and how they can benefit the population in the future. After all, both countries live in the same planet so concern should be both countries concern. de Kort 6 Works Cited Browne, Ryan. US suspends talks with Russia over  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Dowd, and Alan W. Surrendering Outer  Policy Review 1 Aug. 2009: n. pag. Print. Musa, Anthony. Russia and America: Crisis on the planet, friendship in  Russia Direct. N.p., 01 Nov. 2016. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. NASA inks US $490 million contract with Russia for ISS  Current Affairs Today. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. NASA renews contract with Russia amid lack of  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. NASA Technologies Benefit Our  NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the Impacts. N.p.: Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies Elliott School of International Affairs The George Washington U Washington, DC, n.d. Nasa.gov. Web. 20 Jan. 2017.