Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Geothermal Heat as a Renewable Energy Source The Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) originated in 1969 by the work of Massachusetts Institute of Technology students and scientists. They created the UCS in order to establish a platform for scientific research to be performed and presented in a way that did not serve a militarized purpose; instead, they wished to attempt to solve environmental and social problems through raising awareness for each issue and encouraging fairness and accuracy in scientific research projects. The founders of this organization are Henry Kendall and Kurt Gottfried. The organization is responsible for passing fuel efficiency standards for new cars and trucks starting in 2010, gaining universal protections for rainforests through advocacy politically and through petition, as well as exposing News Corp for their misleading coverage of global climate change data and information. They, as an active organization, are reaching out to both those in the scientific community, as well as the common person, through the process of spreading scientific literacy in the subjects of clean energy and the advocacy thereof. This remarkable organization has recently tackled raising awareness of geothermal energy as a source of renewable energy through visual aids and data. The first image (see Image 1) that is used to give attention to geothermal energy is a visual representation of locations of where to harness geothermal heat through hydrothermal means. The energy is captured through geothermal springs and uses the convection of hot water to capture steam to drive electric generators. This image uses warm colors, purposely associated Student 2 with heat, in order to show where the warmest underground areas are in the United States. The abundance of plots where there are current hydrothermal sites shows the established presence of this type of renewable energy. Also, the use of the words and are used in order to show both that there are many areas where this type of energy would be prudent to use and access and that even the areas are accessible and useful as sources of energy. The rhetorical appeals that are most used in this image are logos, the appeal to logic and ethos, the appeal to ethics and authority, respectively. The use of logos is through the visual representation of actual published scientific data. The logical nature of this image allows for the intended audience to focus on the reality of this situation: that renewable energy is accessible in many regions, favorable as a source of energy, and is applicable to present conditions in the United States. This also primarily appeals to ethos, because the credited laboratory that conducted the research has its logo stamped on the image itself. This appeals to the credibility of the data, making the intended audience feel safe in relying on the information depicted in the image. Without the logo embedded in the image, the audience would likely question the authority of those presenting data, as well as the accuracy of the information shown. The second image (see Image 2), is a visual representation of the Salt Wells Geothermal Plant in Nevada. The image encompasses the use of warm sunset colors to show an ideal, picturesque image of how this energy is harnessed. The forefront of the image is of earthy soil, rock, and desert flora. The fact that these are depicted before the power plant itself is a testament to the vision of helping the environment through advocacy of cleaner energy resources. The fact that the power plant also has a mountainous background shows that this source of energy is centered around the ideal of reliable, sustainable, clean energy for human kind to use. It Student 3 can also be noted how open and inviting the power plant looks. Its lack of barbed wire, dirty and exhausted workers, or smoggy and filthy air is a reassuring tool that shows the beneficial nature of this type of energy. The air is so clean and clear in the image that picturesque mountainous landscape previously mentioned can been seen over a great distance. The primary rhetorical appeals used in this second image are pathos, which as an appeal to emotions, and kairos, the appeal to timeliness. The clean, optimal looking power plant is a refreshing image to the intended audience. This is considering how fossil fuels are typically represented as smoggy, dirty, unrefined, and harmful ways of harnessing the available energy. It is also a well-known fact that fossil fuels are not a renewable energy source, causing panic in the audience over how they will meet their future energy needs if the oil, petroleum, and natural gas that is so overused runs out. This provocation of hopeful emotions to the audience of a clean, reachable way of getting renewable energy is appealing the rhetorical appeal of pathos. The fact that the futuristic, ideal-looking image is from the present shows that this type of energy can be invested in, and used efficiently, in current times. This can easily be interpreted as a call to action of raising awareness and funding to invest in geothermal energy as a primary source of renewable energy. The result of these two images both used in the same article is to complete the visual repertoire of rhetorical appeals to convey their mission: clean, renewable energy is accessible, prudent, and ideal to use in the place of fossil fuels in society. The first image is utilized to introduce logical visual aid in both the appeals of logos and ethos. This powerful combination causes the intended audience to secure trust in the information that they are presented in order to foster an open mind to reading further into how this energy is harnessed and used. Then, the second image introduces the rhetorical appeals of both pathos and kairos, causing the intended Student 4 audience to care deeply about the subject; also, kairos call them to action of defending and furthering research and development for the subject at hand. Combining all of these aspects into one strong argument is how the organization is able to convey their mission so eloquently that it would seem illogical to disagree with their innovative views. [Word Count Student 5 Works Cited Browning, Ella, and Joshua M. Rea. 8.2 Understanding  1102 EText (n.d.): 371-74. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <file:///E:/Downloads/ENC1102.RRM.Chapter- 8.2%20(1).pdf>. Pack, Jenna. 7.7 Breaking Down an  1102 EText (n.d.): 345-51. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <file:///E:/Downloads/ENC1102.RRM.Chapter-7.5-7.6-7.7%20(2).pdf>. Union of Concerned Scientists. Union of Concerned Scientists, 2017, http://www.ucsusa.org/ Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Image 1: Image 2: Student 7