Stem cells were originally created from early mouse embryos as early as 1980 and within the decade we were able to derive stem cells from human embryos. Consequently, research into stem cells has gone on for nearly 4 decades by creating and destroying embryos to produce stem cells. Stem cell research has come a long way to benefit humanity even today. For example, there has been a development of skin grafts from original skin duplicated and sprayed on the affected area along with several other experimental and practical applications. Perspectives have arisen to debate whether we should continue to manipulate life in this way with hopes to produce possibly more revolutionary procedures or stop since we cannot ignore that life is created near that of an aborted child and stopped mid-development to farm these cells. Americans for Cures is an organization which wishes to for stem cell research and therapy development; and, ultimately, to improve the lives of patients and their families suffering from chronic disease and (Source 1). This organization overall stands for the development of stem cells as a means to stop further and present suffering from injury and disease. In contrast, the following under Pope John Paul II believes autonomy necessary to perform its functions effectively and guarantees its members academic freedom, so long as the rights of the individual person and of the community are preserved within the confines of the truth and the common (Source 5). Thus, this catholic branch encourages academic advances, but only when there remains a defined moral compass; remaining despondent when it comes to embryonic creation for stem cell creation. Both these organizations favor academic advances for the common good. However, though both may disagree in some aspects as to how that is achieved they can agree that stem cells can achieve a greater good for humanity in terms of medical care and recovery. In addition, the organizations would define science as a way to define the natural world, however, would maybe deviate in how the world came to be. Furthermore, the catholic church may argue that it is not within our right to create life different than image, but were given the power through tools to repair his constructs. Though the church disagrees with the original creation of stem cells they are inclined to agree with the knowledge provided without utilizing embryonic components. Overall these organizations would agree that stem cell research provide benefits for the good of humanity and that knowledge should expand in this area. A compromise would seem to entail a way to advance stem cell research to appease the Americans for Cures foundation, yet without the use of embryos to also satisfy the following of Pope John Paul II. From the knowledge we have of stem cells we can define them as unspecified cells capable of renewing through cell division even through long periods of inactivity (Source 4). Therefore, cells like muscles cells and skin cells are specified cells which are genetically encoded to perform a task, but stem cells lack any of this specificity and have the grand potential to specify, given the proper genetic code, into any type of cell. Embryos inherently produce stem cells in their early phases of development, ergo why it became common practice to develop them for the use in stem cell research. Also, stem cells were unknown for the most part as being unspecified cells and it was unknown that there could be any way to create them without creating embryos. In consequence, through embryonic synthesis we were able to define what stems cell are and how they do what they do. Thereby, in theory we could simply unspecify cells that are specific to revert back into stem cells. This is exactly what scientists in 2006 did when they another breakthrough by identifying conditions that would allow some specialized adult cells to be  genetically to assume a stem cell-like (Source 4). In conclusion, the Americans for Cures and the catholic following under Pope John Paul II could develop a compromise which would justify the furthering of stem cell research due to the lack of necessity for embryos to continue. The resolution would involve the use of a type of stem cell, called induced pluripotent stem cells 4). BIBLIOGRAPHY 1. Our  Americans for Cures. N.p., 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. 2. Garfinkel, Michele . Stem Cell Controversy  AAAS. AAAS Scientific Freedom, Responsiblity, and Law Program, 1999. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. 3. Landry, Donald W., and Howard A. Zucker. Embryonic death and the creation of human embryonic stem  JCI-Journal of Clinical Investigation. American Society for Clinical Investigation , 1 Nov. 2004. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. 4. STEM CELL  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. 5. Pope John Paul II. Ex Corde  CatholicCulture.org. Vatican, 15 Aug. 1990. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. (References Cites) (same cites just in my own reference way and will not be included in final paper) http://americansforcures.org/our-mission/ https://www.jci.org/articles/view/23065 https://stemcells.nih.gov/info/basics/1.htm https://www.catholicculture.org/culture/library/view.cfm?recnum=4673#I