Curtis Thomas January 29,2017 ENC1102 Genetic Cloning is considered quite a controversial topic that is discussed in society. When the topic is brought to attention because it a normal thing that is discussed. The topic catches attention because the media only talks about genetic cloning when there is a huge discovery or a mutation. While there are other major things going on in the world, Genetic cloning be a topic that is kept in secret. A lot of scholars that have looked into genetic cloning have come to the conclusion that scientist are almost close in perfecting genetic cloning. While some think that genetic cloning is a good idea others believe that this is just another way for human kind to play God. Friends of the Earth Association (FOE) believes that genetic cloning should be stopped and mankind should just be left the way it is while the Genetics and Clone Saving Association(GECS) believes that this could change the world and help mankind. Both organizations are for helping mankind also their vision is to make the world a better place for years to come. To integrate the stance of both organizations there should be genetic cloning but with limits and regulations. Friends of the Earth Association is a organization dedicated to preserving the health and diversity of the planet for future generations. A primary goal for this organization to be a voice for the planet and they believe that all people should live in a healthy (Friends of the Earth). This organization believes taking care of our planet and its people will help the world become a better place. The information that the Friends of the earth association presents is that they are focusing more on the future of the world. They want to stop the killing of some animals and stop the destruction of many of our jungles. Study has shown, published by the Open Flied Review, the research shows that with the help of the Friends of the Earth Association many animals are coming out of extinction and there are more plants being planted and less jungles are being knocked down. It concluded that this organization the circle of life get back to where it should (Hartman 98). A lot of Americans only hear about keeping the world safe and clean so that earth can have a future. Friends of the Earth organization are against genetic cloning they believe that these scientists are making artificial life so they see anything wrong with killing the original animals and plants etc. The Genetics and Cloning Association has a similar goal like the Friends of the Earth organization. As it states in their name they stand for the genetic cloning process and they also are thinking about the future of the earth. They believe that with genetic cloning it will be easier when it comes to human birthing and reproducing animals and plants, means a new form of evolution which means more animals out of extinction more planets and more humans to make the world (Genetics and Cloning Association). This organization believes, that genetic cloning can change the world it can help people that have kids and also we can recreate old plants that could help us and more animals be extinct. An article published in 2015, by the Bioethics and Human Dignity, research shows that genetic cloning process has already begun they have already replicated a few plants (Thompson.68). This study is showing how they are trying to improve earth life, but not only that people who have kids or who have same-sex marriages and are trying to have kids genetic cloning can be a big factor in this. Like the study, Know genetics organization also did a study on Genetic Cloning. They really study animals or planets they study human cloning and the ways it could be beneficial to earth. Human cloning the creation of a genetically identical copy of a (Gizmodo Brown.109). They are trying to perfect this process so that their not only cloning identical DNA but they can create a new human life. The GECS, like Friends of the earth, believes in human life and trying to make the world a better place for the future to come. The Friends of the Earth organization and The Genetic Cloning Association both have the same goals, they really could work together. Both want to make the world better and keep humanity and nature growing. In addition to making human life better both of these organizations want to make sure that the earth Is better and they want to expand. Both Organizations have similar goals, even though they may still be at odds. Both The Friends of the Earth and Genetic Cloning Association want to make the world a better place and work harder to expand on life. The only difference between the two organizations is their opinion on how to expand on life and make the world better. A simple solution can be made: beginning with scientist working on a way to make better plant life but do not experiment on animals work with the friends of the earth to keep endangered animals safe, doing test on humans should only be if a couple produce a child. Meeting in the middle still taking care of the plant and its people, but still not playing God, this would please both sides if a conflict arises. Genetic cloning can be a break thru in the world of science. The studies focus on how to make genetic cloning a good thing instead of it seeming like scientist are trying to play God (Kelly Anderson 109). Study also finds that genetic cloning can be beneficial, when doing cloning they can replicate the plant life a plant that could help us cure a sickness or a plant that could feed civilization. Genetic cloning can lead to new breakthroughs in child birthing and recreating plants that could help humanity. While Genetic cloning really a normal thing in society it can help in so many ways. According to the article published by scientist newsletter, genetic cloning is something that will be used in the near future. This is due to the increasing married people who want children. Both the Friends of the Earth Association and Genetics and Cloning Association want the same thing but at different points in the world. They are both working hard trying to find ways to make the world better and to add on to the worlds future. To appease both organizations a middle ground can be found by only using genetic cloning for helping that want to have children and reproducing plants. Genetic cloning only plants and helping to create children will help the world because we will make families who have kids happy and also we can cure some diseases with the plants that are cloned. Not only is it helping but it is a breakthrough in the scientific world. Work Cited Joshua, Hartman restore the earth and putting the earth back (1998) Kelly, Anderson and (2013), Web. 29 Jan 2017 Thompson, Clark. Genetic Public society (2013) 233-215. Web. 29 Jan 2017 Susan, Martian against harmful thing that could destroy our earth and it Friends of the Earth. 20.8(2015).Web. 29 Jan 2017 William, Travis Cloning is good and could be beneficial in the Genetics and Cloning association 11.9(2012).Web. 29 Jan 2017