Cameron Hill 1 Professor Alison Missler ENC1101 29 January 2017 Fishing for Middle Ground Out of all the industries in the United States, fishing is one that anyone can enjoy. Fishing includes: commercial fishing, fishing recreationally, fishing for income, and much more. Commercial fishing combined with recreational fishing generated more than 199 billion dollars in sales. However, an industry this big is not all perfect, as it to brings along controversy. The battle between environmentalists, fishing corporations, and fisherman is ongoing. I believe the solution to a fair balance of recreation and and preservation is to implement a higher tax on fishing equipment that is sold by corporations. With the extra revenue, more Florida Wildlife Commission officers can be hired to protect our recourses that includes fish, as well as more fish being stocked. Before we can generate a compromise, we must first look at the problem. Although there are many stakeholders in the fishing industry, I will examine two for this compromise. Understanding both thoughts on the subject at hand is important. The first stakeholder in this compromise is PETA. PETA stands for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. When it comes fishing, PETA believes that fish feel pain. As a result, PETA believes that it is humane to fish and that fishing should be banned completely. Overall, PETA wants to protect the rights of fish, and preserve their existence. In their mission statement located on their website, PETA says PETA focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment industry. (Peta Mission statement) In the case of our compromise, fishing would fall into entertainment section. One data that can arguably support PETA is Victoria book, Do Fish Feel Pain? Although Braithwaite is not opinionated in the book, scientific experiments suggest that fish feeling pain could be a valid idea. On page 76 of the online text, Braithwaite says Pain is an emotional On the same page she later suggests setting up experiments to see if the fish are capable of mentally experiencing events, and being conscious. A maze was set up to see if fish could down arms of a maze, through passages and (Braithwaite 84) The test results came in shockingly positive. The fish were able to do it. are very good at learning wear to make turns and remembering routes that they should (Braithwaite 85) Although the science panel is divided when it comes to fish feeling pain, this source definitely strengthens PETAS argument. The second stakeholder that I will examine is the retail companies that supply all of the fisherman. The biggest outdoor retail store Is Bass Pro Shops, who have over fifty locations in the United States. Bass Pro has a major dependency on the fishing industry being strong, because 2 the majority of Bass business comes from fisherman. If fishing were to be entirely banned, Bass Pro would most likely go out of business if they could not replace those customers. Bass Pro understands this and on its website states conservation initiatives include protecting wildlife and habitat, connecting kids and families to the outdoors and protecting rights through access and advocacy (Bass Pro About Us) A source that supports Bass Pro, not necessarily in beliefs, but supports the idea of fish not feeling pain is Brian article Fish do not feel pain and its implications for understanding phenomenal consciousness. Although Bass Pro has not made a statement of whether or not fish feel pain, this article supports Bass Pro because it promotes fishing, which helps Bass Pro receive more customers. In the article, Key states In summary, the idea that fish flee noxious stimuli because they experience phenomenal consciousness (feel pain) is not the best explanation for this behavior. It is more probable that fish demonstrate these behaviors because they have evolved innate reflexes associated with specific spinal and sub-telencephalic neural circuits. (Key 153) With evidence against the idea of fish feeling pain, fisherman will continue to see fishing as a harm free hobby, resulting in more revenue for Bass Pro. Before coming up with a solution, common ground must be discovered. Both Stakeholders hold value in fish. For PETA, they hold value in protecting fish. For Bass Pro, they value fisherman buying gear. How does this relate? If fisherman have anything to fish for, they will not buy gear from Bass Pro. Simply put, if the fish population is not healthy, fisherman will not fish as much, and Bass pro will lose sales. All thought Bass Pro is a retail corporation, and PETA is an environmental group, both hold value in the fish population being healthy. Because both stakeholders find value in the health, the compromise must involve creating a healthier population of fish. Both stakeholders will need to give up something if they are going to want a healthier fish population. For PETA, they must give up pushing the notion that everyone in the U.S has the same moral views as they do. They must accept that not everyone thinks eating fish is immoral. If they are willing to give that up, and let people have their own morals, then a compromise can be made. For Bass Pro, they must give back to the environment to help create a healthier fish population. This means that an additional tax will be put on the sales of fishing items that are sold from major outdoor recreational corporations. Some examples would include Bass Pro, Cabelas, Dicks Sporting Goods, Gander Mountain, etc. A tax will not be put on local bait shops or smaller stores to promote local shopping and help those smaller businesses survive in the tough economy. As a result, this tax will help generate extra government revenue that can be used to spend on a couple of things: First, stocking fish will populate waters and hopefully improve reproduction rates. With more fish in the water, the impacts mentioned from PETA will be less dramatic. The second thing that the money will be used for is to hire additional Conservational officers. For example, in Florida, the Fish and Wildlife Commission is in charge of patrolling waters and enforcing all conservation laws. With 3 more officers, the laws will be better enforced and will directly help in creating a better environment for fish. To support my plan, I found a recourse that supports my ideas. In the report the cost-effectiveness of a fish stocking program in a culture-based recreational the report highlights the positive affects that stocking fish in a lake can bring to the community. In the report, authors Taylor L. Hunt, Helen Scarborough, Khageswor Giri, John W. Douglas, and Paul jones state Recreational fishing can have multiple benefits, co-benefits and effects on the socioecological system. It has been demonstrated to be culturally significant and a generator of considerable social, ecological and economic values (Taylor Introduction) In summary, the report says that recreation fishing can improve the lives of people socially, ecologically, and economically. This is not only in support for Bass Pro, but for my compromise as well. Overall, both groups want the fish population to be as healthy as possible. The compromise I have mentioned above is not out of reach and can certainly be started as soon as both sides are willing to agree. I think that if this agreement were finalized and both sides carried out their agreement, our fish population would increase, and people would start respecting fish more than they do now. 4 Work Cited Hunt, Taylor L., et al. Assessing The Cost-Effectiveness Of a Fish Stocking Program In A Culture-Based Recreational  Fisheries Research (2017): 468. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Braithwaite, Victoria. Do Fish Feel Pain? [Electronic n.p.: Oxford : Oxford University Press, 2010., 2010. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Key, Brian. Fish Do Not Feel Pain And Its Implications For Understanding Phenomenal  Biology & Philosophy 2 (2015): 149. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/about-peta/>. About  About Us. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.basspro.com/webapp/wcs/stores/servlet/CFPageC?storeId=10151&catalogId=1005 1&appID=659>.