Velez 1 Luis Velez Professor Adam Carter ENC1102.034 29 January 2017 Smoking on a College Campus: Who Does It Affect? Students from all walks of life can decide on whether they choose to smoke or not smoke, but in a college environment, there are multiple people that they must take in consideration. Between students, there are those who choose not to smoke and students who wish to smoke on university campuses. Between students who smoke and students who smoke in college campuses, there can be a resolution that can accommodate both groups of people. To begin with, most college students can say that it is the beginning of their level of independence from their parents; it is also the time where most of them turn 18 years old, where they can purchase cigarettes, cigars, etc. Although they have found a newfound freedom and wish to exercise it without the possible consequence of their parents making actions against them (grounding, punishment, etc.). They are no different from any other students; they just choose to do something that not all students can agree with or choose to participate in. From my personal experience of being enrolled in a college campus, the amount of people who choose to smoke from their freshman year to this day increased by roughly thirty percent. To put it into perspective, if I were to ask ten of my friends if they would smoke now versus asking them during their freshman year, there would be three more people who smoke now versus the one person who started during their freshmen year. Not only is personal choice a reason as to why some students smoke, but students smoke due to it (smoking) being habitual or to suppress their cravings to smoke (Piasecki et al., 328). Besides that, smokers usually stay in a secluded area to Velez 2 smoke, or they congregate with other smokers in a small area that not many people pass by. There are few cases where students (who may often be misunderstood as ignorant) will just take out a cigarette and light it up in a public area, whether it is coming out of class or any building; but not all student smokers do such a thing. Outside of that, since most smokers congregate among themselves in secluded areas, it should not be an issue as to why they cannot smoke on a college campus. In their eyes, they will go out of their way to smoke anyways to not affect anyone. On the other side of the spectrum, there are your other students enrolled in a university who choose not to smoke, and would also not want to deal with the effects of smoking. Such affect can range from an unpleasant scent to even lung cancer (effects of second hand smoke in the most severe occasion). Besides that, students pay five thousand dollars or more for an average cost of attendance (if living on campus), so they should not also pay for the decisions of other students who wish to smoke wherever they please. From a survey of 1400 students in 2004, 56.3 percent of these students denied being a college smoker (Levinson et. al, 2007). Although social smoking has become a trend over the last ten years, there are still some students who live on campus who do not want to face the issues of secondhand smoke, or have the weekly to monthly event of living in a residence hall and smelling marijuana or cigarettes in their own room. At the University of California Berkeley in 2011, 77% of students (out of roughly fifteen hundred students who lived in a residence hall on campus) stated that they were bothered by secondhand smoke (Garg et al., 2011). Going on the point of being bothered, there are some students who are involved in different clubs and organizations, like fraternities and sororities. As stated by Williams (2015), girls are discouraged from smoking while wearing their due to the fear of misinterpreting their organization. by smoking while Many of these Velez 3 students end up going to the necessary officials (Resident Assistants, University Police, etc) to attempt to resolve the issue, but with so much effort, many times their pleas for help fall short. As a resident assistant, I had to deal with an issue with one of my residents firsthand; the resident (Joe, to keep things anonymous) had multiple complaints of his suitemate smoking in the bathroom because the suitemate did not want to go outside and smoke. Although the smell was evident and it was clear that there was a violation of residence hall policies, I could not do much other than write a report and send it to my supervisor. In my eyes, there has to be some sort of way to provide an end to the issue at hand, which was for to not be able to get away with smoking wherever they please in a college campus. After examining both sides of this issue of smoking, the best alternative that would be agreeable to both stakeholders would be to implement designated smoking areas throughout a college campus that is away from any residence halls or building with many people (classroom buildings, libraries, cafeterias, etc). This compromise benefits both stakeholders in a variety of ways, even if both smokers and nonsmokers must give something up for the compromise. In the case of the nonsmokers, they would still have occasional issues of running into smokers on a college campus; however, it would only be if the designated smoking locations were in a route to class. The benefits for nonsmokers would include a cleaner environment around their classrooms, residence halls, and areas where people congregate often (cafeterias, libraries, etc). On the other side of the coin, nonsmokers lose the liberty of being able to smoke anywhere on campus, but they can still smoke in the designated areas where smoking is permitted. They would also have the benefit of having a cleaner environment to live in and study, even if nonsmokers do not directly see that benefit. Also, having nonsmokers smoke in designated areas only would alleviate the amount of complaints and maintenance costs that Velez 4 residence hall faculty must deal with (in the case of a resident smoking in a residence hall) along with promoting a healthier place for all students to live (Gerson et al, 2005). More importantly, for the sake of both student smokers and nonsmokers, the issue of secondhand smoke would be avoided because the only ones that would have negative consequences of smoking would be the ones who choose to smoke. On top of that, having a limited area of smoking would also reduce the amount of pollution to the environment that benefits virtually all members of society. With having the compromise of making all university campuses have designated smoking areas on campus would benefit both students who smoke and students who choose not to smoke. The biggest regulations that would need to be met would be to have these designated smoking areas away from residence halls, dining halls, and heavily populated buildings (classrooms, libraries, etc.). Even though students who do not smoke may have to have instances where they are around a smoker, having designated smoking areas on campus will make those chances rare. On the other hand, students who choose to smoke are still able to smoke, but it has to be within a certain area on campus. Both sides still have something to lose from this compromise, but in the end, both stakeholders are able to walk away content with that decision. Velez 5 Works Cited Garg, Trit, Nicholas Fradkin, and Joel M. Moskowitz. of an Outdoor Residential Hall Smoking Policy in a California Public University: A Case Journal of American College Health, vol. 59, no. 8, Dec 2011, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=2&sid=8d191f24-ab3a-4d88-aa4c- 5f12d7e1be39%40sessionmgr120&hid=119&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#d b=psyh&AN=2011-25535-014. Accessed 24 January 2017. This article is written in reflection of the students of the University of California, Berkeley. The article has information regarding a study of how the students have been against secondhand smoke and preferred smoke free environments. This bibliography is full of information that reflects the stakeholder who is against smoking on campus. Gerson, Megan, Jennifer L Allard and Laura G. Towvim. of Smoke-Free Residence Halls Policies: The views of Administrators at 3 State Journal of American College Health, vol. 54, no. 3, Dec 2005, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=07b15c22-d02c-42a3-bf05- 3dce01e038e3%40sessionmgr4010&vid=3&hid=4208&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd mU%3d#AN=2005-15599-004&db=psyh. Accessed 24 January 2017. This article explains how strict some universities are getting in regards to their smoking policies. The source also provides some statistics on college smokers from beginning their college careers versus continuing to smoke by the end of their senior year. The article does mention how student smokers may be rebellious to universities making smoke free policies, since it states how would respond in a rebellious manner. Velez 6 Levinson, Arnold H., Shelly Campo, Jan Gascoigne, Olivia Jolly, Armen Zakharyan, and Zung V. Tran. But Not Smokers: Identify Among College Students Who Smoke Nicotine & Tobacco Research, vol. 9, no. 8, 2007, https://academic.oup.com/ntr/article/9/8/845/1063656/Smoking-But-Not-Smokers- Identity-Among-College. Accessed 29 January 2017. This article specifies how students identify as smokers in a five-year survey among eight different universities. The survey percentage of those who do not identify as smokers makes the argument for students who choose not to smoke on a college campus. Piasecki, Thomas M., Allison E. Richardson, and Shawn M. Smith. Motives for Smoking Among College Psychology of Addictive Behaviors, vol. 21, no 3, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ehost/detail/detail?sid=0f8a9043-5469- 427c-a10c- 32b4ec580637%40sessionmgr101&vid=0&hid=126&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2 ZQ%3d%3d#AN=2007-13102-006&db=pdh. Accessed 28 January 2017. This article gives multiple facts about the motives of why college students smoke. It also mentions an experiment done at a college campus in Missouri in order to determine what student motives for smoking, which came down to two main reasons: the desire to reduce craving and by habit. Williams, Jill M. Lighting Up: The Rise of Social Smoking on College  American Journal of Psychiatry, vol. 172, no. 10, 2015, http://ajp.psychiatryonline.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/full/10.1176/appi.ajp.2015.150506 09. Accessed 25 January 2017. Velez 7 The article explains how common smoking has become a common thing to do among college students. Not only does the journal provide information about the differences of being a smoker versus a nonsmoker, but it also provides an insight into how smoking is viewed negatively among different groups of people, who can be understood as students from different backgrounds (Greek fraternity and sorority members, lower income students, etc).