Laura Diaz Professor Fennell ENC 1102 Project 1 The legalization of marijuana has been a hot topic in politics and legislation. This past November, marijuana made it on the ballot during the voting cycle. Medical marijuana, known as Amendment 2, was legalized in the state of Florida. What does this mean for recreational marijuana? Organizations such as Florida Cannabis Action Network(FLCAN) support the growing movement toward a continuation of progress for the smoking community in the legalization for recreational use. Meanwhile, other organizations such as Smart Approaches to Marijuana(SAM) fear the growth of another Big Tobacco company. Whether the legislation created to answer the questions surrounding recreational marijuana continues to ban the use of cannabis recreationally or freedom to smoke marijuana is granted, law reform for the recreational use of marijuana starts with the education of the public. Florida Cannabis Action Network is based in the state and is for the recreational use of cannabis. The organization classifies itself as poly-partisan and works to reform law with no regard to political parties. In 2011, FLCAN appeared before the federal court in efforts regarding the rescheduling of cannabis. Cannabis is a schedule I drug, appearing on the same lists as Heroin, Ecstasy, and LSD. This schedule of drug serves no purpose in medicine, and has high potential for abuse. representative in court was President Catherine Jordan. Jordan, per FLCAN, was diagnosed with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, also known as Lou disease. Jordan used a strain of cannabis found in south west Florida on her visit to receive muscle relaxer. Since using the strain daily, Jordan has survived through the effects of the fatal disease. Her case, according to the organization, is proof of the medicinal use in certain neurodegenerative diseases. During this case, FLCAN asked the federal government to review a petition signed by the Coalition for Rescheduling Cannabis in 2002. The petition had been put on the back burner by the Drug Enforcement Agency for nine years, despite a formal recommendation of review by the Department of Health and Human Services. Although the federal government did not reschedule the drug, the U.S Court of Appeals decided the to initiate arbitrary and To FLCAN, story is proof of the medical benefits to marijuana, thus a rescheduling that would eventually promote recreational use is necessary. In 2012, FLCAN presented the Governor of Florida with a legislative proposal that would the criminal penalties for cannabis as well as evaluate the effectiveness of the current policies. This proposal was stocked with incarceration statistics, public opinion polls, suggestions for alternative criminal penalties and cost saving ideas in regards to criminal reform. A review of past and current marijuana policies by scholar John G. Haaga delved into the on proposed by Regan. Haaga suggested the attempt at reform produced many counterintuitive results. He related this to the current path of marijuana reform sought after by the nation. It goes on to emphasize the idea that public health problems resulted from the increased enforcement. It caused smokers to consume unhealthy strains of the drug purchased through the black market and illegal trafficking. This in turn creates more expenditures for average citizens stemming from the federal war. (Haaga 575) The idea is highlighted upon by FLCAN in the documents submitted to the Florida Governor. The organization argues that educational outreach programs instead of incarcerations and fines would encourage safe use in the consumption of marijuana. In addition, accurate representations of the drug would assist in keeping the community safe. In knowing the positive effects as well as the effects of improper consumption of the drug, the community as a whole would be able to benefit and support recreational marijuana. Smart Approaches to Marijuana is a nationwide organization that is against the legalization of cannabis for medical and recreational purposes. One factor that SAM took into consideration when establishing their strong stance is gathering information about the harms of using marijuana as medicine. Per SAM, several accredited sources including the American Medical Association, The American Glaucoma Society, and the Institute of Medicine have all said that there are no benefits to smoking marijuana. In fact, research supports that there is a relationship between male fertility and marijuana use. Danish men who participated in the study who reported daily marijuana use displayed significantly lower sperm concentration and sperm counts compared with non-users. (Eisenberg 482) This proves claim that there are no medical benefits associated with marijuana but instead risks. The organization also considers observational learning from other states- such as Colorado- when supporting their anti-legalization position. The website explains how states that of medical marijuana have a much higher average marijuana use by adolescents and lower perceptions of risk from use than non-medical pot This is important to note because the lack of education in the communities could be the reason for the lower perception of risk. Furthermore, Smart Approaches to Marijuana theorizes that the profit gained from the legalization of marijuana will be built around social abnormalities like addiction, health complications, and other negative consequences that will result in big bucks for big corporations. SAM refers to the Marijuana as potentially the next Big Tobacco. SAM suggests that the marijuana market would target young people susceptible to temptation. They also take into account the tobacco companies built successful empires by lying to their consumers about the harmful effects of smoking and even using ethical appeal such as doctors to promote cigarettes as medicine in the past. In continuation, SAM states that special interest groups and lobbies have emerged the expected green and figures that the profitable portion of the legalization is the lifelong addicted customers to In fact, according to the Doctor Brenda Wells, the blossoming marijuana industry in Colorado had already began to fulfil the demand for insurance coverages only two short years after legalization for recreational use. (Wells 77) The market having more importance than the health is troubling to the SAM organization, therefore strengthening their stance. Although both organizations have conflicting ideas on the path marijuana should take, there is opportunity for a compromise. While FLCAN pushes for the use of recreational marijuana, they also acknowledge that there are harmful effects of smoking the drug. They accept that people experience paranoia as a result of cannabis and that an addiction can stem from the use of marijuana. SAM similarly does not agree for the legalization of marijuana in any form but believes that the risk for drug use and abuse occurs during life transitions, such as moving from elementary school to middle school and middle school to high Researchers have concluded through experimentation that an interdisciplinary chemically oriented curriculum designed to educate teens in high school science classes indicated a change in knowledge and attitudes about (Zoller 37) It is this same type of education that could be implemented in Florida. Studies show that marijuana is the entry level drug to other more illicit, more dangerous drugs. (Palamar et al. 323) Through the education of the public on the harms associated with smoking marijuana as well as the proper way to use it, will be beneficial to all. It will reduce the amount of public health issues, reduce the number of people incarcerated due to addiction and irresponsibility, as well as raise cannabis awareness. Whatever the case may be regarding the legalization of marijuana in Florida for recreational use, one thing is certain: education efforts must be put in place for the greater good of the public. 1. Haaga, John G. of Policy Analysis and Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, vol. 9, no. 4, 1990, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/3325271. 2. Tarantino, John A. A re-examination of the classification of marijuana as a Schedule 1  Rhode Island bar journal 32.5 (1984):5. Web. 3. Michael L. Eisenberg; Invited Commentary: The Association Between Marijuana Use and Male Reproductive Health. Am J Epidemiol 2015; 182 (6): 482-484. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwv137v 4. Wells, Brenda, Ph.d. Marijuana Legalization: Implications for Property/Casualty  Journal of Insurance Issues; Northridge 37.1 (2014): 77-92. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 5. Palamar, Joseph J., Marybec Griffin-Tomas, and Dimitra Kamboukos. Reasons for recent marijuana use in relation to use of other illicit drugs among high school seniors in the United  American Journal of Drug & Alcohol Abuse41.4 (2015): 323- 313. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 6. Zoller, Uri. Hashish and --An Innovative, Interdisciplinary Drug Education Curricular Program for High  Journal of Drug Education 11.1 (1981): 37-46. ERIC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.