Austin Feindt 1/26/17 Project 1 intermediate draft Should the United states government take more action on the Human Trafficking Industry? Human Trafficking is a billion-dollar industry that continues to grow every day. Millions of people are affected every year and forced into the business that most governments have a tough time regulating. Comparable to modern day slavery, trafficking is illegal and punishable by law enforcement around the world, yet it still happens to this day. My two stakeholders for this issue are the United States government and agencies that work under the government and an anti-trafficking organization named Polaris, which works with victims and families of victims of human trafficking to work toward eradicating the process overall. Polaris works by helping survivors of trafficking, restoring their freedom and pursuing people who help with human trafficking. The opposition between Polaris and the government and its agencies is that Polaris feels that the government does not subsidize enough money and resources to work on stopping human trafficking. However, the government has strict budgets and can only designate money to go to where they think the country needs it the most, also there are a lot of politicians and an extraneous process that the government must go through to subsidize money against human trafficking. My proposal for the two stakeholders is that if the government and its agencies increase spending on other social needs such as education and legal and viable work then the human trafficking industry will minimalize. This would benefit both stakeholders. The first stakeholder dealing with the issue is the United States government and its agencies. This is an important stakeholder for the issue because the government is in control of the money that are the main law enforcement agencies that work against human trafficking such as the CIA, Homeland security, and the FBI. Taking further action on ending human trafficking would be costly and something that the government and its agencies cannot allocate tens of millions of dollars just to increase law enforcement. However, the united states have implemented polices that help human trafficking in a positive way. Lauren Copley says in her article on united states policies that affect the Latino sex trafficking in the country says countries, such as the United States, have created economic and trade policies which encourage Latino migration for cheap, exploitable labor and new demands for Latino sex trafficking within the United States to serve new destination male migration 2012) She explains throughout her article how through NAFTA and other polices that were intended to help immigration between the Americas is actually helping the sex trafficking industry between the US and other countries. This shows how little the government enforces policies on sex trafficking. The government has the power to enforce polices that will minimalize trafficking. The second stakeholder that I chose to use was Polaris a non-governmental organization that works to help survivors of human trafficking and try to stop the industry overall. The main goal for them is to help the survivors get back to what they were like before they were put into the industry. For most, this is hard because like war veterans, a lot of victims of trafficking and their families must deal with PTSD (post-traumatic stress syndrome). They are scarred for life after they have seen things and been places that people should not have to go through. In the article on human trafficking and health of victims, they conducted a study of victims of international trafficking in the United Kingdom they found that female victims of post trafficking reported severe physical symptoms were headaches, being easily tired, back pain, dizzy and ongoing fear of the and increasing numbers of unmet social (Sian 2016). Although this was an international study it can be assumed that the health of victims from the united states probably report the same effects. Overall, Polaris is an important stakeholder because they are independently focused on making the government, who is the opposing stakeholder, take more action on trafficking. I think Polaris would compromise to my solution because they are understanding that trafficking is an industry that will not be eradicated overnight. Together, the two stakeholders involved with this issue are not at opposites of one another because they realize that they need to work together to make the quality of lives better. Polaris works directly with the government by making petitions on their website that are sent to the government to try to get polices implemented. However, the government can be looked as to opposed to the organization Polaris because the government has many other things to enforce polices on than human trafficking. So sometimes human trafficking gets overlooked. That is why organizations such as Polaris are there to stand up for the voices that get a say in policy making. Their common ground is to end human trafficking overall. However, they do differ in values, which may be the reason why human trafficking has not been fixed overtime even though it is completely illegal. My solution to the problem of human trafficking is not perfect for both stakeholders but it would indirectly help diminish the human trafficking industry. If the united states government implements polices that increase education and viable jobs around the country. Then, the numbers of people introduced into the human trafficking industry would lower because there would be less of a need to sell their bodies off when they have a job and education. We need to implement these polices without even looking at the human trafficking industry to increase the GDP anyways. So, by implementing these polices less people will need to get involved with this industry in the first place. There will be less money and a black-market industry is only based off making money. Like any other illegal product sold if there is less supply then there will be less demand. Effectively, minimalizing the industry overall. This would benefit the government by less money they must spend on law enforcement agencies such as the CIA, Homeland Security, and FBI on human trafficking. This would benefit Polaris the organization that specifically works to lower human trafficking numbers because the industry would essentially be minimalized. In conclusion, the human trafficking industry is a billion-dollar industry, that is illegal and immoral. With compromises from both stakeholders and a few other groups of stakeholders that I did not choose to discuss, I think the solution would alleviate the issue and the opposition between the two stakeholders. However, even with this solution there will never be a truly eradicated human trafficking industry. There will always be the foreign human trafficking market because the united states government cannot enforce polices in foreign countries where most of the industry takes place. Therefore, we must focus on the problem domestically. I think this is a relevant topic to address in this time of our country because there is such a large movement for equal rights. We should focus some on rights for the victims that get them taken away from them unwillingly. The use of stakeholders to determine if this is a thing that should be acted on has been essential into my understanding of what truly does happen and the politics behind it. Together these stakeholders to fix this modern form of slavery we call human trafficking. Works cited Birkenthal, S. (2012). HUMAN TRAFFICKING. 6(14), 27-40. Retrieved January 25, 2017. Rietig, V. (2014). Prevent, Protect, and Prosecute Human Trafficking in Mexico: Policy and Practical Recommendations. 53(4), 9-24. Retrieved January 25, 2017. Sian, O., Melanie, A., & Debra, B. (2016). Human trafficking and health: A survey of male and female survivors in England. 106(6), 1073-1078. Retrieved January 23, 2017