Watts 1 Mitchell Watts Professor Van Winkle ENC 1102 12 January 2017 Violent Video Game Aggression The Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence (MAVAV) and the social media/video game industries have opposing views on violent games, but it is possible for them both to come to a compromise to make them both happy. The MAVAV thinks that violent video games have a negative effect on growth and development. Video game industries do not care as much about how their games will impact people, but they do care about making money. These opposing sides are frustrated with each other, but there can be a way for both of them to agree to terms and become satisfied with each other. From the viewpoint violent video games should be banned from children, because of the negative effects it can have on them as they grow up. They make the connection that video games have had such a large influence on children that they compare it to the same influence that drugs and alcohol have had on people. That is how serious they are on this specific topic. Playing violent games can make behavior change as well, such as making them more aggressive. The brain can also be affected from playing these types of games. emotions can alter and the activity is slow and attention span could decrease (MAVAV). As young kids become more addicted these effects can occur and cause their skills to be less- developed as they grow up. Knowing all of this, this is why organizations like the MAVAV come together to fight against violent video games, so that their kids are not introduced to these things. It can be very concerning for parents to know that their lives can be in danger or Watts 2 their behaviors can be damaged due to games. According to Sutter Health, symptoms include pretending to be violent characters from the games, violent behavior, rude to teachers, getting into fights with other children, staying indoors a lot, and poor grades. The Parents Television Council (PTC) is a similar organization like the MAVAV. According to the PTC, in some places ten year olds are allowed to purchase Adult Only (AO) video games, which is unacceptable. The PTC enforces that parents need to be involved if they are going to let their child purchase a game that has sex, violence, weapons, and murder involved in it. Enforcing rules against children purchasing violent games should be something that needs to be addressed, in the perspective. Social media and video game industries tend to be on the opposite side from the PTC and the MAVAV. It may not necessarily be that they do not think that violent video games have an effect on young children, but that they do not necessarily care, because they are in it for the money. They can make lots of money off of video games. According to Science Direct, in 2012, sixty seven billion dollars were spent on video games around the world, whether the games were on mobile devices or on consoles. More money is spent on video games than books and music (Science Direct). Although, there are people that do not believe that video games do not effect child behavior in a negative way, such as the military and the American government. The American government has used violent games as a way to improve military recruitment. An example used is back in 2004, they had hoped people would download the game Army, because it included military training in it (wordpress). Violent games has been an issue in many states and according to Josh Feldman, 2013, they were thinking about including a video game tax. Video game industries and social media have one main goal though, which is to make money, and with new technology developing they are doing very well. Advertising is one way Watts 3 they make money, whether it is in articles, or usually advertisements on videos, or commercials on television. With the industries still growing, job creation is a good thing for people, whether someone gets a job at a store, or in marketing, a video game creator, or doing research about how to further develop games. Even with these two opposing sides having different viewpoints on this topic it is still possible for both of them to come to a compromise. In order for both sides to come to an agreement they will have to sacrifice a little. The MAVAV will have to sacrifice some, but that does not mean that they have to abandon their beliefs on this issue. One thing they need to do is understand that social media and video game industries are businesses just like everything else and that they are doing their best to make money to help keep their jobs. According to Josh Feldman, 2013, going back to making a video game tax, he also stated, people never played a video game in their lives are or understand gaming culture are doing best for their children by banning them from doing something Some parents do not understand how fun video games can be. It is a hobby for many people, especially children and teenagers. Sometimes competitiveness gets involved and can cause people to do and say certain things that might be aggressive. Another thing the MAVAV can do is help video game industries promote appropriate video games. In this case, the industries will not be making money off of violent games, but the additional support from organizations like the MAVAV can help them make a profit of the same amount they would have originally by selling violent games. Video game industries may not agree with it at first, because it could take a little longer for them to earn the same amount of money, but after a certain period of time I think they will do well. Social media and video game industries will have to sacrifice a little bit as well in order to satisfy both sides of this specific topic. One thing for them to remember, even though they will Watts 4 be sacrificing some, they have to know that they have to make money in order for them to keep their jobs. They also need to keep in mind where the MAVAV is coming from. Most parents do not want their children playing violent games, because they tend to notice different behavioral patterns and they do not want their kids in any danger. Industries also have to think about the young kids out there and what they are being exposed to in this generation. Seeing young kids playing violent games is not what many people want to see. It may be a difficult process, but if a few different video game industries were to work together to make a change it could be done. Maybe one idea for advertising on mobile devices is for when people set up their phones they type in their birthday, so that the device knows what kind of commercials and advertisements are appropriate for the viewer. The same could be done with selling apps and games on phones and video game consoles as well. Also, making sure that people of the appropriate age are buying violent games is key. Allowing young kids to purchase violent games is something that needs to change. Both sides have their own opinions and viewpoints, but it is possible for them to be able to come to a compromise. In order to do that they will have to lower their standards a little bit based on what they believe in or what they want. Organizations like the MAVAV are very serious about their beliefs on violent video games, but video game industries are also serious about making money and furthering the development of video games whether they are violent or not. It could take an extended amount of time for both of them to be satisfied with each other, but that should be expected. Watts 5 Works Cited Parents Television Council, 1998-2017 http://w2.parentstv.org/Main/campaigns/vvideo.aspx ENGG 481: Violent Video Games https://engg481videogames.wordpress.com/stakeholders/governments/recruitment/ MAVAV, May 8, 2007 http://www.mavav.org/ Feldman, Josh, January 15, 2013, Mediaite http://www.mediaite.com/online/states-taking-action-against-violent-video-games-with- taxes-and-buybacks/ The Leading Source for Pros and Cons of Controversial Issues, June 3, 2016 http://videogames.procon.org/ Science Direct, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1094996813000170 Sutter Health, Palo Alto Medical Foundation http://www.pamf.org/parenting- teens/general/media-web/violentgames.html