Cassidy Stow Botkin ENC 1102-063 28 January 2017 GMOs- Project 1 Intermediate Draft Genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, are organisms that have genetically engineered DNA. Genetically modified foods are becoming increasingly more abundant due to the fact that our quickly growing population needs to be fed. However, genetically modified foods are becoming a controversial topic because there are some issues arising and some unknown factors that could cause health problems in the future. The fight for or against the production of has been going on for about 20 years with the first genetically modified food being sold in supermarkets in 1994. Recently the fight has shifted to labeling or not labeling these foods since they are already being sold in our grocery stores country wide. Stakeholders such as the Non-GMO Project and the Grocery Manufacturers Association have been at odds with each other for about 10 years now. For one of these stakeholders to win their battle, a law must be placed in order that requires or dismisses the labeling of genetically modified foods. The Non-GMO Project is a stakeholder that is fighting for the labeling of genetically modified foods. They are a non-profit organization dedicated to informing consumers about what could be in their foods, increasing the number of non-GM foods on the market, and providing more non-GM choices. This organization was created in 2007 by the owners of two natural food grocery stores, The Natural Grocery Company in California and The Big Carrot Natural Food Market in Ontario. Both of these grocery stores are still up and running, in fact The Natural Grocery Company has expanded by opening two more locations in California. Both of these stores are similar to Whole Foods in that they only sell natural and organic foods and locally grown crops. The Non-GMO Project has already begun their work for fighting for the labeling of GM foods by labeling foods that do not contain GMOs with their well recognizable logo. This logo can be found on any product in any grocery store across the United States that has verified they are GMO free. The Project also has a side organization called Living Non-GMO that informs consumers what companies and foods contain GMOs and where you can find these foods. Living Non-GMO has verified 43,623 non-GM products and 2,430 registered retailers where consumers can buy these products across the US. The Grocery Manufacturers Association is a stakeholder in the fight against the labeling of GM foods and is also a big supporter of the research and funding for farmers who grow genetically modified foods. They believe genetically modified foods are actually beneficial to consumers and they help our society and growing population. They were founded in 1908 and are composed of more than 250 big name food, beverage, and consumer product companies. Some of these companies include Monsanto, Pepsi-Cola, Coca-Cola, General Mills, Campbells, etc. These companies are the ones making the most profit on the GM food market. Since genetically modified foods are already being sold in our grocery stores across the country, The Grocery Manufacturers Association so much fighting, but supporting and funding the scientists and farmers who are growing these GM foods. The GMA is simply who puts out the majority of these foods into the grocery stores. The Association has expressed their concern that if a law passes that these genetically modified foods must be labeled, that people will stop buying and consuming their foods because of what they are calling a of natural, organic diets. Just like all controversial topics, there are pros and cons to genetically modified foods. The pros mostly revolve around that fact that GM foods help to feed our growing population. As these crops are growing, they require less maintenance due to the fact that they are resistant to most insects, intense heat and cold, and require less watering. This means that more edible foods are produced with less effort. Also, these GM crops are much larger and more colorful than their non-GM competitors. Although the colorful aspect actually benefit society, the larger aspect does benefit the people. Consumers now need to buy less fruits and vegetables to eat and cook with because of this. Also, crops are modified to produced more nutrients, protein, and vitamins than non-GM crops. This is beneficial to society because it makes having a well- balanced meal easier and cheaper than before. Along with the pros, there comes the cons. The cons of GMOs are scary because there is a big unknown factor with the science behind it. For example, there may be long-term health issues to consumers of genetically modified foods. However, since GM foods have only been in super markets for a little more than 20 years, the long-term effects are still unknown. Also, it is unknown what is exactly used to modify these crops and foods. It is only released that scientists will take the DNA from other foods to alter the DNA in the GM foods. For example, protein from a Brazilian nut was used to add protein to certain GM foods, and it came out that people with certain nut allergies were having allergic reactions to foods they were usually able to eat. It is also thought that are linked to people developing allergies. There are also studies showing that GM foods are most likely causing antibiotic tolerance in humans due to the crops tolerance of insects and bacteria. The controversial topic of GMOs is definitely the kind of topic that people are either for or against, but there is no in between without a general lack of knowledge. Therefore, a compromise is quite difficult to come up with that both stakeholders will be happy. However, I believe the fight for labeling and not labeling GM foods could be solved. Organizations such as Non-GMO Project have already started labeling non-GM foods and grocery stores such as Whole Foods are popping up all over the country. If these organizations will continue to label the non-GM foods, then the informed population who are against GMOs will know which foods are safe to eat. All while GMOs are still being produced and there is no shortage of food for the population. In this world that is constantly changing, is it changing for better or for worse? It seems that controversial topics create stakeholders that fight for what they believe is The Non- GMO Project believes that the right thing to do is to is inform society about what GMOs really are and label them so the people consistently know what they are consuming. On the other side, The Grocery Manufacturers Association believes the right thing to do is use our growing knowledge of science to grow more food and help feed the people in society. The only common ground with these stakeholders is what is beneficial to the people. I believe the compromise between The Grocery Manufacturers Association and The Non-GMO Project is to label non-GM food so people know what may contain GM ingredients and what definitely does not. If the concern is what is best for the people in society, then I say let the people decide and continue to do research on GMOs until there is a definite yes or no that GM foods are bad for health. Works Cited Domingo, J.L. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21296423. 05 Febuary 2011. Web. January 2017. Entine, Jon. https://www.geneticliteracyproject.org/2014/09/10/19-year-study-of-trillions-of-meals- shows-ge-crops-do-not-harm-food-producing-animals-humans/. 10 September 2014. Web. January 2017. Newby, Dr. P.K. http://pknewby.com/2012/11/06/faqs-on-gmos-what-the-science-says/. 06 November 2012. Web. January 2016. Trask, Pat. http://www.centerforfoodsafety.org/press-releases/3766/are-gmos-safe-no-consensus-in- the-science-scientists-say-in-peer-reviewed-statement#. 15 February 2015. Web. January 2017. Watson, Elaine. http://www.foodnavigator-usa.com/People/CSPI-There-are-legitimate-concerns-about- GMOs-but-not-around-food-safety-and-labeling-would-be-misleading. 03 July 2013. Web. January 2017. Wechsler, Seth. https://www.ers.usda.gov/data-products/adoption-of-genetically-engineered-crops-in- the-us/recent-trends-in-ge-adoption.aspx. 03 November 2016. Web. January 2017.