Arcay 1 Fernanda Arcay Dorinda Davis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Death Penalty Capital punishment, or commonly known as the death penalty, has always been a controversial topic. However, not everyone is aware of basic information regarding this issue that should be taken into account. The United States has abolished the death penalty for a few years and then decide to reinstate it again. Currently, according to Amnesty International, U.S Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976, 82% of all executions have taken place in the (Amnesty International, 2012). The United States was ranked as one of the countries with the highest death penalties in 2010, among China and others. However, not all the states in the USA have the death penalty; there are 19 states that have abolished capital punishment. (Death Penalty Information Center). Organizations have been formed, those supporting the death penalty, and those against the death penalty. Con organizations are The Death Penalty Project (DPP) and Catholics Against Capital Punishment (CACP), among others, while pro organizations can be the American Bar Association (ABA) and National Organization for Victim Assistance (NOVA). This topic makes us then ponder whether the death penalty is ethical or not. Should all of the states abolish it? Should all of the states in the US implement it? Accepting the fact that the death penalty is a subject with several points of view, a common ground can be reached for this issue; that is, coming up with a new type of sentence: death-in-prison. In 1992, the organization Catholics Against Capital Punishment, or CACP, was founded by a Christian couple. Ever since 1992, they have been working in order to raise awareness in this Arcay 2 topic. They believe that the death penalty is something we humans should perform at all. They have used a speech Pope Francis gave in 2016 in Oslo, Norway to support their argument. His main arguments are all against why the death penalty should not be used as capital punishment in any part of the world. One of the key points of his message is that death is not the right punishment seeing that it was not and is not in plans for any of us human beings on Earth. He continues to communicate to us that it violates the human rights of a person and that the death penalty only stirs up more vengeance. Last but not least, he says that death is not the right escape or punishment seeing that it does not give the criminal hope, and a life without hope is just plain torture. Christians have always said that supporting the death penalty is against God and his beliefs. The CACP continues to work today in order to raise awareness in this topic by communicating their ideas and what they think is right. While it may be hard to believe, there are organizations that support the death penalty in a way. The National Organization for Victim Assistance or NOVA, is an organization that embraces both points of views regarding the death penalty. It is an organization dedicated to victims any type of victims, those of criminals (criminals can be victims too), to those hurt by criminals. Focusing on victims of crime, they take the hurt and grief of the people to support death penalty. This organization supports these victims by making support groups. Usually, pro death penalty supporters seek revenge and find comfort when realizing that the ones who hurt them and their family get hurt as well. The con organization The Death Penalty Project (DDP), is a group of lawyers that represent people on death penalty for free. They are an organization that has dedicated to death penalty cases for over 20 years, and seek to enforce human rights. When it comes to the death penalty, most criminals being faced with the executions cannot afford lawyers, for usually lawyers are very Arcay 3 expensive. The problem with death penalty is that most of the people put for execution are black people and very poor people. Hence, they cannot have the same legal defense as a wealthy rich man. Arguments and cases have raised, like those of O.J Simpson, where people say that he got away with two murders for being rich. Also, arguments against death penalty are those of innocence. Hundreds of cases have been seen where innocent people have been executed, or almost executed, and at the end it turns out the government had the wrong person. This raises the question, should capital punishment occur? What if you kill the wrong person? Another strong argument con organizations use is those of costs. The death penalty is expensive. Last but not least is that of the actual process of the execution. Most of the executions occur by lethal injections. According to Amnesty International, there are several complications, where the prisoner does not react well to the injection and might go through excruciating pain, without being able to express it because of the paralysis the same injections cause. Finding common ground in such a sensible topic is quite challenging. This is not a common topic you encounter, this actually involves the life of a human being and whether they should live or not. However, Russel D. Covey found a reasonable argument that would be beneficial for both sides that of death-in-prison. The idea of death-in-prison is basically what the name states: letting the prisoners die inside prison, it would be as a life sentence but without the possibility of parole. In his article in Prison: The Right Death Penalty he summarizes his main points as to why death-in-prison is a solution for capital punishment. First of all, death-in-prison would mean letting the criminal die in prison, and not actually performing the execution. He argues that while yes, death-in-prison would be a slow death, it would be a lot better than being executed. Also, he says that death-in-prison would fulfill the moral duty that sometimes people do deserve death for the crimes they commit; but at the same time the government is not obliged to kill them Arcay 4 directly. Death-in-prison would be as if the criminal is serving a life-in-prison sentence, only that they would not be given the chance of parole. Another important factor he mentions of death-in- prison is that it would save not only those convicted wrong, but also it would save the government money. This is the perfect solution for both sides. The criminal would get what he deserves in the perspective of those hurt by him, and the family does not have to go through the pain of a member of them being executed, nor does the prisoner have to go through that pain himself. Capital punishment will continue to be a controversial topic for decades, however this solution provided should be considered, making the world a better place. Arcay 5 Works Cited Amnesty International Penalty Facts and Amnesty International. May 2012. Covey, D. Russel. in Prison: The Right Death Penalty Georgia State University Law Review. vol. 28:4. July 1, 2012. pp.1121 Death Penalty Information Center, Penalty States in the Death Penalty, 2016. Gushee, David P, Richard D Land, and Glen Harold Stassen. Honoring Life: How Biblical Is It To Be Pro-Life and Support the Death  Christianity Today. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. 2 February, 2012. National Organization for Victim Assistance Crisis NOVA. 2016 The Death Penalty Project, and DDP. 2016 Message of His Holiness Pope Francis to the 6th World Congress Against the Death Libreria Editrice Vaticana. June 21-23, 2016.