Ireland 1 Cameron Ireland ENC 1102 Dori Davis 29 January 2017 Medicinal Marijuana, an Unlikely Compromise In the current political and social climate, a controversial issue has arisen with two very distinct sides. The issue at hand: marijuana. One side calls for all out legalization while the other seeks to keep this drug illegal. One such group that is opposed to legalization is Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana (CALM), while on the other side, a group advocating for legalization is the Marijuana Policy Project (MPP). Two groups who do not appear to have anything in common, but delving below the surface, one can see that there is a compromise, which would benefit both groups. Despite their immense differences, both CALM and MPP would benefit from combining efforts and working towards the legalization of medical marijuana on the federal level. Before examining the reasoning behind this compromise, the intricacies of each group need to be looked at. As stated on their website, the mission statement of CALM is, are a dedicated group of individuals, parents, business owners, medical professionals, crime and safety officials, young and old-all working to defeat the legalization of marijuana in California and other targeted states Some key takeaways from this are that CALM is dedicated to making their communities safer. In addition to their mission statement, their website also examines many of their beliefs. One summary of their beliefs concludes, affirm the 2006 FDA finding and vast scientific evidence that marijuana causes harm It is important for the Ireland 2 purposes of the compromise to note that the evidence CALM cites is all from a 2006 FDA report. Being 11 years old, this evidence is outdated, and to get CALM to understand that, evidence will be cited proving that medical marijuana can in fact make their communities safer, which is their end goal. On the other side of the debate is the MPP. As written on their website, the vision statement of the group is, and MPP Foundation envision a nation where marijuana is legally regulated similarly to alcohol, marijuana education is honest and realistic, and treatment for problem marijuana users is non-coercive and geared toward reducing harm The key idea in their vision statement seems to be the realistic and honest approach to marijuana education. This can be achieved with the goal of legalizing medical marijuana on the federal level, as this will require a realistic and in depth look at the new studies and research released on the effects of medical marijuana. In tying in the evidence, a few parameters must be examined. The compromise should be considered successful if CALM succeeds at gaining a safer community, and if MPP achieves a realistic approach to marijuana facts. The first piece of evidence to be analyzed is a journal by Dr. Edward Shepard titled Medical Marijuana and Crime: Further Evidence from Western States. Dr. Shepard is the chair of Economics at LeMoyne College, and has done extensive research regarding the effects of medical marijuana on crime in the states where laws are already in place. In his article, Dr. Shepard finds that, based on evidence, from recent studies that show no evidence of significant, negative spillover effects from MMLs [Medical Marijuana on crime (Shepard, p. The evidence presented by Dr. Shepard shows the effects of medical marijuana on communities, and that is decreased crime. This point Ireland 3 should really speak to the members of CALM who are parents and business owners, among other things, who are all working toward a better community. This new evidence, published in 2016, should show them that their answer for a safer community in keeping marijuana outlawed, but in pushing for medical marijuana. Dr. Jill Cavalet is a clinical professor at Saint Francis University, who also practices clinical psychology. In one of her recent studies, she examined the benefits and negative aspects of medical marijuana on the body. She believes, are some additional areas of potential therapeutic use of marijuana (Cavalet p. The research presented in her paper examines conditions which medical marijuana is currently prescribed for in some states, and discusses the benefits of this prescription. While further research may be needed, she also discusses health effects on systems of the body, such as the detrimental effects that smoking marijuana can have on the respiratory system (Cavalet p. 43). This kind of honest approach to medical marijuana is what the MPP is looking for. Discussing not only the positives of medical marijuana, but also the negatives, shows an honest approach to it, which is exactly what their vision statement says they want. The last expert who can shed light on why medical marijuana is the most logical compromise for these two groups is Dr. Rosalie Pacula, who is a senior economist with RAND medical group, as well as the director of their center for health economics. It is her opinion that, practice, most states marijuana use only for pain caused by a diagnosable medical condition (Pacula, p. This last piece of evidence is key to tie in the compromise between CALM and MPP. Since the prescriptions are available only to those who need them, it keeps the drug out of the hands of children, which in turn will satisfy CALM, by allowing parents to keep their children and families safe. Ireland 4 Now that the reasoning behind the compromise has been explained, the actual implementation of medical marijuana on the federal level must be examined. Federal legislation is still in place that makes marijuana a Schedule 1 drug, and according to the DEA, Schedule 1 drugs, no currently accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse This means that for medical marijuana to be implemented, the FDA would need to examine studies and reevaluate the drug for its medicinal purposes. Once this task is completed, then marijuana could be rescheduled and the compromise would be implemented. This compromise has already been achieved on some state levels, including here in Florida, and the scale required to implement this on the federal level is probable and reasonable. Two groups, with seemingly nothing in common; Citizens Against Legalized Marijuana and the Marijuana Policy Project. An unlikely compromise for the two is medical marijuana. CALM is dedicated to bettering their community, a goal which is more than achieved by medical marijuana. With decreased crime and medical marijuana only prescribed for certain conditions, the communities that its members live in are made better. In addition to achieving goals, the MPP will have one of its goals achieved. By looking at all the facts presented and educating the public about marijuana in a manner that is fair and honest, MPP will be happy with the compromise as well. In all, this is why medical marijuana is the best compromise for Citizens Against Legalized Marijuana and the Marijuana Policy Project. Ireland 5 Works Cited DEA / Drug  DEA / Drug Scheduling. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pacula, Rosalie L., Anne E. Boustead and Priscillia Hunt. Words Can Be Deceiving: A Review of Variation among Legally Effective Medical Marijuana Laws in the United  Journal of Drug Policy Analysis, 7.1 (2014): 1-19. Retrieved 25 Jan. 2017 Project, Marijuana Policy. Our Mission &  MPP. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Shepard, Edward M., and Paul R. Blackley. Medical Marijuana And  Journal Of Drug Issues 46.2 (2016): 122-134.Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Vargo Cavalet, Jill. The Highs And Lows Of Medical  Clinician Reviews 26.10 (2016): 40-53. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.  CALM USA. CALM USA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.