1 U7911-8180 Adam Phillips ENC 1102 Jan 29, 2017 The Immigration Initiative In the 2016 election, the topic of immigration was very controversial during the primary and general elections. The lead republican candidate and now President of the United States Donald Trump had strong options on how our current immigration policy was functioning and possible ways it could get better. Some of his ideas including building a wall separating the United States and Mexico as well as completely stopping Muslim immigrants from entering the country. His idea behind banning said Muslims is to stop any terrorists from funneling in with the refugees while as keeping out radicals practicing Sharia law (a part of the Islamic faith essentially promoting violence, death, etc. if any of its laws are broken). Rather than completely banning these people from entering American, a compromise should be set in place in order for both the U.S. government and peaceful Muslims to benefit. The two leading organizations on either side of this compromise will be the United States Department of Homeland Security and the Council on American-Islamic Relations. One possible solution to the immigration problem between the United States Department of Homeland Security and the CAIR organization is that each Muslim citizen requesting immigration from a terrorist inhabited state must go through a longer vetting session as well as get a more thorough background check. With this compromise, both organizations will benefit in different ways such as less terrorist entry into the U.S. and also a smoother immigration process for Muslims after they enter America. 2 The Department of Homeland Security is in no way considered racist or anti-Muslim. On the other hand, they are very anti-terrorism and will do whatever it takes in order to keep said terrorism out of the United States. Ever since the terrorist attacks of 9/11 commenced in 2001, the United States government and military have been their when it comes to interacting with middle eastern countries and organizations. Less than two weeks after the 9/11 attack, the White House appointed Governor Tom Ridge as the first Director of the Office of Homeland Security. Roughly one year later, congress passed the Homeland Security Act making it a stand alone cabinet having its doors officially open in March of 2003. Since the forming of the DHS, the goal of the department has been to ensure that United States soil remains safe and is resilient to the active terrorist threats as well as any other hazards that may present themselves. Within this department are sub-offices that deal with other issues such as academic engagement, border control, and more, but the primary field dealing with Muslim immigration to the U.S. are the Citizenship and Immigration Services. To combat big league terrorists from entering the United States, the DHS set up a Visa Security Program which sends trained special agents to high risk visa posts overseas to identify and neutralize potential terrorist and criminal threats before they can reach state soil. These agents are currently deployable to 19 different visa posts in 15 countries. Along with this visa program, the DHS has been working with countries Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and the UK to develop a way to share biometric information specifically for immigration purposes. This biometric sharing includes, but limited to, face recognition, voice recognition, detailed backgrounds, and more that will help in cases involving identity fraud as well as to spot dangerous people who travel under false identities. 3 The Council on American-Islamic Relations or CAIR Organization is an organization created and run by Muslims that promotes peace, the protection of civil liberties, and empowers American Muslims. Founded in 1994, the CAIR have worked to establish a positive image of Islam and Muslims in America. CAIR provides internships as well as jobs for those who would like to get more involved and give what they have to the organization. For over 20 years this organization has held seminars and conferences in order to better educate people on the accuracies and inaccuracies about Islam and Muslims. At said seminars, CAIR provides training that helps employers, educators, and organizations learn more of Islamic practices as well as offer help when it comes to individuals who need religious accommodations. In order to further promote Islamic acceptance, CAIR works with local and national media in order to reveal accurate information on Islam and Muslims to the American general public. This organization has no direct affect on the immigration process by which non- American Muslims apply and attain citizenship, but do have opinions on how they believe it should be done. The council makes it known that while Section 3305 of S. 744 states that race and ethnicity profiling by law enforcement is prohibited, it prohibit profiling based on religion or nationality. In order for the United States to grow it must be clear that profiling of any kind under any circumstance be tolerated. Along with national profiling, CAIR also believes that extensive screening of any kind to specific nationalities must be stopped. Even though both of these organizations are looking out for their own best interest, a simple compromise could be made to make them equally as happy. On one side the DHS wants nothing more than to protect the United States doing so by having a thorough immigration process with hopes to keep all terrorists out of the country. The CAIR organization simply wants to promote the truth behind American Islam while obtaining equal and fair treatment during the 4 immigration process. CAIR does need to realize the mission statement of the DHS though. The majority of the terrorists and dangers presented to the U.S. come from terrorist organizations that are currently embedded in middle eastern countries. On the Global Terrorism Index, it shows that nine out of the top ten countries for are countries in and around the middle east. A compromise that could mutually benefit these two stakeholders could be a fairer, but lengthy vetting system as well as provide new to America Muslims a way to get better acclimated to life in the U.S. For the enhanced fairer vetting process, the DHS will need to revise issues made by the CAIR stating that there has been profiling based on religion and nationality done during immigration processes. Another way to upgrade the immigration process is to have the DHS expand its Visa Security Program. Train more of these special agents and have their area of operations expanded to more than the current 19 outposts. Furthermore, in order to stop as many unwanted and dangerous people as possible, the DHS will need to make more connection with countries that are willing to provide their biometric sharing technology. Although the DHS already has a handful of countries it shares its biometric information with, if it expanded to other countries, especially those in the middle east, then even more potential hazards to the U.S. will be stopped. I believe the CAIR could set up a type of seminar or mentoring program in order to better integrate new Muslims to the lifestyles and customs of America. Their jobs in this part of the compromise would revolve around making the immigration process easier for Muslims after they enter the states. Housing, education, as well as job opportunities would be the primary ways in which CAIR would attempt to help the new Muslims adjust. The DHS could help CAIR in this part of the immigration process by leading new Muslims in America to the CAIR 5 organization. This would provide a smooth transition for everyone involved in the immigration process. Immigration has been such a hot topic over the last decade and has been especially prevalent in the recent 2016 election. Neither side of the immigration process has come up with a way to benefit everyone involved until now. If the Department of Homeland Security and the Council for American-Islamic Relations worked together, then they could provide a new immigration process that would be efficient in stopping the flow of terrorists to the U.S. as well as educate the American public on the accurate lifestyles and traditions of those in the Islamic faith. 6 Work Cited Amin, Shahid M. THE GLOBAL APPROACH TO MIGRATION: TOWARDS AN EU IMMIGRATION POLICY WITH PARTICULAR REFERENCE TO MUSLIM  Journal of European Studies 30.2 (2014): 6-22. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. CAIR - Council on American-Islamic Relations -  CAIR - Council on American-Islamic Relations - CAIR. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Jan. 2017. CAIR Asks DHS to Explain 2004 of  Common Dreams. NewsRX LLC, 17 Nov. 2008. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Calabresi, Massimo, and Time. Homeland Security, ISIS and the Fight Against  Time. Time, Dec. & jan. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Citizenship and Immigration  Citizenship and Immigration Services Homeland Security. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Jan. 2017.