Lordeus 1 Regine Lordeus Gregory Van Winkle ENC1102 28 January 17 Standardized Testing Standardized testing is designed to assess academic performances and to compare performances in a relative manner. It is managed and recorded in a steady technique that consists of multiple choice questions and one expository essay. Practically every high school student must complete the process of taking the SAT or ACT if they are interested in attending a college, university, or a performing arts school. The SAT or ACT is required for almost any college entry and increases a student chance for earning a scholarship based on their scores. Although standardized testing may not sound as difficult or seem unbiased, stakeholders beg to differ. Stakeholders argue for the standardized test to be reduced or completely removed due to disadvantages such as poor language skills and poor test taking skills. Very few students, teachers, and parents believe standardized testing is a way to evaluate a performance and determine their achievement. Educators 4 Excellence organization agrees with the statement but begs to make a change. Their mission is to that the voices of classroom teachers are included in the decisions that affect our profession and our (Educators 4 Excellence 1). In other words, their organization believes teachers should also have an input on why they believe students should not be judged by their test scores. Educators 4 Excellence began as a small group in New York, gathering all the like-minded teachers together, and teachers who were truly distress about the policy-making about standardized testing. Their organization began to increase in 2011 when thousands of students, teachers, and Lordeus 2 parents sign their declaration to uplift achievement and get the senators to agree on bypassing standardized exams. Educators 4 Excellence does not necessarily believe standardized test should be reduced or removed, but suppose students should not be analyzed base of the scores they receive. should never be the sole basis for any high-stakes (Educators 4 Excellence 1). Students are very stressed when they lack the skills to achieve the high score they are required to enter college, or even stress to earn a scholarship. When a student performs low on a standardized test, it not only sets the student up for failure, but teachers also become very overwhelmed, and the curriculum of the school narrows down. Educators 4 Excellence goal is to get colleges to evaluate performances such as their grades and growth, and not by the values of their test score due to disadvantages. While Educators 4 Excellence suppose standardized testing should not be taken away but should still be implied for students to see how much information obtained for the year, National Education Association believes that the district should reduce the testing to maybe once a year. The fewer test students are given, the more the school is helping out their selves and the students. National Education Association mission is fulfill the promise of public education and to prepare every student to succeed in a diverse/interdependent (National Education Association 1). National Education Association was originally founded in 1857. It first became originated with forty-three educators in Philadelphia, and now has a become a union all over. NEA (National Education Association) wants to focus on reducing the number of standardized test in grades three through twelve. Their goal is to have students only test on assessments created by the teacher and to have students test once a year taking the standardized test. Although, they do believe that the standardized test should still measure ability Lordeus 3 and achievement, but they would like to have it lowered as to where they would not have to test three to five times in one year. NEA believes too much testing may misinform the public. Therefore, the less standardized test, the less possibility chance of students stressing and teachers overwhelming themselves. In order for this goal of theirs to pass through, everyone who agrees with their mission statement must sign a petition. With the petition, the stakeholder will bring it to the district attention, so the senators may consider reducing the numbers of test they issue students every year. Allowing this petition to pass will set students stress free about college entrance. National Education Association would like students to be evaluated by their grade point average, conduct, and the one standardized test they take every year. For example, NEA would like colleges to evaluate students test scores as they move up each year. Colleges will have to determine student acceptance on whether their scores have been increasing or decreasing as they move up to a new grade. Education 4 Excellence would love to consider keeping standardized testing, while National Education Association would love for it to be reduced once a year, if not then completely removed. They both agree students should not be evaluated by their test scores because every student may have a disadvantage when it comes to taking a very important test. Although, in order for these two stakeholders to set common ground, they each have to give up a side. To set common ground, National Education Association and Education 4 Excellence will have to let the exams determine the students performance in school. Colleges need a way to evaluate students, and standardized is the best option they might have thus far. NEA will have to give up the idea of having students test once a year and E4E will have to consider having teachers test their students more on class assessments just how NEA considered. The more practice assessment, the more help students will receive in order to overcome those disadvantage Lordeus 4 of theirs. Allowing students to re-test over and over will also be a great common ground to set. According to OccupyTheory, they agree to have standardized test evaluate students. When they mention evaluating students, it is to compare results with other students in their school, state, or district. It is not to attack the student about their test score. SAT and ACT allow students to test multiple times. It may be expensive, but students can get help on ways to get their exams waived. are used to assess the level that students are at in their (OccupyTheory). Without the exams, schools would not be able to set records and compare results of students who enters college, university, or art school. To in conclude, Educators 4 Excellence and National Education Association can make a compromise by allowing standardized test to evaluate performance. It is a great measure of achievement. It will allow the student to know what areas should they focus on more, and it will also allow the teachers to know what skills the student may lack. Students who have a disadvantage when it comes to standardized testing can overcome that by taking lots of practice test. ACT and SAT can be taken plenty of times. Those exams are to prepare students for college courses. Nothing will become as you move up. Stakeholders will continue to hold on to varies of reason on why standardized testing should be lowered Lordeus 5 Work Cited and Disadvantages of Standardized OccupyTheory, 12 Aug. 2014. Web Accessed 28 Jan. 2017 Ehrenfreund, Max. civil rights groups support standardized The Washington Post, 14 April 2014, pp.1-3. Web 26 January 2017 Jehlen, Alain. To Congress: Less Standardized Testing, More Help National Education Association, August. 2015, pp.1-2. Web. 26 January 2017 Educators 4 Excellence, March. 2013. Web. 26 January 2017 Wrong With Standardized  The National Center for Fair & Open Testing. N.p., 22 May 2012. Web. 12 Nov. 2013.