1 Ana Roman-Dominguez Adam Carter ENC 2011 2017-01-30 Should prostitution be legal Should prostitution be legal? There is no doubt that it is such a controversial dilemma that it is still not solved. Prostitution refers to a wide variety of sex-for-payment( Peterson-Iyer and a is a person who gets money for having sex with someone. The problem comes when the woman is not the one that decides and put rules of their own for them to work as being slave. While some prostitutes appeal for prostitution to be legal and to have the same rights as all the workers, there are some opinions that are against this movement. Some organizations that are mentioned in this paper do not want prostitution to be legal because that would promote discrimination to women and some other problems such as rape or sexual abuse. At the same time since prostitutes are mostly females and their costumers are mostly males, it promotes the idea of males above women. Overall prostitution should turn into a safer bussiness, by making it legal, and giving the same rights for the workers. Giving women the choice to do it or not. Feminists play a big role in this dilemma and not all of them think the same way. The liberal approach are those who consider that they are the owners of their body which 2 gives them the liberty to choose what they want. It is a voluntary contract where both adults benefit. It is their decision to choose that profession and also their responsibility to follow the rules with costumers. At the same time the domination approach, or prostitution as exploitation, are those who consider that prostitutes are not free and some of their contracts violate their dignity. It is the male who dominated the female being his subject. This approach talks about how women are called or being against of all the rights that feminists fight against, putting women under man and letting them to treat them as objects. So even though the same stakeholders have the same perspectives, their points of view on this problem are completly opposite. There are some organizations such as COYOTE(Call off Your Old Tired Ethics) which works with National Task Force on Prostitution (NTFP) and try to claim the rights that prostitution should have. At the same time they the public about the reality, as opposed to the various myths, of prostitution; to educate to prevent the spread of AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases; and to end the stigma associated with female sexuality and earning power. (Peterson-Iyer, They talk about some laws that should exist in order to make prostitution safer, and make prostitutes feel free to call or ask for help whenever they need to. On the other hand organizations such as WHISPER, ( Women Hurt in Systems of Prostitution Engaged in Revolt) argue that making prostitution legal or an occupation promote the perception of some males to need and buy bodies for sexual use. 3 subordination in civil society situates females to be the more likely victims in cases of human trafficking and sexual The same happen with prostitutes in the streets, they are vulnerable and they do not feel safe enough. There are so many cases of that have done physical abuse, rape or sexual assault to prostitutes. Making prostitution illegal makes prostitutes powerless to report these behaviors to the police. In fact, customers of prostitutes do not get caught by the police pretty often. Atlhough, pimps are not the ones who want prostitution to be legal because they are not going to recognize that they contract these services. The risk of getting sexual diseases by prostitutes is pretty high. A study that was done in United States shows males between 60 and (1) years old showed that the sexual transmissions of this practice were considerable. Some of these males consider their selves as which means that their hobby is to dedicate themselves to this practice. In this article they assume that both parts are being benefited. At the same time if the prostitutes have the right to accord the rules with the customer, why can they not use condoms? the main problem and what they are claiming. If both of them are free, the women should have the power to decide if she wants to use it or not, and not the male. Feminist cannot be defended by prostitution since it structured sexual interaction, sacrifiing freedom, equality and sexual integration, because of the economic need. Prostitution cannot be eliminated because it is almost impossible to regulate something that everybody knows is happening but is already illegal. So since they cannot do anything against it they should at least give prostitutes the rights to normal work. That 4 would give the prostitutes the freedom to request help or to put rules to their costumers. At the same time that would regulate the health of the prostitutes by making sure that they are not infected and that there is no risk to their relations. 5 Works cited Farley, Melissa. Prostitution, Liberalism, And  Logos: A Journal Of Modern Society & Culture 12.3 (2013): 370-386. Humanities Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 Carrasquillo, Tesla1. Understanding Prostitution And The Need For  Touro Law Review 30.3 (2014): 697-721. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Milrod, Christine, and Martin Monto. Condom Use, Sexual Risk, And Self-Reported STI In A Sample Of Older Male Clients Of Heterosexual Prostitution In The United  American Journal Of Health 10.4 (2016): 296-305. PsycINFO. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Peterson-Iyer, Karen. Prostitution: A Feminist Ethical  Journal Of Feminist Studies In Religion 14.2 (1998): 19-44. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Swanson, Jessica. Sexual Liberation Or Violence Against Women: The Debate On The Legalization Of Prostitution And The Relationship To Human Trafficking Null  New Criminal Law Review 4 (2016): 592. HeinOnline. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.