Graham 1 Jack E. Graham, III Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102.088S17 25 January 2017 Nuclear Power: A Compromise for All Ever since the discovery of splitting the atom, scientists have been hard at work trying to control and harness the incredible power that is produced from it. the beginning in the early nuclear power technology has and that evolution has led to powerful nuclear power plants able to generate large amounts of electricity (Vujic, Antic, and Vukmirovic). It was thought that this is the best option of alternate energy that promotes a cleaner environment without any other harmful risks produced from it, until tragedy strikes. The nuclear accident that occurs in Chernobyl causes an environmental disaster the likes that no one in human society has ever seen or heard of in history. From this disaster, arguments have arisen which have led to the creation of groups that support nuclear power and those that oppose nuclear power as being the best means of alternate energy. One group that believes in nuclear power is the Environmentalists for Nuclear-USA, which believe that nuclear power is the one of the greatest and most misunderstood topics in this century. They believe that nuclear power is truly the only best way to better the environment, while still providing everyone in the country with more energy than they could ever use in one lifetime. A group that completely disagrees with them is Greenpeace, which believes that nuclear power is way too risky for the environment. They believe that with the accidents that occurred at Chernobyl Graham 2 and Fukushima, it is too dangerous to have nuclear power plants in the environment because humans make mistakes. Both sides are right, in that nuclear power is the cleanest energy producer that can replace fossil fuel plants, however there is a very serious risk to the environment. For as opposing as these two organizations are, they do have some common ground between the two. They both believe that the general public needs to be better informed about nuclear power and that fossil fuel power plants are the most harmful to the environment. To integrate these goals of both parties, there will be an education program of nuclear power for the public and the elimination of fossil fuel power plants. Greenpeace-USA is a non-profit organization and a branch off of Greenpeace- International that focuses and emphasizes the need to take care of the environment in the United States. Their mission is to expose global environmental problems and to promote solutions that are essential to a green and peaceful (Greenpeace-USA). The goals are to create a cleaner environment, as well as rid the earth of fossil fuel and nuclear power plants Their stance on nuclear power is that the risk is too high for the little benefits that nuclear power provides for the environment. The high risk they talk about is the fallout that can occur from a nuclear meltdown and the possibility of the production of nuclear weapons. It is believed that a nuclear meltdown is not an it situation, but a it situation. They feel that with the common trend of happening with nuclear power, that another nuclear disaster should happen in a decade or so (Greenpeace-USA). Also, when a country develops nuclear power plants for use as an energy producer, the country then ends up developing nuclear weapons as well. With what has happened from Fukushima and Chernobyl, the disasters point out the high risk that comes to the environment when operating a nuclear Graham 3 power plant. As Sarah Webster, an ecologist and research scientist from the University of Georgia, points out that studies have shown that wildlife within the zone continue to accumulate substantial amounts of (Webster). The author is saying that even after the nuclear accident in Chernobyl, which happened over thirty years ago, there is still radiation in the land from the nuclear fallout produced from the plant. This provides evidence of the high risk to the environment that Greenpeace believes needs to never happen again. For Greenpeace, one of their goals is to eliminate nuclear power and fossil fuel plants from the environment. They continuously go out and protest to bring knowledge of the risk of nuclear power to the public. They also ensure that alternative energies receive more support than nuclear power and support bills that will help to achieve their goal. The Environmentalists for Nuclear-USA is a non-profit organization and a sister organization to the Environmentalist for Nuclear organization which also focuses on the betterment of the environment in the United States. Their mission is to on the most significant issues in the United States and what the United States should be doing to help make a better (Environmentalists for Nuclear-USA). They believe that one of the most significant issues in the United States is that nuclear power has been greatly misunderstood and that it has led to the environmental problems that the United States is currently facing. The goals are to make a cleaner environment, educate the public about the benefits of nuclear power and its helpfulness to the environment. They believe that nuclear power is the best way to better the environment for the U.S. Jasmina Vujic, a professor of nuclear engineering at the University of California-Berkley discusses power emissions of greenhouse gases are minimal, and nuclear power is the only baseload electricity source that could effectively replace Graham 4 fossil-burning pants and help in reduction of global warming (Vujic, Antic, and Vukmirovic). The author is saying nuclear power will be able to replace the electrical demand that is asked by Americans while being able to provide for a cleaner environment. This helps to achieve the goal of a cleaner environment for the U.S. while the public enjoys the benefits of nuclear power. The Environmentalists for Nuclear-USA go around the country holding conventions informing the public about the benefits of nuclear power as well as show support for bills that will help bring nuclear power as a major energy source. Both of these organizations be any different from one another on their stance on nuclear power in the U.S. However, they actually have a couple goals they both believe in. Both organizations seek to educate the public about nuclear power. Greenpeace wants to educate the public about the risks of nuclear power and the Environmentalists for Nuclear-USA wants to educate the public about the benefits of nuclear power. Another goal they both wish for is to better the overall environment of the U.S. and that fossil fuel power plants need to be rid of due to the harmful production of carbon emissions. A solution for these organizations is that there will be an education program about nuclear program be introduced to the public and the elimination of fossil fuel power plants. With the education program about nuclear power, it will introduce people to both the risks and the benefits that come out of having nuclear power as an energy producer. It will also talk about the environmental benefits of having nuclear power as well. This education program will be introduced into schools around the country and public seminars as well for everyone to learn about nuclear power. As James Stoutenborough, a professor who specializes in public policy and political psychology at Idaho State University, points out individual needs to have Graham 5 an understanding of the problem in order to develop (Stoutenborough, Sturgess, and Vedlitz). This means that when people are educated about an issue, the people are able to develop a more definite answer to an issue. By educating the public about both sides of nuclear power, it will allow everyone to come to an agreement on whether or not nuclear power is the best option for helping the environment. This helps complete one goal for each of these organizations that they can agree on. The other is both supporting the same programs to eliminate the need and use of fossil fuel power plants. Fossil fuel power plants are found be to be a major environmental hazard as well as produce harmful carbon emissions as pointed out by Vujic, coal to generate electricity affects the environment in a number of ways, producing air and water pollution, and generating solid waste (Vujic, Antic, and Vukmirovic). By doing this, this will help to produce a cleaner environment in which both organizations are striving to do. The United States is currently in an energy crisis as well as an environmental crisis. The U.S. wants to be able to improve the environment as well as be able to provide power to all of its citizens. Nuclear power is able to achieve both goals however there is a high risk that comes with it to the environment. Greenpeace-USA and Environmentalists for Nuclear-USA have been at odds with each other about nuclear power being used in the United States. Both organizations are seeking the same goals for the United States and the environment. They want to educate the public about nuclear power and to create a cleaner environment by getting rid of fossil fuel power plants. With this common ground between the two, we can appease both of them by creating an education program for the public and the elimination of fossil fuel power plants. By doing this, it achieves the goals of informing the public about nuclear power as well Graham 6 as making the environment cleaner in the United States. By doing this the United States can look forward to a cleaner and healthier environment for generations to come. (Word Count: 1582) Graham 7 Works Cited Stoutenborough, James W., Shelbi G. Sturgess, and Arnold Vedlitz. Knowledge, Risk, And Policy Support: Public Perceptions Of Nuclear  Energy Policy 62.(2013): 176-184. ScienceDirect. Web. 16 Sept. 2016. Vujic, Jasmina, Dragoljub P. Antic, and Zorka Vukmirovic. Environmental Impact And Cost Analysis Of Coal Versus Nuclear Power: The U.S.  Energy 1 (2012): 31. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Sept. 2016. Webster, Sarah C, et al. Where The Wild Things Are: Influence Of Radiation On The Distribution Of Four Mammalian Species Within The Chernobyl Exclusion  Frontiers In Ecology & The Environment 14.4 (2016): 185-190. Environment Index. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Greenpeace USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Environmentalist for Nuclear-USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.