Ahmed Aldandan Professor: Hernandez, Bianca Class: Enc1102 Date: Jan 29/2017 The Unattainable Beauty What is beauty? Is it an object? A subject? Or Just a compliment that people throw? Beauty is a hard word to define, because there is still a live ancient argument about its meaning, effects and even its relation to people (Vacker,471). Moreover, Beauty was and still a major aspect in women lives, as they were classified into levels based on their beauty when chosen as wives, slaves or even prostitutes. (Peiss,489). For women, nowadays, products that can enhance beauty did create a sociological issue. Society do shape the meaning of norm and deviance, and based on the sociologist Jon Witt women, do consume products that make them fell more beautiful, and go through plastic surgery to avoid the stigma of not being beautiful (Witt,128). According to Naomi wolf, films and magazines are creating an unwinnable competition between women, and that they are focusing less on more important issues such as gender discrimination (Witt,274). Wolf also believe that only few women can reach the standers of beauty for supermodels. Beauty in a philosophical context is too broad and complicated for the paper to discuss. However, it is worth to mention Immanuel Kant philosophy on beauty, because it is a source for the contemporary criticism on beauty (Vacker,476). In simplification, Kant believe that a person can only judge things as beautiful based on their appearance not the value of the object, and that beauty cannot be perfected, which is something that advertisements and models might imply (Vacker,476). Currently, in order to step into the world beauty and myth, the paper is taking two stakeholders that can view the beauty myth differently. At first the National Organization of Women (NOW) takes part as it is fighting for women rights. Dove is taking over Aldandan 2 as the second stakeholder because it aims at changing the current definition and perception of beauty. The message to both organization is try to settle their differences aside and cooperate in order to more effectively make women themselves change the definition of beauty and set more beneficial goals for women. The National organization for women is a feminist organization, that seeks equality, and the rights of women in general. Based on NOW website, some of their objectives are in regard to wage equality, gender discrimination, same sex mirage, reproductive rights and most importantly to the topic is health and body image (). NOW state that the media is setting the standers of beauty; The issue is that women cannot follow these standers in general and that they do harm their health trying to meet them. In addition, the media do also sexualize models and girls in movies, making them seem more as objects. Thus, girls are influenced to mimic models and celebrities. NOW is educating women to increasing their resistance to the media influential. They do deliver their message through the social media and they do have an annual event dedicated to embracing the notion of self-acceptance, and rejecting the beauty created by the media. Nancy Rudd conducted a research on female college students, and she aimed at knowing what might influence women in college to imitate the image of women on the media (Rudd,155- 156). The body image is how one his body, in combination with their feelings towards their bodies (Rudd,153). The ideal body image is culturally identified by the media, and women health disorders are heavily related to it (Rudd,153). It is possible to say that women do go through cosmetic surgery, harmful diets, and even exceed usage of drugs in order to meet the ideal body image (Rudd,153). It is also worth to mention that the importance of the body image is a cumulation of historical events, in the western culture. Since women lacked the access to power Aldandan 3 and resources, they had to rely on men; women used attractiveness to interest men (Rudd,153). About half of the surveyed women in the research said that they are satisfied with body image. In addition, most of them indicated that they do care about their size, and body shape the most (Rudd, 156). Moreover, some women did report that they do care a lot about losing just 10 pound, some also did state that they struggled to lose weight while some are willing to go through dangerous methods to change their body image (Rudd,156). Dove is brand selling beauty related products such as soaps and creams, to both men and women. Even though Dove do actually use beauty to sell products, they also are trying to change the existing way that women use to perceive beauty through the media. That makes them in a peculiar position in this topic, because they want to redefine beauty, but it is also possible that they might lose costumers if women do find a new meaning of beauty. Nevertheless, Dove did launch some campaigns to increase women self-esteem; Dove wanted women to be satisfied with their appearance. Moreover, website does not use any super-models, or real negative representations that other brands might show; from NOW perspective. Instead, they do use more normal models that reflect a more natural lock, and they did an entire campaign doing so while including supportive statement about how a woman should be satisfied with her appearance. Another campaign that is worth of mentioning is dove self-esteem project (SEP). According to dove website, SEP goal is to not make beauty as something that might bring anxiety to the next generation of women, but as a source of confidence. Dove found that about half of the women are satisfied with their appearance, and only 2% define themselves as beautiful. Marketing is a major aspect in this topic, selling beauty related products and following the latest haircut in salons do require the customer to repeatedly buy from however is buying it, unlike products such as cars or cleaners (Pess,493). In order to support and criticize dove Aldandan 4 campaign on marketing, a paper published by New York state university will be discussed. Anne Loria found that increasing women self-esteem through campaigns, such as dove campaigns can be beneficial to women stress about beauty (4-6) However, Loria also stated that there is a conflict between beauty and self-esteem, and the critics argue about the inability of combining both; which is something that cannot be disregarded (6-7). Models that Dove chose do actually represent a healthy objective for women to pursue, but others critique say that these models cannot compete with more ideal models in the media, and that they are still far from the average shape of a woman (Loria,7-8). Certain fashion experts do state that fashionable companies should care about the image that they deliver to girls and women, but most of brands and fashion experts do not hold the same belief (Laura,22-23). Regardless of Dove objective in it the discussed campaigns, the criticism towards the fact that they do get profit from sealing beauty cannot be ignored (Laura,17-18). Dove did succeed in challenging the image of beauty nevertheless (Laura,24-25). Dove campaigns do have a positive goal in women education, regarding their health and self-acceptance. On the other hand, NOW also tries to change the current image of beauty, by supporting positive women advertisements and fighting negative ones. However, Dove is a brand that gains profit, and NOW is a non-profitable organization. Thus, there is an issue that prevents NOW from working with Dove; the extent of changing the image of beauty. According to Barry Vacker, and Kathy Peiss, Beauty do hold a vital role in the market, and Peiss stated that marketing with beauty can make the producers sell more (486). If NOW full objective does actually happen, the business sector might get a serious hit, which actually worth billions. In addition, products that can have make a person feel more beautiful can have a positive impact on the consumer, as it gives the notion that beauty can be achieved and it is not just given Aldandan 5 (Vaker,478). Ultimately, the existing of beauty production should exist, but other brands that target beauty should also be more realistic with their models. If Dove do use real, or normal in their campaigns, NOW should be able to work with then. Dove can serve NOW as an example of a brand that positively sells, while Dove can challenge the negative influence of brands more effectively using the existing ideals of NOW. Aldandan 6 Works Cited Witt, Jon. SOC 2016. 4th ed. New York: McGraw,2016. Print. Vacker, Barry, and Wayne R. Key. Beauty And The Beholder: The Pursuit Of Beauty Through  Psychology & Marketing 10.6 (1993): 471. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rudd, Nancy A., and Sharron J. Lennon. Body Image And Appearance-Management Behaviors In College  Clothing & Textiles Research Journal 18.3 (2000): 152. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. PEISS, KATHY. On Beauty... and the History of  Enterprise & Society 2000: 485. JSTOR Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Loria, Anna, Changing the Face of Beauty, Changing the Rules of Marketing: The Dove Campaign for Real  (2015). Senior Honors Theses. Paper 105.