Peng Jiang 1 Peng Jiang ENC1102 1/28/2017 Do violent video games make teenager violent? The violent Video game is a popular and controversial topic, and there has never been lots of debate as to whether the playing of video games influence behavior, in particular for the teenager. In the first step, I want to ask two questions, what are the violent video game and violent video game controversy? The violent video game is usually including sexy, and blood scenes in the storyline and would refer racism, gender discrimination, and some anti-social behaviors. Such as Grand Theft Auto(GTA), this modern video game is the best example. In Wikipedia, it described that of investigations into links between video games and addiction, aggression, violence, social development, and a variety of stereotyping and sexual morality issues are So, that is not surprised that most detractors of video game believe the video game is harmful and should be restricted. By contrast, advocates think not all of the video games is violent and there a link between video game and violent. So, we want to figure out that do violent video game make teen violent? The teenager is easy to access violent video game. The game player who under 18 could buy the GTA V on the Steam and Amazon without any limitation. There is an independent nonprofit organization, Common Sense Media, that collect Game ratings and reviews of game help understand and navigate the problems and possibilities of raising children in the digital Peng Jiang 2 Common Sense Media indicated that GTA is an 18+rated video game. And the British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) stated the 18 certificate is that film, video, and the game should not be accessed by a person who under 18 years old. However, most of the review (out of 672 reviews) stated that this game is age 13+. So most of parents or adult game player realize that the GTA V is not suitable for the teenager. Because the GTA series is an open world action-adventure video game, the game player will play a role who commit crimes in Los Santos. The game player could drive the car to kill passer, and murder the stranger without any reasons. GTA series based on violent storyline and action. Thus, this violent video game has highly realistic visuals and the potential of committing crime. There a new that A teenager who was obsessed with violent video games kill a younger mother in Glasgow. The newspaper reported; faces an automatic life sentence for the murder of Farah Noor Adams, 34. But psychiatric reports will play a part in determining the minimum prison term he must serve before he can be considered for release. The Scottish Daily Mail has learned his plea in mitigation will include the fact he was influenced by bloodthirsty computer games he played regularly (Daily Mail, The violent video game may accuse that the teenager copies the violent behavior or recreate a scene from the game in real world. Dr. Warburton who is the full professor at the University of British Columbia (UBC) indicated, combination of video games and physical activity leads to greater exercise adherence than traditional aerobic training in college-aged males (Dr. Thus, the combines physical activity and video game will lead to young to pay more attention to the exercise. In the paper, The health benefits of interactive video game exercise. Dr. Warburton and Bredin provides a comparison between the traditional cycling training and interactive video game training program, Peng Jiang 3 regular cycling training program participated in less than 50% of the recommended exercise By contrast, the interactive video game training program is higher than traditional one, it close to 80% and the level of attendance is more steady (Dr. Warburton,2007). So, it looks like the video game could improve the exercise adherence, and people get greats of healthy benefit from the combination of video game and physical activity. But it provides other views about the video game, whether there is a link between the video game and violent? In an experiment, researchers collected the via saliva samples through participants chew the Trident original gum after playing the violent video game, and there are one hundred and thirty-six children engaged in this study. The average age of the children was 10.1 years old. studies have documented that the SNS is activated and cortisol is released under conditions of stress, which indicates that the fight-or-flight response has been triggered (Douglas, Patrick, The study proved that playing violent video game have a short-term effect on children aggression. In the paper, Douglas, Patrick, Craig indicated that a child is playing a violent video game, then the SNS will likely be activated. Coupled with an increased activation of aggression-related thoughts from violent video game exposure, the fight response of the nervous system may be activated, thus leading to a higher probability of behaving aggressively if There is a link between the violent video game and violent. When the child plays violent video game, the SNS will activate. If the child spends more time on the violent video game, it will influence their behavior. The most worse are that video game is more interesting and attractive than traditional entertainment because it was designed for meeting different age need. One is the achievement and the second one is the interaction. The video game is same as every game, such as board games, and card games. It surprising that Peng Jiang 4 teenager like playing games because there is a challenge. They must practice the skill and try to thinking, listening, and understanding to finish the goal and get the sense of achievement. It looks like the learning process in education, and that is why advocates of video game believe the video game could be used in education to help children. But the teenager is tending to the addictive use of video games. For example, Warcraft is a popular and fantastic MMORPG game. There is a statistic about the number of world of Warcraft (WOW) from 2005 to 2015. It stated, number had been climbing steadily from 1.5 million in the first quarter of 2005, exceeding five million in the fourth quarter of 2006 and 10 million in the fourth quarter of In the MMORPG game, the most attractive point is the interaction. Because game players could create their favorite characters in the video game, and then they have to join the Horde or the Alliance to complete the common goals. Besides, most of MMORPG game have any Even though game players have seen all of the storylines, there still have other goals, such as pet, weapon or armor. It will cost a lot of time and energy. In Narrative Therapy for Treating Video Game Addiction, Joseph Graham who works for the Houston office provide an example about Video game addiction. Sammy who was a 17-year-old student presented with social anxiety because the stress related to falling behind his schoolwork. He spends almost 50 hours a week in the Warcraft (Joseph, 2014). It is clearly to say that the violent video game could affect behavior because playing this game will active the SNS. Besides, some younger parents also are the player of the violent video game; they realize that the 18+ rated game is not suitable for their children and teenager is easy to access the violent video game. Especially, the video game may cause the video game addiction. But, we should not blame the violent video game, it designed for the adult game player. And the video Peng Jiang 5 game also could be used in education and physical activity. Also, the parents should spend more time with their children. References: Grand Theft Auto: Vice https://www.commonsensemedia.org/game-reviews/grand-theft-auto-vice- city Daily Mail deadly addiction of murderer; TEENAGER WILL CLAIM THAT PLAYING VIOLENT VIDEO GAMES DROVE HIM TO February 13, 2006. Darren E.R. Warburton, Shannon S.D. Bredin, Leslie T.L. Horita, Dominik Zbogar, Jessica M. Scott, Ben T.A. Esch, and Ryan E. Rhodes. health benefits of interactive video game NRC Research Press Web site, 18 June 2007. Douglas A. Gentilea, Patrick K. Benderb, Craig A. Andersona. video game effects on salivary cortisol, arousal, and aggressive thoughts in Computers in Human BehaviorVolume 70, May 2017, Pages Joseph M. Graham Jr. Therapy for Treating Video Game Int J Ment Health Addiction (2014) Statista of World of Warcraft (WoW) subscribers from 1st quarter 2005 to 3rd quarter Statista.com, 2017. Wikipedia. video game Peng Jiang 6