Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Ending Homelessness in Arizona 9,986 adults and children in the state of Arizona are homeless tonight. 36,497 people in the state of Arizona at one point in their lives, have needed and received some kind of assistance for homelessness. The Arizona Coalition to End Homelessness (AZCEH) is a nonprofit organization dedicated to ending homelessness in the state of Arizona. mission is help end and solve the epidemic of homelessness. To promote mission, they strive to work with the individuals in the community to educate, spread awareness, and teach others how to be an advocate for adults and children who are homeless. uses their website to spread awareness, share repeatable facts and information, and provide solutions to the prevalent issue of homelessness. AZCEH displays compelling images and provides up to date, reputable resources to everyone in the communities and state of Arizona about the issue of homelessness. Using powerful images of children, adults, and places of refuge, the AZECH successfully sends the appropriate message that they are a reputable organization dedicated to solving the epidemic of homelessness Coalition to End One image (see Fig. 1) that you see on the homepage of AZECH, is a majestic picture inside a library with an embedded quote by Mother Teresa 101 This image holds great persuasive power with its large size and dominant location at the center of the page. The image seen is representative of a large library, which is often a place of refuge Student 2 for the homeless. The quote reads think sometimes that poverty is only being hungry, naked, and homeless. The poverty of being unwanted, unloved, and uncared for is the greatest poverty. We must start in our own homes to remedy this kind of by Mother Teresa. The font is in all white and capital letters. The middle sentence is highlighted, placing additional emphasis on the definition of poverty. The word is almost unreadable and practically hidden from the placement of the bright white light from the window. Viewers help but notice the significance of the disappearing word and mission to eliminate homelessness (Pack). Powerful influences that are encouraging the community to join in on the mission of ending homelessness include using visual rhetoric and rhetoric appeals. One of the most important rhetorical appeals in Figure 1 is ethos, moral principles and the ability of developing trust with the viewer. In this example of ethos, AZCEH is borrowing credibility from one of the greatest and well known humanitarians, Mother Teresa. This powerful quote is purposefully embedded in the library is another example of ethos and how AZCEH is establishing credibility with the use of a symbol that represents authority and knowledge. The rhetorical appeal, kairos, is also present in this image. The quote by Mother Teresa proposes a type of powerful, intentional persuasion to the viewers. The quote creates a sense of urgency and proposes an ultimate goal to beginning within your own home. AZCEH uses visual and rhetoric appeals to convince viewers that homelessness is not an individual problem, but a problem of the community. The burden is put on everyone and it begins with prevention (Emily Lane). Another way AZCEH works to endorse their mission is through the use of an image (see Fig. 2) that encourages viewers to get involved and take notice of the problem of homelessness Student 3 within the community The homelessness overview page presents with a large brightly colored image that streams across the entirety of the top page. It reads and in smaller, clean white print at the bottom reads you or someone you know in need of The image showcases two very young girls, one holding a teddy bear and the other holding a suitcase. They are pictured on the road or the side of the road. These two young girls represent the children and families who are victims of homelessness. An important element displayed here are the missing faces of the two young girls. This invites the idea that these girls represent the faces of many children in the community who are homeless. The apparent focus of this image is the role of children in the crisis of homelessness (Pack). This kind of visual appeal has a strong impact on the rhetorical, or persuasive, effect of an image. This image used by AZCEH strongly appeals to stimulating an emotional response. Looking at this image it most certainly could make viewers empathetic to the homelessness crisis, especially with the involvement of children and the separation of families. The image presents an appeal to logos, appealing to logic and reason. The statement of invites the viewer to find out more about the factual aspects of homelessness in the community, the state of Arizona, and the United States. Encourage others to recognize that this is a crisis not only evident in Arizona, but everywhere else too. The use of logos in the image is not to make viewers feel an emotion, but to become educated on the facts of crisis and the mission, therefore offering proof that there is a real problem (Emily Lane). These two images work together to bring awareness to the community and promote AZCEH mission. The target audience is everyone in the community and state. More specifically encourages homeless, formerly homeless, students, and those who wish to Student 4 be an advocate for the homeless to participate and become members in their mission. The library image with the Mother Teresa quote appeals to the homeless person himself, it proposes an idea of hope and encourages different opinions and definitions of poverty. The image of the two young girls appeal to those who wish to be advocates for the homeless. The image represents the forgotten victims of homelessness. These children are not typically seen standing on the street corner, begging for help. Instead, these are the faces and bodies of the forgotten children and underrepresented victims of homelessness. The strategic application of images on their website embrace effective rhetorical appeals and successfully reaches the targeted audience with the intended mission. (WC: 1,006) Student 5 Works Cited Arizona Coalition to End Homelessness. Arizona Coalition to End Homelessness, 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. http://www.azceh.org. Homelessness 101 Overview. Arizona Coalition to End Homelessnes, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 http://www.azceh.org/overview Homepage. Arizona Coalition to End Homelessness, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 http://www.azceh.org Lane, Emily, Gayle Lee, Kendra, McKee Jessica, McIntyre, Megan, and Kate Pantelides. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-31. Print. Pack, Jenna. Breaking Down an . Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. Print. Student 6 Figure 1. http://www.azceh.org Student 7 Figure 2. http://www.azceh.org/overview