Chen 1 Wei Chen Gregory Van Winkle ENC1102 24 January, 2017 Keystone XL Pipeline The Keystone XL Pipeline Project (KXL) has been a controversial political topic since its proposition in 2008. The recently inaugurated petroleum pipeline, supported the TransCanada, is projected to bring economic growth and energy independence when implemented (TransCanada). Friends of the Earth (FoE) opposes construction of the pipeline, stating that it will damage the environment while also intruding on sacred Native American land (FoE). Though both groups oppose each other, both are doing what they believe is best for the American people, and to fight for a common cause, there must be a compromise between the two groups. This can be accomplished by installing a railway system to transport the oil; TransCanada will be able to construct their oil system but with environmental regulations. Both groups can reach a compromise on the issue if they are willing to put down differences and meet halfway. TransCanada is a Canadian energy company that is hosting and supporting the construction of KXL, proposed 36-inch-diameter crude oil pipeline, beginning in Alberta, and extending south to (TransCanada). The purpose of the pipeline is to contribute economic profit for the American economy: TransCanada claims that the pipeline will produce $55.6 million in property tax to local states and $3.4 billion overall to the U.S. GDP, providing local and national economic benefits to the American economy (TransCanada). Local revenue produced from KXL can be used to improve infrastructure, supplying enough money to Chen 2 build new roads, schools, and hospitals (TransCanada). And because people are needed to create the pipeline, employment rates will increase to meet the demand for more workers, reducing unemployment (TransCanada). Energy independence is also one of the main reasons TransCanada is for the construction of KXL. (1979, p.153), for example, focuses on how domestic levels of oil production determined consuming responses to the 1973 Arab oil embargo: that are highly dependent, countries that get much of what they badly need from a few possibly unreliable suppliers, must do all they can to increase the chances that they will keep getting it. The weak, lacking leverage, can plead their cause or This kind of emphasis on access to resources leads in turn to a realist preoccupation with the globally uneven distribution of fossil fuel supplies and the problem of (Shun, Robert). The United States (U.S.) has historically relied on Middle Eastern countries for its oil supplies, causing oil prices to fluctuate depending on the stability of foreign relations with the countries (Shun, Robert). By constructing the pipeline, the U.S. will have a domestic source of energy, making oil prices consistently cheaper (TransCanada). Shipping oil from across the sea is costlier, as ships must be hired to transport the oil (Shun, Robert). Additionally, it is environmentally damaging to use ships instead of pipelines since ships emit more air pollution than pipelines. FoE is an environmental organization opposing KXL with the aim to maintain sustainability, connectivity, and systemic change (FoE). While the pipeline will provide economic profit to the U.S., it could ecosystems, pollute water sources and jeopardize public (FoE). KXL is importing tar sand, a mixture of sand and bitumen. Chen 3 to other types of crude oil imported, refined and consumed in the US, Canadian oil sands have greater greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy produced. Oil sands are heavier and more viscous compared to other types of crude oil, thus more energy and resources are required to extract them. Moreover, oil sands require more processing to produce consumable fuels since it is chemically deficient in hydrogen and has a higher carbon, sulfur, and heavy metal content compared to lighter crude oils (Lattanzio (Bradshaw, Elizabeth). Tar sands create air pollution during production, releasing emissions three to four times higher more than conventional oil due to energy-intensive extraction and refining processes (FoE). These emissions are released into the atmosphere where they eventually fall back to Earth in the form of smog and acid rain (FoE). For every barrel of oil produced, three barrels of water were used to extract the oil from tar sands (FoE). This excess amount of waste water is then stored in large man-made pools, where excess bitumen sinks to bottom and gets absorbed into the soil, potentially poisoning local water supplies (FoE). dense qualities make constructing the pipeline risky, as tar oil spills will sink and absorb into the ground, also making cleanups more difficult compared to conventional oil spills. The construction of KXL will go through major U.S. rivers and aquifers, and given a spill happens, tar oil can contaminate major U.S. water supplies along with Native American land (FoE). Alberta, the region where tar sands oil is extracted, is home to many indigenous populations. Important parts of their cultural traditions and livelihood are coming under attack because of tar sands (FoE). Native American populations have been forced off their original lands since the colonization of the Americas. The construction of KXL promotes the idea that businesses can take over Native Chen 4 American land; by constructing pipelines on their territory, spills can potentially contaminate local water supplies, causing health problems. Both groups have a similar aim: choose a decision that will better the American society. In order for both sides to reach a compromise, there must be sacrifices from each side to meet halfway, which is why it is reasonable to construct a railway system. FoE will have to allow TransCanada to transport its oil, but transportation of the oil will follow environmental regulations by FoE. marginal fuel efficiency gains for diesel engines are expected over time (ITF, 2009), indirect emission sources (including those emitted as a result of electricity generation offsite) are outside of the project boundary and cannot be directly controlled. While a pipeline operator can reduce electricity demand, regional grid intensity has a greater impact on total emission intensity given the limited range of pumping station efficiency improvements that can be made. This highlights the fact that oil sands development and transportation are part of a complex, interdependent energy (Tarnoczi, Tyler). Transporting oil by pipeline is a complex system that involves pumping gas at different pressure levels to prevent spills. This means that emissions created by pipelines will vary, compared to trains which have set fuel efficiency rates (Tarnoczi, Tyler). Because railways have been established in North America since the 19 th century, TransCanada will not need to construct new routes for oil transportation. Additionally, fuel efficiency for trains are expected to continue increasing as time progresses (Tarnoczi, Tyler). However, TransCanada will need to invest money into purchasing trains, their routes, and hiring conductors. Regardless of fuel efficiency, trains emit similar pollutants to tar oil refining plants even though they are considered more Chen 5 environmentally friendly (Tarnoczi, Tyler). Trains also cannot compete with the consistency pipelines have in transporting oil, making production slower than it would be if the pipeline was constructed. KXL is a question of whether it is best to have an economic or societal gain. TransCanada is persistent in implementing the pipeline in order to better the American infrastructure and economy. FoE wants to prohibit construction of the KXL to promote alternative energy sources while also protecting the livelihood of Native Americans. In order for the two to meet halfway, building a railway system will address both sides of the debate, allowing TransCanada to transport oil but with regulations created by FoE. Not only will this create a compromise for both groups, but it will also create a compromise that betters American society altogether. Chen 6 Works Cited Keystone XL  Friends of the Earth. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Keystone XL Pipeline  TransCanada Corporation. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Bradshaw, Elizabeth Blockadia Rising: Rowdy Greens, Direct Action and the Keystone XL  SpringerLink. N.p., 30 Aug. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Shum, Robert Social Construction and Physical Nihilation of the Keystone XL Pipeline: Lessons from International Relations  Social Construction and Physical Nihilation of the Keystone XL Pipeline: Lessons from International Relations Theory. ScienceDirect, 2 Apr. 2013. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Tarnoczi, Tyler. Life Cycle Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Transportation of Canadian Oil Sands to Future  Life Cycle Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Transportation of Canadian Oil Sands to Future Markets. Science Direct, 1 Aug. 2013. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.