Cheema 1 Mohammad Cheema Professor Sarah Basil ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Intermediate Draft Sports are a great thing to every society around the world. Sports allow for youths to be active and allow them to find a passion for competing, teamwork, and winning. The dangers of sports are inevitable; injury can easily be caused in any given sport. Concussions have become a hot topic recently, and especially in youth sports due to the fact that youth body, and specifically their brains, are still growing. Although the youth athletes are the ones enduring the injury, the parents and the coaches of these youth athletes should be held accountable after their youth has suffered the injury. The reason for the parents and coaches getting the most blame is that they are the ones that can take the athlete out of the game and get them treated in a timely manner. An agreement between the parents and the coaches need to happen in order to help this epidemic become less common. The common ground that can be made with the issues of concussions in youth sports is if parents and the coaches of the youth athletes stop blaming each other so much and actually take responsibility themselves for the ongoing epidemic that is happening. Parents should find better ways to treat their kids after they have suffered a concussion, and the coaches should be required to take a course on concussions before they are hired for the position, so they can clearly see when someone has endured a concussion and when it is safe to allow them to play again. Cheema 2 Coaches need to educated themselves on sports injuries because less attention is on youth sports, so the people who can suspect a concussion and need to take the players out are the coaches, and not the doctors because that only happens in most professional sport leagues. According to Coaches About Concussion in Sports: Evaluation of the by Tracey Covassin, a survey was conducted in which coaches only take players out of games around sixty percent of the time after they have suffered a concussion, and only notice a concussion sixty-three percent of the (Covassin 233); this is significant because this can cause a youth athlete to suffer another concussion in a short period of time, which could be deadly. Moreover, coaches only notified parents/guardians of their youth suffering a concussion around forty percent of the time, which does not allow for a parent to stop their kid from going to school or taking them to a doctor for evaluations. Some coaches do not take youth athletes out of a game after they have seen their player suffer a concussion and that could be for various reasons. In the article under- reporting and pressure from coaches, teammates, fans, and by Emily Kroshus, it is explained that many coaches do not want to take certain players out because of how well they perform in the specific sport they are playing in. One coach even stated that was that best option at the (Kroshus 69) even though he had suffered a concussion and the coach knew that also. Another argument made is that some athletes pressure their coaches to leave them in, because the athlete is afraid that if they are taken out of the game, they will not receive the same amount of play time after injury. Coaches need to do more because they have the most power in terms of taking the player off of the field/court as soon as a concussion is endured by a youth athlete. Cheema 3 Furthermore, parents have a heavy influence on what activities their kids participate in and are the ones, most of the time, choosing to put their kids into a certain sport, even after they realize all of the dangers in that sport. That is why parents need to do more when it comes to concussions. In Concussion Management in the Emergency parents concluded that they are only certainly going to take their kids to the doctors for an MRI, or seek other treatment plans (Zamarripa 231). Another statistic is only sixty-eight percent of the parents will keep their kids away from school/sports-related activities for around a week. A reason that is very interesting is because youths that suffer a concussion are recommended to stay away from sports for at least one week, and from school for three days at least. It is very clear to see and tell that many parents do not know how to react to their kids enduring a concussion. In assessment of sports-related concussion among it is explained that many parents do not know what to do because they never been put in that position before and do not realize how serious a concussion actually (Mannings 18). The significance of parents not being experienced is that their kids will suffer a concussion and will not properly be treated because the parents simply had no idea what to do. Parents need to do more because they are the ones who are with their youths most of the time and can take care of them the most, whether that means taking care of them could just be taking them to a doctors, or letting them stay home from school for a couple of days to allow them to recover. A prior common ground that both the parents and coaches of these youth athletes share is that more needs to be done to prevent these injuries. Many youth athletes have suffered permeant brain damage, or even death, because the coaches did not take them out, or because the parents Cheema 4 did not take the injury serious enough. Many coaches and parents have tried coming up with many different solutions to the concussion issue, but clearly they have not worked. One of the solutions parents think would be effective is to not let the youth compete in sports that a concussion is a serious issue, but the resulting problem is that any sport can a concussion. This is why based on the sources and multiple associations, like the National Alliance for Youth Sports, pled for both the parents and the coaches to become more educated about what to do, and how to react properly and in a timely manner. NAYS argues that everyday a youth athlete goes untreated, about two days is added for the overall recovery time. In summation, sports are an important aspect to society because they promote an active lifestyle. Sports are also great because they are a great way to allow a person to get away from all the positives and negatives and just keep their mind on something else. The cons of sports are the various injuries that an athlete can suffer. Anywhere from a broken arm, to a torn ACL, these injuries can change someone, and even have a negative consequence on their lives. Concussions are a hot topic recently because of all the research done, the multiple athletes that have died because of the injury, and also a movie that came out based on the injury. A solution to this horrible injury in youth sports, is for parents to learn more and take more responsibility, rather than blaming the coaches and the sport itself. Another solution would be to train the coaches so that they can recognize a concussion when it happens, and then know what to do from that point on. Cheema 5 Works Cited Mannings, Carol, et al. Knowledge Assessment of Sports-Related Concussion Among Parents of Children Aged 5 Years to 15 Years Enrolled in Recreational Tackle  Journal of Trauma & Acute Care Surgery, no. 77. 2014, pp. S18-22. CINAHL. Web. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Kroshus, Emily, et al. Concussion Under-Reporting and Pressure from Coaches, Teammates, Fans, And  Social Science & Medicine, no. 134. 2015, pp. 66-75. ScienceDirect. Web. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Zamarripa, Angela, et al. Original Articles: Pediatric Concussion Management in The Emergency Department: A National Survey of  The Journal Of Pediatrics, no. 181. 2017, pp. 229-234. ScienceDirect. Web. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. COVASSIN, TRACEY, R. J. ELBIN, and KELLY SARMIENTO. Educating Coaches About Concussion in Sports: Evaluation of The Up: Concussion in Youth  Journal of School Health, no. 82.5. 2012, pp. 233. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Concussions in  Concussions in Sports Article: Nationwide Hospital. Web. Accessed 24 Jan. 2017.