Jessica Dinehart Sarah Basil ENC 1102 29, January 2017 The Real Cost and American Lung Association On Cigarette Use The Real Cost and the American Lung Association are both largely involved in the investment of reducing and eventually eradicating the usage of cigarettes, which are widely known to be infectiously addicting as well as toxic to almost every aspect of the human body. The eradication of cigarettes has always been a debate, however not much has actually been done by the government, and attempts by organizations, due to its wide range of users, find it difficult to stay veracious and also appeal to wide audience. Tobacco comes off as a resilient drug that is merely used by choice. Both these organizations, although they differ in motivations behind such advertisements, want the same outcome, to reduce the number of smoking individuals, at least of harmful forms of nicotine, as well as second-hand smoking which evidently affects a wide range of individuals, including children. Hypothetically speaking, if the two affiliations were to join forces and combine resources, the advertisement and message they are attempting to resonate within their viewers, would be amplified. As stated by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention in their weekly article Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults, use remains the single largest preventable cause of death and disease in the United Not being the only reporter of the detrimental effects of tobacco, this statement alone encompasses the movement that is The Real Cost and the American Lung Association. Both organizations are non-profit, mainly funded by donations or sponsorships. However being more medically centered, the American Lung Association is more involved with the everyday health risks, wanting to help people quit smoking, or treat them for the illnesses inevitably brought on by them. The ALA understands the temptation that is nicotine and they have funds directed towards research in Dinehart methods of addiction, specifically involved in reducing use or quitting entirely. Along with their initiatives on classical cigarettes, the ALA has also invested in research on new age electronic cigarettes, concluding that first-ever Surgeon report on e-cigarettes shatters the myth that e-cigarettes are harmless. Instead, it lays out in clear, indisputable terms that e-cigarette use is a risk to the health of young users that includes nicotine addiction, harm to brain development and likely increased odds of future use of other tobacco (Wimmer, 2016). Removing the alienation around cigarettes as the only chemically harmful tobacco product, this research states that inevitably any, or so far any, products including nicotine will result in the consumption of cancerous or harmful chemicals. Also in the article the myth that water vapor emissions from the E-cigarettes is busted, claiming that Surgeon General also found that exposure to the aerosol from E-Cigarettes is not water but can contain harmful and potentially harmful chemicals, including carcinogens, and of course, (Wimmer, 2016). This provides for the necessity that is the ALA and their mission, however as evidence will have it, their words and ideals targeting the audience they want to, Specifically younger individuals who are more susceptible to peer pressure and are more effected to cigarettes mental and physical affects. Similarly, The Real Cost is invested more with focusing on the choice of smoking, on educating their audience in a more unorthodox way, using harsh examples and fear-inducing metaphors, making their listeners more interested in the surreal nature of their ads, and frankly, more memorable. According to Miller & Marks, verbal messages are those which contain concrete, colorful, imagery- provoking language. Research indicates that such language generates imagery Their results also showed that vivid verbal messages can influence (p. 122). Understandably, the advertisements can come off as excessive and unnatural, but they get the message across in the most effective way. The Real Cost uses extremely abstract methods in order to appeal to younger generations who have more Dinehart flexible imaginations and will accept such bizarre tactics. It would seem neglectful to mostly appeal to youthful audiences, but as understood by Wimmer in his article for the ALA, are now the most popular tobacco product among American teens, and use by high school students grew by 900 percent between 2011 to directing advertisements towards teens who are not quite mentally capable of making patient, thorough decisions, but instead react on impulsivity and peer pressure, would be a more impactful approach than to direct it towards ages smokers with less of their life to live, who have grown more of an addiction than their younger counterparts. The Real Cost has been submitting their advertisements through tv commercials, magazine ads, etc. and have in turn effected a large number of individuals already, but they lack label, the validity. They have incredible resonating capabilities through their ads, but the ALA has a significantly larger audience and emotional standpoint. They are less harsh and resonate within the empathetic parts of humanity, not the curious, disgusted parts. The Real Cost even have games on their website about knocking out rotted teeth due to tobacco consumption called (The Real Cost). Which, although humorous and vividly terrifying, can fly over some individuals heads and cause them to miss the message entirely. Understanding that the two are very similar in their goals, a compromise assimilating the two organizations would undoubtably increase the effect of both. Hypothetically, an agreement between the two would ultimately strengthen their standing on the matter of cigarettes, specifically, targeting a wider ranged audience with both resources that are harsh and scary, but also professional and more prestigious, more relatable. Understand that, according to the statement for sex and race, persons who smoked their first cigarette at 14 to 16 years of age were 1.6 times more likely to become dependent than those who initiated smoking at an older age (P = (Breslau, Fenn & Peterson, 1993), It would be greatly more effective for the two organizations to join, disperse their ideas and resources and effect more younger individuals through intense, vivid, image-provoking messages such as The Real Cost provides, Dinehart but also have the exemplary resources to quit those addictions through a compassionate organization that has various ways to fight addiction and illness brought on by smoking. Dinehart Works Cited Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Current cigarette smoking among adults - United States, 2011. vol. 61(44) p. 889-94. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23134971 Harold P. Wimmer. E-Cigarettes - A Real Threat To Young Health 2016. ALA Website. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23134971 The Real Cost. Home Page. therealcost.betobaccofree.hhs.gov/? gclid=CJOi1ZTB6NECFQwTgQodmAgBnw&gclsrc=aw.ds&g=t Darryl W. Miller, Lawerence J. Marks. The Moderate Of Enduring Involvement On Imagery- Invoking Advertisements. American Marketing Association. 1996 vol. 7 p. 121-128 Naomi Breslau, Nancy Fenn & Edward L. Peterson. Early smoking initiation and nicotine dependence in a cohort of young adults. Vol. 33(2) p. 129-137 www.drugandalcoholdependence.com/article/0376-8716(93)90054-T/abstract Dinehart