Shaurya Jain Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 22 nd January 2017 Felony Disenfranchisement: One Wrong Step, Judged Forever After 200 years of democracy, America has failed to established a fair and equal ground for all. People start to question democracy when the basic concept of it is flawed, that is, voting rights for all. Felony disenfranchisement refers to taking away the voting rights of people due to conviction of a criminal offence. Disenfranchisement can be permanent or temporary depending upon the nature of the crime. More than 6 million American citizens are unable to vote due to their past convictions. Out of 50 states in America, 41 states automatically restore voting rights after the completion of the sentence/parole. In the remaining 9 states, voting rights are only restored by action or Court action. The two different stakeholders, National Conference of State Legislatures (NCLS) and Brennan Center for Justice, have different methods for restoring voting rights for ex-felons. Brennan Center for Justice reports that in states like Florida, which is among the three states with a lifetime voting ban for people with felony convictions, their strict law disenfranchises 1.6 million citizens, including 21 percent of the voting-age African Americans. NCLS reports that there are certain barriers to the restoration of the voting rights. Even in the states where ex-offenders regain their right automatically, the process of re-registration to vote often is difficult. Considering this predicament, a feasible solution would be to automatically restore voting rights for ex-felons after the completion of their sentence/parole in states like Florida but only after certain hours of community service. National Conference of State Legislatures (NCLS) was formed in 1975 and has been the of state Their mission is to improve the quality of state legislatures, promote policy innovations and ensure state legislatures a strong, cohesive voice in the federal system. NCLS believes there are three barriers to the restoration of the voting rights. Firstly, even in states where ex-offenders automatically regain their voting right after completion of their sentence, they have to undergo a lot of There are lot of complex laws and processes surrounding disenfranchisement. It also involves lengthy paper work and burdensome documentation. Also, all ex-felons are required to pay to restore their voting rights. Most of the ex-felons pay their debts and are chronically underemployed and they end up as (Cammet 2012). Secondly, there is often inconsistent and lack of communication among agencies which leads to delay in re-enfranchisement. According to Cammet (2012), is a severe lack of communication between criminal justice agencies and election There is also issue of ignorance among prisoners themselves, who have no idea that they can restore their voting rights. Consequently, a lot of people are not able to vote, even though they can get full pardon. Thirdly, NCLS believe that parole boards are underfunded in some states where offenders have to apply for restoration of their rights. Consequently, it leads to massive pile of applications which are unattended because the agencies are under staffed. NCLS and Cammet both believe that re-enfranchisement is to factors outside of and beyond the legal re-enfranchisement regulatory The major barriers are in fact the perpetual debt and the long paper work. In contrast, Brennan Center for Justice believes that states like Florida, Iowa and Kentucky which impose lifetime disenfranchisement, need to amend their state laws. Brennan Center for Justice at NYU is a nonpartisan law and policy institute. Their mission is to improve our of democracy and Their work ranges voting rights to campaign finance reform, from ending mass incarceration to preserving Constitutional protection in the fight against To ensure true democracy or healthy representative democratic governments, citizens must engage in electing their leaders based upon their belief systems, ideologies and policy preferences. (Ruth, Matusitz & Simi 2016) According to the Sentencing Project, 5.3 million Americans had temporarily or permanently lost their voting rights because of felony conviction in 2010. It is estimated that 30%-40% of the next generation of African American males will lose their right to vote in states with stricter laws (Ruth, Matusitz & Simi 2016). As per one study, Brennan center for Justice suggests that there is no connection between disenfranchisement and deterrence of future crime rates. If people in Florida reform their disenfranchisement policy, that change can restore rights to one-quarter of disenfranchised population. To establish democracy, it is only fair if everyone can vote, which suggests the removal of disenfranchisement law. The two stakeholders have no history working together. Both the stakeholders mission is to establish a true democracy and seek for justice. They both want the restoration of the voting rights for ex-felons but have different methods for it. NCLS believe that there are a lot of barriers to voting right which is not limited to the legality of the law. For example, under-funding of parole boards or inconsistent communication among agencies are some of the reason not restricted by the actual disenfranchisement law. Brennan Center for Justice believe that state like Florida need amendment in the law which allow them to vote after their sentence/parole. One possible, realistic solution to this predicament can be to establish a law in every state including Florida, Iowa and Kentucky, which allows ex-felons to restore their voting rights after certain hours of community work. This will reduce surmountable paper work for the government and will speed up the restoration of voting process. By doing community service, ex-felons will get an opportunity to gain the trust of the remaining members of the society. It should satisfy NCLS because it reduces considerable amount of burden from the government due to lots of paper works and court appeals. Brennan Center for Justice would be satisfied as it gives ex-felons in Florida, Iowa and Kentucky, a chance to get their voting rights back. There are possible outcomes to this compromise. It can be a failure because ex-felons would rather not have their voting rights instead of doing community work. They already did their time and it would be unfair to make them work for their right. This would reduce the voting turnover considerably. There is a chance that ex-felons might do community service because it is way better than paying a considerable amount of money to restore their voting rights. Therefore, ex-felons should be given choice, to do community work or appeal to court and pay the necessary fees along the way. It is only fair that a person should be treated equally after the completion of their sentence. There is no doubt about restoration of voting rights but it can be difficult to manage it in a huge democratic country. People often get lost behind the of the system. With the compromise, it will not only speed up the process but it will also allow ex-felons in states like Florida, Iowa and Kentucky to get a chance to vote again. This possible compromise can help the minority group such as African Americans, who are oppressed by the disenfranchisement law to get their voting rights back. Eventually, it is going to increase the voting turnover and America would be one step closer to a better democracy. Work Cited Brennan Center for Justice. Center for Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ncls.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. Brennan Center for  Brennan Center for Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ruth, Terrance, Jonathan Matusitz, and Demi semi. Of Disenfranchisement and Voting Rights in the U.s.:Convicted Felons, The Homeless, And American Journal Of Criminal Justice (2016): PsycINFO. Web. 29 Ja. 2017. Cammett, Anne. Citizens: Felony Disenfranchisement And the Criminalization Of Penn State Law Review 117.2 (2012): 349-405. Index of Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017.