Ryan Gardner Adam Carter ENC1102 1/28/17 Project 1 Capital punishment is the legal killing of someone for punishment of a crime and is by far the most severe punishment a criminal can have. A punishment this severe is certain to bring up a lot of controversy and offend groups of people. One such group is the Innocence Project, a group meant to help innocent criminals, and to prove the innocence of the formerly executed. Of course there are still many people that believe in the death penalty as well. Families of the victims have a strong passion in the death penalty as well as people who follow the belief that the death penalty deters crime. With both of these sides being so extreme is should be no surprise that there has been years of controversy and disagreement, but there have still been no compromises that appeal to both sides. I believe that lowering the cost to house inmates on a life sentence will deter criminals and punish them severely in a moral way. The Innocence Project was formed in 1992 with the purpose of proving already convicted criminals innocent, and proving previously executed innocent as well. They also work to improve the legal system to prevent these false convictions and to shed light on the inhumanity of the death penalty. The Innocence Project stems from the fear that the death penalty is unfair, racially biased, and that innocent people are possibly being executed (DeConto, Page 12). The distrust in the legal system that only issue people have with the death penalty. The main execution, lethal injection, has also been under a lot of scrutiny lately because of how untested it is, and how the chemicals in it are becoming increasingly expensive, and difficult to buy. Lethal injection has no way to truly be tested so there is fear that the criminal can feel pain during the execution, which would make the punishment illegal (Philpott, page 2). There is also the issue that these chemicals are almost impossible to buy from reputable sources now, the cheapest way to get them are to buy them from companies that regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (Philpott, page 2). The Innocence Project is against the death penalty because of the risk of wrong convictions and the immorality of the death penalty. The belief in the death penalty resides behind the deterrence effect, and the need for retribution for the victims. The deterrence effect was made from research that severe penalties, like the death penalty, reduce murder because criminals are afraid of the repercussions. Research shows that each execution reduces the murder of one white American, and one and a half African Americans. With the deterrence of murder, that makes criminals on death row executed at an average of 2.75 years quicker (Muhlhausen, page 1). Another main argument for the death penalty is that the punishment helps the families of the victims. In 1991, a young mother was rendered helpless and made to watch as her baby was executed. The mother was then mutilated and killed. The killer should not lie in some prison with three meals a day, clean sheets, cable TV, family visits and endless appeals. For justice to prevail, some killers just need to (Macy, page 1). People support the death penalty because it deters crime and it helps the family cope. These stakeholders have two very different beliefs so needless to say they have a long history of disagreement. The main issue these two sides have is that beliefs are almost opposites. The Innocence Project claims that the death penalty is biased and immoral, but those for the death penalty believe that it is the best way to prevent crime and that the criminals deserve it. They have historically never worked together because both sides are not willing to compromise. As different as the two sides are they both have a similar end goal, severely punish criminals but keep it fair and safe for all sides. As different as these sides may be, it is possible to have a viable solution that appeals to both parties. By lowering the cost to house inmates, especially in maximum security prisons, serious criminals will be punished severely in a morally and safer way. Life sentences are already cheaper than death sentences, but maximum security prisons can cost over $60,000 a prisoner each year (McClelland, page 1). Making maximum securities cheaper will be an incredibly severe punishment that can potentially deter crime just as much as the death penalty. Although this may not give all families a sense of retribution, many families feel that violence to avenge violence is not okay, and spending life in a maximum prison is arguably just as bad as death. It is also very appealing to those against the death penalty because there is no death involved. It also allows the Innocence Project to prove more convicted people innocent without them being at risk of death. The death penalty consists of two very different stakeholders. The Innocence Project works to help those convicted whom are innocent and follow the belief that the death penalty is immoral to the criminal. Those for the death penalty believe that it deters crime and that is proper retribution for the families. Lowering the cost of maximum security prisons will ultimately appeal to both sides but severely punishing and deterring criminals, but also keeping them alive and giving them more time to be found innocent. Work Cited: 1) DeConto, Jesse James. Motion To  Against The Death Penalty (n.d.): 12-14. Web. 23 Jan. 2013. 2) Help Us Put an End to Wrongful  Innocence Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 3) McCleland, Jacob. The High Costs Of High Security At Supermax  NPR. NPR, 19 June 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 4) Muhlhausen, David B. The Death Penalty Deters Crime And Saves  Testimony On Crime (2007): n. pag. Web. 5) Philpott, Sean. Execution By Lethal Injection: Illegal Policy and Politics (2014): 11-12. Web. 124 Jan. 2017. 6) Retribution (In Support of the Death  Retribution (In Support of the Death Penalty). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.