Saif Rahman ENC 1102 Should refugee and immigration be limited in UNITED STATES America is acknowledged to be the most generous nation to welcome refugees, who are naturally or unnaturally displaced from their own country. After the Syrian crisis people had questioned the title of America being the most welcoming nation for asylum seekers. America had the best record to resettle refugees in their country but after the Arab spring, situation started to change drastically. There has been a massive decline of refuges intake. Due to a political turmoil in Syria, United nation estimated that 6.5 million people were displaced by the end of August 2014. Most of the refugees fled to their neighboring countries to escape inevitable death. The neighboring countries like Turkey, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia and Jordan welcomed the most refugees in that order. UNHCR estimated that Germany took over 600,000 refugees since the Syrian crisis. It is estimated that Turkey took 2.7 million refuges which dwarfs the amount of refugees taken in United states. United states took only about 16,000 people which is significantly less than their neighboring country Canada, which took more than 60,000 refugees. The main reason which American politicians are concerned about, is the safety of country. National security, economics development and effective immigration polices are the fundamental policy of a successful country (Nicholas J Ferraro, 2014). Due to the political turmoil in middle east, many terrorist activities increased and a terrorist group was formed which is known as ISIS. America is concerned about the fact that members of this extremist group may enter through the process of resettling refugees. America was known to be the land of freedom and opportunity, where every race and people of different faith coexists peacefully. Refugees and immigrant who are fleeing from their life must be given an opportunity because it is a correct thing to do as we all are human being. Although there are risks involved with allowing refuges and immigrants to reside in another country, the humanitarian cause outweighs these risks. Numerous studies over decades have proven that two simple but yet prevailing truths about the affiliation connecting to immigration and crime: native born are more likely to commit serious crime than immigrants. Research has proven that high rates of immigration are correlated with lower rates of violent crime and property crime, therefore strict immigration policies are ineffective in deaminizing crime. A research was conducted between 1990 and 2013, foreign born share of the U.S. population raised from 7.9 percent to 13.1 percent and the number of unauthorized immigrants drastically increased from 3.5 million to 11.2 million. During that time period, FBI data showed that the violent crime deteriorated 48 percent. Property crime fell 41 percent during the same period. There are further researches which indicates that an immigrant in general commits lesser crime than the native born citizen. Walter Ewing PH. D, conducted a research based on the data provided by the American Community Survey (ACS). From the data provided the professor concluded that, about 1.6 percent of the immigrant males age 18-39 are jailed, in compared to 3.3 percent of the native-born. Accepting immigrants and refugees are also economically beneficial. Professor Alexander Betts, Director of the Refugee Studies Centre at Oxford University in his recent journal, he talks about the benefit that the host country gains when they let refugees and immigrants enters. The author indicates that it is a common misconception that refugees are a liability to host countries. This misconception creates a lot of misunderstanding between the citizen of the host country and the refugees. It often distorts the actual reality and statistics about this matter. arguments are often advanced without recourse to evidence. Indeed, few economists have worked on refugees and forced migration, and governments do not have disaggregated immigration data that can show the economic impact of hosting In 2014 study, it was discovered that due to the presence of refugee, the local economy significantly rose. The economy was boosted because of additional purchasing power, the creation of employment and the provision of human capital. Refugees are not a burden in a society, they benefit the society by engaging in production, consumption, exchange and developing new businesses. Research indicates that whether refugees are a burden or a benefits depends on the host policies and also where the refugees are from. When the refugees and immigrants are given opportunity to work, education and banking, they are likely to have a better impact on the society. The immigrants and refugees tend to work more hours with a lesser pay, they try their best to integrate themselves into the new society for the benefits of their future generation. It is already tough for them to leave their beloved home country where they grew up in their own culture and people. They had to leave all of their possession in order to have a better future. Migrating to a different country is extremely difficult. They sometimes do not even get basic human needs like water, nutrition and shelter. After battling so many hardships for many months, if they are denied to enter country it would be totally immoral. The first priority of a country is to protect itself from various threats. The key reason for denying entry to the country is for safety precaution. After 9/11, America has heavily invested time and money on border controls. There have been events related to terror attacks which puts tremendous pressure on the boarder controls now than ever before. Another disadvantage is that the government has to pay for the background checks, interviews and processing citizenship which places a burden for U.S taxpayers. When new immigrants move to a city where the job market is saturated, if they find no mean to support themselves they may have to relay on the federal social service (Ashley D, Rose 2015). Language barrier is another problem the new immigrants and refugees might have to face. The U.S government have not been so active on the Syrian crisis because they predict that some members of the extremist group can enter the country. It will jeopardise the safety of the nation. In order to compromise we must seek out the common grounds first. The government should allow more refugees and immigrant to enter the country. The government must find more efficient way to background check people who are coming in, because safety of the nation is the first priority. It is not only a great humanitarian cause but it will also help boost the economy. The government of U.S along with the UNHCR should find a more productive way to integrate the immigrants and refugee to the society. The U.N and U.S.A should provide education who are children so that they can function in the new country. America is known to be the land of immigrants, people from all around the world with different ethnicity comes here to seek a better life. America is where all the culture comes together with peace and harmony this is one of the important characteristic of America. The benefits of having different immigrants and refugees residing in this country is far more beneficial. Work cited Ross, Ashley D., and Stella M. Rouse. Economic Uncertainty, Job Threat, And The Resiliency Of The Millennial Attitudes Toward  Social Science Quarterly (Wiley-Blackwell) 96.5 (2015): 1363-1379. Academic Search Premier. Web.29 Jan. 2017. CASTILLA, BEN A. RISSING AND EMILIO J. Testing Attestations: U.S. Unemployment And Immigrant Work  Industrial & Labor Relations Review 69.(2016): 1081. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ferraro, Nicholas J. The U.S. Senate Immigration Reform Bill And The Need For Amendments Before  University Of La Verne Law Review 36.(2014): 17. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Matsongou, Elizabeth. are an economic benefit, not a burden, in World finance. Web. 29 JAN.2017 Hunt, Jennifer. Immigrants The Most Skilled US Computer And Engineering Journal of labour economics 33.(2015):S30-S77. Business source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Hong, Gihoon. Examining The U.S. Labor Market Performance Of Immigrant Workers In The Presence Of Network  Journal Of Labor Research 36.1 (2015): 9-26. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.