Zena Rigaud Mr. Carter English Composition 2 29 January 2017 Effects that beauty standards have on women Over the years a lot of research has been done on whether or not beauty standards have negative effects on women. Within recent years, the issue has become more prevalent in the media, causing a highly debated controversy. With large, well known beauty companies creating advertisements that showcase unrealistic images of beauty, it can cause poor body image to develop at a very young age. This can also cause negative emotions amongst women to arise on their appearance, leading to low self-esteem, anxiety and other possible mental illnesses. Seven in ten girls they do not measure up in some way including their looks, performance in school and (Dove Self-Esteem Fund). One of the companies that is on the forefront of promoting positive self image is Dove through their Real Beauty campaign. They focus on transforming the conversation around what beauty is by stating that is not defined by shape, size or color feeling like the best version of They feature women from real life on their website and ads. On the other hand, companies like Secret continue to perpetuate unrealistic beauty standards through campaigns like Perfect Body, which was later changed to A Body for Every Body due to backlash from critics. Despite no longer advertising this campaign, they still showcase models who represent unrealistic beauty ideals. Both these companies strive to market their products in a way that will appeal to the most buyers, however one is causing detrimental effects to self image and mental health. In order for companies to successfully sell their products while also promoting realistic beauty standards, they should implement disclaimers on photoshopped images and ads explaining how these women are not representative of what everyday women should look like. Secret was founded by Roy Raymond in 1977 after feeling embarrassed to be seen publicly shopping for lingerie for his wife. The store instantly became successful and earned a revenue of $500,000 in one year. It is now the largest retailer of lingerie and is owned by L Brands. By them showcasing models who only fit a certain beauty standard, Secret continuously add to the negative effects of media. For example, their annual Secret Fashion Show solely display models scantily clad in (Wall Street Journal). These fashion shows are primarily attended by A-list entertainers who are seen as role models to girls and young women everywhere. The shows also showcase famous celebrities who are well known around the world. Celebrities like Taylor Swift, Gigi Hadid, and Kendall Jenner all have made appearances on Secret runway while also having a tremendous following on social media. Since these women have such immense platforms, many of which are young girls, look to them as role models and aspire to be like them. By endorsing this unrealistic and negative beauty ideals, these celebrities are insinuating their support for Secret detrimental effect on girls. When young girls see women they admire reflected by widespread companies, it tends to have an influence on how girls view themselves. In one article by CNN, it is stated that girls aged 5-7 were exposed to images of thin dolls like Barbie, said they wanted to look thinner compared with those who saw dolls with a healthier body (Jo Swinson). Whether companies like Secret want to admit it or not, their advertisements have a large impact on how the girls and women who view them perceive themselves. The Dove Brand was founded by Lever Brothers in 1957. In the beginning, they only sold soap bars but have since grown to sell other products like body wash, body lotion, face washes, shampoos and conditioners. This company has always used real women in their ads, for over 40 years now, in order to promote their ideals of moisture, cleanliness, natural beauty, and touchable Their campaign, Real Beauty, was launched in 2004 with efforts to widen the definition of beauty in mind. They showcase women of different sizes, races, and ages in hopes to celebrate real and inclusive beauty. Dove has also demonstrated that their main priority is not always sales but rather representing themselves in a way that exemplifies the beauty ideals they promote. For example, in 2013 Dove released an ad that showed footage of young and elderly women hiding their faces from a camera and compared it to film of younger girls being excited to be on camera. With this ad they asked the question, did you stop thinking you were and in turn advocate for their desire to change commercialized beauty ideals. Being such a well known company, Dove has the opportunity to highly influence their audience and they are choosing to leave a lasting and positive impact. Since Secret sell clothing products and Dove sells beauty products, they have never and most likely will never work together. There is no factual evidence showing that these two companies directly oppose each other, however, through the way they display their advertisements, their differences are clear. One company portrays women that are not representative of regular, everyday women and the other showcases real women that represent a wide range of body shapes, ages, and races. A possible solution to the negative effects that beauty ads have on women and body image would be to implement disclaimers on photoshopped images and ads explaining how these women are not representative of what everyday women should look like. This would be a good compromise in order to both promote positive self image while also remaining a popular and well selling brand. images should carry disclaimers stating that they have been altered, in order to prevent even more unrealistic standards of thinness and beauty from taking hold in a society already plagued by serious eating Menkedick). In order to accomplish this, a law should be passed, making it illegal for companies to not add disclaimers to their photoshopped ads. By doing this it will be easy to regulate and enforce. Since the beauty industry is such an immensely profitable industry, it will be hard to completely erase the existing beauty standards. They want to make their products look as appealing as possible by showcasing them on beautiful and skinny models. secret is an example of a company that would keep using beautiful and skinny models to showcase their clothes and products in order to make profit. Dove on the other hand is a company that showcase their products with the intention of representing themselves in a way that exemplifies the beauty ideals they promote, worrying less about sales. One way to reach a common ground between both stakeholders is to implement disclaimers on their advertisements explaining how these women are not representative of what everyday women should look like. Works cited Welcome to  Dove UK. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Fund, Dove Self-Esteem. New National Report Reveals the High Price of Low  PR Newswire: press release distribution, targeting, monitoring and marketing. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Holmes, Elizabeth. Secret Fashion Show: Models, Rappers and One Famous Baby  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 11 Nov. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Swinson, Jo. False beauty in advertising and the pressure to look  CNN. Cable News Network, 10 Aug. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Laura Falotico Follow. Dove- Brand  Share and Discover Knowledge on LinkedIn SlideShare. N.p., 18 Jan. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Require Magazines to Print Disclaimers on Photoshopped  Change.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.