Maria Petropoulos 1 Maria Petropoulos ENC 1102 John Williams 29 January Black Lives Matter Racism is a topic that has been relevant throughout American history. Today it is still prevalent, though not as violent as it has been in the past, though still a big deal. More recently, the term Lives sprung in 2012 after the alleged murder of Trayvon Martin by George Zimmerman (blacklivesmatter), mostly used on social media sites, such as twitter, for people to comment on their thoughts and opinions of the recent events. This has a large young adult support and, of course, minority support. In response to this, another term(s) has popped up: #Blue Lives Matter and #All Lives Matter. These terms have come to show that there is no racist actions taking place, but, rather, that the police officers have acted in their own best interest and safety, for the #Blue Lives Matter portion. This side also believes that the safety of the police officers is more important than that of the citizens they have put down, that what they did was necessary. The #All Lives Matter portion believes that no life is more important than that the #Black Lives Matter term is prejudice towards anyone that is not of the African American heritage. These differing sides have caused many riots and outbreaks of racial violence, only causing more danger in neighborhoods. In order for there to be peace in our communities, a compromise must be made, to put an end to meaningless violence and racial injustice. Black Lives Matter is the term used by those who are opposed to the actions they have witnessed the government, government officials, or police officers have taken towards minority Maria Petropoulos 2 groups, especially blacks. Lives Matter is a call to action and a response to the virulent anti-Black racism that permeates our According the black lives matter website, this is a moment, but a This movement is about more than the racism that has stemmed from the events of the senseless killings that have taken place since Trayvon, it sticks up for any person who is black as well as a part of some other minority group, whether it be blacks in the LGTB communities, disabled persons, and those with questionable pasts (blacklivesmatter). They want the white privilege that have witnessed within their counterparts indulging in for long before their time, they are about the ways in which Black lives are deprived of basic human rights and (blacklivesmatter). They blame white supremacy for their discrimination and merely want to be equal, and for the accomplishments and safety of the minorities to be just as important as everyone Blue Lives Matter, the term, has come as a result of the Black Lives Matter movement. The purpose of the Blue Lives Matter movement is to place police officers safety over those that they have allegedly murdered. This supports the police and their actions, believing that what they are doing is right and for the ultimate safety of their communities, recognize the actions of law enforcement, strengthen public support, and provide much-needed resources to law enforcement and their (bluelivesmatter). What many people that point fingers at the officers realize is that they are also people doing their jobs, and that job is for them to maintain peace in our streets and homes. Police officers have a dangerous job and the safety of the public is their main priority. Within the Blue Lives Matter Mission Statement, it is stated that those who stand with them offer their neverending support and will keep the safety of law enforcement their priority (bluelivesmatter) Maria Petropoulos 3 All Lives Matter is a sort of consensus between these two groups, but not quite the compromise that will be sustainable at this point in time. is out of control, and I agree with the sheriff that It is time to drop any other descriptive lives matter, black lives matter, police lives matter, every single life (policelivesmatter). Though this phrase may seem all encompassing, it is disregarding the brutality that the black population has been victim of. In order for a compromise to be justifiable, it must acknowledge that black lives are in need of protection and support, The only true compromise for these stakeholders would be the coming together to support black lives. The society we live in today, unfortunately, still holds much racist thoughts and actions towards the African American population. Of course, today is better than how America was back in the 1800s or even fifty years ago, but there is still a sort of white supremecy that is prevelant within our communities and the only way to surpass this would be for the endless support of the blacks in the United States of America. If this compromise could occur, blacks would be given the support they deserve after ages of white privilege as well as the support of law enforcement. This would give them the feeling of safety they ever so lack in society of the alleged police brutality. Maria Petropoulos 4 Works Cited Larson, Eric D. Lives Matter and Bridge Building: Labor Education for a Jim Labor Studies Journal 41.1 (2016): 36-66. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. #Black Lives Matter. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Blue Lives Matter. N.p., 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 29. Jan. 2017. Lives CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.