Mathieu Daddario Composition 2 1/29/2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft In business it is extremely important to try to maximize profit, you try to squeeze every last bit of worth out of something. At an Animal Shelter adopting animals is usually free, or cost enough to help support that shelter. Now when you have a business of selling animals, when a bunch of controversy. You are mixing the maximizing of profits with selling animals. Now on one side of the argument, there are organizations who want to help make sure every animal that is being sold is safe, happy, and healthy, for example the Humane Society of United States (HSUS). This is a nonprofit organization that is very much for protection of all animals. According to the Humane Society of United States website they are large- scale cruelties such as puppy mills, animal fighting, factory farming, seal slaughter, horse cruelty, captive hunts and the wildlife -HumaneSociety.org. They do a lot to help out animals and according to their website, they have helped more than a hundred thousand animals a year with -HumaneSociety.org. Their goal is basically to save all the animals from being mistreated and giving animals rights. Now on the other end of the spectrum is most pet stores. Pet stores nearly care as much about the animals as much as they do profit. They heavily rely on the fact of making money and trying to maximize profit, which is the goal for most businesses. These are the stores where they buy from puppy mills as well as other types of mills. Puppy mills according to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) puppy mill is a large-scale commercial dog breeding facility where profit is given priority over the well-being of the Now how is it going to be possible to find a compromise between the Humane Society of the United States and pet stores. First part is going to be about the existing laws are meant for people who are breeding and selling animals with in the United States as well as who enforces these rules. Then going to the business side of the sale of pets from pet stores to puppy mills. Last is how Humane Society of the United States and pet stores will be able to find a compromise. There are laws that mainly every person who participates in the sale of animals has to follow. There is the Animal Welfare Act (AWA) this according to James F, is for the humane handling, care, treatment, and transportation of regulated animal It also includes people who breed and sell animals. According to the Animal Welfare Act there are law there are inspectors who will come by these breeders once every year to reevaluate the conditions of the animals and where they are staying. This is what is covered by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Services (APHIS). The Aphis.usda.gov says that its is for upholding and enforcing the Animal Welfare It also talks about how it checks the standards of for certain warm-blooded animals bred for Now this law is the only law that enforces the basic living for animals. There are some problems with the law itself as well as how it is enforced. There a lot of reasons given by the Puppymillproject.org, for example there is no limits on how many dogs can be on the property mill could have hundreds or thousands of Dogs for instance, can live their entire lives in a cage made of or wire the cages they live in can minimally be six inches bigger than their body including the There are at least 10,000 puppy mills just in America according to Humane Society of the United States. The Des Moines Register said that there is said to be only 120 people who do these inspections for ASPHIS. There are only 120 people inspecting 10,000 puppy mills and other breeders, that seems very understaffed and needs more people. basically all there is to know about the background of Animal Welfare Act. In 2011 seventy-eight million dogs live in the United States, and $2.13 billion were spent in the U.S. market in 2010 on live animal According to Krysten Kenny. She also said that out of those billions of dollars between to 8 million dogs and are put into animal shelters and about only half of them are put down. Also she said that out of the whole country about to 4 million sold were from puppy mills and about 9000 pet stores sold these puppy mill puppies. Organizations like Humane Society of the United States like those types of out comes. It is because millions of animals are being put down each year because no one wants them, and the HSUS is very pro life when it comes to animals. So according to these statistics of animals being put to death because no one wants them and the fact that puppy mills can produce and sell thousands of animals in total about 2 to 4 million of them to pet stores. It makes HSUS and other animal rights groups pretty perturbed. when the animal rights groups go and expose how sad, evil, and disgusting these puppy mills are. They shoot videos of poor dogs locked up in small cages covered in feces due to the fact that are stacked above each other. That is when the media is all over these puppy mills, giving reports about how terrible these places are and how they sell mainly to your pet store. That makes people stop buying dogs from pet stores and makes them adopt them from animal shelters. Now that hurts the businesses who are in the pet store market, because now people want to buy their animals because they think they are all from these grotesque mills, therefor loosing a lot of money. This is where the compromise comes in between the animal rights group Humane Society of the United States and pet stores. The HSUS wants the animals to be healthy and happy, while the pet stores want to make a profit. The only thing is that since animals that pet stores are buying are from mills, make HSUS mad and causes them to expose these mills because they want dogs to be happy and healthy. Now in order to make both HSUS happy by saving dogs lives while also getting pet stores more money, this is the compromise. What the pet stores need to do is somehow convince the puppy mills to update their facilities so its more animal friendly and a place where an animal can actually live its life. Not crated up its whole life but let out, given the proper things to survive like food and water, as well as time to be an actual animal not a caged prisoner. Then Humane Society of the United States will be happy that these animals are not being mistreated. It also will help the business because they can physically show people who want to buy an animal where the animal comes from. Therefor possibly increasing the price of animals as well as getting more people to buy dogs from them in turn raising their profits. a win win. Work Cited Kenny, Krysten. A Local Approach To A National Problem: Local Ordinances As A Means Of Curbing Puppy Mill Production And Pet  Albany Law Review 75.1 (2011): 379- 406. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gesualdi, James F. AWA Compliance: Understanding The Basic  Florida Bar Journal 90.6 (2016): 100-104. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Humane Society of the United States : The Humane Society of the United  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Puppy  ASPCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. USDA APHIS Animal  USDA APHIS Animal Welfare. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Luplow, Lyle Muller and Jacob. Only 120 Inspectors Check U.S. Dog Breeding  Des Moines Register. N.p., 03 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.