Al lawati 1 Ahmed Al Lawati ENC1102 Mr.Fennell January 29 th 2017 Integration of Technology In Education Classrooms Technology could be the base reason of why our generation is the most successful generations of all time. Technology proved to play a huge role in advancing this generation into a better prospective. Due to this, the integration of technology is taking over peoples life is their daily basis and day to day work. As education is the core of our generation or any generation there was, this introduction might enhance education to make it easier and accessible. Therefore, will education actually help education in a way they access and reach to it or is it going to cause more problems or issues in the process? Technology is known that it could improve different aspects of life as it also can increase benefits. On the other hand, we also know and cannot ignore the setbacks or disadvantages that integration of technology to our education could have. that revolves round education always tend to want to introduce the technologies to their systems to make the process much more compassionate. explain, paper files could cause a huge mess, it also has a huge effect to our environment. Not only that but papers could be damaged at any second and can not be recovered. Due to this many stakeholders could be in effect such as the teacher, students and board members. As it is clear, students in this generation would not have any problems adjusting to the technology as they are using it on daily and Lowther (2010) Al lawati 2 surveyed 1,382 public school teachers and found that teachers who believed that technology positively affected learning were more likely to use technology in (Jung Won, Shannon & Wolf, quote explains that students would not have any problems adjusting to the new technological integration, it could even be much more beneficial to them. Students would be more productive in this way as they would be more excited to have a new way of learning and this time it is actually in a way they like doing it. The matter is not in the students; it is actually between the teachers and board members. Those two stakeholders strive to give their students a better way of learning and both stakeholders have the same goal, but there are restrictions that are pushing them away from each other. Board members are the one who are with the ultimate decision; weather the introduction of technology would benefit the students or no. This brings up several points that the board members would have to take into consideration before having to make the decision. The cost and installation is a key factor in making this decision. Board members would also expect that the system would have no issues, would not break down and for it to start working from the first day it was installed. Donald G. Knezek mentions results of their work -- be it new proposals, new knowledge or solutions, persuasive advocacy (in a variety of interactive media formats), or creative ideas and expression -- in ways that previous generations could only (1). The point that is being brought up here is that teachers work better at their own pase. Sometimes when board members try to hard to make the teacher work under a specific celling is where it all goes wrong. Teachers will always find out methods to deliver their information and will make students get it when it should be done. To mention that teachers and board members both Al lawati 3 of those stakeholders have a similar prospective. It is to give their students a better education in a much better way. On the other hand board members the people who would want any postponements, which could affect the way the students learn and at the pace they are in. A solution to this issue will be that board members could offer workshops. For example while installing all the systems, teachers should go on a course or workshop that could last from days to weeks. In this they can learn every aspect of this new system that is being installed and how it actually works. Those workshops should help the teacher over go any issues they might face in future. For example if they system gets stuck or broken down what should be done to restart it. At the end of this workshop teachers should take a test to prove they have learned from this course and could effectively use it. had used their laptops to structure their resources on their own. The results showed that laptop is a powerful tool that could enable teachers to create teaching resources that are geared to the (Khambari, Luan, Nida & Ayub, 558). Teachers will then be able to find out numerous ways to deliver what needs to be delivered, this is what the quote explains. Teachers will also find a way to make everything simpler in a way that their students could understand depending on their levels of understanding or the grade they are in. To conclude, education is they key factor to develop any generation, weather it involved technology or not. Education has many ways that could be done it, as Benjamin mentioned that it is an exchange. For this exchange to be effective both parties should participate actively. This is how learning is defined as he mentioned (Benjamin, 1). For any goal to be achieved there will many obstacles to go through. There is nobody who is Al lawati 4 successful who gone through some circumstances. In the issue both stakeholders the board members and the teachers should work is a great aid in my learning. Not only does much of it allow the professor or students to communicate knowledge and ideas in new and exciting ways, it also eases the ability to then access that information for later (1). This proves that that teachers and students could use those technologies in their benefit. This will make it easier for students to back for it incase they forgot something or they lost a papers that could easily be found on the system. Students are the ones that the technology is being tested on. Therefore, the two stakeholders should work together to make it easier for the students to pass whatever they are taking. Al lawati 5 Work Cited Page 1. Jung Won, David Shannon, and Sara Wolf. An Investigation of Relationships Between Internal and External Factors Affecting Technology Integration in  of Digital Learning in Teacher Education 32.3 (2016): 105-14. 2. Mas Nida Md., Wong Su Luan, and Ahmad Fauzi Mohd Ayub. Technology in Mathematics Teaching: The Pros and Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences 8 (2010): 555-60. 3. Scott. Addressing Technology Pros and Journal of the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners J Amer Acad Nurse Practitioners 17.11 (2005): n. pag. 4. Suzie. Technology Integration: What Experts N.p., 2011. Web. 10 Sept. 5. Center for for Teaching. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Sept.