AL BALUSHI 1 Nofel Al Balushi John William ENC1102 29 January 2017 Effect Of Smoking Advertisements In Teens Teen smoking considered as one of the biggest problems that the United States worry about. However, people did many researches to know the main causes of teen smoking. In my view, the number of teen smokers is increasing because there are many factors affect teens and make them start to smoke such as, cigarettes advertisement. However, Many studies were done about the danger of teen smoking; it found that people whom start to smoke are likely to die before people whom never smoke. Also, researches show that if a mother started to smoke at teen age, it would cause birth problems. In order to prevent these problems, the number of teen smokers needs to be reduced by decreasing the causes that make adults and teens smoke. Thus, in order to reduce the amount of teen smokers, cigarettes advertisements need to be prohibited. First of all, advertisements are the most effective way to persuade teenagers. Cigarettes dealers and companies are using smart skills and methods marketing to convince people to start to smoke. The more cigarettes advertisements, the more likely teens enter the world of smokers. However, the number of teen smokers is increasing because of advertisements, and According to the article Cigarette Advertising and Teen Smoking Initiation which is published on 2011 study shows that exposure to cigarette-advertisements images was associated with smoking initiation in a prospective (Hanewinkel, Isensee, Sargent, and Morgenstern 276). In fact, this study shows AL BALUSHI 2 that out of 2102 teens aged 11 to 17 years, 277 (which is 13%) started to smoke because of cigarettes advertisement. Thus, the governments on the United States of America need to prohibit advertisements of cigarettes and tobacco, because it is one of the main causes of teen smoking. In fact, there are two different thoughts about smoking advertisement. The first is that Companies and people whom smoke want to make more persuading advertisements to earn more money and lose. Moreover, as it mentioned in the health literacy website are the most heavily advertised product in the U.S. The tobacco companies spend 4 billion dollars a year or 11 million dollars a day to try to get people to buy cigarettes. Every day the tobacco industry is fighting against the growing number of reports about the health dangers of Marjorie Jacobs1997) Many companies spend a lot of money to sell more productions but they know that they are harming people by persuading them and make them start to smoke. Thus, big companies like, Marlboro want to lose their brand name and they want to sell more cigarettes, so they make more advertisements. In addition, the companies are focusing on teenagers mostly, and as it mentioned in the Targeting Teens article would never know any of this from looking at cigarette ads. The ads show smiling healthy-looking, attractive people, sometimes playing sports--just the opposite of what real cigarette smokers often look and act like. For years, the tobacco companies have maintained that such ads were for adults only. But now there is evidence that at least one large tobacco company--R.J. Reynolds--produced cigarette ads aimed at young people, including (Academic Search Premier 1998) And also, according to Professor Graham MacGregor should we ban the marketing of cigarettes that kill us and allow the food industry, particularly to AL BALUSHI 3 target our children? It make sense and why should they be allowed to do this? They get around all the regulations and it is a complete and utter scandal. We should be reducing portion sizes and we certainly need a tax on soft He explained that they should not banned cigarettes advertisements, and if they did, they should banned junk food advertisements because it is harmful as well. On the other side, many people and groups want to see cigarettes advertisement on their television screen. Also, they want a law that banned cigarettes advertisements, because they know that it is harmful for their and it could cause many health problems. However, the centers of diseases control and prevention in the United States shows many real statistics about the health problem that teen smokers faced due to smoking, also it shows that people started to smoke likely when they are teens. Furthermore, the number of teen smokers needs to be reduced because smoking is one of the dangerous things that can cause death. According to the center of diseases control and prevention website people died because of lung cancer between 2005 and center of diseases control and prevention website 2016). Also, there are groups that want to produce antismoking advertisements, as it mentioned in The Impact of an Antismoking Media Campaign on Progression to Established Smoking: Results of a Longitudinal Youth Study article younger adolescents (aged 12 to 13 years at baseline), those reporting baseline exposure to television antismoking advertisements were significantly less likely to progress to established smoking (odds ratio = 0.49, 95% confidence interval=0.26, 0.93). Exposure to television antismoking advertisements had no effect on progression to established smoking among older adolescents (aged 14 to 15 years at baseline), and there AL BALUSHI 4 were no effects of exposure to radio or outdoor (Siegel, Michael. Biener, Lois 2000) thus, these articles and websites are against smoking advertisement and they want to prohibit smoking advertisements to reduce the number of smokers and especially teen smokers. Furthermore, these two stakeholders should find a solution that satisfies both sides. Moreover, they should reduce the number of teen smokers, so they must make antismoking advertisements and broadcast them in televisions. And according to the article Commentary on Hanewinkel et al. (2010): Anti-smoking advertisements vaccinate movie viewers against effects of on-screen smoking that the benefits of anti- smoking advertisements before smoking films is not heavily dependent upon the cultural context. The fact that the advertisement increased concern over the issue of smoking in movies could also have the secondary effect of building support for tobacco control and the policy of rating smoking films for to reduce youth (Glantz, Stanton 2010) and because they both believe that advertisements have a huge effect on people, antismoking advertisements must be produced more and more to reduce the number of smokers it the united states of America. In conclusion, both stakeholders know that advertisement is one of the best persuading way that could help them to share their ideas and thoughts in the United States. Thus, in order to decrees the amount of smoking in the United States, global channels and famous people to make them more effective and useful must broadcast antismoking AL BALUSHI 5 Work Cited Page Siegel, Michael. Biener, Lois. American Journal Of Public Health. March 2000, Vol. 90 Issue 3, p380-386. 7p. Glantz, Stanton A. Department of Medicine, University of California. Addiction, Vol. 105(7), Jul, 2010. pp. 1278-1279. Targeting Teens. Current Events, 00113492, 2/13/98, Vol. 97, Issue 19. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=b0431f89- 6b764347b46c1d30928757ed%40sessionmgr4008&vid=5&hid=4102&bdata=Jn NpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#db=aph&AN=203284 MacGregor, Graham. If Cigarette Ads Are Banned, Adverts For Junk Food Should Be Too, Says Top Health Expert. Dailymail.com. 2015. Jacobs, Marjorie. A Comprehensive Adult Basic Education Curriculum. Unit 2. 1997. Centers For Diseases Control And Prevention (2015). Web. Hanewinkel, R, Isensee, B, Sargent, J and Morgenstern, M. (2011) Cigarette Advertising and Teen Smoking  Pediatrics 138.3 (n.d.): n. pag. Web.