Alkhamali 1 Abdullah Zayed K Alkhamali Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.910 30 January 2017 Gun Control in the United States Gun control has been a hot-button issue for many years in the United States. According to the NRA, the second amendment of the U.S. Constitution states: A well- regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be (2). This amendment led to tons of debates and discussions that are still continuing till today. Some Americans want more regulations and laws that restrict using and distribution of guns in the United States. On the other hand, people who support gun rights say that having a gun to protect ourselves is our constitutional right. As people divided also organizations are divided and each organization has her own mission and goal. Anti-gun organizations such as Coalition to Stop Gun Violence has many supporters who want to ban guns in the United States. In contrast, National Rifle supporters seek more freedom of trading and using guns among Americans. Regardless of the differences, how to make society safe is a common value between these organizations, so there is a possible compromise which lead to a better understanding of this issue. Some Americans consider guns the reason number one behind the atrocious mass shootings which have happened all around the United States. According to the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, explaining their mission We seek to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy (1). Over the past 20 years, however, gun violence has taken on a new form: we have seen the evolution, and increasing frequency, of attempted mass shootings which appear to have as their main Alkhamali 2 objective the intent to hurt as many people as possible. No regard seems to be given to the individual traits of the victims; they are victims merely because they were in that location at that ( Taxman 1). For instance, many people know the tragical Sandy Hook elementary . This Newtown, Connecticut of December 2012, in th which occurred on 14 chool shooting s mass shooting happened when a young male shot 20 children and six adult school members by Bushmaster XM15-E2S rifle. This was one of the most deadliest mass shooting in the United history. After this accident, the Newtown Action Alliance established to assist the victims from this horrible nightmare. All Americans, even the gun protagonists, have denounced this heinous act and offer their sincere condolences to the victims. On the other hand, gun supporters have declared that guns are not the reason behind American atrocities of mass shootings. According to the National Rifle Association, commenting on the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting Guns kill people, people (3). This is a clear and strong statement that defend the gun rights and denounces the horrible act from the perpetrator. The NRA mission states NRA protect and defend the constitution of the United States, especially with reference to the inalienable right of the individual American citizen guaranteed by such constitution to acquire, possess, collect, exhibit, transport, carry, transfer ownership of, and enjoy the right to use  (The NRA 3). The National Rifle Association is one of the biggest organizations which defends the second amendment of the U.S. constitution. Indeed, the Second underwhelming impact in litigation is largely reflective of its own success: because invocations of the Amendment have been so politically powerful, there is simply not as much left for it to do, legally speaking, as some might (Blocher 1). This has stopped many guns ban claims from gun-control supporters. Besides the differences between the NRA and CSGV, there is a common value shared between these organizations. Alkhamali 3 safety is the priority number one for the National Rifle Association and Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. CSGV wants to stop the distribution and buying guns among Americans in order to decrease gun violence and make the society safe. For example, if a criminal tried to do an illegal activity, he/she will find a difficulty of getting a gun because of the restricted gun regulations. As a result, people will feel safer more than ever. Similarly, the NRA ask people to have guns and defend their constitutional right which lead to a safe and strong society. To illustrate, many Americans in the southern states have a gun in their houses and cars, so if any danger happened, they will have the ability to defend themselves and their properties. It also helps to create a fear inside criminals because they will think twice of attacking a man possessed a gun. Every organization has her own believe about gun control. However, they are trying to achieve their goals for the sake of people. The NRA and CSGV have a common value which is very important for each of them. Each organization work without the support. To illustrate, each organization has supporters all around the United States which means they can affect other people around them to have the same believe about gun control. Establishing a governmental organization that can helps to decrease the tension between the NRA and CSGV is a suitable solution for this issue. To illustrate, educated experts of guns and human rights can run this organization with the help of NRA and members. As a result, NRA and CSGV can propose their claims to this organization in order to display them to U.S. government. This way can help each organization to achieve her goals without creating any conflicts. This organization can be funded from the U.S. government though the tax system and also donations. According to Cody Jacobs,  This rise in with the use of assault weapons in many high profile mass put these guns in the crosshairs of legislators, setting up a clash in the courts to settle whether (and/or to what extent) assault weapons are protected by the Second (238). The issue of assault Alkhamali 4 weapons between the NRA and CSGV can be solved in this organization by identifying the characteristics of assault weapons. For example, such as a telescopic or stock, a pistol grip protruding unusually far beneath the action of the weapon, or a barrel capable of accepting a flash (Jacobs 238). Solving such issues can help to decrease tension between NRA and CSGV. In conclusion, gun control has been a controversial issue for many years in the United States. Many accidents of mass shootings have led to conflicts and debates between gun- control supporters and gun protagonists. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence wants to stop trading, distribution, and using guns in the whole United States. They want to ban guns for the sake of safety. On the other hand, the National Rifle Association want less regulations on guns, so they can have more safe and strong environment for the people. The NRA and CSGV share the value of making people safe and secure. As a result, constructing a governmental organization which arranges the claims of each organization and choose what appropriate is the best solution of gun control. This way can help to decrease the conflicts between the NRA and CSGV and help the society to become more understandable. (1203 words) Alkhamali 5 Works Cited Coalition to Stop Gun Violence - Home CSGV-2017- http://www.csgv.org/site/pp.aspx?c=pmL5JnO7KzE&b=3509221 Cody Jacobs.  End the Popularity Contest: A Proposal for Second Amendment of  Tennessee Law Review, 9 Feb. 2015, pp. 231-290. SSRN, https://ssrn.com/abstract=2507308. Jeffrey Taxman. Gun Violence in America A Vector  Perspectives on Gun Violence: National and International Views, 2 Jan. 2016, pp. 113-123. Wiely Online Library, DOI 10.1002/aps.1490. Joseph Blocher. Gun Rights  Has the Constitution Fostered a Pathological Rights Culture? the Right to Bear Arms, 3 May. 2014, pp. 1-16. Westlaw, 94 B.U. L. Rev. 813. National Rifle Association - NRA Website Gateway - NRA - 2017 - http://www.nra.org/home.aspx .