Yasreeb 1 Name: Ahmed Sadat Yasreeb Instructor: Kristin Gocinski ENC1102 Date: 26 January 2017 5 Star Care of Yourself Being healthy, wealthy and fit is what people care about nowadays but most importantly Health is Wealth, thus healthcare is an important issue. It is a huge topic and there are a lot of stakeholders related to it. Health care consists of the ways in which a person can maintain their health and stay away from illness, injuries, diseases and other mental and physical impairments. For maintaining health stakeholders can be hospitals, gym, food stores, food inspectors, employer, dietician etc. Thus, a lot of people are responsible for a healthy life because the quality of food we eat and how we maintain our body all comes from these stakeholders. Among these stakeholders there are some conflicts between goals such as Cleveland Clinic (Hospital) and , difference between their goals and aims are incompatible but there are still some ways in which their goals can be worked out together to compromise regarding this issue. My first stakeholder is Cleveland Clinic and it is a very highly ranked hospital located in Ohio. service is excellent because it has a bunch of good doctors brought together under one roof. The objectives of Cleveland Clinics are very customer oriented and they really do care about customers. There objectives are as follows: develop and share new technology, attract the best qualified medical and support staff which gives them the competitive advantage from other Hospitals, excel in service and provide efficient access to affordable medical care which also makes them cost effective. The mission statement of Cleveland Clinic is care of the sick, Yasreeb 2 investigation into their problems and further education of those who Thus, these objectives and mission statement shows that Cleveland Clinic is focused on providing the best service to the people and they care about their healthcare. The clinic has also earned a lot of fame recently proving better services day by day and it is widely discussed by scholars. In an article written on the Harvard Business Review by Ananth and James, there it was mentioned about how the Cleveland Clinic leaped to the top of patient-satisfaction surveys. The article is very interesting and it contains some statistics as well were it shows the patient-satisfaction among 4800 Hospitals from 2008 till 2012. In that survey in 2008 Cleveland patient satisfaction level was just 55% but surprisingly in 2012 the satisfaction level boosted to 92% (Ananth 4). They are really doing a good job in being the patients favorite hospital. They also maintain a very clean patient rooms and they get 71% good rating at that too (Ananth 5). Ananth and James also mentioned that Cleveland is being very cost efficient and improve the quality of their service (4). They also have other facilities which they are also doing well such as things like having greeters at the door, redesigning its gowns, and improving food services (Ananth 6). Ananth also says that in the customer reviews of Cleveland Clinic there was another attribute that was discussed by customers which is the communication of nurse and doctor. They said the communication was fantastic and they felt more cared about (8). So, this article shows that Cleveland Clinic is a hospital that really cares about customer needs and their healthcare. Meanwhile my second stakeholder is McDonalds, which is very well known fast food chain store. It is very popular for cost effective burgers and very good offers of burgers. People are craving for having most times and it has made such a reputation from ages. Their main objective is making profit and keep the customers and staff members happy. Yasreeb 3 mission statement is be our favorite place and way to eat & drink. dedicated to being a great place for our people to work; to being a strong, positive presence in your community; and to delivering the quality, service, cleanliness and value our customers have come to expect from the Golden Arches a symbol trusted around the world (Panmore Institute, McDonalds Mission Statement Analysis This long Mission statement of also entails that they believe in providing the best service to customers and keep their workers happy. is a self-service fast food store but now to boost up their goodwill and improve customer service more they have started giving table services (Business Insider 1). This article in Business Insider written by Hayley Peterson has showed the ways in which are trying to provide more better service. Hayley also mentioned that are setting up new menu to increase choice of food. These strategies prove that work hard to keep their customers happy and make the best quality food for their health (1). Giving table service will help customers to have a better decision to choose their food and they can also understand which food will be the best for their health by asking the table server. This will also help consumers or people to maintain their diet and have proper selection of food for their health. Thus, this article entails that care for the consumers but they may have something lacking like everyone which makes and Cleveland Clinic come in conflict. is a fast food chain store and Cleveland Clinic is a hospital, these stakeholders are completely different from each other and they have conflicts in some objectives. Such as wants to maximize profit by keeping costs of production low, to keep costs of production low sometimes use inferior quality ingredients to produce their Yasreeb 4 products. Thus, such products can cause hazard to health but Cleveland Clinics objective is to keep people healthy so their objectives come in conflict. To bring their interest together some methods can be used. There is a journal written by Girz and some more writers, there it was mentioned that if can give the calorie information and the effects of consuming those calories then people can at least know what can happen to them if they consume that food. Giving calorie information and food intake will also help people to maintain their diet properly and avoid getting more obese and diseases (Girz 2). Thus, people can at least get an idea of the consequence for consuming the food at which will make them to take wise decision in making food selection in So, if carry out this technique of mentioning effects of calories in each food then Cleveland objective will not come in conflict as people will get less obese and sick and at the same time goodwill and sales will increase for their honest production and good service. Thus, both and Cleveland Clinic will be happy. In the end, healthcare is a very important topic as mortality rate are increasing worldwide, so people should be considering what they are consuming and what lifestyle they are living. So, food choice is very important to keep us fit and healthy and hospitals are also very important to keep us away from worse possible outcomes. As a result, as is popular and Cleveland Clinic is a highly-ranked hospital so they both come in action and if they can work together with the compromise of mentioning the effects of food calories then they both will have a positive effect in the world of keeping the mortality rate low, keeping people healthy and make them enjoy their life. Yasreeb 5 Work Cites 1.Merlino, James I., and Ananth, Raman. service fanatics: how the Cleveland Clinic leaped to the top of patient-satisfaction Harvard Business Review 5 (2013): 108. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. https://myhbp.org/leadingedge/d/cla?&c=25931&i=25933&cs=73d8fb9a10c18f812eceaf3628cd 1b24 2. Vision, Cleveland Clinic, http://my.clevelandclinic.org/about/overview/who-we-are/mission-vision-values 3. Peterson, Hayley. is offering table service and a new Business Insider 2 Dec, 2015. 4. Vision Statement & Mission Statement 4 October, 2015 5. Girz, L, et al. Effects of Calorie Information on food selection and International Journal of Obesity 10 (2012): 1340. Academic OneFile. Web 29 Jan. 2017. Word Limit: 1355 words