Kolman 1 Elle Kolman Ms. Gocinski ENC 1102 28 January 2016 Healthy Living Starts With a Choice The World Health Organization defines health as a state of complete, physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease of  (Blue Zone Project). Healthy living is achieved through everyday choices. The struggle to maintain healthy eating, thinking, working and overall living habits is not something that is unknown to humans. In relation to healthy living, Blue Zone Projects and Giant Food grocery stores have unrelated goals. Blue Zone Projects seek to transform the world one city at a time by helping improve where residents live, work, learn, eat, in turn helping people live longer, healthier and happier lives through their surroundings (The Secrets Living Longer, Better Are All Around Us). Giant hopes to be amongst the top competitors of grocery stores by providing foods of the best quality at the most reasonable prices (GIANT Food Store). While Blue Zone Projects and Giant seem to have incompatible and unrelated goals towards improving the lives of others, they could both greatly benefit from one another if they combined forces and worked together, as they both hope to positively impact the lives of people. Blue Zone Projects by Healthways is a strong advocate for healthy active lifestyles. Expert teams at Blue Zone Projects work with local businesses, restaurants, grocery stores, schools and many others to help make healthy food and activities affordable and easily accessible (Blue Zone Project). Blue Zone Projects main goal is to  transform communities where the healthy choice is easy and people live longer with a higher quality of  (The Secrets Kolman 2 to Live Longer, Better Are All Around Us). The project was originally developed on the evidence based health principles uncovered by Dan research of the healthiest places across the world or blue zones (Blue Zone Project). He discovered that longevity and health depended on multiple factors such as having a mainly paint based diet, naturally active life, social involvement and having a purpose (Blue Zone Project). By creating realistic plans for change Blue Zone Projects takes a systematic, environmental approach to well-being, which focuses on optimizing policy, building design, social networks and the built  (Blue Zone Project). In the past, they have teamed with city officials to construct trails for walking and biking for residents as well as team up with restaurants and grocery stores to offer a healthier variety in places in Hawaii, Florida, Minnesota, California and more (Healthways). In addition, Blue Zone Projects has worked with business owners to improve employee health care (Healthways). Blue Zone Project leaders recognize how influential environment is on health and quality of life and so they attempt to aid humans in naturally living better. Giant Food grocery main focus is not on lifestyle like Blue Zone Project, but to offer the best quality food at the most reasonable prices. Giant started as a little butcher shop and eventually grew into a large business with over 200 stores (GIANT Food store). Growth can be attributed to their deep appreciation for quality, always wanting to deliver the finest products, stocking locally when possible (Turscik, Giant Awakening). They also provide scanners throughout the store that allow customers to scan and keep track of items as well as budget. Giant also displays nutritional tags on shelves within aisles to aid customers in finding specific food items such as low sodium, low cholesterol etc (Levy et al, The Impact Of Nutrition Information). In addition, Giant prepackages and sells meals for two people that provides the recommended nutritional servings for a meal (GIANT Food Store). This is optimal for Kolman 3 customers who have a lot of time to prepare and make meals. Mr. Lenkevich, the president of Giant says, what sets Giant apart is its connection to the  (Turscik). Giant is among the top competitors of grocery stores due to their dedication to products, service and community. Despite the fact that Blue Zone Projects and Giant seem to have unrelated goals they could both significantly benefit from teaming together. If Blue Zone Projects and Giant are both willing to sacrifice time and resources they could have a huge impact on the surrounding community. Since Blue Zone Projects goal is to make a healthier life easier they could start with Giant by designing a plan for Giant that would leave customers with more nutritious options at an affordable price. Changing products would initially take money and time from Giant but it would potentially pay off and even profit Giant. Due to the fact that Giant is community oriented, if Blue Zone Projects could get a minimum of 50% of residents in the town to sign a pledge to live healthier than in return Giant would alter than product list to be more healthful. Not only will Blue Zone Projects be required to provide Giant with signatures as proof of local demand but they will also assist in designing and implementing the logistics behind the plan at Giant so that it is successful and does not negatively impact Giant. In a similar project conducted by Blue Zone Projects in Albert Lea, Minnesota, average life expectancy was increased by 3.1 years with the help and cooperation of residents and local businesses (Brink, A Health Makeover). Past experiences have shown that not only does the community embrace the movement with open arms but it generally positively impacts all those who are involved. From businesses to schools to restaurants and grocery stores to residents, the transition to a healthier life leads to increased profits, health and life satisfaction. Other statistics show that obesity rates decreased, health care costs decreased, as well as daily activity increasing (Brink). Kolman 4 Giant would benefit through profits, reputation and through the local health impacts of the Blue Zone Project, while Blue Zone Project would benefit from the cooperation as it would never make any progress if businesses such as Giant make these decisions for the greater good. Overall, if Blue Zone Projects and Giant Food grocery store could compromise and assist one another they could leave a lasting positive impression on each other and the community. Initially it may appear that Blue Zone Projects and Giant Food grocery stores interests do not coincide, however they could actually complement each other perfectly. Blue Zone Projects has the experience and knowledge to take the necessary precautions and actions in changing towards a healthier menu while Giant Food grocery store has the establishment and local connections. Together, under agreed upon circumstances, these two organizations could start the transformation of a community into a place where a healthy life is so easy its practically natural. A healthy life starts with a choice, and with the right choice to work together hundreds and thousands of lives could be on the road to healthier ways. Separately, Blue Zone Projects and Giant can only impact so many people but combined they can reach more people that either imagined and they can not only impact lives today but for the future as well. The possibilities for good that open up when the two work together is reason enough for Blue Zone Projects and Giant Food Stores to work together and transform their community when combined with a logical plan of execution and the support of residents it will undoubtedly be successful and lucrative. Kolman 5 Works Cited Zones Healthways, Healthways Inc, www.healthways.com/bluezonesproject. Accessed 30 Jan 2017 Brink, Susan. A Health  U.S. News and World Report 147.7 (2010): Academic OneFile. Web. 27 January 2017.<http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=d68d2dab- be3f-4f93-8c3a- fcb6da87ecb5%40sessionmgr102&vid=1&hid=127&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU %3d#AN=edsgcl.236585890&db=edsgao>. Food Home - about Us - GIANT Food Stores, Giant Food Store LLC, giantfoodstores.com/about-us/. Accessed 30 Jan 2017 Healthways. HMSA and Healthways Launch Blue Zones Project to Improve the Well-Being of Hawaii  Business Wire (2014): Regional Business News Web. 27 January 2017. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=37637e3d-7d8b- 4925-94c1- 6661e3e54dbd%40sessionmgr103&vid=4&hid=127&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdm U%3d#AN=bizwire.c57191016&db=bwh> Levy, Alan S, et al. Impact of Nutrition Information Programs on Food Journal of Public Policy and Marketing, vol. 4, 1985, pp. American Marketing Association, Accessed 30 Jan 2017 Kolman 6 Secrets Of Living Longer, Better Are All Around Blue Zones Project, Healthways Inc, www.bluezonesproject.com/. Accessed 30 Jan 2017 Turcsik, Richard. Giant awakening: sharp pricing, high quality, top-notch stores and dedicated associates enable the GIANT Food Stores division of Ahold USA to be the market leader in its key operating  Grocery Headquarters (2015): 47+. General OneFile. Web. 28 January 2017. <go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=ITOF&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1& it=r&id=GALE%7CA417021400&asid=3d2a128f24315a48f5c2f0360587a990>.