Fernandez !1 Ashley Fernandez Professor Fennell ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Childhood Immunization Requirements Needles, hospitals, and doctors are just some of the many things children fear. Many different vaccinations are required to enter school at any age in the state of Florida. The state law requires children to receive different doses of vaccinations in a lifetime. Multiple organizations are opposed to the idea of having these vaccinations mandatory. The National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC) is one example. In order to find common ground between the state laws and the NVIC, research to discover if unvaccinated children are more vulnerable than vaccinated children could be useful to lower the amount of vaccinations required. Though Florida laws and The National Vaccine Center disagree on wether parents should have a choice in vaccinating their children, research can defuse the feud between the two stakeholders. Vaccination laws in Florida claim that they keep their children healthy. requires certain vaccines to be administered before children may enroll and attend childcare and (Florida Health). Floria Health contains specific vaccinations and when they should be administered. The Department of State explains that all children prior to attendance must show a DH form 680 or a DH form 681 if there are any religious exemptions. Requiring vaccinations for school attendance may potentially be a positive enforcement for the children and the staff in the school. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is an organization that explains the importance of vaccinations. The CDC is the nations health protection agency, their mission Fernandez !2 states, work 24/7 to protect America from health, safety and security threats, both foreign and in the U.S. increase the health security of our nation. As the health protection agency, CDC saves lives and protects people from health threats. To accomplish mission, CDC conducts critical science and provides health information that protects our nation against expensive and dangerous health threats, and responds when these (CDC). Vaccinations claim to be useful for the community as a whole. A community that is vaccinated means that there will be less infections and diseases. Vaccinations are used to help the body create a immunity to a disease. help develop immunity by imitating an infection, but this  infection does not cause (CDC). Though some vaccinations help prevent diseases that are not commonly found in the United States such as polio, there are many vaccine- preventable diseases that may be found in the United States if one does not receive the vaccine. immunization laws are used to control the outbreak of deathly diseases. Certain organizations such as The National Vaccine Information Center disagree with the state of Florida requiring their students to get vaccinations. The NVIC is not against vaccinations neither are they for them. The NVIC states, encourages consumers to become fully informed about the risks and complications of diseases and vaccines and speak with one or more trusted health care professionals before making a vaccination President of the NVIC, Barbra Loe Fisher, leads movements in order to inform the general public the dangers of vaccines. She had conducted research in order to show the effects of certain vaccinations. Her book, DPD: A Shot in the Dark, judges vaccination system and she pushes for the voluntary decisions Americans should have when vaccinating their children. The NVIC has many plans for the future in order to work for their goal of allowing Americans to choose wether Fernandez !3 they want their children to receive certain vaccinations. is calling for government funding of independent researchers without conflicts of interest with vaccine manufacturers or public health agencies to investigate the reported links between vaccines and neurological and autoimmune (NVIC). The organization is also calling for a study to see the differences between high vaccinated children and unvaccinated children. The NVIC supports Americans right to choose. Though it seems these two stakeholders are in disagreement with the debate of requiring certain vaccinations in order to enter school, they have similarities. The state of Florida accepts that there are certain religions and medical issues that may not allow the child to receive a certain vaccination. Florida Health states, child who cannot receive one or more vaccines due to medical reasons, should be issued a Permanent Medical Exemption, provided the physician states in writing or in Florida SHOTS the medical basis based upon valid clinical reasoning or evidence, demonstrating the need for a permanent (Florida Health). The same goes for any religious exemption. The state of Florida will not force anyone with such exemptions to get an immunization. The NVIC agrees with such acts. In order to defuse the feud between the two stakeholders, researching unvaccinated children versus vaccinated children may reveal evidence that not all vaccines are necessary. Vaccinations are known to prevent diseases but there is no evidence for the long term effects thy may have. Certain vaccinations have been known to create dangerous side effects, in order to prevent this parents should find scientific evidence to reference when making the decision to vaccinate their child. There have been several different studies to prove that vaccinated children are equally at risk of certain diseases than unvaccinated children. A survey of 6 through 12 year Fernandez !4 old unvaccinated children and vaccinated children was taken in the year 2016. This surveys aim was, To compare vaccinated and unvaccinated children on a broad range of health outcomes, and to determine whether an association found between vaccination and neurodevelopmental disorders (NDD), if any, remains significant after adjustment for other measured (Rontiers Vaccination and Health). The results showed that vaccinated children are less likely to get infections such as chickenpox and pertussis than unvaccinated children, but the vaccinated were more vulnerable to get infections such as pneumonia, otitis media, allergies and even the possibility to be diagnosed with Autism (Rontiers Vaccination and Health). With these results, the state of Florida may be more open to changing the vaccinations required. The NVIC will be pleased with the results as well as the information it brings to the community. The results can be used to inform parents to make the safest choices for their child and which vaccinations are right for them. Vaccinations are universally used to avoid outbreaks of diseases throughout the state of Florida. The state contains many different laws pertaining to vaccinations. They not only explain which are necessary for the entrance of school but also explain certain religious and medical exemptions. The National Vaccine Information Center is one of many organizations that feel that vaccinations should be a voluntary choice for parents. Properly informing the public about the dangers of vaccinations may help the NVIC reach their goal. In order to change Florida laws and end the disagreements between the two stakeholders, research can be used to provide evidence that not all vaccinations are safe. These choices should be well thought out and be backed up with many scientific findings in order to keep the community safe. Though it may be difficult to Fernandez !5 change a states laws, using scientific evidence may bring awareness to the issue. Vaccinations may be scary for children, but the possible side effects they may bring are scarier for parents. Fernandez !6 Works Cited Barbara Loe Fisher Profile - About Us -  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 03 Aug. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.  School Immunization Requirements Florida Department of Health. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Rontiers-Vaccination and Health. Studies Comparing Vaccinated to Unvaccinated Populations  RSS. N.p., 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.