Patihk 1 Daniel Patihk Ms. Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102. Section 078 30 January 2017 Gun Control Compromise, Shoot the Messenger According to the BBC Gun Violence Archive, 13,286 people were killed in the US by firearms in 2015. The number of murders by guns per capita in the US is thirty times that of the United Kingdom, a country similar in development to America, yet laws and gun rights are more liberal in the US than the UK. It still remains a constitutional right to own a gun, however, throughout history, mass shootings with the most recent claiming 49 lives at a gay nightclub in Orlando, have increased the ever-hot topic of gun control in America. Therefore, on the topic of gun control, the two main organizations that have developed to fuel this argument from either ends are the National Rifle Association (NRA) and the States United to Prevent Gun Violence (SUPGV), who both have almost opposite opinions to eachother and are in constant conflict, but interestingly, they are also both strong advocates for the idea of increased gun safety in America. Hence, there is a sight of common ground between the two and a hope that they may be able to work together. States United to Prevent Gun Violence is one of the stakeholders for this project, and is also one of the main contributors to the debate on gun control in America. According to their website, their mission is to prevent gun violence by having increased gun laws which entails keeping guns out of the hands of felons and domestic abusers specifically. They also believe in the banning of all military style weapons to non-military people, and to increase education about gun safety. The organization works hard at developing policy Patihk 2 initiatives and best practices for gun (ceasefireusa.org) as well as many other efforts that they listed on their website. However, the fact that their efforts for gun safety was at the top of the list shows this priority to achieve gun safety. An article by Adam Soloperto, published by the Seton Hall University School of Law gives some insight into the side of the argument on gun control supported by the States United to Prevent Gun Violence. The article recalled historical events of mass shootings in the United States, such as the shooting of a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida by Omar Mateen, or the shooting of a party held by the San Bernadino County Department of Health by Siyed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik. There was also mention of the shooting of Sandy Hook Elementary School by Adam Lanza that claimed the lives of many helpless children and teachers. The factor that links all of these shootings and many more examples provided in the article is that the weapons were all assault rifles purchased legally by the shooters. Soloperto uses this as a basis to appeal to have the access to military style weapons banned. This supports the views of the SUPGV and legitimizes it. According to the article, are an estimated eighty-eight guns per one hundred people in the United (Soloperto 228) and people are killed each year with (Soloperto 228). This demonstrated the destruction and tragedy caused by guns in this country, but what was most interesting is the statistic firearm homicide rate in the United States is only slightly lower than that of the Democratic Republic of Congo and (Soloperto 228). This parallel to two countries known globally for their ridiculously high numbers of killings yearly shows that the gun situation is out of control in the United States, according to the article. This information completely supports and legitimizes the position of the States United to Prevent Gun Violence to have a ban on all military style weapons and to increase gun laws. However, there are still any people who disagree with this and advocate for the defence of the Second Amendment right to bear arms. Patihk 3 This introduces the second stakeholder for this project, the National Rifle Association, which is arguably the most influential and largest organization involved in this argument over gun control. Their mission is to protect the United States Constitution with a focus on the Second Amendment American right to own and use arms. The NRA is also keen on the promotion of proper and complete training of gun owners, ranging from small arms owners and hunters, to individuals involved in shooting for sport and boasting of having one of the most developed and complete training courses for gun safety in America. An article by Grant Arnold, published by the Brigham Young University Education and Law Journal argues in favour of the position supported by the NRA and provides substantial legitimization to their side. The beginning elaborates on District of Columbia v. Heller and McDonald v. City of Chicago, which are two important historical turning points for gun rights because for the first time, new flood of second amendment litigation entered (Arnold 482). This means that the courts now recognized that the Second Amendment of the U.S. Constitution protected an right to use arms in the immediate self-defense in home. This supports the efforts to protect the American right to bear arms, showing that it is completely legal to own firearms under these conditions in the United States. Information found on pages 485 and 486 of the article breaks down the Second Amendment and rightfully shows how it grants the right for Americans to carry guns and once again supports the NRA. This is important because many people provide different interpretations of the Second Amendment, which becomes a focal point of many arguments on opposite sides to the NRA. However, this crucial part of the article legitimizes both the right to bear arms and the National Rifle position. Finally, Arnold describes gun free school policies and compare them to the state of Utah, where student and staff of state colleges are allowed guns on campus with a concealed carry permit. The comparison shows that unlike all other states with gun free schools, have been no Patihk 4 instances of attempted mass murders at any school in (Arnold 504). This can be extrapolated to the general population to show that if more of the population was armed then there will actually be less gun violence, which supports the mission to protect the American right to bear arms. From the information presented thus far, it would seem that the National Rifle Association and the States United to Prevent Gun Violence are both at opposite ends of the gun control debate, which is correct. However, their mission statements and information obtained on each of their websites revealed a common interest of gun safety and education. SUPGV acknowledges its importance in its mission, saying that they are that gun-owners take responsibility and keep guns in the home locked, unloaded and safely (ceasefireusa.org) and also by developing policy initiatives and best practices for gun (ceasefireusa.org). Similarly, the NRA claims to be the leading provider of gun safety training courses in America, stating that 125,000 certified instructors now train about 1,000,000 gun owners a (nra.org). This clearly shows that there is a common interest between these two organizations currently at opposite ends, and the basis of this paper is to find a compromise that can work well for both the NRA and SUPGV to exist in harmony. This leads to the idea of introducing a weapons safety training program integrated into the high school curriculum. The current situation on the topic of gun control is that American citizens have the right to purchase guns and are protected by the Second Amendment of the Constitution, and at the current rate of gun purchase, America is projected to be in a future state where by the large majority of the citizens owns a gun. Therefore, by teaching gun safety in schools, this will eventually create a population that is competent with handling a gun in the safest way possible. It will also reduce the frequency of children suicides and accidental youth killings caused by guns, usually belonging to their parents. This is also of Patihk 5 value since statistics show that of US homes with children have (Obeng). A study done by Cecilia Obeng, published in an article by the American School Health Association, which is an academic publication, legitimizes the information on teaching gun safety to students. research revealed that of US homes with children have firearms and that in 32% to 43% of such homes the guns are (Obeng 395) and also that in 2005, were 3006 firearms-related deaths among the US (Obeng 395). These statistics show the urgent need for a gun safety curriculum to be issued to students and supports the claim that it will reduce the number of accidental child deaths caused by guns. In accordance with research, the curriculum should ideally be issued to children over the K-6 grade and should be multidisciplinary, involving teachers, police, trained officials and parents. The curriculum should be first introduced in gun liberal states, such as Texas, and progressively become nationwide. Furthermore, appeals can be made to the state for funding, but if denied, the average cost of a personal gun safety course is $80, but this price will most likely drop if an organization is given the job of educating an entire school, or furthermore, a state. The school will be left with two options, either to have fun raisers to subside the cost, or to charge parents for the course. Either way, this is the choice. Calculations from information obtained on the website also shows that a half an hour long session, once a week for a two year program is definitely enough to equip students with the knowledge they need to treat guns with the utmost safety. Finally, the NRA should have the job of coordinating these classes because they are perhaps currently the largest provider of weapons training classes in America, but must still work with the SUPGV in creating a proper curriculum. The SUPGV can also be very influential in getting these curriculums approved in states and also in getting funding for these programs. Therefore, Patihk 6 both organizations will be dependent on eachother for the greater good of achieving gun safety. This compromise of introducing gun safety classes to high school students will eventually achieve a population that is fully competent to handle a gun, perhaps in a time that the majority of Americans own guns. It will also largely and immediately reduce the number of accidental child killings caused by guns. For this compromise to work however, the NRA will have to allow States United to Prevent Gun Violence to make modifications to their already established training program. On the contrary, the SUPGV will have to give up part of their mission, which is to have access to military style weapons denied. These are clearly minor things that each organization will have to sacrifice for the end result of future gun safety. In summation, both the National Rifle Association and the States United to Prevent Gun Violence are presently on opposite ends of the spectrum in terms of the debate on gun control. The NRA aims to defend the American right to own a gun, while the SUPGV attempts to have gun laws increased. However, their similar deep interest in gun safety has led to a compromise being suggested, which is to work together on introducing a gun safety curriculum to high school students. This will bring forward many previously discussed benefits for both the present and future, making it sustainable. Most importantly, it does not require much sacrifice by each organization to occur successfully. Patihk 7 Works Cited Soloperto, Adam P. standard of review for gun rights: the second amendment question hot as a two-dollar Seton Hall Law Review; 2016. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=1&sid=9f705ffc-7cf3-4814- b1ed-cc8d6e3bdf6c%40sessionmgr4008&hid=4108. Acceseed 29 January 2017. Arnold, Grant. the good guys: school zones and the second Brigham Young University Education & Law Journal; 2015. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=1&sid=512815f4-625c-4d37- 98ba-094f6b9810f4%40sessionmgr4006&hid=4108. Accessed 29 January 2017. Obeng, Cecilia. gun safety be taught in schools? Perspectives of Journal of School Health. August 2010. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=73da7e49-7f30-4a5e-be53- 780ab3e1ca09%40sessionmgr4007&vid=19&hid=4108. Accessed 30 January 2017. National Rifle Association. home.nra.org States United to Prevent Gun Violence. ceasefireusa.org