ENC 1102 Section 906 Spring 2017 Getting a college education is something that has been deeply engrained in our society. A college education is deemed as a gold standard, or nowadays a regular standard, and a mark of success. However, this rhetoric should be crumpled-up, trashed and, be thrown away to a dark, barren crevice. College itself is an institution that is severely flawed so why exactly should so many strive to receive an education from one? Well simply, they should not. I genuinely believe that college should be abolished thus, not being a required metric for success. Now yes, to some this idea is ludicrous however, I truly feel that abolishing college is a necessity, for a few reasons. First, the college system does not foster true learning, it only encourages memorization of test-taking and regurgitation of knowledge. Second, a college education regarding a certain major or field does is not comparable to real experience in such field. Learning, the process of acquiring knowledge, or whatever method people use to become skilled, require a myriad of aspects. Through nuance, patience, and repetition, this is how people learn, or how I believe people learn the absolute best. That is the complete antithesis of what is being taught and expounded upon in college. In college, the spewing out of subject material and, memorization of test-taking strategies is what is emphasized as the main model of learning. What I have found, as now a third-year college student, is that professors are simply resigned to providing an overabundance of information on a subject with little clarification and, an even a more miniscule amount of time to effectively learn such information so that it can be applied on an exam. Furthermore, to make matters even worse, to be successful in some college courses, students simply have to memorize how the teacher gives his or her exams in order to pass; this is wrong. Be it through the teaching plans set forth by the college or the ennui of the professors, this manner of teaching is simply ineffective in cultivating the learning process for college students. Learning, to me, in the college environment should be active and engaging, not the passivity that is present in many of the classes that are taught. Learning, is something that is best left to the individual. If people had the ease of being able to learn at their own pace about the respective subjects that interest themselves, this could possibly foster a better and happier set of educated people. Is that not what we want? A happier and more educated work-force? If were allowed to learn at their own rate coupled with the ability to engage in a certain field of work that is within their relative interests, I would be hard-pressed not to say that it would not be a success. The whole idea surrounding college is that it one for the real This statement should be filed as an While, the current college system does provide some skills and knowledge that could be applicable to whatever field a student may be interested in entering, the material in college only deals in hypotheticals and theory that relates to a subject matter. I reckon that by immersing in a specific field of work, people would learn and gain practical skills, directly from those who are skilled, that make them useful while also acquiring applicable knowledge about their certain field. For example, why do medical schools require students to attend college, why students simply able to take the MCAT and gain acceptance to a medical school to learn and being the process of becoming a doctor? This would not only drastically increase the rate at which motivated people can become doctors but, could also potentially quench the crisis of severe shortages and marked maldistribution of health (Crisp and Chen 1). Through bypassing the ineffectiveness and impractical college system that deals in the theoretical, would be able to deal in reality and become incredibly more productive and knowledgeable members of society more quickly. However, I could be completely and utterly wrong about a college education and its value. Though the college system is plagued with many faults, there are a plethora of positive aspects that stem from a college education. Unlike the hyper-focused learning that I proposed, a college education provides individuals with the ability to get a more well-rounded education. Instead of learning about one subject matter, college students have the ability to study a variety of topics ranging from Alexander the Great to Calculus. With having an all-encompassing education that includes many different studies, it allows for a people to gain more of an understanding about the world they are in: instead of having a unilateral way of thinking. In addition, many academics claim that the return on investment of a college education, despite the rising costs of a college education, are at some of the highest values they have ever been. For example, as compared to the average high school graduate, an average college graduate over $800,000 more than the average high school graduate by retirement (Daly and Bengali 1). Moreover, while many people assume that value of a college degree has declined because of falling wages and rises in return to a college degree has held steady for more than a decade at around 15 (Abel and Deitz 2). Ultimately, it is quite apparent that getting a college education may insure a more comprehensive educational experience it most definitely guarantees the likelihood of earing more money than those without a college education. All in all, there is a compelling case for the effectiveness of getting a college education. Yet, I still strongly argue for the removal of the college system as it ineffective in allowing students to learn properly and, does not allow for people to immediately specialize and gain knowledge for a relative field of interest. However, this is absurd, everyone should have the chance and attend college. Not only college is a way to find your passion, it serves as a way to grow you both academically and socially regardless of what teaching style you are faced with. Works Cited Abel, Jaison R., and Richard Deitz. Do the Benefits of College Still Outweigh the  Current Issues in Economics and Finance 20.3 (2014): 1-12. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Crisp, Nigel, and Lincoln Chen. Global Supply of Health  New England Journal of Medicine 370.10 (2014): 950-57. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Daly, Mary C., and Lisa Bengali. Is It Still Worth Going to College?  FRBSF Economic Letter (2014): n. pag. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.