Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The GMO Misconception In a world filled with social media and constant television exposure, most of population beliefs are based on the trending topics provided by a few influential persons in our society. Currently, the topic of organic food is heavily advertised, as people are lead to believe that organic is always better. Monsanto, one of the biggest genetically modified food producers, is directly affected by this movement. In its efforts to help the environment, the company uses advanced molecular technology in order to genetically engineer food that would require less resources to grow. According to its website, is a sustainable agriculture (Monsanto) although most people in society would associate its products with negative aspects. Monsanto, the world GMO giant, is striving to change common food misconceptions through the use of visual rhetoric and symbolism embedded within its images. As viewers initially enter the Monsanto website, they see a clean, simple homepage design and a picture towards the bottom of the page that states the words, BETTER By using the word choice the company opens up the meaning of this statement for interpretation. The consumers can assume that the company is physically growing better, healthier, and stronger vegetables; they can also interpret the statement in a non- literal way and see the of the company itself. Although the image has a plain white background, it carries great meaning in the form of visual rhetoric. Several images are embedded within the letters of the text that show various consumers, farmers and the vegetation that is Student 2 produced by Monsanto. The overall combination of colors, image choices and designs creates a positive atmosphere for the viewers. Pathos, as related to feelings and emotion is definitely the most prominent aspect of this photo (Lee 37). Instantly, the audience is pointed towards the smiles of farmers that are producing healthy and colorful crops. This reference is meant to create trust in the company by affecting the emotional appeals of all consumers. Can GMO really be that bad if the people handling the food are so happy? Additionally, ethos and logos are shown through the clear indication of the 2015 SUSTAINABILITY Although it may seem irrelevant, this small text on the bottom of the image creates immense trust in the company; it is the backup that clearly indicates concern with the sustainability of its company. The second image can be found under the section of the Monsanto website. This image is very forward in its intentions toward the consumers and seeks a more action inclined response. The dark colors and simple design allow the viewers to focus on the text and read the intended message, part of the in this case it relates to the sustainability of the company. Through the use of pathos, the image urges the customers to join the crowd. As seen in the article Naturally Follow Crowd printed in the Wall Street Journal, suggest that sensitivity to crowds is built into perceptual system and operates in a remarkably swift and automatic (Gopnik). The marketing team within the company clearly depended on the way humans react in order to emotionally encourage a change in society. Additionally, the rhetorical appeals of logos and ethos are made highly evident and reflected through the button at the bottom of the image. Logically, people will become enticed by the statement and will, therefore, seek to learn more information about the way sustainability is incorporated in work. The fact that Student 3 there is further information to back up the statement also reflects on the credibility of Monsanto as a company. The topic of sustainability can be seen as the focus of both images discussed above. In the past decade, this conversation topic has also gained popularity within the news, as more of resources have become diminished. Relating to the rhetorical appeal of kairos, these images have gained the power to truly impact perspective on the current issue. As the human population continuously strives to become more environmentally friendly, Monsanto uses the images above in order to convince people that genetically modified foods are better for the environment. Both images create a relaxed feeling within the viewers that is reflected greatly through the font choice of the writing (Pack 349). In the first picture the letters look as if they were painted, while in the second, they have a chalk like appearance. Both of these styles generally reflect a calmer, more informal environment that is often used by kids. The nature of this format gives the consumers an easy environment in which to learn about GMOs. Moreover, the Monsanto website was clearly designed in an interactive sense that can easily be navigated by all people. The nature-themed colors offer great contrast, while the clearly defined buttons that allow customers to find out more information about GMO facts. With sustainability in mind, Monsanto hopes that people will become more open minded on the topic of genetically modified foods. The efforts in rhetorical appeal that were put forth in the design of the Monsanto website, and the images embedded within it, hope to introduce consumers to the positive aspects of the company. The color choice of the images above, accompanied by the use of ethos, logos, pathos and kairos are aimed towards the viewers of the website, who are also the potential customers. Although it is important for Monsanto to incorporate visual rhetoric in a positive way, it must Student 4 first convince consumers to visit its website. Generally, most people in society are not fully familiar with the genetic engineering process of food, and therefore they are afraid to support it. The company must come up with a campaign that would verbally inform and encourage people to learn more about GMOs. Once people are interested in the topic, they will become more open to learning about the process through the Monsanto website. There, they can see that this scientifically forward way of producing food has the potential to solve many of the hunger problems. Word Count: 1018 Student 5 Figure 1: http://www.monsanto.com/sustainability/PublishingImages/Sustainability-hero.jpg Figure 2: Student 6 Works Cited Gopnik, Alison. Humans Naturally Follow Crowd  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 12 Sept. 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Lee, Kendra, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. Print.  A Sustainable Agriculture Company. Monsanto Company, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Pack, Jenna. Down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. Print.