Emma Frank Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 012 30 January 17 Intermediate Draft: Working for a Better Education Through a Perspective Change on High Stakes Testing According to an academic journal written by Russell T. Warne, the definition of is a test given to with the same and (Russell Warne et al., 570). In short, a standardized test is one that is created to accurately measure an entire population through its universal qualities. In recent years, standardized tests have made headlines due to an act passed by George W. Bush in 2002 called the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001. The article states how No Child Left Behind was responsible for the role of standardized testing in American public (The New Rules pbs.org). Two stakeholders, Students for Education Reform and Change the Stakes, are organizations who both serve society by demanding change in the current education system but have opposing viewpoints on standardized tests. Advocates in Students for Education Reform believe standardized tests are necessary benchmarks for students and teachers while advocates in Change the Stakes believe damaging and an improper way to evaluate student success. (Who We Are, changethestakes.wordpress.com/about-cts/who-we-are/). A compromise between these two groups could be one that requires a perception change for the two groups to accept a mixture of current and alternative test forms. The first stakeholder is an organization, Students for Education Reform. On their website: www.studentsforedreform.org, an informational video reveals that this organization has 75 chapters across 22 states in the US. This organization strongly supports implementing diversity, and into schools (Our People, studentsforedreform.org). Latasha Gandy, the main voice for this stakeholder is a director for the Students for Education Reform Minnesota Chapter. Gandy, an advocate of standardized tests wrote an article called Believe the Hype: Standardized Tests are Good for Children, Families and According to the article found on educationpost.org, Gandy argues that standardized tests guide children and their teachers onto a necessary path for success based on their given results. Gandy further strengthens her argument by recognizing a famous key term called the Many opponents of standardized tests argue that the tests have been responsible for creating this gap, thereby establishing a racial imbalance between students. However, advocates like Gandy and Students for Education Reform argue that this gap has allowed for the racial to never be ignored again. (Latasha Gandy, Believe the Hype: Standardized Tests Are Good for Children, Families and Schools) Gandy further lists the benefits of these tests such as helping to identify the readiness, revealing the testing environment, and predicting their potential success rate. Legitimizing this stakeholder is Exploring the Various Interpretations of Test Bias, an academic journal co-written by Russell T. Warne. The authors list reasons to why standardized tests benefit the public, such as their accurate measurement of and their nature (Warne et al., 578-579) In regards to standardized tests and their problematic The article claims that substituting the standardized tests for alternatives such as and would lead to test results that were far more (Warne et al., 579). A GPA vs SAT study documented by: alternative presentation of incremental validity: Discrepant SAT and HSGPA performance; Educational and Psychological is mentioned in this scholarly source. In short, the study revealed that predicting the success students will have in college based solely on their current high school GPA will in greater prediction errors than using SAT scores as a (Warne et al. 579, qtd. in Mattern 638-662). This feature provided by Warne goes hand-and-hand with Gandy, who claims that alternative assignments such as cards and teacher cannot progress against a set of standard learning (Gandy). Taking away the information provided by the two sources, there is a belief that a success cannot be measured by subjective forms of assessment. Instead, tests with impartial features and universal guidelines should be distributed because the revealing results can help guide teachers and students to fix their areas of needed improvement. Conversely, Changing the Stakes is an organization that opposes standardized tests due to its inaccurate measurement on student success. The organization is composed of teachers and educators who believes good education is not something that can be measured by a test we changethestakes.wordpress.com). Thus, Change the Stakes is a group that is open to other forms of evaluation that are far more personalized rather than broad. Legitimizing this source is a book called Stop High-Stakes Testing Now: An Appeal to Conscience, written by author Dale Johnson and others. The authors discuss the harmful effects these tests have on students because of its unequal evaluation style. For instance, authors include an example of a correlational relationship between the social class students were born into and their future success. Relating this relationship back to standardized tests, the message delivered is that students who suffer from a lack of resources and financial support tend to score lower than students who have an abundance of materials. Johnson further exemplifies his claim by referencing a fact by Thomas Shapiro which states that percent of family comes from rather than employment alone. (Johnson et al. 56 qtd. Shapiro 2004). To further this argument, Johnson is claiming that much of success specifically in this case, their success on tests, is because of family intervention. In summary, the book states that tests designed with the exact same format should not be distributed until the gaps at school, home, and in neighborhoods are addressed and actions are taken to close (Johnson et al., 2). It is evident that no life will completely match one another, so to balance out the relationship between test conditions and test forms, opponents of standardized testing argue that new/more personalized forms of evaluation must be implemented immediately. Education is vital for both Students for Education Reform and Change the Stakes. Referencing their website, Students for Education Reform has hosted events and participated in campaigns that are directed to fix and or change current educational policies. A specific example of a campaign by this organization was: Shut Me Down, which was a movement that demanded for in the teacher contract negotiations between Minneapolis Federation of Teachers (MFT) and Minneapolis Public (Our Power, Past Campaigns & Events, studentsforedreform.org). Change the Stakes also supports in fixing current problems occurring in the education system and along with Students for Education Reform, want to continue a diverse school setting. Change the Stakes hosts events that inform audience members of problems that may prohibit student success. Though Students for Education Reform and Change the Stakes strive to maximize a potential through proper education, SFER believes high stakes test serve as a necessary benchmark for students while Change the Stakes views standardized tests as being an obstacle in the road that limits children to succeed adequately. Thus, a compromise needs to be brought about, one that ensures that children can continually receive a well-benefiting education. A compromise for these two organizations would be one that requires an equal acceptance of both current and alternative forms of testing. A compromise that realistically pleases both organizations, SFER and Change the Stakes, may only be reached when both stakeholders to undergo a perception change regarding their views on standardized tests. By using two legitimizing sources, both stakeholders are exposed to the benefits standardized and alternative tests provide. The exposure of these sources may allow for the stakeholders to come to an agreement as to why both forms of tests are vital when attempting to better a education. The first source, Defending Standardized Tests, edited by Richard P. Phelps, supports the use of standardized tests. This book, however recognizes test opponents by accrediting their concerns. Nevertheless, the final consensus is one that supports the use of tests based on its three characteristics: prediction and and (Phelps, et al. xv Introduction). On the other side of this compromise an article Classroom Assessment of Early Reading: Alternatives to Standardized written by Sheila W. Valencia is included. Valencia proposes new forms of testing children, which she referrers to as Authentic Classroom Reading Assessment. Valencia describes the test by first explaining how the activities work: to real-life literacy tasks found in school and outside of (Valencia 63). Throughout the article, Valencia highlights the importance of the new alternative test and why it can benefit students everywhere. Instead of bringing down the other opponent, these two sources focus on which forms of testing benefit a education the most. By having a mixture of standardized and alternative tests allows individuals to be become adapted to a variety of test types, both objective and personalized. In conclusion, Students for Education Reform and Change the Stakes are two organizations that take pride in serving society by bringing light to problems in the education system. Though these two groups value a proper education for students, they have opposing views on what source limits and interferes with the ability to learn. Advocates for Change the Stakes dislike standardized tests and their characteristics while individuals in Students for Education Reform think the tests are beneficial. An agreement that includes the acceptance of both standardized and alternative forms of evaluation will allow for students to succeed based on the variety incorporated into their daily lives. Citation Page: New Rules- An overview of the testing and accountability provisions of the No Child Left Behind 1995-2014 WGBH educational foundation, www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/schools/nochild/nclb.html. Accessed 28 January 17 Johnson, Dale D. Stop High-Stakes Testing. [Electronic : An Appeal To Conscience. Lanham, Md. : Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2008. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Accessed 30 Jan 17. Warne, Russell T., Myeongsun Yoon, and Chris J. Price. Exploring The Various Interpretations Of  Cultural Diversity And Ethnic Minority Psychology 20.4 (2014): 570- 582. PsycARTICLES. Accessed. 28 Jan. 2017. Gandy, Latasha Believe the Hype: Standardized Tests Are Good for Children, Families and Education Post, www.educationpost.org/dont-believe-the-hype- standardized-tests-are-good-for-children-families-and-schools/. Accessed 20 January 17. Change the Stakes. We we changethestakes.wordpress.com/about- cts/who-we-are/. Accessed 20 January 17. Students for Education Reform. People: Current www.studentsforedreform.org. Accessed 20 January 17 Phelps, Richard P. Defending Standardized Testing. Mahwah, N.J. : L. Erlbaum Associates, c2005., 2005. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Accessed 28 Jan. 17. Valencia, Sheila W. Authentic Classroom Assessment Of Early Reading: Alternatives To Standardized  Preventing School Failure 41.2 (1997): 63. Academic Search Premier. Accessed. 28 Jan. 2017