Madison Huss TJ Murray ENC 1102.906 29 January 2017 Studies show that 50 percent of Americans believe extraterrestrial life exists while 77 percent believe that there have been Earth visitations. (Main, 2016) Leroy Chiao, a former NASA astronaut who has completed four missions and performed six spacewalks, believes greatly in the possibility of alien life. believe that there is life all over our universe, since it would be the height of arrogance to think that we are (Silva, 2016) Extraterrestrials are already living and thriving with us on Earth, there are signs of life, visitation, and many abduction stories. There have been countless signs of extraterrestrial life reported. NASA astronauts turn in evidence of life at the completion of every mission. The littlest thing noticed in space can be investigated to be one of the most important puzzle pieces to connecting with alien life. Signs of extraterrestrial alien life were recently sensed by a radio telescope in Russia courtesy of a strong  reported science news website Phys.com. (Wright, 2016) As we broaden our knowledge and advance our technology, we will be able to detect more and more signals. It is unknown whether our technology is weaker than that of incoming signals. With time, there will come more signals, more proof, and more connection to other life. Visitations from extraterrestrial life are reported, yet may not be taken seriously. In a film called Signs, directed by M. Night Shyamalan, a man and his family detect crop signs which may alter their lives forever. (IMDB, 2002) Crop signs are known as circles or patterns in the ground that look as though a UFO has landed. Signs of extraterrestrials visiting Earth can be found in reports in various remote areas. Speculation is revealed because aliens have not revealed themselves to us; therefore, there is no real proof that aliens are here. These reported visitations come from signs. An important point is that our Earth may not be suitable, so these extraterrestrial creatures must hide or disguise themselves from us. Alien abduction stories may be told as jokes to scare friends or loved ones, but there are records on these serious abductions. A recent abduction was recorded in 2005, in Florida. The witness here is unable to recollect about two hours of his night after he had seen an orange, pulsating disk floating in the air. As he thought only 20 minutes passed, he became very thirsty drinking many water bottles after his said abduction. Two days later he went to his doctor who found his Triglycerides were dangerously high and electrolytes extremely low. (Booth, 2016) This story may not sound convincing, but what if I told you that a study found that weightlessness causes a decrease of electrolytes? A common counterargument to believing in extraterrestrials is that there are no such thing. Since only half of Americans believe in aliens, a whole half is left to believe that there are no aliens. With all of the funds that the United States provides to space exploration, it is bizarre to believe that there is any life out there that we have not yet discovered. After more than 50 years of space travel, we have not found an alien, nor communicated with an alien. A strong rebuttal to this counterargument begins with numbers. Studies prove that only 24 percent of people think these do not exist. You may think that does not add up, but there is also the 22 percent who know what they believe. (Main, 2015) The odds are against those who do not believe because there is not nearly as many. This half on non-believers have been called by the experts. It is unintelligent to not believe in any sort of extraterrestrial life knowing that there is a vast, unknown, dark universe, home to the billions of galaxies. Extraterrestrial life on Earth with us is proved through signs of life, visitation, and many abduction stories. With so many signs and stories being reported, there has to be some sort of living being out there in the universe. In an article, the American Scientist, John Ball projected that humans are at the median level. Half are more advanced and the other half are less advanced. (Graham, 1990) This goes to show that another being has the potential to be more advanced and able to find Earth without us having any knowledge of it. Being an engineer on the NASA team would be very rewarding saying you are able to invent the new technology that aids astronauts in their quest to discover life in space. Works Cited Booth, B. J. Probable Abduction in Florida, 08-02-05-UFO Casebook  Probable Abduction in Florida, 08-02-05-UFO Casebook Files. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ufocasebook.com/floridaabductionmufon.html>. Main, Douglas. Most People Believe Intelligent Aliens Exist, Poll  Newsweek. N.p., 22 Apr. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.newsweek.com/most-people-believe-intelligent-aliens-exist-377965>.  IMDB.com, 2 Aug. 2002. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. < http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0286106/>. Silva, Cristina. Do Aliens Exist? Yes, The Universe Is Full Of Life, NASA Astronaut  International Business Times. N.p., 13 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ibtimes.com/do- aliens-exist-yes-universe-full-life-nasa-astronaut-says-2414180>. Out There! Most People Believe in  LiveScience. Purch, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.livescience.com/52300-most-believe-in-extraterrestrial-alien-life.html>.