Student 1 Student Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Strong Women for an Even Stronger Nation The American Women Veterans organizations is to preserving and promoting the legacy of service women, veterans and their (americanwomenveterans.org). The primary mission of this organization is to empower women of all military branches with a confident sense of pride and service as well as enable to reach their full potential and to contribute as they always have in making America (americanwomenveterans.org). The citizens of America have fought for many years to promote a country filled with equality. Along the side of male soldiers, history has many examples of how women have helped the military. However, the military, one of the oldest establishments which protects American rights, is not persistent on the idea that women should be able to fight in combat positions regardless of the physical and mental requirements that are met. The primary visual message the American Women Organization is communicating through this image is a strong one. An elderly woman who represents female veterans, fought for the freedom of the nation, as a citizen, a soldier and as a woman. The ultimate goal of the military is to protect and defend the country for all of its citizens. Patriotism is a strong theme with many Americans, both women and Student 2 men. The text, who stepped up were measured as citizens of the nation, not as was a war and everyone was in it communicates the power and unity of not just as a woman but as a strong and important member of her great nation. It is not easy to sit back and relax when there is much to be done for the country, which is why many people, like Ms. Coffey (the elderly woman in the photo), choose to be part of the solution. The author of the image greatly conveyed a sense of ethos because there is an appeal to credibility and respect. Ms. Coffey is the credible source. She physically endured the hardships brought on by the military, as a soldier, but even more so as a woman. She is posed in front of her quote which indicates that there is a direct link between the figure and the message. There is an the words are meant to have on the audience (Hoffman and Wiggs and an even greater effect when the source of the quote is evident within the image. There is a strong use of pathos within the image because there is a focus on the values and beliefs of the audience, military woman of the past, present and future. Any woman who was once, is currently or plans to be in the military believes in the equality of gender. This image represents a story to the viewers, of a woman who was brave enough to fight for her country regardless of her sex but because she was a citizen just like any man. Because of this the author is able to not only your emotions (Hoffman and Wiggs but your attention (Hoffman and Wiggs This is important when using pathos to persuade an audience because naturally there will be more empathy for a specific subject when there are feelings involved. The author wanted the image to personally affect each viewer and was capable of doing so by targeting emotions. Student 3 The primary visual message of the American Women that is being communicated through this image, is the power of a woman who is a product of war. St. Joan of Arc is the patroness of soldiers (catholic.org). She fought with France against the English and was burned at the stake. Joan of Arc is a symbol that is still used today by the military, especially by the women, for her courageous and heroic acts. There are visual cues that help to support this message. She has armor which at the time was the typical military uniform. She has a fighting sword that helped her during times on the battle field. A map that her military journey or mission. The author painted her standing tall with a sense of pride yet keeping her face serious, to not show emotion, because she is staying consistent with the standards expected by the military. These visual cues support the idea of Joan of Arc being a strong, independent and fighting woman who completed the mission assigned to her. The author used ethos because there is an obvious appeal to character. Joan of Arc is a military character that represents all the qualities of a good soldier: commitment, loyalty and trust. She symbolizes fearlessness, courage, discipline, and motivation. She is still an important icon for the woman of the military today because these traits are apparent in all of them, past and present. She instils bravery and equality in future soldiers. There is no need to try and convince someone of Joan of character because it is evident within the image itself. The author used logos to appeal to the audience. Any military woman would be drawn to this image because they can relate or they want to relate. To gain attention of a specific audience, Student 4 the author must be able to relate the message; otherwise it will become irrelevant. The author chose to lure in the audience by using a character that shares the same values and beliefs as any woman in the military. These images from the American Woman organization are powerful without a dialogue. A message can be depicted from each image without having a written explanation. Each photo holds a powerful story within itself. Combining ethos & pathos in both images, the photos support the theme that women are capable and willing to join forces to protect and serve. Women should be able to fight in combat positions when they want to, if all mental and physical requirements are met. Woman in world are as strong as they are because of the heroines that have fought and defended their rights in the past. Present-day women are as strong, if not stronger, than the women illustrated above. Woman have fought willingly and will continue to make significant contributions in all positions they serve in the military. (WC: 1,031) . Student 5 Work Cited Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters; Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 186-197. E-text. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters; Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. E-text. American Women Veterans. American Women Veterans, 2017, http://www.americanwomenveterans.org/. Accessed 13 Jan. 2017. Catholic Online. Catholic Online, 2017, http://www.catholic.org/. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017