Student 1 Student Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Currently homelessness in America still exists. We have developed new cures, vaccines and technology, yet we are still unable to end homelessness within America. Within the website of the stakeholder known as Alliance to End there are two images that promote their message which is, that they are fully committed to finding a way to end homelessness by educating people as well has developing better policies to help those who are homeless. The two images display normal people enjoying a happy moment with their friends and family and not worrying about where they may have to sleep tonight or what they will have to do to find dinner. This stakeholder known as the National Alliance to End Homelessness was created in 1983 to raise awareness about the homeless population in America. The stakeholder has created numerous efforts to change policies and to improve some policies to benefit the homeless population. From 2005 and 2007 the homelessness population had decreased by approximately 10 percent. Their job consists of researching and formulating data about the homeless population and then giving that information to the policymakers so then in turn they can use the information to develop more helpful policies. The first image displays a family of three smiling and being cheerful. On a single night in January 2015 people in families experienced (2015 Annual Homeless Assessment Report). Much of these families fall into being homeless because of an unpredictable Student 2 occurrence within their lives. Some of these occurrences are financial struggles such as losing their jobs, an unexpected bill or even a death within the family. (National Alliance to End Homelessness) On the bright side many families do not experience long term homelessness and just need little to almost no time at all to get back up on their feet. Rapid re-housing is a large solution in helping end the homelessness of families. The faster that families are placed in a permanent home then the easier it is for homelessness to be solved. The primary visual message that is being presented from this image is how happy that the family is now because they no longer must battle the struggle of being homeless. The smiling of the family and the young boy hugging, what seems to be is, his mother are both visual cues that represent how happy the family now is. Logos is used in this image by depicting how happy the family now is family overcoming homelessness. Ethos is being portrayed within the image by showing the smiles on the faces. Pathos is being used in the image also by showing the smiling faces. Kairos is used in this image to show that the picture is not recent but also is not very old either because the picture is in color and not in black and white. This image is also very important because for the stakeholder because the image depicts how happy someone is after overcoming a large struggle. The stakeholder is continuously trying to make changes in the lives of those who need it the most. The second image displays a group of veterans sitting on a park bench and conversing. The population of homeless veterans consists of those of who fought in World War II up until recent issues as well. Those who served in the Vietnam war and in the era, are more likely to be homeless. Those who are overseas in Iraq and Afghanistan tend to have several disabilities such as, missing limbs, traumatic brain injuries and post-traumatic stress disorder. (National Alliance to End Homelessness) These disabilities are precisely the most common reason for why veterans Student 3 result in being homeless. On June 4, 2014, the Obama administration created a new program in efforts to end veteran homelessness. In result, the number of homeless veterans decreased by 35 percent. (National Alliance to End Homelessness) The stakeholder as well created an interactive map tracking progress in the cities and states where mayors, governors, and local government officials have committed to the challenge of ending veteran homelessness in their By doing so the stakeholder can keep track on if the government is keeping to their word and if they are then how much of an effort are they truly making. This not only gives insight to the stakeholder to see if the numbers of homeless veterans are decreasing but also lets the people know if anything is changing as well. The primary visual message the stakeholder is communicating through this image is that war veterans were a large part of the homeless population for a while. The visual cues are, the men are wearing hats (which is very common in veterans), by their hair color you can tell that they are a bit old which most veterans are, and lastly they are all sitting on a park bench and that can lead some to think that they may be homeless. What stands out the most from this image is that they are all wearing the shirt or at least the same color. Since they are all wearing the same color shirt it makes it seem like they are all either friends or they know each other very well. Logos is used in this image by showing that they are elderly people and that they most likely may be veterans. Ethos is used in this image by showing by their hair color that they most likely are elderly people who may be war veterans. Pathos is used in this image by showing that they old men who may be homeless because they are sitting on a park bench and only have each other to depend on. Kairos is used in image by showing that it is not back in the old days but that it is a very present photo. This image is also important because it just as well represents those who have overcome obstacles in their life. Now Student 4 that they have moved on from a tough time they can enjoy more things in life not have to think back to how their life was in the past. In conclusion, homelessness in America is still very prominent and this stakeholder is working effortlessly to help and try to lower by then ultimately ending it. The two images depicted how peaceful life can be for those who have overcome the hurdle in their life from being homeless. This stakeholder not only fights to end homelessness for veterans and families but also for the youth as well as for those who have been a victim of domestic violence by educating policymakers and by educating others. (WC: 1100) Student 5 Works Cited Browning, Ella, and Joshua M Rea. Understanding pp. Alliance to End National Alliance to End Homelessness, www.endhomelessness.org/. Images: Image 1: Image 2: 0