Garcia 1 Ashley Garcia Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.350 30 January 2017 Deforestation: No Tree Left Behind a tree falls in a forest and no one is around to hear it, does it make a This timeless philosophical question normally associated with general thought and reality can be linked to deforestation. Since the industrial Revolution era, human demand has led to excessive removal of trees for commercial and private purposes. People have greatly impacted the forest industry through agriculture, logging, urbanization, construction, and product production worldwide. While there are many stakeholders that are involved in deforestation, Greenpeace and WTK Group of Companies are two organization that embody distinctive ideas in their respected fields. Greenpeace is an environmental organization that inspires to sustain and protect the environment through peaceful means. While WTK Group of Companies is a leading forest industry business that specializes in the world-wide production of agribusiness, manufacturing, trade, land development, and timber harvesting. Deforestation is a global concern and the center of many disputes between stakeholders such as Greenpeace and WTK Group of Companies. The goal of Greenpeace for nonviolent awareness and resolutions for environmental concerns varies greatly from the WTK Group of Companies goal of using forests for profit; yet both global organizations share a common goal in the desire to prevent the trees from going extinct, impacting not only this pair of stakeholders, but the world. A compromise between the Garcia 2 Greenpeace and WTK Group of Companies could be too slowly transition companies from using forests to a new type of tree from farms. While there are many stakeholders that are concerned with deforestation, Greenpeace is one of the most involved. Founded in 1971 by a small group of environmental activists, this organization oversees a multitude of global concerns through its mission statement and goal to use non-hospitable means to raise awareness to environmental problems and promote possible solutions (Greenpeace). The ideals of this stakeholder are applied towards deforestation, one of several global concerns that the world faces. Greenpeace displays opposition towards deforestation and of the rate at which non-environmentalist companies are removing trees from forests worldwide. In the scholarly article of Economic Dynamics and Adriana Piazza -an assistant professor at the Universidad Tecnica Federico Santa Maria- writes, are however somewhat different from many other renewable resources in that regeneration is largely dependent on the availability of land and on decisions regarding land use. Models of forest management also need to take into account the relatively long rotation, the multi-age structure and the age dependent timber content of (Piazza et al. 16). This quotes explains the complications humans face in restoring the large trees that have been lost to deforestation. Greenpeace does not believe that deforestation is going to be solved in one simple step, collaboration is going to be needed to reverse what has already been done. Although environmentalist organization are very involved in deforestation, industries like WTK Group of Companies are also very established. Founded in 1941 as a swamp logging contractor, this stakeholder is a leading contributor of timber harvesting, manufacturing, trading, Garcia 3 land development, and other services worldwide (WTK Group of Companies). Assumedly, the goal of the company would be to find the best ways to make the most profit out of tree production. This organizations position on deforestation would be that that deforestation is not an issue on a global scale and therefore no extremes need to be taken in haste. In the journal Senior data analyst Patrick Doupe writes, cost of forecast error are likely to be exacerbated with current proposals for setting reference rates [a Many reference rate proposals rely on historical deforestation rates and impose a single model of deforestation across participating Both of these assumptions lead to a higher forecast and are not necessarily the best predictor of future agricultural land (Doupe 725). This article argues that there are several factors that make the future predictions of deforestation rates impossible to determine accurately. WTK Group of Companies would agree that the disastrous predictions of deforestation are not accurate and therefore companies have plenty of time to figure out an alternative. There might be differences between these two stakeholders, but they share several commonalities. Even though Greenpeace and WTK Group of Companies have completely different views on deforestation, they have common ground concerning global impact and not wanting the trees to disappear permanently. Ever since the foundation of each organization, both claim to have spread across the world. Greenpeace described its profound changes of global issues such as halting nuclear testing and outlawing commercial whaling (Greenpeace). The WTK Group of Companies stated that they have business globally from Thailand to the United States (WTK Group of Companies). Both organizations have impacted various countries across the earth. As the rate of deforestation fluctuates, both companies do not want the forests to disappear. One of Garcia 4 the main goals of Greenpeace is to prevent the disappearance of trees in forests across the globe. The WTK Group of Companies requires trees for the all the sectors of production that they are involved in. On the surface, it seems like the two stakeholders are too different to collaborate, but have mutual interest in several topics. As long as both stakeholders, Greenpeace and WTK Group of Companies, have common ground when it comes to deforestation, a compromise would be too slowly transition organizations from using forests to genetically-altered trees from farms. This compromise will allow Greenpeace to successfully save the forests from deforestation and WTK Group of Companies will be able to continue using trees for profit. In the journal Torgny Nasholm, from the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, explained, based growth models have been developed largely and the findings that tree growth can be directly improved through genetic altercations of specific Similarly, we have underutilized the potential for ecological theories and growth models to guide breeding programmes by predicting the performance of genetically altered trees in the (Nasholm et al. 1141-1148). Genetics has the ability to open new doors for the problems of the world. The genetically altered trees will halt deforestation because they will grow abnormally fast, be grown in controlled environments, and the stakeholders will only be able use these trees and not the ones growing naturally in the forest. This compromise will be necessary if deforestation ever wants to be stopped. Without these new genetically-altered trees, eventually the forests will be fall victim to urbanization or another fate caused at the hands of people. The creation of these new trees will benefit everyone who is involved with deforestation because the new species should solve the problem and maybe lead to answering other environmental concerns. For this Garcia 5 to happen, both stakeholders will need to set aside their oppositions towards each other and work together alongside other organizations to create the genetically altered tree. In summation, the rapid elimination of trees has caused deforestation to become a global concern. The conservationist organization, Greenpeace, has made several attempts at trying to prevent the rate of deforestation from increasing. WTK Group of Companies, a leading producer in the forest industry, uses trees as a main source of profit. Despite the differences between the two stakeholders, both are global icons that never want the trees to completely disappear. To prevent deforestation from running course, the two stakeholders must collaborate to invent a genetically altered tree or trees that will replace the use of natural forests. In the end, it is up to people to solve the problem of deforestation. After all, if we do not prevent the last tree from falling in the forest, there will be nobody around to stop it. Garcia 6 Works Cited 1.) Greenpeace USA, www.greenpeace.org/usa/about/. 2.) WTK Group of Companies, www.wtk.com.my/main.htm. 3.) Doupe, Patrick. Costs of Error in Setting Reference Rates for Reduced Land Economics, vol. 91, no. 4, Nov. 2015, p. 723. http://le.uwpress.org/content/91/4/723.full.pdf+html 4.) Nasholm, Torgny, Palmroth, Sari, Ganeteg, Ulrika, Moshelion, Menachem, Hurry, Vaughan, Fraanklin, Oskar. of Superior Growth Traits in Trees are Being Mapped but Will the Faster-growing Risk-takers Make it in the Tree Physiology, vol. 34, no. 11, Nov. 2014, p. 1141-1148. https://academic.oup.com/treephys/article- lookup/doi/10.1093/treephys/tpu112 5.) Piazza, Adriana, and Santanu Roy. and Optimal Journal of Enconomic Dynamics and Control, vol. 53, Apr. 2015, pp. www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165188915000056.