Byrd 1 Meghan Byrd Janie Gill ENC 1102.077 29 Jan 2017 Alternative Energy Electricity is very common in the United States and most people do not think twice about where they are getting their electric power. As time moves on and the year 2020 is fast approaching, many people are thinking about how to make energy greener and how to incorporate more renewable resources into everyday lives. One electric company who has a large stake in this fight for alternative energy is Duke Energy. According to the Duke Energy website, they are one of the largest companies of their kind in the US and supplies coal-based electric power to approximately seven million people (Duke Energy, 1). On the other hand, the company Sun Power distributes solar panels, both businesses and households. Sun Power is known for its sustainability and their progressive technology. Duke is a growing leader in traditional electric energy, while Sun Power is pushing for a shift into new alternative solar energy use. In order for either of these two companies to contribute to the future of energy, they will need to compromise. Duke Energy started in the early 1900s and quickly spread to parts of the Midwestern US along with the Carolinas and Florida (Duke Energy, 1). Duke showed that even in the early ages of their company demand for electric power was very strong. They run both coal and hydroelectric power plants, as well as a portion of these plants using natural gas (Duke Energy, 1). The demand for electricity in the US, as anyone can guess, is very high. Coal-based electric factories is the quickest and most effective way for a company like Duke to supply energy to all Byrd 2 of their customers. The effects of this volume of production can take a toll on the environment. According to their website, Duke has been interested in spreading their business to the more sustainable side of energy use. They claim that they are in renewable energy sources, adding aggressively to our solar (Duke Energy, 1). Even with the interest in solar energy, Duke has a huge financial interest in keeping their current electrical plants up and running. Pollution is one of the main factors that drives the creation of renewable energy, and Duke does put out a lot of waste. In the early 2000s, a lawsuit was brought against Duke Energy for excess air pollution regarding new policies that were not met by the company. According to Philip Terwilliger in Defense v. Duke Energy Duke made physical changes to their plant that increased pollution output, but according to a new regulation these changes should not have been made unless the company was put under certain conditions (Terwilliger, 4). This demonstrates lack of interest in creating a more environmentally sustainable company, with their minds focusing on the money. On the other hand, Sun main goal is to focus on a positive impact on the environment. Since the 1970s Sun Power has been working towards achieving sufficient renewable energy through solar power. According to the Sun Power website, they are now a global leader in the solar industry (Sun Power, 1). Their website also states that they currently have the highest efficiency solar panels (Sun Power, 1). These factors show how sustainable the company is working to be. Not only is Sun Power contributing to the environmental side of the deal, according to Lyn article Power looks to Innovation to Reduce the company is working towards lowering the cost of solar technology in order to better compete with traditional energy methods (Corum, 1). This can greatly help the cause for alternative energy since solar technology is one of the biggest Byrd 3 renewable companies and can be one of the easiest steps a company or household can make to reducing their environmental footprint. These two corporations seem to be on two entirely different paths, but a compromise seems to be in view. A good way for both of these companies to benefit from a deal, would be for Duke to buy into Sun technology and spread their company towards the renewable and sustainable energy they advertise on their website. To go even further into a compromise, some sort of deal between Duke and Sun Power could allow for a joint company that could become a world leader in sustainable energy. One foreseeable issue with that compromise is that one company can be bought out by the other, thus eliminating the compromise entirely. Earlier this month though, it seems that a deal has occurred. According to Sun newsroom, Duke Energy has bought into three solar panels from Sun Power and that Duke Energy is innovative wind energy generation projects (Sun Power Newsroom, 1). This business deal between the two competing companies can open doors into new technology for the future of sustainable and alternative energy sources. It is clear that the main goals of Duke Energy and Sun Power do not seem to overlap. In order to achieve the best interest for the US and to help the environment, these two companies need to come together and focus on the bigger picture. There is still the potential to make the money needed to run a large company through the use of alternative energy. Even though it might take a while for there to be a large shift in the amount of alternative energy utilized daily, the right efforts can be made to push not only the US but also other countries into switching to an eco-friendlier energy source. With time, solar energy costs will go down and new and more sustainable energy sources will hopefully become available to people. It has been seen that some sort of compromise can be made, but there are more than just two companies involved. If this Byrd 4 continues on without change, the carbon footprint left behind will only grow and who knows how that will affect future generations? Byrd 5 Works Cited Corum, Lyn. SunPower Looks to Innovation to Reduce  SunPower Looks to Innovation to Reduce Costs - Renewable Energy Focus. Elsevier Ltd, 07 June 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Duke Energy. OUR  About Us. Duke Energy Corporation, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sun Power.  SunPower - United States. Sun Power Corporations, 01 Apr. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sun Power Newsroom.  SunPower - United States. Sun Power Corporations, 02 Nov. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Terwilliger, Philip. Defense v. Duke Energy Corp.: Why Pollution is still Polluting During Non-Business EBSCO Pub. Web. 29 Jan 2017.