Chelsi Oswald Karen Hanson ENC 1102 January 29 2017 Should Sexual Education be taught in school? The average age for someone to have sex is around 13. This number is very shocking to the many parents who find out that their child has either gotten an STD or has gotten pregnant at this very young age. There are many ways to stop this from happening so often at the increased rate that we see today. Sexual Education is very smart and effective way to inform someone at a younger age the risks of having sex and how to take the proper precautions. Many articles that you may find have varying opinions on the topic at hand. For instance, The Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States (SIECUS) believes that sexual education is a very important part of school when growing up, while The Abstinence Clearinghouse believes that while being taught the basics with the main focus being abstinence, or not having sex until marriage. The Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States and the Abstinence Clearinghouse disagree on how much detail should be given to the students in sexual education. The compromise being proposed between these two organizations is having a basic class that every student is taught with information that they need to know, while having additional classes that are optional that would have a more in depth look into the subject. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States (SIECUS) was organized in 1964 by a Doctor named Mary S. Calderone. She was a medical director at Planned Parenthood, an organization that was created to provide education about sexual and reproductive health. SIECUS promotes comprehensive education about sexuality and advocates the right of individuals to make responsible sexual choices (Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States). SIECUS believes that they grow and mature, young people need access Oswald 2 to accurate information about their (SIECUS). They stand behind the idea that sexuality is a very natural thing that all humans experience. This organization believes in not making someone feel like they are doing something sinful or wrong. According to the article that was published by Association of Schools of Public Health they think that sexual education should be taught comprehensively, age- appropriately, accurate medically, and emphasizing abstinence while still teaching the information about how to use condoms and other ways of avoiding STIs (Sexually Transmitted Diseases) and unplanned pregnancies (Fagen et al. 325). This complies with one of the many position statements that SIECUS has. The position statement that they have on sexuality throughout the life span they state that they believe all people have the right to education about sexuality, sexual health care, and sexual expression appropriate to their age and stage of (SIECUS). Abstinence is explained as not having sex until marriage, which is the point that the Abstinence Clearinghouse promotes to all of the youth that are in their program, or even the schools that are associated with them. The Abstinence Clearinghouse is non-profit organization that promotes the appreciation for and practice of sexual abstinence through distribution of age-appropriate, factual, and medically-accurate (Abstinence Clearinghouse). The Clearinghouse is an organization that promotes abstinence without forgetting any of the important details that are necessary as the progress in age. They both have a similar goal in mind with having age appropriate material taught to the students in lower level schools. They just have different methods of going about it. The Clearinghouse wants abstinence to be the main focus of what they are teaching to the youth in their program. In the research study done by Emerald Insight they wanted to prove whether or not parents were the barriers when teaching sexual education in schools. They were determined to find out their real Oswald 3 attitudes towards the topic. Insight found that parents actually endorse the teaching of sexual education to their children while in schools. believed that that it was not only important for young people to have the knowledge that constitutes comprehensive sexuality education but for it to also be inclusive of relationships, sexual and gender identity, and (Peter et al. 15). With the information from this study that they performed it proves that both organizations have the same goal in mind. They both want the main focus to be abstinence while still teaching the important topics about sexuality. It will be a lot easier for them to come to a compromise when they both want the same things taught they just have different ways of going about it. Their viewpoints are very similar about what they want for the youth and want them to know. They only differ in how they go about teaching the students, their religious views, and how they view sex before marriage. The compromise being proposed here is that every student in lower level schools be taught the necessities, and if they should choose to do so other students can take optional classes that go more into detail for the subject at hand. They both want the basics to be taught while still having abstinence being the main focus. The Routledge Taylor & Francis Group investigated relationship between satisfaction with high school sexual health education and the pursuit of a post-secondary human sexuality (Rye et al. 1). This group looked into the number of students who took sexual education course in lower level schools in this case high school and compared it with how many would take it in college for example. They wanted to compare how many of them who did pursue more courses in sex education and see if they enjoyed and had a good teacher who taught them what they needed to know. The option being made that if they did have a good experience in their sexual education course they could pursue more class options if they wanted to learn any more than the basics. who were less satisfied with high Oswald 4 school sexual health education and, in particular, those who did not rate sexual health education as contributing to their understanding of themselves as sexual beings, were more likely to pursue a university-level (Rye et al. 1) Teen pregnancies are the number one reason for teens to drop out of high school due to according to the National Dropout Prevention Center/Network at Clemson University (Clemson College of Education). This creates a big toll not only on the family but a tremendous amount of that is put on the girl who gets pregnant. She has to decide what to do and how to get on with her life when after she figures this out. pregnancy has a tremendous impact on the health and wellbeing of young women, their families, and their (SIECUS). Communities are also being affected by these teen pregnancies, because teenagers obviously do not have enough money to support them and a newborn baby along with all the medical bills and necessities that the baby will need. These teens will ultimately need the support from government companies that come from the money. It affects the whole community in some way or another. If informing the youth about how to avoid teen pregnancies and all of the risks that come along with sex, therefore not having to lean on society to pay for their children. This could put a stop to all the political issues that come along with it. Oswald 5 Works Cited Abstinence Clearinghouse www.abstinence.net/about-us/. 26 Jan. 2017. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States www.siecus.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=Page.ViewPage&pageId=620. 27 Jan. 2017. Christina R. Peter , Timothy B. Tasker , Stacey S. Horn , (2015) attitudes toward comprehensive and inclusive sexuality education: Beliefs about sexual health topics and forms of , Health Education, Vol. 115 Iss: 1, pp.71 92. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Fagen, Michael C., et al. PROMOTING IMPLEMENTATION OF A SCHOOL DISTRICT SEXUAL HEALTH EDUCATION POLICY THROUGH AN ACADEMIC COMMUNITY  Public Health Reports (1974-) 2010: 352. JSTOR Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States www.siecus.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=Page.ViewPage&pageId=493. 27 Jan. 2017. Opponents of Comprehensive Sexuality Abstinence Clearinghouse www.communityactionkit.org/index.cfm?pageId=920. 28 Jan. 2017. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States www.siecus.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=Page.ViewPage&pageId=494. 27 Jan. 2017. Rye, B.J., et al. Satisfaction With Previous Sexual Health Education As A Predictor Of Intentions To Pursue Further Sexual Health  Sex Education 15.1 (2015): 93 107. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.