Derik Ware Karen Hanson ENC 1102 1/30/17 Solar Powered Nuclear Plants Creating Energy is easy but creating clean energy by not polluting the environment is another. Clean Energy Associates also referred to by CEA was established in 2008. It is based in Asia but reaches worldwide searching to help companies find a clean way to solve their energy needs (mainly solar). On the other hand, Nuclear Energy Institute also known as NEI was formed in 1994 promoting the use of nuclear energy. NEI was the merging of four older organizations called Nuclear Utility Management and Resource Council, U.S. Council for Energy Awareness, American Nuclear Energy Council, and Edison Electric Institute. After the merge of the four organizations they relocated to Washington, DC. Both NEI and CEA want to provide clean energy to the consumer, by collaborating together they can increase energy production along with consolidating the land required to generate the energy. Clean Energy Associates mission is to deploy solar solutions worldwide to many different companies and individuals. This would increase the name for CEA along with creating a profit. CEA does quality control checks on all the pieces of solar panels before they are put on site and does post checks to make sure they are functioning as purposed. In the end CEA is an intermediate business linking producers to buyers/users. In Is it all over for nuclear power? Michael Brooks talks about how nuclear power is beginning to be phased out. While it is a large part of power supply if new reactors brought on line as other are closed due to age and safety checks then another source of power will have to take the place such as solar or wind. Michael states towards the end of the paper that one fifth of the energy already comes from renewable why not have that number increase. However, the overall goal of NEI is to promote nuclear energy to congress and the general public showing how it can be safely used along with how much power can be generated from each reactor. On the FAQ page they have relevant questions such as what happens after Fukushima disaster. They answer this question by saying generators, batteries, water pumps and other emergency equipment have been purchased at each (NEI) along with other improvements. The biggest push they have for nuclear is the amount of power that can be generated in such a small area. The smallest reactor in the US generates 582 megawatts which is enough to power just over 95,000 homes assuming 1 megawatt can power 164 homes. When reviewing Recent Advances in Ocean Nuclear Power Plants it talks about how nuclear energy be removed from the energy grid nuclear power has the smallest full-lifecycle carbon footprint among all energy sources and is one of the cheapest available energy (Kang-Heon). The Ocean Nuclear Power Plants (ONPPs) can be used in a variety of ways not just for power generation such as providing clean water from the amount from heat that is created by the reactor to boil salt water making it drink able. Kang-Heon also mentioned placing reactors floating on the water as to keep stabilized from earthquakes and would be able to float over a tsunami. After closely looking at both organizations objectives and why other companies would want to back them Renewable and nuclear electricity: Comparison of environmental impacts article seems very appealing because it addresses the issues with all systems and the advantages each pose. Such as nuclear creating on average 4000 Watts/square meter(W/m 2 ) and solar being that is creates energy with very little to no byproduct. Although nuclear requires enriched uranium and for solar panels to be effective they need a large amount of space and adequate sun light. So by allowing solar companies to buy the mining fields of uranium once empty of resources giving a large open area to gather energy and not having to clear cut land. On top of earning back some of the money for the land Nuclear plants could allow solar panels to be installed around the plant because of the fear factor that it might have a meltdown driving people away. By allow the solar companies to have land so close they could use the solar energy as part of the backup system for the nuclear power plant in addition the generator on site. In doing this it would save space and produce more energy. In the long run both companies would profit from the co-use of land and might consider having other renewable sources join them as relations between companies is how to better our planet and not about revenue created. Citations: NEI, https://www.nei.org/About-NEI/History. 1/25/17 Brooks, Michael. Is It All Over For Nuclear  New Scientist 189.2548 (2006): 33- 37. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. About Nuclear NEI, https://www.nei.org/Knowledge-Center/FAQ-About- Nuclear-Energy. 1/26/17 CEA, http://www.cea3.com/Introduction.aspx. 1/25/17 Kang-Heon, Lee, et al. Recent Advances In Ocean Nuclear Power  Energies, Vol 8, Issue 10, Pp 11470-11492 (2015) 10 (2015): 11470. Directory of Open Access Journals. 1/29/17 McCombie, Charles, and Michael Jefferson. Renewable And Nuclear Electricity: Comparison Of Environmental  http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301421516301240. 1/29/17 Nuclear Power Plants - General U.S. Nuclear NEI, https://www.nei.org/Knowledge- Center/Nuclear-Statistics/US-Nuclear-Power-Plants. 1/26/17