Al Shehhi 1 Wafaa Al Shehhi Janie Gill ENC1102.077S17 January 29th 2017 Controlling immigration in the United States research energy were proportional to the inefficiency of the status quo, virtually every economist would study immigration. And if outrage were proportional to harm, virtually every protest on earth would be in favor of open Bryan Caplan (n.d). Immigration is an extensive topic and everything in the life has two sides, pros and cons. Moreover, there are a lot of people against immigration especially in the United States because the huge number of immigrants that enter U.S. daily. On the other hand, some of people go forward with immigration and they try to do the best to let immigrants enter the country easily without facing any problem. There are some issues that come from immigration, Such as, illegal immigrants, drugs, terrorism and so on. As well as, there are some positive impacts of immigration. For example, immigrants may help the United States economy, which make the country have a good economy. Also, immigration helps some of people who do not have a safe place to live in or to complete their life without any problems like, countries who have wars. Moreover, children can get their education that their parents cannot find for them in the home country. Hence, immigration has two sides that affect the United States positively and negatively. From the negative side, illegal immigrants have a huge impact in the country. And from the other side, immigration helps the United States economy and may help people. First of all, the first organization that takes care of immigration issues from the negative side is American Immigration Control Foundation organization. American Immigration Control Al Shehhi 2 Foundation is founded in 1983. It has a lot of members that work in it and they agree that immigration is a bad idea. They try to do anything to stop immigrants from entering United States. Also, they focus on the specific part which is illegal immigrants. majority of immigrants are (consciously or unconsciously) undermining our customs, our culture, our language, and our institutions. Instead of remaining in their native lands and emulating the United States, they are descending upon our shores and trying to reshape the United States into the image of the lands they (AIC). Illegal immigrant is a really big problem. Most of the illegal immigrants drive a lot of issues with them like drugs, crimes and share bad and illegal activities. Furthermore, illegal immigrants take away the jobs from the citizen of the United States. Which make Americans have a less opportunity to get a job. According to the After They Closed the Gates article, people who against illegal immigrants are agree that most of the United States money goes to the illegal Immigrants by in paying for border patrol and deportation (Bayor, 2015). Also, the organization mention that those illegal immigrants increase the number of illegal people in the United States and some of children who they get some rights that legal person or American deserve it more than them. Allowing illegal immigrants to enter the United States a negative impact. Which leads to their, access to health care and social security, education and other remaining system that citizen or legal immigrant deserve it and this makes the US government is paying their mistakes. Secondly, the second organization is American Friends Service Committee. American Friends Service Committee is an organization that defends for immigrants and they try to do as many as they can to help immigrants. According to the AFSC website in the crucible of World War I by Quakers who aimed to serve both humanity and country while being faithful to their commitment, AFSC is founded in Immigration provides to some of the people a Al Shehhi 3 way to improve their life. In these days, the number of people who have a war in their countries increased in this period. These people need to place that they feel safe in it with their children and they want to their children have a good education, health care and so on. Moreover, Immigrants are consumers. They will buy from manufacturers and dealers of others. As a result, this will greatly help in the US economy. According to the Still A Nation Of Immigrants Effects Of Constructions Of National History On Attitudes Toward Immigrants Still A Nation Of Immigrants Effects Of Constructions Of National History On Attitudes Toward Immigrants article, labor force which add to the GDP or Gross Domestic Product which is equivalent to $1.5 trillion dollars over a period of 10 (Bikmen, 2015). American Friends Service Committee provides a lot of services for immigrants. Also, they provide a donate section for immigrants who have difficulties to immigrate to other places because their income or their social status. This organization have many events almost weekly about immigration to inform people more about immigration and about people who need to immigrate to the United States for better life. American Friends Service Committee support refugees in the United States and try to help them by finding the best place to live in and complete their life as other people. The organization goal is helping immigrants cross the United States. Thirdly, both of the organizations have a different perspective on the immigration topic. Each of them thinks from the different side. So, the first organization thinks that the immigration is a bad idea for the United States because it will drive a lot of issues such as what mentioned before. And, the other organization thinks that the immigration is a good idea for the United States and for people who immigrate to the United States because of many reasons. If both of these organizations leave some of their beliefs and that is not important to stick with it, that will make good compromises. The first compromise is sure the border is secure. And, be sure that Al Shehhi 4 government has a workforce enforcement program that really works. Also, because of the huge number of illegal immigrants from Mexico that enter the United States from the border, the government should make sure about the enforcement program in these special places. According to The Right U.S. Immigration Enforcement Solution article, the second compromise after border security is a illegal immigrant who is currently in the United States must to wait for ten years to become one of the persons who hold a green card, and when he or she receive that card must pay all past taxes and fees, this will help in the United States revenues (2012). Then, each of these compromises may help both organizations to understand each other and they should know nothing is perfect and need to improve whatever if this thing is good or bad. In the end, immigration in the United States is an important topic in this day. It has a positive and negative impact in the United States. Each of the organizations should deal with this case in a rational thinking. Immigration is a good idea if it will improve the United States or if it will help other people to find a good condition life to complete their life as other. Also, immigration is a bad idea if the immigrants enter the United States as illegally and drive with them crimes and drugs. Thus, the compromises should be found to make both type of people complacency. Al Shehhi 5 Works Cited American Friends Service Committee. (1947). History of AFSC. Retrieved from https://www.afsc.org . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. American Immigration Control Foundation. (1983). A Brief History of Immigration. Retrieved from http://www.immigrationcontrol.com. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bayor, Ronald H. After They Closed The Gates: Jewish Illegal Immigration To The United States,  American Jewish History 2 (2015): 197. Literature Resource Center. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bikmen, Nida. Still A Nation Of Immigrants Effects Of Constructions Of National History On Attitudes Toward  Analyses Of Social Issues & Public Policy 15.1 (2015): 282-302. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Larson, Michael J. The Right U.S. Immigration Enforcement Solution: Haste  University Of Miami Law Review 3 (2012): 807. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.