Jiang 1 Linzhi Jiang Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 909 January 30,2017 Breath of The Smog Beijing, a flourishing city that supposes be filled with brightness lights. In the end of the 2016s, the whole city appears hazy whiteness, it is not because of the snow, it is because of the smog in the air which reduced the visibility that turned Beijing into The residents of Beijing have been suffering through the longest air pollution in history, according to the article Study Link Polluted Air in China to 1.6 Million Death a Year on The New York Times, Outdoor air pollution contributes to the deaths of an estimated 1.6 million people in China every year, or about 4,400 people a (Levin). What has made Beijing is a kind of pollutant is known as fine particulate matter (PM 2.5), this kind of pollutant is very unhealthy for the human body, this is the reason Beijing had 1.6 million death from breathing in the air pollution on 2015, which is scarily harmful. The Chinese government is trying to solve this air pollution problem for a long time but did not really worked anything well. The PM 2.5 is mainly produced by the coal burning, and the big coal power station owner in northern China is Huaneng Power International Inc. The pollution cannot continue increasing, the Chinese government needs to negotiate with Huaneng Power International Inc., the situation needs to be changed. However, Huaneng Power is a business company, they are trying to maximize their profit, and the main way their profit make our off is coal power station, if the Chinese government want to solve the air pollution problem, the Chinese government need to Make Jiang 2 Huaneng Power reduce their coal production or to minimize their coal power stations. Once the coal burning is cut, the pollutant will decrease for sure. To benefit both Huaneng Power International Inc. and Chinese government, in the way for Chinese government to reduce the air pollution but also Huaneng Power International Inc. will not lose much profit, the best way is to transform coal burning into power plants, Huaneng Power International can use natural resources to invest energy instead of burning coal. Huaneng Power International Inc. (Huaneng Group), one of the five largest power producer in China, it engages in the development, construction, and operation of large power plants. The coal power stations that are owned by Huaneng Group, have covered the most part of northern China near Beijing. According to the article from the book Applied Energy, first industrial-scale CO2 capture plant in China has been demonstrated at Huaneng Beijing power plant has shown that this technology is a good option for the capture of CO2 produced by commercial coal-fired power (Bin Huang, Shisen Xu, Shiwang Gao, Lianbo Liu, Jiye Tao, Hongwei Niu, Ming Cai, Jian Cheng). Huaneng Group is trying to development more power stations to make themselves better off. However, in the year of 2016, their power generation within China has decreased by according to the news on Yahoo Finance, decrease in the power generation for the year of 2016 was mainly attributable to the following reasons: (1) the installed capacity growth outpaced the growth of the nationwide power consumption while the utilization hours of coal-fired power generation units saw a year- on-year fall; (2) the growth of the installed capacity was below the average of its regional (Newswire). Another reason for the decrease in power generation because the air pollution in Beijing, Chinese government representing the residents of Beijing is trying to cut down the coal power stations near Beijing. Jiang 3 The benefits the coal and biomass fuels contributed to the economy and human development are very important; however, the Chinese governments have realized that the mass quantity of usage of coal causes great damage to human health and the environment. The governments have been collecting the data of coal and biomass fuels consumption for years, they found out that there are 67% of total energy consumption is coal, which it is high as 1.63 billion tons of oil in 2012. Also, the usage of coal in china is almost reached 50% of the total coal consumption. (Zhu et al.). Rural residents and partial urban residents utilized those huge amounts of coal and biomass fuels for householders cooking and heating, which it results in approximately 720,000 premature deaths annually due to the indoor and outdoor air pollution by burning those solid fuels (Zhang & Kirk). In addition, the air pollution causes more health problems like lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (Zhang & Kirk). Furthermore, the air pollution contributed by coal and biomass fuels not only affect premature deaths, but also it causes many severe environmental issues, such as global warming, climate changes, and fog-haze. The coal and biomass consumptions emit plenty of chemicals into the atmosphere, like carbon dioxide and nitrogen dioxide, which it increases the level of greenhouse gas and causes global warming. Consequently, it leads to the sixth extinction of species including human, loss of biodiversity, and broken ecosystem. Besides, the loss of biodiversity and broken ecosystem will cause food shortage and nature disaster. Therefore, the governments think that the behavior of householders and lifestyle need to be changed into a high-tech level to utilize the resources that will not harm the earth seriously. They appeal that the residents and industries to use more alternative resources, which are less polluted and renewable. In order to solve the Beijing air pollution problem, both Huaneng Group and the Chinese government have to step back from their current action for the benefit of Beijing Jiang 4 health. Huaneng Group needs to shut down some coal power stations. A lot of the coal power stations appear right now are not valuable, many of them are over producing coal that China does not need that much. The Chinese government needs to help Huaneng Group to shift their coal burning station into power plants, for example, build dam or wind power plant, to build a dam, the Chinese government needs to help Huaneng Group find a right place to do the construction. The Chinese government needs to give Huaneng Group permission to do their construction for the power plant station and also Chinese government needs to help Huaneng Group find natural sources in order to produce energy. If every process works well, the pollution in Beijing will decrease obviously, there will no longer have people death innocently, every resident will have fresh air to breath. This does not only benefit Beijing residents but also Huaneng Group and the Chinese government. To Conclusion, Beijing residents have been suffering the biggest air pollution in history, and the unbelievably huge amount of coal burning is the main factor in causing the pollution. Huaneng Power International Inc.(Huaneng Group) is one of the biggest power generation in China, and the Chinese government has the duty to negotiate with Huaneng Group about cutting the pollution down to minimize the coal power stations that are owned by Huaneng Group, or to shift the coal power station into the power plants. In that way, Huaneng Group still can continue their business of producing power, and in another hand, the Chinese government can protect their residents from breathing in the pollutant in the air. For the health of the country, they have to make a peace. Jiang 5 Works Cited Bin Huang, Shisen Xu, Shiwang Gao, Lianbo Liu, Jiye Tao, Hongwei Niu, Ming Cai, Jian Cheng. Industrial test and techno-economic analysis of CO2 capture in Huaneng Beijing coal-fired power  Applied Energy (2010): 3347-3354. Levin, Dan. Study Link Polluted Air in China to 1.6 Million Deaths a Year. 13 Augest 2015. 30 January 2017. Newswire, PR. Huaneng Power International, Inc. Power Generation Within China Decreases by 2.13% for the Year of 2016. 10 January 2017. 30 January 2017. Zhang, Junfeng, and Kirk R. Smith.  Household Air Pollution from Coal and Biomass Fuels in China: Measurements, Health Impacts, and Environmental Health Perspectives Vol.115, No.6 (Jun., 2007): 848-855. The National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Zhu, Chen, Jinnan Wang, Guoxia Ma, and Shen Yan. China tackles the health effects of air  ProQuest. ProQuest LLC, 14 Dec. 2013. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.