Singer 1 Molly Singer Professor Davis ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Marine Mammal Rights: Finding a Compromise For decades, marine mammals have been taken out of their natural habitat and placed in artificial environments as pets, for entertainment purposes, or for educational reasons. According to PBS, throughout the belugas and dolphins were caught and transported to aquariums and zoos across America. Many of these animals died during transportation. The first oceanaria, Marine Studios, opened in 1938; this is where marine mammals were first being shown performing tricks for public entertainment. Since then, many more oceanaria spouted up, promoting live marine mammal shows, including SeaWorld, and the Miami Seaquarium. Public opinion against these types of parks began to happen in the (A Whale of A Business). There was a consensus that these marine mammals were not being treated properly, and were not in the type of environment that allowed them to thrive. Since then the topic of marine mammal captivity has become divided on whether humans should be allowed to keep cetaceans or to let them thrive in their natural habitat. Two parties that are considered stakeholders on this topic are SeaWorld and Captive Protection Society (CAPS). For 50 years, SeaWorld has prided themselves on being a leading theme park and entertainment company that provides interactive educational experiences for customers to feel connected to nature. They also see themselves as an important zoological organization and a worldwide leader in animal welfare. Despite this some people believe that SeaWorld is not providing the best care for their marine animals. CAPS has been working since 1957 to help end or lessen the suffering of captive wild animals, and free Singer 2 them from circuses, zoos and aquariums. Their main goal is to stop the use of performing animals for entertainment purposes (Our History). It is clear to see that these stakeholders do not see eye-to-eye on this topic, but there is a way to make both parties happy. Although SeaWorld supports the use of captive marine animals in their shows and CAPS thinks that they should not be used for entertainment purposes and even set free, they both share the belief that the animals are important to our world for environmental and education purposes and that they should be protected. A compromise could be found by having some marine mammals in captive solely for educational purposes, and that their artificial habitats should better model their natural environments. SeaWorld was originally planned to be an underwater restaurant in San Diego, but the idea was expanded upon by founders George Millay, Milt Shedd, Ken Norris and David DeMott until, in 1954, they created a marine zoological park that gained over 400,000 visitors in its first years. Since then SeaWorld have expanded to become three parks, with locations in San Diego, CA, San Antonio, TX, and Orlando, Fl. The goal is to provide animal encounters, educational attractions and innovative entertainment are designed to inspire guests of all ages to celebrate, connect with and care for the natural world around (History). Considering that the parks make money off the marine mammals that they possess, SeaWorld believes that they should be able to keep these animals in captivity and use them for entertainment purposes. SeaWorld began to have opposition to the way they use their animals after the release of the documentary called Blackfish which inside aquarium parks like SeaWorld and discredited the facts SeaWorld was telling about their animals. After realizing that the opposition would only grow and affect the business, SeaWorld decided to end the breeding program for its captive orcas, but this is not enough for animal rights groups and the younger Singer 3 generation who still push for SeaWorld to do more. SeaWorld Entertainment Executive, Joel Manby says he never expected this change in policy to completely alleviate the situation, but stays optimistic that future changes will help SeaWorld get back on the good side (Martin). Captive Protection Society began in 1957 when Irene Heaton became aware of all the suffering animals in the entertainment industry were subject to (Our History). She founded CAPS on the mission to bring about changes in practices and attitudes involving captive animals. When CAPS first began it mostly focused on zoos and circuses using multiple campaigns to protest and to petition to not allow places like that in some cities. Since then CAPS has turned its eye towards the use of marine mammals in the entertainment industry. Its current campaign that deals with this subject is called which is launched against SEA LIFE, a brand owned by the global company, Merlin Entertainments. CAPS has launched an investigation into the company with many of its results in opposition of what SEA LIFE tries to publicly promote. CAPS believes that by shining a light on this part of the zoo industry, it will trigger interest and concern for marine mammals (Sea Lies Aquarium ). Clearly CAPS is opposed to the way animals are used in captivity, and have been campaigning against it for some time. Although it seems as though these stakeholders are at the opposite ends of this argument, there is a compromise that can be reached. A compromise that would benefit both parties is to keep marine mammals in captivity strictly for educational purposes, and in habitats that better resemble their natural ones. For this compromise to work, CAPS would have to give up on completely freeing these animals from captivity, and SeaWorld would have to spend a little more money on creating better living situations for their animals. Though the price each party must Singer 4 pay may seem hefty, the benefits of this would out way them. CAPS will have succeeded in ending the use of animals in performances, and SeaWorld can still keep and make a profit from their marine mammals.