Khoo 1 Win Sheng Khoo Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.909 29 January 2017 Why is Music Important in Our Education? We live in a world that is full of advanced technology. Because of this fact, most people think that mathematics and science are the most reliable and vital knowledge in our daily life. This often leads to the misunderstanding of true knowledge, the knowledge of music. Music programs are mostly the first choice to be dropped off among the schools in America when cutting funds is needed. According to Jill Hambek, few years ago, Chicago Public Schools dealt a blow to arts education when it laid off over 1,000 teachers as a result of its recent decision to close over 50 This showed that most people see art or music education often as minor contributor of knowledge in learning. Due to the declination of economy in America happened not long ago, Common Core State Standards (CCSS) has lowered down the prior standard of music programs due to saving the funds for those courses that they think are important like mathematics and English language (Metla). On the other hand, National Foundation for Youth Music (NFYM) stands in a opposite point of view compared with CCSS as this organization encourage young folks to emerge themselves into music. NFYM is able to see the real advantages from music. The aim of this organization is to give full support and opportunity for young people to learn music. Music programs existed in the education field for a reason but due to the different perspectives from stakeholder like CCSS who sees only the good of math and reading and stakeholder like NFYM who focuses on benefits of music in education. Education system in America has to give up on one side to emphasize and strengthen the other Khoo 2 one. But remember that they hold the same common goal which is to provide the best outcome for our next generation. Therefore, Effect is one crucial point to connect these two stakeholders. As Effect improves our cognitive skills and stimulate our brain in a positive aspect. This is why these two stakeholders play such important role in here. The primary goal of Common Core State Standard is to make sure students gained enough knowledge of mathematics and English language before graduating from high school. CCSS believes their standards are able to provide students a strong formed knowledge based on mathematics and language which gets them ready for college and career. To make sure the quality of their standards maintains in the best. They refer to the international models and take the suggestion from professional and experts in the field of education, and even parents and students into account. With such states of process to ensure that the outcome reaches satisfaction. Many schools in the United States have accepted the standards as their standards. According to Andrew Porter, he stated Common Core standards are somewhat more focused in (114). This clearly tells us that art programs like music has not always been valued in education. Additionally, Porter wrote to those who wish CCSS to be the representative of the United States education will be disappointed as he stated because of Core standards are more focused than current state standards and only for mathematics, not for English Language Art and Reading (115). Other than this, Porter benchmarked the mathematics achievement levels by using the data provided by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In a result of the three countries, Finland, Japan and Singapore have greater level of achievement in mathematics on the eight-grade than the United States. As his studies found out that the three listed countries are much more focusing on (113). One more thing to mention about Common Core Standards as the Khoo 3 scholar, Porter claimed in his book Core as he stated he reason of those top-achieving countries do better in mathematics is because of of the three countries puts as much as 1% of its content emphasis on nonroutine Whereas puts (114). From here, we can see it clearly that even though CCSS puts efforts in order to emphasize in the core course mathematics. They are still not doing as good as the other countries that have better level of achievement in mathematics. Placing this to an end, rather than just emphasizing the importance of mathematics. Music is also an important field that we should put attention into it. The creation of National Foundation for Youth Music (NFYM) is to spread the life of music into specifically children and young one as they believe music is able to improve the quality of their thinking development. NFYM aims to change the life of children and young folks that have difficulties in life due to any issues with the power of music. They create chances for the youth to make music by passing them music related knowledge. According to webpage, a steady amounts of Youth Music projects, about 350 projects are actively ongoing every year around England. To emphasize on how important is music education, scholar Karl Glenn, which was also the president of the Music Educators National Conference, claimed music holds the key to the door of inflation of economy in America (1). Moreover, Glenn wrote that students will never gain a well-rounded education and achieve the real value of education for the future without taking music and arts into account. Training brain with doing exercises is commonly known for creating certain logical knowledge but music can increase our creativity and to extend our external knowledge. According to Glenn, he claimed music or art education as improve their achievement and citizenship in school, to make them knowledgeable about the diverse cultural heritage of this nation, and to prepare them for the creative work force of the Khoo 4 (2). Considering the combination result from CCSS AND NFYM with the mixture of music and mathematics, here is where Effect comes in. Comparing the two stakeholders mentioned in this paper, notice that both of them share the same goal which is just purely to educate our next generation and to make sure the knowledge passed to the students with the help of their designed system is enough for students for future use. Effect is the best way to compromise each other ideas. Effect is known as listening to music can stimulate our brain and develop our brain but in condition, which one needs to have musical experienced. It is best to learn music since young age. Music is during the critical period for brain (Mattar, 370). Because of the value of time which is young age in this case. Thus, we need to grab the chance and emphasize music as one of the core course in schools. Balance education is important for all of us, we need to develop students not only mathematically but also in communication and emotionally. According to Jehan Matter, music stimulate right-brain functioning, associated with (375). Surprisingly, listening to music can help students in learning and increase their cognitive skills. Matter cited a sentence from Campbell, as he stated that listening to music can also higher-order thinking, and create a positive, relaxed, receptive state of mind that is ideal for (375). At last, introduce music as one of the core course has no harm to either of the stakeholders but improve both quality outcomes. As Effect has the ability to improve cognitive and communication skills. Moreover, music supports the learning environment that make children or young people to learn in a better condition (Matter, 374). In another word, placing music as one of the core course has no harm to both sides but enhance both outcomes. Khoo 5 In conclusion, both stakeholders have their own way to make sure students received their best in whatever way with their own designated system. But, putting both ideas together can form an even better environment and mental support for students to learn. Allowing students to learn musical instruments since young age improve their brain development as this aligned with the idea of the stakeholder NFYM. The significant improvement of development in brain boosts up the process of learning, says mathematics as CCSS focused on. At the end, both stakeholders do not need to give up on each other to achieve their primary goals which is also an win-win situation. Khoo 6 Work Cited Cerbasi, Jennifer. How important is music education in  Fox News. FOX News Network, 28 Mar. 2012. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://www.foxnews.com/health/2012/03/28/how-important-is-music-education-in- schools.html>. Glenn, Karl. The Many Benefits Of Music Education - Now and in the  NASSP Bulletin. Sage Publications, Inc., 1 May 1992. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://journals.sagepub.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/pdf/10.1177/019263659207654402 >. Hambek, Jill. Arts programs in schools often in danger of being  The Washington Times. The Washington Times, 14 Mar. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/mar/14/arts-programs-in-schools-often-in- danger-of-being-/>. Jehan, Mattar. The effect of music on child development in a Jordanina  Project Innovation, Spring 2013. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=1ff017bb- 9b46-4c07-9e1e-c2d6350e0c16@sessionmgr120&vid=2&hid=120>. Metla, Valeriya. School Art Programs: Should They Be  Law Street (TM). LAW STREET, 25 July 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <https://lawstreetmedia.com/issues/education/cutting-art-programs-schools-solution-part- problem/>. Porter, Andrew, Jennnifer McMaken, Jun Hwang, and Rui Yang. Common Core Standards: The Khoo 7 New U.S. Intended  Educational Reseacher. Sage Publications, Inc., 1 Apr. 2011. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.3102/0013189X11405038>.