Antle !1 Glenn Antle ENC 1102.078 Kristin Gocinski 30 January 2017 Women Wanna Fight Men usually dominated the military scene for much of its existence, but women entered in a strange way. The first few women in the military were enlisted under their deceased relatives that fought in the war before. Finally, women were first able to join the U.S Navy and the Marine Corps in 1917, which was the last two years of World War I (Ali). Each year there were larger amounts of women enlisting in various branches of the military. As the women started out in small roles, they gradually took on bigger roles such as commanding officer and other high ranked positions. These positions were dominated by men but were some were replaced by women which did the job just enough for them to come into the picture. Not long ago, women tried to join the infantry unit of the military. To this day, they are still trying to join the men in fighting on the front lines for this country. There are many people who argue for and against women in combat, but there are two major ones that are worth mentioning. My first stakeholder is the Service Action Network (SWAN) who believe that women should be on the front lines in our military. They were created in 2007 and continue to be the largest group of volunteer women who strive to advocate service needs in the military We My second stakeholder is the Marines. They state that women can not handle the physical toughness of being in the military (Mulrine). The two stakeholders, SWAN and the Marines, have big voices on the topic of women in combat. Even though they disagree on whether women should Antle !2 join the infantry, they are both looking out for what is best for women and what is best for the military and using these common interests, there is a compromise that can be reached. The Service Action Network, also known as SWAN, prides themselves in being the face and the voice of service women in this nation We Their mission statement is to be the most influential and effective network of service women, acting as their champion, advocate and best information We A scholarly source that supports this source in their goal is the article Feminist Advocacy and War on Terror Militarism. The source mentions how the Service Action Network successfully assisted U.S female service members in conveying an anti-racist, anti-misogynistic, and an anti-homophobic message that the women would like to take part in military actions in all branches (Ali). Certain documentation used while fighting overseas helped the Service Action Network in getting up to date and insightful information about the combat experience women were facing. The benefits of this documentation were that they could lobby for change in policies from what was currently employed to what the organization saw fit for the well-being of the women (Ali). It is worth noting that the way the Service Action Network uses technology and social media really proves that they are devoted to advocating this group within the military. Although this organization does a lot of work trying to allow women in combat roles, there is one main group that want that. The Marines is my second stakeholder and they believe that women should not be in active combat roles in the military. An article by Anna Mulrine says that Marines have done studies and it is they are weaker, more prone to injury, less adept at shooting weapons accurately, and their presence was a potential catastrophe for unit The article also stated Antle !3 that having women in combat is a catastrophe waiting to happen and that women are just not strong enough to perform some necessary tasks while under pressure such as a 110-pound woman will not be able to carry a 210-pound man away from the line of fire (Mulrine). These claims did not look good for the opposition and to make matters worse, there was a study conducted to determine the strength of women compared to men under certain circumstances while in combat (Kelley and Jameson). The research was done by the National Strength and Conditioning Association and yields favoring results for the Marines (Kelley and Jameson). The study discusses how in the early years of the military, women were not allowed to enlist because of the physical toughness required for those positions and it goes on to explain the study and its purpose (Kelley and Jameson). The study was designed to gather a physical performance and body profile of females who could overcome certain tasks that all servicemen and women should be able to do. There were many different activities that were completed such as timed runs and ammunition lifting (Kelley and Jameson). The results of the study show that women do not perform as well as the men do in timed runs and the heavy lifting which only solidifies the Marines statements. The Service Action Network and the Marine Corps have many similarities. The one major thing they do have in common is that they are looking out for the well-being of all the soldiers and branches of the military. They both advocate what they think is best for everyone and they both will debate about this until there is a compromise that is reached. There are no solutions to the longing debate but there may be one that can fix this and that is segregated units. This basically means that women will have their own unit and will use light infantry and carry out missions. This will ensure that men and women will not get distracted Antle !4 from one another during battle. This solution will also ensure that there is no physical gap remaining such as, women will not have to worry about lifting heavy objects with them or have to worry about helping heavier men to safety. The commanders and leaders of these units will be women with many years behind them in the military and who have proven experience in the field and know what they are doing. This will benefit both stakeholders by letting them get what they want because women will be able to join the front lines and not be working with men which might go bad in some cases. The funding will come from taxpayer dollars so it will be easier for the government to divide the funds since they already collect taxpayer dollars to sustain the military. The solution that has been addressed may take several months to implement because of the funding and organizing the units. To determine who will be in charge, each branch of the military will appoint their own female leaders. Women have been participating in the military since the Revolutionary War (Ali) whether it was legal or not. Women have always wanted to serve for our country but they have limitations what they are allowed to do. The Marine Corps and the Service Action Network are two different stakeholders that are the most influential groups for the topic, women in combat. They both want the best for the soldiers and what is best for the military but SWAN wants to allow women on the front lines and the Marines think that women can not handle the physical toughness of being in combat. A proposed solution to this issue is the concept of segregated units which means the women are in their own unit to eliminate the distractions that men can cause and that there is no physical toughness gap. Antle !5 Works Cited Ali, Isra. Advocacy and War on Terror Democratic 2014, journals.fcla.edu/demcom/article/view/83939. Kelley, Karen R, and Jason T Jameson. for Combat Readiness for the Fight: Physical Performance Profile of Female US Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, National Strength and Conditioning Association, Mar. 2016, Mulrine, Anna. Marines, Unlike Army and Navy, Are so against Women in The Christian Science Monitor, The Christian Science Monitor, 11 Sept. 2015, http:// www.csmonitor.com/USA/Military/2015/0911/Why-Marines-unlike-Army-and-Navy- are-so-against-women-in-combat We Service Action Network, 12 Dec. 2016, www.servicewomen.org/who- we-are/#about.