Ronnie Hoggins Jr Instructor Robert ENC 1130 29 January 2017 Energy Drinks In Sports When you think of the words and you would assume that these words automatically fit each other perfect, but when you add the word behind energy it means disaster. Whoever thought that something that boosts your energy could harm you and be fatal. Energy drinks in sports has been an ongoing issue due to the fact that scientist are trying to figure out ways to improve an athletes energy without them getting harmed. There have been many cases where people have been harmed because they have token some form of an energy drink before competition. These actions have led to the talk about the banning of energy drinks. The American Medical Association is a stakeholder who believes that these are harmful and believe these drink should be banned. While on the other hand Monsters Energy thinks that this be done because this will make their business decline considerably. Though energy drink taste good and give you the energy boost you feel you need, they are harmful to you and your body and can later on in life hurt you especially in the youth. Energy drinks could ruin the young of our country and can later on in life affect them if not smart about the way they consume energy drinks. The American Medical Association believes that energy drinks are harmful to the youth and that these drinks are harmful due to the fact of what they contain inside of them. Most also contain large quantities of sugar and other substances such as taurine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, nicotinamide, B vitamins, and various stimulating herbal deriva- tives (Sandra D. Reid, 104). Studies have shown while 50% of teenagers drink energy drink to boost their energy, 23% of them consume them for sports and to enhance there performance. D. Reid, 107). were significantly more likely to select an energy drink based on the popularity of the brand. Female respondents selected drinks based on the D. Reid, 105). According to the author statement, males where more likely to suffer from energy drinks harm than females because they worried about if it was increasing their energy but how good it tasted or what the majority of people where drinking. Energy drinks contain massive and excessive amounts of caffeine that may lead to a host of health problems in young people, banning companies from marketing these products to adolescents is a common sense action that we can take to protect the health of American kids. (Dr. Alexander Ding). Though some believe that energy drinks are harmful and seek to ban them, other believe them to be a great way to receive a boost when you are feeling sluggish and drowsy. Monster Energy is a the number one consumed energy drink by the general public. (Sandra D. Reid, 106). Energy drinks also increase many people glucose level and insulin levels. According to the article, more than 400 mg of caffeine daily is considered a high intake so even if energy drinks with higher caffeine levels are consumed (average 210 mg), it is reasonable to conclude that on an average these students use energy drinks but do not consume high or dangerous amounts of caffeine in this form. (Sandra D. Reid, 108). A Monster Energy drink has about 85mg of caffeine in it and monster does not encourage monster consumers to drink more than three monsters a day. Another reason why people want to consume monsters is because of the delicious taste of them that keeps their customers coming back for more. Monsters Energy main purpose is to satisfy needs for superior quality and great tasting, healthy, natural and functional beverages. If you where to mention to an athlete that there was a way that he could increase his energy during performance the athlete would leap onto the opportunity. Speaking from an athlete myself more energy is great but if it is artificial than I do not want it. the more studies that are being conducted the more these energy drink companies are being exposed of whats in there products and how harmful they are to the human body especially at a young age. Most also contain large quantities of sugar and other substances such as taurine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, nicotinamide, B vitamins, and various stimulating herbal deriva- tives (Sandra D. Reid, 104). To much of anything is not good for you and for these company to put thing like this in a can is not right. I do not believe that there should be a ban on energy drinks but I so believe that there should be a control limit on the amount energy drinks that are consumed. To conclude, though energy drink taste good and give you the energy boost you feel you need, they are harmful to you and your body and can later on in life hurt you especially in the youth. Whoever thought that something that boosts your energy could harm you and be fatal. Energy drinks in sports has been an ongoing issue due to the fact that scientist are trying to figure out ways to improve an athletes energy without them getting harmed. There have been many cases where people have been harmed because they have token some form of an energy drink before competition. The AMA believe that these drinks should be banned because not only are the harmful to adults in sports but also they are harmful to the youth in sports. While Monster Energy believes that it is okay to have energy drinks just as long as they are consumed the right way. Works Cited Academy, U.S. Sports. Energy  The Sport Journal. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Impact of an Energy Drink on the Structure of Stomach and Pancreas of Albino Rat: Can Omega-3 Provide a  Impact of an Energy Drink on the Structure of Stomach and Pancreas of Albino Rat: Can Omega-3 Provide a Protection? N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Arria, Amelia M., and Mary Claire The Risk of Energy  JAMA : the journal of the American Medical Association. U.S. National Library of Medicine, 25 Jan. 2011. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Campbell, Lucy.  Lawsuits, Legal News & Issues, Lawsuit Settlements, Class Action Lawsuits. N.p., 19 June 2013. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Monster Energy Mission  UNLEASH THE BEAST. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Reid, Sandra D., Jonathan Ramsarran, Rachel Brathwaite, Sarika Lyman, Ariane Baker, C. Cornish, Stefan Ganga, Zahrid Mohammed, Avinash T. Sookdeo, and Cathrine K. Thapelo. Energy drink usage among university students in a Caribbean country: Patterns of use and adverse  Journal of Epidemiology and Global Health 5.2 (2015): 103-16. Web.