Zakhary 1 Mina Zakhary ENC 1102 Professor Alison Missler 29 January 2017 Healthcare in America Healthcare in America has been a very sensitive and controversial subject over the past decade. The majority of countries worldwide use the Universal Healthcare system which is an organized healthcare system that provides benefits and coverage to all people in a certain area (Rashford 1-2). It is visible to see this implemented in countries such as Canada and Germany where universal health coverage exists. This is an issue because the US has spent the most on healthcare yet falls short of providing coverage for all Americans. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, also known as the NAIC, and Enroll America are two major organizations that are dedicated to the well-being and foundation of healthcare in America. These organizations create and support healthcare standards and regulations and deserve to be acknowledged and taken more seriously. The NAIC is an organization that prioritizes working healthcare models, research, and aiding state insurance regulators in serving the public interest. Similarly, Enroll America is dedicated in serving the interest while the number of Americans who enroll in and retain health coverage under the Affordable Care (Enroll America). Although these two organizations have similar goals, their approach and focus on healthcare are different. If the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and Enroll America worked together under the Universal Healthcare system, then more Americans will be enrolled in and retain health coverage. Zakhary 2 To begin, the NAIC was created in 1871 to help coordinate the regulation of state insurers. In doing so, the NAIC formed a national system for multistate regulations in the United States. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners follows fundamental insurance regulatory goals including promoting reliability and financial solidity of healthcare models and insurance institutions. It is essential for the NAIC to test and provide healthcare models in the interest. The NAIC has put together core goals in which they strive towards. These goals consist of protecting the public interest, promoting healthcare markets, facilitating fair treatment towards each healthcare institution, and improving and supporting state insurance regulation. The NAIC is deeply committed towards educating the public on consumer protection issues and insurance in general by helping consumers evaluate their options and in making smart decisions (National Association of Insurance Commissioners). However, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners does not directly enroll or help people become enrolled in healthcare coverage like Enroll America does. Likewise, Enroll America focuses primarily on maximizing American coverage through the Affordable Care Act and ObamaCare. Enroll America has become the United leading coalition in healthcare enrollment. According to Enroll America, strategies that are data-driven and research-based are used to consumers learn more about their new health insurance options and enroll in (Enroll America). They have reached and helped consumers by providing a network of partners who are diverse all across the nation. Through Enroll America, millions of Americans have signed up for health insurance that is affordable through the Affordable Care Act. Assistance and guidance has been provided by Enroll America to help states and the government adopt enrollment policies and practices. Through the past few years, Enroll America has been working to health coverage enrollment a way of life in every Zakhary 3 community in (Enroll America). Although Obamacare and the Affordable Care Act has helped insure millions of people, it is beneficial to enroll people under a National healthcare system as more people can become covered and insured. Furthermore, all enrolled members would be fully covered. While both of these organizations work on helping and aiding the public and states to create better policies, healthcare plans, and regulations, there are still millions of Americans who are not covered and whom are only partially covered. Furthermore, when comparing how much citizens spend on healthcare and premiums to that of other countries, Americans pay about triple the money out of pocket than people who are under a universal healthcare system. Healthcare models such as the National Health insurance model, which is related to universal healthcare, could potentially be a model that adequately will benefit the United States in multiple aspects. With this model, insurance is provided to all citizens through taxes and premiums. Although rationed services exist through waiting periods and waiting lists, this allows the government to set costs and the volume of services available (Gluckman, et al. 58). In addition, the government has the ability to negotiate for lowered drug prices and services which will greatly benefit the people. Since there is no competition between insurance companies, the government acts as the insurance company which means a higher chance of reduced prices in drugs because the government can drive the prices in whichever direction they seem fit (Van de Ven 778). As a compromise, the NAIC and Enroll America should come together and adopt or revamp our current healthcare system to follow that of a universal healthcare system. Since both stakeholders share favor in the interest and what is best for the people, With the NAIC providing state regulations and policies and Enroll America enrolling millions of citizens under this new system through its multiple partnerships, all citizens in the US should have healthcare coverage and Zakhary 4 premiums should drastically decline. Of course, action such as this requires going through multiple obstacles however if both of these organizations worked together collaboratively, then this will help the millions of people who are uninsured and those who are partially covered in the United States. Ultimately, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and Enroll America are two organizations that are working diligently to help America grow and provide coverage for as many Americans as possible. Also, if current healthcare system is revamped, or even better, if a new healthcare model is adopted such as the National Health Insurance model, this will drastically help America when it comes to healthcare ranking globally. Prime examples of universal healthcare can be seen all across the globe and in every country that has a type of universal healthcare has a better system than America. For example, drug prices in America are drastically greater than those in Canada and it is no surprise that Canada uses a type of universal healthcare. As a compromise, if both the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and Enroll America work together and collaborate under the National Health insurance model to act as universal healthcare coverage for America, then all American citizens will be insured and their healthcare covered. In addition, this will provide a plethora of benefits for the economy, the government, and distinctively for the people. Zakhary 5 Works Cited Enroll America. Enroll America: Our  EnrollAmerica.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gluckman, M. D., et al. Achieving a high-performance health care system with universal access: what the United States can learn from other  Ann Intern Med 148 (2008): 55-75. National Association of Insurance Commissioners. About the  NAIC.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rashford, Marleise. A universal healthcare system: is it right for the United  Nursing forum. Vol. 42. No. 1. Blackwell Publishing Inc, 2007. Van de Ven, Wynand PMM, and Frederik T. Schut. Universal mandatory health insurance in the Netherlands: a model for the United  Health Affairs 27.3 (2008): 771-781.