Hernandez 1 Juan Hernandez Alison Missler ENC 1102 29 September 2017 Ban Together to Compromise The fact that everyone needs blood to live is an obvious one, which is why it makes sense that there are blood banks, and clinics where people are able to donate blood in order to assist those who are in need of blood e.g. people who are undergoing surgery; what does not make sense is the fact that there is an entire group of people banned from donating blood because of a generalization. Currently the gay community feels as though they are being discriminated against by having restrictions on the ability to donate blood. Back in 1985 the Food and Drug Administration essentially implemented a permanent ban on, men who have sex with men (MSM), from donating blood because of the Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) epidemic. However, in the past year, the ban has been lowered so that MSM are able to donate blood if they have not had sex with men within a 12-month period. This change is a step in the right direction, but some in the gay community, like the Gay Health Crisis (GMHC), argue that this is still discriminatory and it is not enough; ultimately, they want the ban to be lifted completely. The best way for both sides involved to benefit, is if they compromise and allow MSM to donate blood while keeping precautions in place stop the contamination of the blood supply. Both sides understand why the ban was originally put in place back in 1985, but it has been three decades since it was put into place, and things have changed. During the there was a wide spread epidemic of HIV/AIDS among gay men, so in order to prevent transmission Hernandez 2 of the disease through the donation and transfusion of blood, a permanent ban on MSM was put into place. At the time this ban made sense since little was known about HIV/AIDS; there was, and still is, no cure for HIV/AIDS; contracting HIV and developing AIDS in the was almost a death sentence because there were few treatment options since so little was known about HIV/AIDS. Over 30 years later there has been some great progress when it comes to the detection, treatment, and prevention of HIV/AIDS; people are more informed about what HIV is and the ways that transmission of the virus can be prevented, and the FDA even states in its recent recommendations for reducing the risk of HIV, that HIV can be detected as early as 9 days after infection (pg. 9). In December of 2015, the FDA decided to lower the ban time from being permanent, to a ban of around a year after having sex with another man. The Food and Drug administration oversees regulation food, medical supplies, cosmetics, and tobacco products. The FDA was created to help protect public health from potential harmful substances. Blood and blood related products also fall under the large umbrella of authority, which is why they were the ones who implemented the blood ban. As stated previously the reason behind the ban was to help prevent HIV/AIDS from spreading via blood donations from those who were at high risk of having it. there is still a MSM ban today because according to the website gay men are still more susceptible and have higher rates of HIV than other groups in the United States; the reason for the reduction of the lifetime ban to a 12 month ban blood from MSM is because it would still help prevent contamination of the blood supply while giving MSM the ability to donate blood. Although the FDA now recommends the 12-month ban, according to their website, blood banks and other organizations that are involved in blood are still able to restrict MSM from donating blood; these organizations can have stricter guidelines than what is recommended by the FDA. Hernandez 3 The Gay Health Crisis is an organization that is dedicated to fighting HIV/AIDS by helping those diagnosed with HIV/AIDS, and providing resources to public to prevent the spread of the virus. This organization had been around since the HIV/AIDS outbreak back in the 80s, and like many LGBT organizations is advocating for a better solution to the blood ban than the 12-month wait period. The GMHC reasons for the removal of the ban is because they believe that is it discriminatory towards the LGBT community; and example they give of this on their website is that a monogamous gay man who practices safe sex is unable to donate blood whereas a heterosexual male who has had safe sex would still be able to donate blood. Like in many other aspects of life the LGBT community wants to be treated equally, and they believe this ban does not treat them equally because of their sexual orientation. The most ideal compromise for both sides is one that the FDA has already thought of; pre-testing individuals who are at high risk of HIV (pg.9). Pre-testing individuals at high risk of HIV is a far better middle ground than a year long ban since gay and bisexual men would be able to donate blood without waiting a whole year, and the blood is still being screened so there would be no major risk of a contaminated blood supply. One of the reasons the FDA did not do this instead of the 12-month ban was because they believed that it would be a to (Pg.9), but I would argue that even though it would make the donation process longer, it would not discourage the gay community from donating blood; they gay community has been fighting for year now to donate blood, having to wait around a week or so would not deter many of them from giving blood. The other reason the FDA did not want to go this route was because they believed that it would cause the system to be too complicated (pg.9), but compromise is not always easy to be achieved, both sides must work towards it. The FDA should make the effort to make it so that the system does not become complicated by pre-testing; the GMHC and other gay Hernandez 4 organizations could contribute in their own way by volunteering at blood banks and other blood donations events, and the also help by informing people as to how the donation process works. Having a pre-test before blood donation make sense if the FDA is afraid of lifting the ban altogether because of any potential infections that could come about from letting anyone donate since people who are the most at risk for HIV are still screened, and with a pre-test MSM would not be outright denied from donating blood. It may not be a complete removal of the ban, and it is still discriminatory in a way, but it is as good as it is going to get for both sides. Hernandez 5 Works cited What We  What We Do. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Blood & Blood  Blood & Blood Products. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Revised Recommendations for Reducing the Risk of Human Immunodeficiency Virus Transmission by Blood and Blood Products - Questions and  Revised Recommendations for Reducing the Risk of Human Immunodeficiency Virus Transmission by Blood and Blood Products - Questions and Answers. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. HIV Among Gay and Bisexual  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 30 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Revised Recommendations for Reducing the Risk of Human Immunodeficiency Virus Transmission by Blood and Blood Products. N.p.: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Food and Drug Administration, Dec. 2015. PDF. Sacks, Chana A.1,2, Robert H.3 Goldstein, and Rochelle P.2,3,4,5 Walensky. Rethinking The Ban - The U.S. Blood Supply And Men Who Have Sex With  New England Journal Of Medicine 376.2 (2017): 174-177. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  GMHC About Us. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. MSM Blood  GMHC MSM Blood Ban. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.