Luis Molano Prof. Davis ENC1102 29 January 2017 The fight about Marijuana Medicine is the answer to a longer, healthier life but who would of thought that one day the answer to this would be marijuana. In a upcoming political issue, marijuana has been backed up by politicians and opposed by pharmaceutical companies and organizations. Two important stakeholders in this would be DPA (Drug Policy Alliancy) supported by medical users and the ARDPO (Arizonans for Responsible Drug Policy in Opposition to prop 205) supported by the pharmaceutical companies against the legalization of Marijuana. A compromise laid out by both the DPA and ARDPO, in support of marijuana but also protecting the views of the ARDPO can be made to benefit both organizations. The Drug Policy Alliance, is an alliance in support of the legalization of marijuana, they believe that there is more to marijuana than it just being a recreational drug. The uses of marijuana are endless; the most important use of marijuana is that it can be used medically. It is most commonly used as an alternative to pain pills that tend to have you hooked on until the point where you are going through withdraws if you go a day without your meds. The reason behind it being used as pain reliever is as follows by the Business Insider THC in the pot binds to receptors in the nerves and muscles to relieve In addition to marijuana being a pain medicine, marijuana can also be used to reduce seizures which is a problem mostly found upon children that rely on a set of pills and are fully dependent until their brains are brain dead like zombies. Every child deserves to go a day without getting a seizure and that was not possible for many children until a CBD primary strain was introduced and reports of children going from 300 seizures a week to just one with the help of marijuana. Speaking aside from the uses of it medically, it is also used recreational just like alcohol and tobacco. Why is it that there have been more deaths from alcohol and tobacco than any marijuana related death, yet it is still illegal. Since is federal prohibition, there has been rumors about what it does and how it affects you but they are mostly myths as most of the people who came up with these rumors have never tried it. It only makes sense to put down the misconceptions and only state the proven facts about marijuana. The second stakeholder is ARDPO (Arizonans for Responsible Drug Policy in Opposition to prop 205) supported majorly by big pharma companies. The claim they make is that marijuana legalization negatives outweigh the positive, anywhere ranging from public safety to being a major monopoly. The common standpoint in their claim is that marijuana is the gateway drug that leads to a life of a drug abuser. Studies have shown that overdose deaths fall in areas with access to medical according to The Washington Post. Aswell to being a gateway drug, the legalization of marijuana also imposes a danger to children. The creation of edibles has caused a scare in children just looking for a snack, with improper labeling a child could pick an edible and lead them a trip to the hospital. According to the National Poison Data System 1.05 out of 100000 had made a call in regards with an overdose of marijuana. The standpoint on being against the legalization of marijuana is that it is a schedule 1 drug according to the DEA website, it is also classed with heroin, LSD, meth, etc. On the ARDPO website it also uses the statistics from experience with legalization, including Colorado youth being #1 user for marijuana, and an increased 62% marijuana-traffic related accidents. The legalization of marijuana is not possible without a compromise that incorporates a safe environment for all. Both being in the same topic have conflicting interests, unfortunately there is no history between the two organizations. The issues that they are most opposed to have to deal with the issues about legalization and how it affects the country. The DPA have a strong standpoint on marijuana being a medicinal use drug that can help relieve pain and seizures while the ARDPO believe that marijuana being a psychoactive drug can leave children traumatized affecting their lives permanently if taken the wrong dose or accidentally dosing. The other standpoint which both organizations conflict is that marijuana is a gateway drug, the DPA claims that people who have experienced with other drugs do not become dependent or have associated problems with the other drug, while the ARDPO alerts the statistic of a rise of overdoses from opiates in cities where marijuana is indeed legalized. The common ground here is easy, both organizations want the people to be safe, especially for children. Not only do both organizations want people to be safe, they want to provide care for the people. With ARDPO being supported majorly by big pharma companies, it sends a message that marijuana puts a risk to big pharma companies. With the whole conflict of interest between both organizations there has never been up for debate a common ground between both parties. Overlooking their primary intentions and how they oppose each other both organizations want safety and care of the people. Both organizations can come up with a plan to educate the users and non-users of marijuana, just like how in school they teach us about sex-ed, well a dedicated course about drugs and it should give enough details for the user / non-user to be responsible and well educated about the drug. Not only should a course be given, but there should be an age limit of 21 like alcohol. This benefits the ARDPO as they are all about safety and handling of the drug, this can eliminate that interest of theirs as well as it being a gateway drug. The benefits for DPA are that users can get the medical benefits behind the drug and can also enjoy the drug responsible as alcohol and tobacco are also meant for. With both stakeholders being opposed to each other, the common ground set for both organizations is an ideal solution. The common misconceptions of marijuana are voiced around still to this day and both organizations can join forces to tackle the misconception and to help the people get what they need in order to end the suffering, as well as keeping the people safe and sound. Works Cited 1. Loria, Jennifer Welsh and Kevin. 23 Health Benefits Of  Business Insider. Business Insider, 20 Apr. 2014. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. 2. DPA. Reforming Marijuana  Reforming Marijuana Laws Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. 3. Barnes, Robert. One striking chart shows why pharma companies are fighting legal  The Washington Post. WP Company, 9 Sept. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. 4. ARDPO. Reasons Why We Oppose Prop  No on Prop 205 - Keep Arizona Drug Free. ARDPO, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.