Janel Ramos Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 01/26/2017 Educating to Help Others Feel Better and Get Better. In America, there is a large war against drugs including marijuana, whether medicinal or recreational. It is currently classified as a Schedule I drug by the DEA along-side heroin, LSD, and ecstasy (DEA Drug Scheduling N.p.) This is a main reason why it is opposed by so many and has trouble being legalized in all states. Even so, there are proven studies that as a medicinal drug, marijuana can prove a vital role in helping with pain, muscle spasms and migraines, among many other things (Baron, Eric; Headache: The Journal of Head & Face Pain. Jun 2015, Vol. 55 Issue 6, p 885-916). The classification and the studies done on marijuana are very contradicting and this is why so many organizations are at odds about the drug and its true effects on the human body. Among the organizations who take the classification very seriously are the Against Legalizing They take the position that laws against the use, cultivation and transportation of marijuana should be maintained and enforced and should not be relaxed or CALM USA. N.p.). An organization with a complete opposite viewpoint would be NORML: Working to reform marijuana laws. mission is move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for They want to create a safe environment for recreational marijuana and advocate for it so that adults can have access to it to Reform Marijuana About NORML. N.p.). These organizations are both very passionate about what they believe and have seemingly incompatible goals but they both care about people and feel like their organizations are doing the right thing. I think by using education and first hand experiences they can come to a compromise to try to advocate for medical marijuana instead of recreational or not at all. They both want best for their communities and by bringing people who medical marijuana has positively affected would really help both organizations to understand the weight of it and that people should not have to move away from everything they know just to have access to medicinal marijuana. Also, they could work together to make sure that it is affordable to all and no one will be unable to afford it due to their income. a compromise that would take time and a lot of understanding but in the end could help to work towards unity and a solution. The Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana stands on the fact that studies conducted by the FDA reaffirms that there is medical benefit provided by the use of They describe it as a psychoactive, addictive drug that impacts the (CALM FAQs; Calmca.org) They also state that is just as addictive as (CALM Calmca.org) In a book called Marijuana by Kevin Hill, he describes every aspect of the drug in the most unbiased way possible. He states that people who use marijuana do not become addicted to it but some will develop an addiction, and that addiction causes problems that are every bit as serious as those caused by like cocaine and (Hill, Kevin: Marijuana pg. 20) The book is an incredible source for both CALM and NORML as it covers both topics completely and goes into detail on addiction to marijuana which is a large reason why CALM thinks it should be illegal. It also goes into great depth about the medical use and the history of marijuana as medicine and actually agrees that it has been known in history to be an incredible tool and even now has shown great results. has a tremendous potential as a treatment for a host of medical problems and illnesses. While a large number of marijuana users say that they use it regularly to manage symptoms of anxiety or insomnia, a growing number of users attest to ability to provide relief for a wide array of medical problems, from AIDS to (Hill,Kevin; Marijuana pg. 18) Education of the drug, studies and first hands accounts are the biggest steps to take towards progress and by showing evidence of people who have been greatly helped by the use of medical marijuana, CALM can open their eyes to the actual benefits of it and help the two organizations merge for the better. There are only 28 states with medical marijuana laws, meaning that people dealing with chronic illnesses/ pain will either have to move to have access to medical marijuana or take more harmful addictive pain killers (States info; Norml.org). Prescription opioid overdoses have killed more than 165,000 Americans between 1999 and 2014. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services released an article with a chart included that states that nation is in the midst of an unprecedented opioid (Assistant Secretary for Public affairs; HHS.gov.) In an article by Scientific American, they describe a study done by Marcus Bachhuber at the Montefiore Medical Center in New York City to whether some legalization of medical cannabis had affected the number of opioid overdose (Hsu, Jeremy; Scientific American Vol. 315) The study revealed that between 1999 and 2010, states that permitted medical marijuana had an average almost 25% fewer opioid overdose death each year than states where cannabis remained (Hsu, Jeremy; Scientific American Vol. 315). In a study done by the University of Michigan published by the Journal of Pain, they did a survey of 185 patients who frequented a medical marijuana dispensary. patients reported cutting their opioid use by more than half in treating their chronic (Hsu, Jeremy; Scientific American Vol. 315). That is just some evidence of why fighting for medical marijuana could be a solid solution for both organizations. NORML advocates for Americans who oppose marijuana prohibition and favor an end to the practice of arresting marijuana smokers as well as representing the interests of the tens of millions of Americans who smoke marijuana to Reform Marijuana About NORML.) They fight for an overall legalization of the drug across the board. I think by starting small and working together with CALM to get all 50 states to legalize medical marijuana and educate the public they can begin to come together. They can also work to make sure that it is affordable and no one who really needs it, is denied access. The two organizations have not come to a resolution yet because they are both so set in their beliefs because they think the best and only way to face this issue. By coming together they can educate themselves and make themselves better advocates for this issue. CALM bases their ENTIRE mission on the FDA. They state in their that supports all properly used FDA approved drugs of all calmca.org) It is a known argument, that has very solid support, that marijuana should not be a Schedule I classification alongside drugs like heroin and LSD. CALM from what can be seen on their website, has not been exposed to people who use this drug to get better and to have a positive effect on their life. CALM cares about their youth and about the future and they seem be scared of this drug because they are not completely educated on it and the positive impacts it has had. If NORML came together to educate CALM and show them all the good they believe marijuana, at least medical can do, that would be an incredible step towards a resolution. On the opposite side, CALM can open up and explain to NORML why they think marijuana is such a negative drug and have the civil debate on how to help our society as a whole. They both want the same thing and a better society to live in and to create a better America. Both organizations have the same foundation in that sense, but they know the strength they could create by merging for one common goal. This solution is workable because CALM explains that they only advocate against this drug because of what the FDA implements it does and can do. NORML is trying to advocate for too many things at once and by working together with CALM to have a solid argument and foundation for medical marijuana they can become an extremely strong organization to give a voice to those who truly need one. Sources Cited: About  About NORML. N.p., n.d. Web 29 Jan. 2017 State NORML N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Earlywine, Mitchell Oxford University Press, 2002 Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Assistant Secretary of Public Affairs Opioids: The Prescription Drug & Heroin Overdose  HHS.gov. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 24 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hsu, Jeremy medical cannabis break the painkiller Scientific American Sept. 2016, Vol. 315 Issue 3 Web. 29, Jan. 2017 Against Legalizing Marijuana CALMca N.p. n.d. Web 29 Jan. 2017  CALM USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017