Hnaing Ma Kha ENC Wind Energy With the crisis of world pollution and global warming many companies and organizations around the world are looking into tapping into different kind of alternative energies. One such energy is wind energy. Not only it is everywhere it is easy to tap into and convert into energy that can be used to powered all sort of machines and cities. However easy mean cheap, nor is it entirely clean. Building Wind turbines, the only equipment than can harness wind and turn them into energy, is expensive and depending on where to build them forest may have to be cut down. Not only that they produce lots of noise and have very high potential to kill birds that are migrating. Two organization mainstreamrp and Wind Energy Foundation are funded by many and are very eager to use and teach people on using wind energy. Mainstreamrp focus mainly on improving their costal turbines and place as many as possible to supply all their While Wind Energy Foundation focus primarily on teaching and rising awareness people of wind energy and that it can be used to reduce pollution. However these 2 foundations clashes on one field, where to place these wind turbines. Mainstreamp will place wind turbines where they are needed while Wind Energy Foundation wants people to be more aware of where to place them. According to their agenda Wind Energy Foundation is a non-profit that is dedicated in raising the awareness of the public on wind energy that it can be used as a source of energy. Many scientist and researches have done countless research and have found out that most viable renewable sources for electricity based on its favorable cost. The Wind Energy Foundation uses multi-staged communication approach to tell countries around the word on how to properly use wind energy as a new source of energy to have clean, efficient and affordable electricity to power up cities. Not only are they educating the public, they also have many joint mass plans that are already motion, that will benefit many States both economically and environmentally. Mainstreamp also share similar views but their sight are slightly more invested into business and economy. While Mainstreamp shares similar interest in using wind energy as an alternative energy like Wind Energy Foundation. Mainstreamp wants alternative ways to use energy to supply its sponsors with energy and make global development successful. They will make any necessary plans and projects to meet their nation/corporate ambitions. As both organization share many interest there are many common ground they share and many ways to work around their little disagreement. One way they could avoid conflicts would be to modify their wind turbines and place them near seashores and to make sure they are steer clear of bird migration paths. This will reduce many environment damage as well as make peoples life easier by reducing the noise produce by these turbines. Another place they could use their advance modified turbines would be out in the grasslands and to take some precautions. Field studies done by Masurowski wind turbine near settlement can deal lots of damage and disturbance. But the positive side is that since a grassland no trees will need to be chop down. Another field analysis done by Chiang on offshore turbines show that, will it not only reduce the cost of building turbine there, it will greadly reduce the risk of any kind of population plus be more efficient by producing more energy since areas near the sea has many windy areas. Given that the problem between these two organization is a bit minor, using the methods mention above they could work something out. But since not all country have either a grassland or a shore, it will be necessary to use both methods. IF they ever need proof, there are plenty of research and field studies done by many researchers which will show them using areas like grassland and offshore areas will give them huge benefits both economically and environmentally. As more and more thread against our world rises, and many evidences that our valuable resources such as oil, coal and etc are running low and chances of them running out increasing, organizations like these will greatly reduce the amount of population and non renewable resources being depleted. Work cited Masurowski, Spatially Explicit Assessment of the Wind Energy Potential in Response to an Increased Distance between Wind Turbines and Settlements in Nookuea, of Solar PV and Wind Alternatives for Self Renewable Energy Supply: Case Study of Shrimp (2016) Chiang, Reduction Benefits of Siting an Offshore Wind Farm: A Temporal and Spatial Analysis of Lake (2016) Stripling, Dirty Word: (2016) De Silva What Blows in with the (2016)