Alyssa Rader 1/29/17 ENC 1102 Ms. Lay Project 1: Intermediate Draft In time of the student athlete, it is well known that drugs and the party scene are on a rise. Despite the efforts of athletes wanting to live the college experience that their classmates do, the NCAA has strict policies on what athletes can consume. Athletes do a lot in their day-to-day college life, except for ending their long weeks with a college student weekend because of their chances for a random NCAA drug testing, no matter their sport or season. This conflicts with the organization NORML, which efforts try to legalize marijuana for responsible use by adults, views on drug use. This clash between the NCAA, already having a zero drug policy no matter the substance or time of competition, and the NORML organization, which wants drugs to be legalized and give even student athletes the enjoyable effects of marijuana, could find common ground through indicating recreational drugs legal through the out of season time of their sport. The NCAA is the National Collegiate Athletic Association, which is the non- profit association, which regulates student athletes in the United States (NCAA.org). Within the NCAA, there are very strict drug rules. These rules banned the following substances stimulants, anabolic agents, alcohol and beta-blockers, diuretics and other masking agents, street drugs, peptide hormones and analogues, anti- estrogens, and beta-2 agonists (ncaa.org/about/ncaa-core-values). The street drugs category is where the substance of marijuana falls under. These drug rules are regulated by both random and scheduled drug testing for the athletes within the NCAA. Regardless of the recent legalization of the use of marijuana by the government, the NCAA has a zero policy rule. The NCAA stance on what student athletes should be and signify is excellence in all that they do within the academic, athletic, and community parts of their lives. With their stance on student lives, it is seen as frowned above to associate drug use and NCAA collegiate athletes, regardless of the college student part. On the opposite side of drug use controversy, the NORML is an organization with a mission to to move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (norml.org/about). With the recent law changes for the legalization of marijuana in the United States, the NORML has been on the right track. Even though the NORML is not specialized in NCAA athletes, it is indirectly pinned against the NCAA and their thoughts on marijuana use. The use of marijuana is highly popular in the college scenes now a days and that includes with athletes. The NORML is in part trying to lessen the negative looks on marijuana users, including athletes. If normal college students can use marijuana by the say of the law now, why the student college athletes as well? Although these two organizations seem at odds, there is a place of common ground. The common ground lies where they want to make their people happy and want what is best for them, just by taking two opposite directions of doing this. The NORML wants the country to be happy by thinking that marijuana use will help supply more happiness. The NCAA wants athletes to achieve happiness by doing great in school and competitions, while thinking that drugs will hinder that. It is a given of why performance enhancing drugs is and should be illegal by the NCAA, but according to the NORML, marijuana is not like those substances, and would benefit the lives of many. In fact, the side effects of marijuana may even help the busy college athlete relax and chill down so that they can preform better when it is asked of them. At the end of the day, both organizations want people to be happy and preform at their best in everything they do in their lives, especially college student athletes. A compromise between these two organizations can happen with simple changes to the NCAA rules. With many substances being illegal in the NCAA to use, it can stand to reason that the recent federally legalized drug of marijuana could be the least problematic drug that the NCAA can catch players using because it may do more help than harm to them. The compromise can come through the NCAA legalizing marijuana only, while still not allowing performance-enhancing drugs. In depth even more, the NCAA can legalize marijuana only in the athletic season. Example being, a basketball season is from the months of October to April, with that being said, the basketball players could use marijuana during the months of May to September. As usual, it can be monitored by drug testing and can still have the same consequences as the unmodified rules. This compromise of changing the type of substance (marijuana) and with is legal and the time of competition (based on the season of the sport), can help these two organizations come closer on this controversial problem of drug use in the NCAA. The student life is a very busy and very stressful one, and it is well known that drugs and the party scene are on a rise in college. Despite the efforts of athletes wanting to live the college experience that their classmates do by using substances like marijuana, the NCAA has strict policies on what athletes can consume. Athletes do a lot in their day-to-day college life, except without a college student weekend because of the NCAA drug testing, no matter their sport or season, while this conflicts with the organization views on marijuana use. This clash between the NCAA, already having a zero drug policy no matter the substance or time of competition, and the NORML organization, which wants drugs to be legalized and give even student athletes the enjoyable effects of marijuana, could find common ground through indicating recreational drugs legal through the out of season time of their sport. Work Cited 2016-17 NCAA Banned Drugs List. (2016, September 06). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from http://www.ncaa.org/2016-17-ncaa-banned-drugs-list NCAA Core Values. (2016, July 06). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from http://www.ncaa.org/about/ncaa-core-values Short- & Long-Term Effects of Marijuana - Negative Side Effects of Weed - Drug-Free World. (n.d.). Retrieved January 26, 2017, from http://www.drugfreeworld.org/drugfacts/marijuana/short-and-long-term- effects.html Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. (n.d.). Retrieved January 27, 2017, from http://norml.org/about Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. (n.d.). Retrieved January 27, 2017, from http://norml.org/laws Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. (n.d.). Retrieved January 27, 2017, from http://norml.org/marijuana/drug-testing