Echeverry 1 Alejandro V. Echeverry Professor Phillips Comp.ii 28 January 2016 Solving the Ugandan Food Crisis When developing nations are seeking solutions to the food crisis there are multiple ways to approach such a situation. For example in Uganda the food shortage has intensified over the past year along with a multitude of weather conditions that have destroyed the agricultural cultivation throughout the country (Helgeson 6). The two primary interested parties in this situation is the Ugandan government, and the global food producing companies specifically Dole one of the largest food producing companies, Spanning from Chile, Europe and Hawaii. Dole will have a heavy interest in being the only large scale producer in an undeveloped area. For these reason I believe there is a common ground both the stakeholders could agree on. If an affordable, healthy, and renewable compromise between the Ugandan government and Dole was capable of coming into accordance under the food quality accordance, while still being profitable for Dole; furthermore, the government could not only solve the food crisis, but also create economic growth with the introduction of jobs that Dole would bring with its factories. In light of the situation, the Ugandan government has a lot to deal with considering all of the extreme weather disasters. For example heavy rains have been wiping out crops around Uganda, and when 52% of people in Uganda receive their income from farming there is a severe cut into food production economic repression to all the wasted crops (Helgeson 10). In light of this situation the government will be trying to Echeverry 2 develop a valid system to deal with their countries lack of food. The government will need a establish food production line capable of being more effective than rural farmer, at the same time they will still want their citizens to have a steady income so outsourcing would not be a valid option. They will also want a sustainable and renewable source too, as Uganda is a very fertile and natural place. Considering a large income of 83,000 U.S dollars generated from natural tourism is dispersed to the local communities sustaining their ecosystem is an important factor (Archabald 139). Now that we understand the conditions and wants of the Ugandan government, as a stakeholder, we will be able to analyze issues Uganda must deal with before reaching those standards. Uganda has had a very unstable government plagued with corruption and embezzlement (Fjeldstad 3). The Ugandan government has hired multiple consultants to study the situation and deal with the problems of tax administration in the face of increasing fiscal problems (Fjeldstad 4). Uganda established an agency known as the URA which has been conducting multiple surveys and studies, but even with within this agency there has been a reported corruption (Fjeldstad 6). Equally important, Dole Company would be extremely interested in becoming a primary producer food in Uganda because of its untouched market dole will have so much freedom to expand without much competition. This would be a crucial economic move for Dole allowing for pure economic dominance over that countries food market. Uganda also has a very viable climate for farming, if done indoors correctly, because of the plentiful nutrient rich soil and temperature optimal for growing crops that Dole specifies in such as fruit. Dole being a multination company already established economically would have no problem being able to developing extensively into a foreign Echeverry 3 country. This has already been proven with their endeavors in Chile and Europe. In the same fashion the Ugandan government Dole has some challenges to deal with before being able to move in and achieve its desired economic goals. For example Dole will have to modify its new facilities to be able to handle the extreme weather, Along with the mass hiring process which will include screening, training and agricultural education. Furthermore Dole will have to go through lots of legal process before moving into Uganda to make sure all the policies and procedures fall in line with the rules the government has on not only foreign companies, but also the agricultural actions. Comparatively, both parties want to solve the food crisis, but both have multiple concerns and tribulations to deal with. A valid compromise could come in the form of a legal contract between the government and Dole Company. This contract would have to follow multiple standards globally and specifically to situation. At the same time Dole Company will also only be interested if there will be projected economic gains. Dole already working with governments in other countries and has already established similar contract; Dole also deals primarily with fruits and vegetables production which would be preferred comparatively to a company such as McDonalds which would cause a multitude of health issues. The creation of said contract would be optimal because not only would it solve the food crisis but also develop a whole new industry and economic sustainable jobs for native Ugandans. Bringing these jobs to Uganda would help tremendously considering more than half of income in the country comes from farming. Dole infrastructure would also limit the devastation to crop yields because of indoor facilities the government would not be able to create alone. Both stakeholders receive Echeverry 4 prime benefits along with the quality of life for the average Ugandan citizen would increase. When dole enters the country it will be able to establish not only multiple plants to create jobs but also will need managers and company representative meaning Dole will be educating citizens raising the countries worker global worth and GDP (Zebregs 3). The government will also not have a very difficult time with Doles environmental policies because Dole has a very strict environmental policy. One of the biggest core values have to do with having a minimal carbon footprint. This is why Dole Company making a contract with Uganda would be such a perfect fit benefitting both stakeholders and the Ugandan citizens. In light of these two stakeholders having their own trials and tribulations a compromise would be ideal. The Ugandan government lacking the established agricultural infrastructure and economic power to set one up, Dole would be capable of solving that. With indoor facilities, the extreme weather that destroys yields would be limited to a minimal loss. Dole would also be creating thousands of jobs and educating farmers in agriculture which would help bring the primarily agricultural economy up (Gwynne 5). Furthermore both the government and Dole would benefit from a contract creating a healthy sustainable food supply, a huge employment opportunity for citizens and conserving the natural landscape and economic benefits gained from nature tourism. The only concerns that will really be an issue are making sure Dole follows protocol when it comes to sustainable development and being responsible for its factories, including their product bi-product and employee treatment. From the Ugandan side we must be concerned with both embezzlement and political corruption that would not benefits the citizens of Uganda. In conclusion if Dole and the Echeverry 5 Ugandan government are capable of coming into accordance the food crisis would easily be solved, along with a boost to the economy, higher education levels, and Dole will have a newfound untouched market that it will have a large head start over any other food producing companies that would give Dole any competition. Echeverry 6 Work cited Archabald, Karen, and Lisa Naughton-Treves. Tourism revenue-sharing around national parks in Western Uganda: early efforts to identify and reward local  Environmental conservation 28.02 (2001): 135-149. Bariyo, Nicholas. Number of African Countries Facing Severe Food Shortages  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 28 May 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gwynne, Robert N. Transnational capitalism and local transformation in  Tijdschrift voor economische en sociale geografie 94.3 (2003): 310-321. Helgeson, Jennifer, Simon Dietz, and Stefan Hochrainer. Vulnerability to weather disasters: the choice of coping strategies in rural  (2012).  Dole. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Zebregs, Mr Harm, and Ms Wanda Tseng. Foreign direct investment in China: Some lessons for other countries. No. 2-3. International Monetary Fund, 2002. Echeverry 7 Echeverry 8