63246 Self-driving cars can provide the security and efficiency promised by the future; however, many consumers are reluctant to give up control over a tool that potentially governs their life. The reluctance portrayed by consumers suggests a lack of trust in not only manufacturers and assembly, but also in the controversial realm of artificial intelligence. Although some consumers are on board with the idea of fully autonomous vehicles, a large majority views them as a problem due to concerns on safety, efficiency, and cost. The eventual convergence, and inevitable domination of software within the vehicles of the future draws concerns in regard to complications with interface. Nearly eighty percent of Americans worry the glitches are a drawback for self-driving cars (Harris Poll, 2015). This concern that a majority of Americans possess reflects a similar concern they have today towards contemporary auto manufacturers, such as Toyota, GMC, and Volkswagen following their own recalls on recent models. The increase in complex software, as well as hardware, that autonomous vehicles would require similarly worries American consumers because of the expected costs that would follow. Because of this, sixty-nine percent of Americans believe that the price of a self-driving car, along with the price of maintaining it, would serve as an inconvenience. This parallels the belief that autonomous vehicles are a luxury suited for wealthy people, which thirty-four percent of Americans believe (Harris Poll, 2015). Considering that most luxury names, such as Tesla, BMW, and Lexus, are pioneering and executing the campaign for full autonomy, it is obvious why a majority of consumer would believe this to be true. However, affordability and malfunction are not the only concerns society has in regard to self-driving cars. Suppose a self-driving car with two passengers, a father and his child, is traveling at sixty miles per hour on a highway. Also, suppose that the vehicle is boxed in behind a truck carrying cargo and also neighboring a motorcycle, as well as a minivan with its respective passengers. If, for some reason, the cargo on the truck were to fall off, endangering the lives of the passengers of the autonomous vehicle, would the autonomous vehicle swerve towards the motorcycle in order to protect the father and his son; swerve towards the minivan, causing a separate accident, but realizing it has greater safety features than a motorcycle; or take the impact of the loose cargo, avoiding an accident with the neighboring vehicles, but also potentially harming the father and his son (Ted-ED, 2015)? This is where technological innovation clashes with moral ethics. The potential problems introduced by probability and possibility hinders the steady progress of artificial but with very good reason. Without a fundamental understanding, or response, of the unpredictable, autonomy will never be truly successful in the eyes of skeptical consumers. An autonomous vehicle should respond in the safest possible way to every situation, however, the is quite relative. This also begs the question, safe for whom? For passengers? For neighboring vehicles? For pedestrians? Also, how would an autonomous vehicle go about following laws concerning the road? Would it consider the law before the wellbeing of humans? For example: if a autonomous car was stopped at a red light, and a car barreling behind showed no signs of slowing down, would the vehicle accelerate and get out of harms if a pedestrian was crossing in front of it simultaneously? The legal field further expands the ethical problems faced when it comes to developing fully autonomous vehicle, which is why fifty-one percent of consumers would prefer to have full control of their vehicle, ironically if not as safe for other (Kelly Blue Book, 2016). The ethical problem that the future faces also branches into that of data collection. Although vehicles are expected to be fully autonomous, a rich collection of data would first need to be gathered from the consumers of these cars. Not only that, but full autonomy would require almost constant, if not highly frequent, monitoring of the passengers within the vehicle for liability and data purposes. An ideal self-driving car would have to adjust and tend to the needs of the passengers within it, and in order to do so would require extensive data that could later be applied in updates or upgrades. Thirty-seven percent of the country disagrees with this, and view it as an invasion of privacy. Upon the passing of self-driving legislation, Google successfully lobbied to remove all of the proposed privacy protections, further increasing skepticism. Although there is a lot of skepticism from a perspective, manufacturers, such as Google, BMW, and Tesla are intent on providing a social benefit through autonomous vehicles. They campaign on the promise to alleviate the number of accidents caused by human error or choice, which accumulates to an overwhelming ninety-four percent of all crashes (Department of Transpiration, 2016). In 2015 alone, 35,092 people died on U.S. large portion caused by human choice or error. The federal government endorses the campaign for the future as demonstrated by a commitment of nearly billion over the next ten years to accelerate the development and adoption of safe vehicle (National Conference of State Legislature, 2016). The movement towards increased automated driving also serves to reduce the economic pressure brought on by traffic fatalities and injuries; $800 billion is spent each year on this problem alone (National Public Radio, 2016). The widespread use of fully automated vehicles also alleviates a different problem faced by many consumers: traffic. The main cause of traffic in most highly concentrated areas of automobiles is the frequent deceleration and stopping by vehicles attempting to drive in unison. If one car switches lanes in a highly concentrated two-lane road and unintentionally cuts off the car in its now current lane, then that driver will instinctively slow down in order to avoid tailgating, or even colliding with the merging car. In a highly concentrated area, this will then result in the car behind the decelerating car to slow down, and so on, causing a slight jam that drags on for minutes until one, or several, car(s) decides to switch lines causing the same repercussions. This is almost equivalent, to the effects of rubbernecking, slowing down while driving to observe an accident on the side of the road. In this case the traffic jam is not cause by the actual accident, but by, again, the drivers constantly slowing down to react. Similarly, the opposite is true about accelerating after a stop. Theoretically, if every car stopped at the same red accelerated at the same time upon the arrival of the green light, traffic would move significantly faster due to the fact that no car would be waiting on another to move. To better illustrate this, imagine being the tenth car in a queue of vehicles at a red light. When the light turns green, you see the first car accelerate, but you yourself are not accelerating yet. This is due to a combination of hesitance and distraction from the drivers in between. If every car accelerated at the same time, and at the same rate, then every car in the line would move at the same time without colliding, resulting in virtually no traffic. The benefits proposed by the automotive industry, as well as the U.S. department of transportation, have positive theoretical results that would increase public safety, reduce road traffic, increase mobility, and allow for greater productivity. On the other hand, a majority of consumers refuse to accept the convergence of technologies. A clear solution lies in the expansion of government regulation coinciding with the appropriate amount of time to explore and advance the sector of the automotive industry. Concerns expressed by consumers are justifiable due to the seemingly sudden introduction of this program. In contrast, this is also a commitment by the U.S. government expected to exceed the ten-year plan initially proposed. This window of time will allow for better developed technology to emerge, which could then be incorporated in order to better satisfy consumer needs. This would also parallel the ethical development of the autonomous vehicles. Programing computers to think as humans would is already being explored. For this case computers would need to be programmed in order to react to situations as humans would, choosing the most ethical outcome. Also, in order to fully satisfy consumers, a transparency agreement must be reached among all automotive manufacturers as seen already by a select twelve, which includes the likes of Aston Martin, Honda, and Toyota. The future is fast approaching, but many disagree with the prospects. Society faced a similar dilemma with planes in the 20 th century, but proudly utilizes this partially autonomous innovation with no regrets to this day. Autonomy defies the hubris of mankind. Ultimately, we must look beyond our own self-interests and embrace change for what it truly is: progress. Works Cited Automated Vehicles  Department of Transportation. National Highway Safety Administration, Sept. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017 Autonomous Vehicle Driver  (2016): n. pag. Kelly Blue Book. Kelly Blue Book, Sept. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Lin, Patrick. The Ethical Dilemma of Self-driving Cars - Patrick  TED-Ed. TED Conferences, LLC, 8 Dec. 2015. Web. 30 Jan. 2017 Self-Driving Vehicle  National Conference of State Legislatures. Lexis Nexis, 12 Dec. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. The Driverless Debate: Equal Percentages of Americans See Self-Driving Cars as  Health & Life. The Harris Pool, 24 Mar. 2015. Web. 30 Jan. 2017