Alfaro 1 Ariel Alfaro Professor Dennis ENC 1102-003 29 January 2017 Poverty and unemployment have always been factors in society that the United States has been attempting to combat through the enactment of different policies and support organizations. In order to combat poverty in the United States, some individuals and organizations, such as the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign, have proposed the idea of raising the minimum wage to $15 within all states which has, of course, sparked the rise of opposing organizations such as the Faces of $15 campaign. While the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign believes that there should be a raise in minimum wage within all states in order to decrease the population of impoverished peoples, the Faces of $15 campaign opposes such a wage adjustment because they believe that this raise would only hurt small businesses and cause unemployment rates to spike throughout the nation. In order to satisfy the objectives of both parties, an increase in minimum wage should be gradually introduced to the states in order to allow for businesses to adjust their expenses for the cost of labor, while also allowing for the minimum wage to increase not immediately, but gradually. The Raise the Minimum Wage campaign (RMW) is a campaign that is sponsored by the National Employment Law Project (NELP) that has openly stated that they are for a wage families can live on and an economy that works for us ( 1 official NELP website). The NELP mission statement openly reveals that the goal of RMW is to gain enough support and awareness to bring about a raise in the minimum wage in order to bring those that are completely Alfaro 2 overworked but still impoverished to a better, more sustainable financial standing in society which can then effectively allow them to support themselves as well as their families. As stated many times on official website, to them, the minimum wage as it is now is cruel and is the reason that overworked individuals are still struggling every day to make ends meet. Not only do individuals reportedly feel the repercussions of having such a low minimum wage, but even Dr. David R. Howell, a professor of economics, states in his work, 3 Reframing the Minimum Wage Debate, that workers have increasingly confronted labor markets of precarious jobs that pay too little to provide a minimally decent standard of (Howell, 1). Howell supports his claim through the use of chart (Figure 1 on pg.4) that shows what wages should truly be in order to live a minimally decent life. According to NELP, Raise the Minimum Wage campaign, and economist David R. Howell, the minimum wage as it is now is a sure gateway to poverty that can be remedied with a raise in the minimum wage. Alfaro 3 3 Figure 1: This particular chart, according to Reframing the Minimum Wage Debate, shows what economist, David R. Howell, believe to be a reasonable wage to live on depending on whether one is a single adult of if they are a single adult with a child. While there are those that support such a raise to the minimum wage there are also those that feel, through their own research and gathered statistics, that raising the minimum wage would only hurt small business and also cause the unemployment rates in the United States to spike. The Faces of $15 campaign, sponsored by the Employment Policies Institute (EPI), suggests that the minimum wage has real consequences for businesses and ( 4 Official Faces of $15 campaign). The goal of the Faces of $15 is to bring all of the businesses that have closed due to an increase in minimum wage to the attention of the public. On their website they feature about 81 businesses that have experienced brand new struggles as they attempt to meet the new minimum wage requirements in their locations. The 5 National Policies Institute has also warned the public that their own research suggests that as minimum wage increases so does the amount of jobs that will be lost in the United States because of it. Due to these ideas, both the Faces of $15 and the EPI believe that the nation would benefit from the minimum wage remaining as it is now. In his academic journal contribution, How Effective is the Minimum Wage at Supporting the Poor? Professor of economics at Stanford University, Thomas MaCurdy states that in low-wage industries are typically in highly competitive industries such as restaurants and retail stores, and the only option for these margin industries becomes lowering exposure to low-wage labor or raising ( 6 MaCurdy, 499). Throughout his work, MaCurdy confirms some of the beliefs that the Faces of $15 and the EPI Alfaro 4 share, in that as minimum wage begins to increase it could do more harm than good as businesses may begin to hire less and charge more. Though the Raise the Minimum Wage and Faces of $15 campaigns seem to disagree both campaigns seem to have the best interest of the people in mind; Raise the Minimum Wage wants to make sure that common people have a chance to live comfortably while the Faces of $15 want to ensure that people do not lose jobs through businesses closing down. Therefore, since both campaigns have the best interest of the common people in mind, in order to satisfy both of their objectives, a raise in minimum wage could occur gradually within states. This gradual introduction of a raised minimum could ensure that businesses have an opportunity to adjust their budgets in order to ensure that they are prepared for an increased wage and do not struggle as much as they would have with the initial $15. Likewise, those who support a raise in minimum wage will not see an immediate increase as they hoped for but instead a gradual increase. Seattle recently underwent this change in minimum wage and according to a 7 study conducted by the University of Washington the results were much less catastrophic than expected. In this study, the authors state that they did not find any compelling evidence that shows that there has been an increase in business failure due to the increase in minimum wage (Impact of the Minimum Wage, 4). Knowing that a gradual introduction of a raised minimum wage has been successful somewhere as well as diminished some of the fears that people have, this is a possible solution to the long debate about what to do about the minimum wage. Not only is this solution reliable and tested, it can accommodate those who are on opposing sides of the issue. Alfaro 5 Works Cited 1 Sonn, Paul K., Irene Tung, and Yannet Lathrop. The Growing Movement for National Employment Law Project. NELP, 4 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. 2 NELP.  Raise the Minimum Wage. NELP, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://raisetheminimumwage.com/>. 3 Howell, David R. Reframing The Minimum-Wage Debate: Why Job Is The Wrong Standard For Setting The Right Wage  The American Prospect 3 (2016): 48. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. 4 Faces of  Faces of $15. EPI, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://www.facesof15.com/>. 5 Minimum  Employment Policies Institute. EPI, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <https://www.epionline.org/minimum-wage/>. 6 MaCurdy, Thomas. How Effective Is The Minimum Wage At Supporting The  Journal Of Political Economy 123.2 (2015): 497-545. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 26 Jan. 2017 7 Vigdor, Jacob, Mark C. Long, Robert Plotnick, Ekaterina Roshchina, and Hilary Wething. REPORT ON THE IMPACT OF MINIMUM WAGE ORDINANCE ON WAGES, WORKERS, JOBS, AND ESTABLISHMENTS THROUGH  (n.d.): n. pag. University of Washington, 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.