Matthew Feaster 1/29/17 Ms. Hernandez Composition 2 Intermediate Draft A very controversial topic in the United States today is gun control. There are many organizations that are either for or against it and not too many in between. Two of the more vocal organizations are the NRA and the Violence Policy Center. The NRA is against gun control and the Violence Policy Center is for gun control. The NRA tries to protect the second amendment right to bear arms while the Violence Policy Center is looking to create stronger restrictions on guns. Although these organizations have much in common they both look to promote gun safety making it possible to create a compromise where they can come together. These two organizations should work together to help pass a law making it necessary for people to take and pass safety classes before they can carry guns in public. If this compromise is done it would lead to an increase in gun safety and both organizations would get what they want. The NRA is one of the most well-known pro-gun organizations in the country. The organization was founded in 1871 and their goal was to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific (NRA). Now most of the organizations time is spent taking on pro-gun control organizations and trying to protect the 2 nd amendment. Their mission is to preserve the core of American values (NRA). The NRA works tirelessly making sure Americans always have the right to carry guns. The NRA also does a lot for gun safety including holding workshops and going to schools where they explain that guns are not toys and are very dangerous items. The NRA believes that having more guns around would in turn make everyday life more safe. Luigi Esposito and Laura Finely, two sociology professors at Barry University in Miami Shores, wrote, care about the President, so we protect him with armed Secret Service This goes along with the belief that more guns equal more safety. Here they are talking about how the president gets armed protection but a lot of schools are a gun free zone making it illegal for people to have guns. This making it easier for a shooter to go in the school and kill a lot of people before the police arrive. But if guns were allowed in all schools by security many lives can be saved because school shooters would be stopped so much earlier. Although many people see guns as things that take lives they can also be very important in saving lives. One of the biggest opponents is the Violence Policy Center. The Violence Policy Center is an organization that is pro gun control and the NRA named them as their toughest competitor. The Violence Policy Center was created in 1988 and they would inform people of the impact of gun violence on their everyday lives (VPC). They believe that there is far too much gun violence in this country and they want to create restrictions on the selling and buying of guns as well as multiple other things to do with guns. Their mission is to stop gun deaths and injuries through education, research, advocacy, and collaboration (VPC). Like the NRA the Violence Policy Center thinks that it is very important to teach people about gun safety. They hold classes where they talk to people about the risks of guns but really talk too much about the benefits like the NRA does. The Violence Policy Center believes that the amount of people purchasing guns are decreasing so gun companies are now targeting women and children (VPC). They think this is wrong because it is easy to make guns seem cool to children and then the kids can find one in their home and kill either themselves or a friend. Also in some cases, they believe women can be pressured into getting a gun by making them feel like it is the only way they can stop an attacker. In the eyes of the Violence Policy Center guns lead to mass killings or unfortunate accidental deaths. Scott Medlock of Texas Journal wrote, close to 30,000 Americans are killed by gun fire every year, the fire arm industry is one of the least regulated in the That is why the Violence Policy Center has such a big problem. Guns account for many deaths in the US but they are regulated less than industries like the beverage industry. That is why they work so hard to create stronger regulations. They think that by doing what they are doing they can cut down on the number of gun deaths and in turn create a safer country. The NRA and the Violence Policy Center have been going at each other for as long as they have both been around. These organizations have never worked together because their views are totally opposite from one another. The NRA wants the second amendment to be left alone while the Violence Policy Center wants more regulations on the gun industry. One thing they can come together to promote is gun safety. Both organizations spend a lot of time speaking to people to promote gun safety and to try and cut down the amount of gun related deaths. So if they were to compromise the compromise would be based around gun safety. Both organizations could speak out to help get a law made making in necessary to take and pass safety classes before they can carry guns in public. The after the person passes the series of classes he/she would have to carry around a license or card indicating their completion and passing of the classes. This would create more safety by assuring that only those who can properly use firearms and know how to be safe with them will be able to carry them in public. For the NRA although this will be limiting the freedom of being able to carry guns in public it would create more safety. For the Violence Policy Center, people will still be able to carry guns in public but they will be people who know how to properly handle the guns. This would be positive because then more armed criminals can be stopped by these trained civilians. Kim Krisberg wrote that in a study spanning from 1950-2014 The United States had one of the highest rates of people dying from guns. If you make it harder for people to get guns on the streets then that death total will definitely decrease. That is how this compromise can be so effective. Both organizations may be giving something up but they would be achieving a common goal in creating a safer country. The coming together of these two organizations to achieve a common goal would not just benefit them but it would benefit the entire country. It may be difficult for the two to put their differences aside but if they do it will lead to a safer country which both organizations want. Compromises are never easy to agree to, both sides want to give anything up but in most cases when compromises are made it works out for both parties. Work Cited Page About the  www.vpc.org/about-the-vpc. Violence Policy Center. N.p., 01 July 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Esposito, Luigi1, lesposito@mail.barry.edu, and Laura L.2 Finley. Beyond Gun Control: Examining Neoliberalism, Pro-Gun Politics And Gun Violence In The United  Theory In Action 7.2 (2014): 74-103. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Krisberg, Kim. Researchers Pinpoint Gun Safety Laws Effective In Reducing  The Health 4 (2016): 6. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Medlock, Scott. Nra = No Rational Argument? How The National Rifle Association Exploits Public  Texas Journal On Civil Liberties & Civil Rights 11.1 (2005): 39-63. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. NRA  home.nra.org/about-the-nra. NRA About the NRA. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.