Penyak1 Tyler Penyak Ms. Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 Gun Control and Gun Rights Over the past couple years, the topic of gun rights and control has escalated due to increased gun related deaths. With these coming many organizations who are for protecting the right of the Second Amendment and those who want to create gun restrictions. Two of the biggest stakeholders in this controversy are the National Rifle Association, also known as the NRA, and the Brady Campaign. The goal is to educate people and still have the rights that the Second Amendment bears (NRA Explore) and the Brady Campaign wants to create stricter gun laws to lower the death related incidents by gun in the years to come(CITE). Together, these organizations can achieve their goals of lowering gun death and educating the people on proper gun safety. The National Rifle Association was founded in 1871 by two Civil War Veterans. The organizations main purpose at the time was to promote rifle shooting for scientific purposes. The modern objectives are to involve teaching firearms skills as well as advocating for gun rights (Caffrey). These firearm skills involve holding gun safety courses to educate people such as women, youths and police officers. The NRA also wants people to have full rights of the Second Amendment. The organization believes the people should be allowed to have full gun rights as the people were allowed when the Amendments were originally written. The NRA deals with problems as many people and organizations go against what they stand for, but their Penyak2 willingness to achieve full gun rights as the Second Amendment states allows they to push and try to achieve their goals. Unlike the NRA, the Brady Campaign wants to create stricter gun laws to decrease the gun related deaths. The Brady Law, which mandates that all gun purchases in the United States require a background check on the buyer, took full effect in 1994 (Bureau of Alcohol, With this law in effect, over 2.4 million purchases have been blocked in the United States. While this number seems like a victory in the case of stopping guns to be sold to the wrong type of people, only 60 percent of gun sales are controlled by the background checks (Brady This still leaves room for plenty of gun to be bought without background checks. Many of the gun related deaths today are used with one of the guns that should have had their buyer background checked. Per the Brady Campaign organization website, percent of crime guns only come from 5 percent of gun The Brady Campaign views this as an extreme as they want to see the gun dealers that sell these guns held accountable for selling the weapon used in the crime that took place. The last goal that the Brady Campaign wants to achieve is the safety of the youths. Many children live in homes that contain a gun that is not properly stored in a gun safe. Children are very curious when it comes to their own of others households. When these children find the guns that are improperly stored they believe that it is a toy and begin to experiment with the weapon. Majority of these end up shooting themselves or another child unintentionally. Overall, the Brady Campaign wants to achieve these goals to fulfill their objective of cutting down gun related deaths. These two organizations have opposite views when it comes to gun control and gun rights. A compromise between the two would seem impossible to achieve, but what they realize is that together they could achieve the goals of decreasing gun related deaths and, giving Penyak3 the people the gun control that is stated in the Second Amendment. Both organizations have ties that can allow them both to become a strong organization involving gun control and gun rights. The NRA would be able to keep their goal of continuing to strive for gun control that the Second Amendment states, but would have to spend more funding into gun safety courses and to also agree to the needs of the Brady Campaign to prevent gun related deaths caused in the United States. With an increasing number of gun related crimes in the United States more and more people are looking down upon the NRA and striving toward organizations like the Brady Campaign. If these two organizations were to join forces their goals would be achieved faster and even go beyond what their original goals are. With the NRA being allowed to continue their pursuit of the right the Second Amendment, they will need to provide the funding that the Brady Campaign needs to promote gun safety to lower gun related deaths in the future. The NRA raises millions of dollars to achieve their goals, the Brady Campaign would be able to use this to promote gun safety classes to educate the people the proper way to handle, store, and care for the weapons. Since 1930, over 800 accidental deaths occur per year that are caused by guns (About the With the NRA and the Brady Campaign coming together they can both contribute with lowering the deaths caused by gun accidents giving them both good impressions on the people and getting them involved to help strengthen gun control and gun rights for the people. Gun control and gun rights has been a controversial topic over the past couple years. Plenty of people are for gun rights and others want to strengthen gun control for their safety. If the NRA and Brady Campaign were to join forces they could make the other side understand the ideas and goals they are trying to accomplish. If the compromise were to take place between these two organizations, then they would be able to decrease the gun related deaths per year and Penyak4 educate the people so that the gun rights that were established in the Second Amendment can still be used today. These two organizations are top stakeholders in the discussion of gun control and safety, together they could generate knowledge and income to lower these gun related deaths. Penyak5 Works Cited the NRA and The Brady PBS. PBS, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  Solutions Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and  Brady Law Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Caffrey, Cait. Rifle Association Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. NRA  NRA Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.