Circuses without Animals Circus is a combination of different kinds of trained animals and a variety of human skills to create a show that has begun in London on the 4 th of April 1768. This date is a milestone for Circus when they started making their first steps toward the world and made tours around the globe and made a significant fan base, and as a result an American association has been established to enlarge this Circus community and educate the society about the history and help the ones who are passionate about being a part of it to make these festivals occupy more space, it is called the American Circus Educators. On the other hand, even though there are a significant number of supporters for Circuses, there are many others who believe in the same thing. One of the most active groups in this topic is that created their own campaign Circusprotest.org: The name of the website said it all. Their mission is to forbid any kind of show that involves animal and share awareness about of the circus because they believe that Circuses is a dangerous place for both humans and animals. Despite the Fact that the American Circus Educators believes that circus is an enjoyable festival to bring everyone together, and even though Circusprotest.org works on banning this kind of activities, there is a small common point that can help to find a compromise: Both of them has a common goal which is the interest of the society. Starting with the American Circus Educators, it is a community of 400 members divided between circus schools, artists, and educators. It is an organization founded by the American Youth Circus Organization (AYCO). Their primary mission is to teach, what they call, art of to different ages. They are also working to make the circus a way for and emotional and a way for a healthy life. Furthermore, they want to train their successors to make Circus book a seat in the future of the American society, and that supports what Jenna Lowery wrote in her article rethink about the establishment of the ACE: She mentioned that ACE brings the past to the future and show circus from other perspectives through training, and (4) On the other side, we find another community that formed a non-profit organization called CompassionWorks International, whose concern is all about protecting animals and insuring the right atmosphere for them. They even founded a specific campaign, supported by the donations of its members and their supporters, to protest against Circus called CircusProtest.org and forbid any further activity that treats animals as they describe them. Their mission includes banning any use of wild animals in fields that is based on entertainment and represent the campaign at any local festival. Action Against Circus This organization believes that Circus is a show where wild animals are treated mercilessly and horribly and it can be a dangerous place for both the human and the animal when trainers try to change the instinctive nature of wild animals. Accordingly, the Article cruelest show on published by Current events magazines, presents a case from Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus when the trainer, Richard Chipperfield, had been bitten by a tiger and saved by his brother who shot the big cat five times and turned it dead. This case was described in the article as an expected result when a wild animal is forced to change his natural instincts. Despite the fact this subject has been brought up in many occasions and different association has been founded to either support or object the existence of circuses, no serious actions has been taken to find a compromise. Obviously, The American Circus Educators and the CompassionWorks International stand in two different sides. However, there might be a common ground that can help them meet and find a compromise to put an end for this opposition. I believe that the common point between each mission statement is that they are both looking for the interest of the society. In the same way, while CircusProtest.org is all about protecting wild animals from being abused, the word was not even mentioned in the mission statement and that can be a kind of confession that Circus is not all about animals. why, I believe that the best solution to reach a compromise between both parties, is to not use animals in Circuses. And thus, the interest of the society is safe in both perspectives: for ACE, circuses can still be touring sharing its education and advocacy and for CWI, there be animals in circuses that can be abused or damage any life. Furthermore, as it is mentioned in the first body paragraph, ACE wants to make Circuses a way for and social ACE) Accordingly, a best example that can prove that circuses can be beneficial for the human being even without performing animals, is the research conducted by Kristy Seymour, a formal circus artist and practitioner working with children, who found out that training can enhance physical and social development for children diagnosed on the autistic (78) I think that the idea of Circuses without animals is an appropriate compromise for both sides: in the first place, it be an obstacle for ACE to fulfill its objectives. They can keep organizing circus events that include clowns, jugglers, and other skilled performers. In the second place, it will help satisfying goals by protecting wild animals from whips and chains. Even though I choose the topic of Circuses and Animal abuse to find a compromise, there are plenty of other subject that not enough light has been shed on. A compromise can be the adequate solution for every problem in the world and in any field. However, I am aware that to find a compromise between the ACE and CWI happen overnight: There are many parts of the topic that can be affected negatively: For example, there are many fans of circuses who like to attend these festivals only to see animals do unusual performances and thus my compromise will affect them on one hand, and the organizers of these events, who are going to lose profits, on the other one. References: About  americancircuseducators, http://www.americancircuseducators.org/about Kristy Seymour. Circus Training for Autistic Children: Creativity, and New Theatre Quarterly. 10 Jan. 2017, Vol. 33 Issue 1, p78-90. 13p Lowery, Jenna. rethink White Tops. Oct. 2014, Vol. 87 Issue 5, Special section p4-4. 1p. Scholastic, Inc. cruelest show on Current Events, a Weekly Reader publication. 27 Feb. 1998, Vol. 97 Issue 20, p3, 1 p. photograph Action Against Circus Circusprotest, http://www.circusprotest.com/start-a- protest