Bay Schook Kristen Rouisse Project 1 Intermediate Draft 1/25/17 One of the most controversial issues that is widely questioned if ethical is the act of physicians-assisted suicide (PAS). It can be described as a doctor knowingly committing the act of suicide on another person. About 57% of physicians have been requested to perform PAS (Lurie 1). This controversy has been going on for centuries, around the time of the creation of the Hippocratic Oath in 4 th century B.C. The Hippocratic Oath prohibited doctors from providing their patients with a drug that would kill them, and the main job was to care and tend to the needs. It was not until the where this debate arose from Dr. Jack Kerokian, also known as Death. In 1997, the Death With Dignity Act was passed in Oregon which gave ill patients the option take drugs prescribed by physicians to end their lives (Berry 1). It is presently legal in 5 states in the U.S.: Oregon, Vermont, Washington, California, and Montana. Death With Dignity allows terminally-ill, state residents to voluntarily request for PAS (Death With Dignity). The debate of PAS is about whether it is morally and ethically appropriate to intentionally end a life due to suffering. dying suicide legally, morally, or ethically. Patients already are dying and there are not choosing death over life but one form of death over (Death With Dignity). Certain patients request PAS for a variety of reasons, some including: physical, psychological, social, and spiritual sufferings. They believe that pain, suffering, and death is justified by PAS. Dying from assisted-suicide lets people go with control and relieves future suffering that they may have. For people who want to self-harm and die, they will find a way to do it. PAS allows patients to die in nonviolent ways and also allows loved ones of the patient to be around when time of death occurs. A certain nonprofit organization called the Death with Dignity National Center promotes PAS and believes that Americans can make their own life decisions, including how and when they die (Death With Dignity 1). One woman specifically, Brittany Maynard, shares her story about her opinion on the PAS. She was diagnosed with terminal brain cancer and was told that she only had a few short months to live. Her illness was only going to get worse. When she found out she was diagnosed, she moved away to Oregon where PAS was legal. Brittany died in November 2014 peacefully and exactly how she wanted. She explains how much the Death with Dignity Act can help people who are fatally ill and are there for people who were in the same situation as her (Maynard 1). In 2015, an article was written about a physician named Dan Swangard was diagnosed in 2013 with a rare form of metastatic cancer. His stance on PAS is that taking care of patients means letting them choose when and how their lives should end. After he was diagnosed with cancer, he can relate and has come to a greater understanding of why people support PAS (Gorman 1). Some patients want to die because of their inabilities to function normally and healthily. More than 2/3 American citizens are for physician-assisted suicide. The one third of people that do not support PAS can include certain religious groups. Some religious groups including Christian, Muslim, and Jewish groups believe that we have this life for a reason and suicide should never be an option (Robinson N.p). Most religious leaders explain that it is okay to support patients who are terminally ill by being there for them in times of pain, but not allowing them to choose death over life. Suffering in life is a part of the human journey and people should respect that (Dallas 1). In the Catholic church, suicide is considered just as wrong as murder. Under certain Jewish teachings, it is not at all under any circumstance permissible to take own life (Liu N.p). Muslims are against assisted suicide. Allah proposes that human life is sacred and interfering with life is unjust. In the Quran, it is stated that humans did not create themselves and therefore do not own their bodies. They cannot morally do what they please under sacred beliefs (Death With Dignity N.p). To conclude, the right to life is the most basic human right, and going against that right is only disrespecting and devaluing it. The two opposing groups of people have separate beliefs about physician-assisted suicide. Their beliefs are based on different morals, religious/spiritual beliefs, and physical and psychological differences. What must be considered to understand both points of views of the patients for PAS and certain religious groups against PAS is that humans have the right to freely do whatever they want with their lives. Some people who support PAS do not follow a religion, therefore, believe that PAS is permissible. The issue of PAS cannot be justified whether it is morally right or wrong, but finding a common ground between two opposing sides does exist. Before making PAS an option in a life, to guide practices and determine safeguards that would keep assisted suicide voluntary, regulated, and an option of last (Assisted Suicide N.p). Main requirements for PAS is to claim in-state residency (where it is legal), be 18 years of age or older, mentally competent, and terminally ill with only 6 months left to live. PAS should be a distinctive process and all precautions should be taken into consideration. Patients first have to speak with two physicians that they have thought out and are sincere about their decision. Considering the other factors is crucial as well; physicians must evaluate how ill the patient is, and/or offer any other alternative options instead of PAS such as counseling, or some sort of pain control. The one main proponent of going forward with PAS is how terminal ill a patient lives and long they have to live and/or will be suffering for. The choice to end your life takes a lot of thought out time and decision-making. There are many qualifications for PAS, but besides these requirements and procedures, we must realize what or moral and ethical standards are towards this debate. Works Cited About  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Assisted Suicide: Finding Common Ground. Medscape. Aug 21, 2002. Berry, Emily Lea. Medscape Log  Medscape Log In. N.p., 07 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dallas, Kelsey. How Religion Changes the Medically Assisted Suicide DeseretNews.com. Deseret News, 19 Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gorman, Anna. From Doctor to Patient to Assisted-Suicide  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 31 Mar. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Maynard, Brittany. My Right to Death with Dignity at  CNN. Cable News Network, 02 Nov. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Liu, Joseph. Religious Views on End-of-Life  Pew Research Religion & Public Life Project. N.p., 21 Nov. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center. Physician-Assisted Suicide - Physician-Assisted Suicide - Introduction. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Traina, Cristine L.H. Perspectives on Assisted Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology.