Nicole Franze Mr.Phillips ENC 29 January 2017 The Dakota Access Pipeline is an underground pipeline that is being built to transfer hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil from the Bakken shale oil fields in North Dakota to the oil tank farm near Patoka, Illinois. The pipeline should be shifted over and be built on the outside of the natives sacred burial grounds to prevent water contamination and the destruction of their burial grounds. The Bakken Holdings Company are the ones who are building the pipeline and the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe are the ones fighting against the production of the pipeline. These two stakeholders are at odds with one another and cannot seem to find a way around it. The Bakken Holdings Company are a stakeholder of the Dakota Access Pipeline. Their goal is to build a 1,172 - mile - long underground oil pipeline. The pipeline will begin in the Bakken shale oil fields in North Dakota and travel south east, through Iowa, ending at the oil tank farm near Patoka, Illinois. This is a $3.78 billion project that is expecting to better the economy and provide more jobs to this country. The Pipeline is going to transfer hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil a day. Once the Dakota Access Pipeline is complete, they will pay over $55 million every year in property taxes to four states. This project is intended to make oil transferring effective and more affordable by putting an end to car transportation of oil barrels, which lowers traffic frequency and helps with pollution. Even though the purpose of this project sounds great and useful, the native people believe otherwise. This pipeline company is known to have oil leaks in their past pipeline projects and the native people are worried that the Dakota Access Pipeline will leak into their water source and contaminate their clean water. The Bakken Holdings Company has constantly been postponed and brought forward due to the protesting that the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and their supporters have summoned time and time again. Nicole Franze Mr.Phillips ENC 29 January 2017 The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is a Native American tribe fighting against the production of the Dakota Access Pipeline. Standing Rock is a reservation with a land area of 3,571.9 sq miles. This reservation is the sixth largest Native American reservation in the united states and has a population of almost 10 thousand. The Sioux Tribe is a Native American tribe that lives on the Standing Rock reservation. The members and other devoted native people have been protesting since April 2016 and this project begun in December 2014. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe argues that the pipeline is going to contaminate their water source and they claim to have never been spoken with in regards to the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline. The pipeline is being built below the native peoples water source and they are all concerned about their water being contaminated by leaks in the pipe, since the Bakken Holdings company has had previous experiences with leaks in their pipes before. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and other committed native people are protesting the production of the Dakota Access Pipeline due to the pipeline being built below their only water source and through their sacred burial grounds. Standing rock is not lighthearted with their land being touched and they refuse to be okay with it. The Bakken Holdings Company and the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe are at odds with one another. In order for both stakeholders to be content, they need to find a compromise. The Bakken holdings company needs to shift their project over, away from the native peoples sacred burial grounds. This adjustment would allow the Dakota Access Pipeline to be able to complete their project and succeed in their goal with transferring oil. Sure, the pipeline could end up being longer than anticipated, but no water will be contaminated, no sacred burial grounds will be destroyed, the economy will still have the chance to grow, and we will have more jobs to offer. Nicole Franze Mr.Phillips ENC 29 January 2017 This adjustment works out because neither stakeholder is affected negatively and both stakeholders get to achieve what they originally set out to do. The Bakken Holdings Company can fulfill their purpose in building the Dakota Access Pipeline, transferring barrels of oil from North Dakota to Illinois. This project would just take a little longer to accomplish due to the pipeline being rerouted. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe can say they successfully put an end to the construction of the original route of the Dakota Access Pipeline, by protesting and fighting for their beliefs. The native people will continue to have the fresh water that they have always had and they can live happily knowing that their sacred burial grounds were not destroyed and the Bakken Holdings Company can say that the economy will get better and America will have more jobs to provide. With the Bakken Holdings Company being part owner of the Dakota Access Pipeline, they have a lot of issues as it is that they must face in order to make the project complete, and with the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe protesting, it makes the productions that much harder and it slows the construction down. With the pipeline being shifted over and being built on the outside of the native peoples sacred burial grounds, in place to prevent water contamination and the destruction of the burial grounds, this will put a halt to all obstacles. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and their devoted native people will stop protesting once the pipeline is rerouted. By having this compromise between the Bakken Holdings Company and the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, each side can feel better about the Dakota Access Pipeline project and each can successfully fulfill their purpose that they intended to complete in the very beginning without any intrusions. Nicole Franze Mr.Phillips ENC 29 January 2017 Works Cited The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Eggleston, Kirk. Two New Bakken Crude Oil Pipelines Online by  Bakken Shale Play. N.p., 30 Oct. 2014. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Stand with Standing  Stand with Standing Rock. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Dakota Access  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Www.browsermedia.com, BrowserMedia -. Standing with Standing  Standing with Standing Rock NCAI. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.