James 1 Jivan James Professor Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 30 January 2017 Is Renewable Energy the Future? What is It is also known as alternative energy and is currently one of the biggest concerns of the human population in terms of conservation. Renewable energy are those who are generated from sources that do not have a finite end and can be used again. importance has grown over the years, as humans try to become more eco-friendly, thus causing a socioeconomic revolution. It is a growing industry and topic all over the world. Due to its controversial nature, there are many stakeholders on this topic. Like with any major change or topic, there those against it and those for it. One major stakeholder that appears to be against renewable energy is the Koch Industries. Their mission statement is simply to provide support family-owned diversified businesses. Any business economical, and can succeed in the marketplace, any form of energy, they are for. Koch Industries mainly affiliate themselves and do business with non-renewable resources industries mainly due to economic reasons. This ideology conflicts with another major stakeholder such as Solar Energy Industries Association(SEIA), whose mission statement is to achieve equilibrium between environmental, and economic development needs in the form of solar energy. One stake holder is concerned with mainly their personal economic standing and the other is concerned with conserving the environment. Despite these differences, a compromise can be negotiated on between the two due to the fact that Koch Industries does not care what form of energy they do business with as long James 2 as it shows economic stability, which Solar Energy Industries Association can provide for them, being solar energy. Solar Energy Industries Association is one of the front runners in alternative energy development. Their mission statement is to a balance between environmental, human, and economic development needs in order to create a more resilient organization that supports a strong solar industry to sustain the SEIA). They are a strong believer that renewable energy can be the solution to the worlds cost effective conservation problem, particularly in the form of solar energy. Solar accounted for 29% of all new electricity generation capacity in 2013, up from 10% in 2012. This made solar the second-largest source of new generating capacity behind natural gas (Renewable Energy Institute 15). It can be seen from these numbers that solar energy is making tremendous growth, and has loads of potential in the economic department. The market potential can be seen growing to as much as per SEIA believes that These views differ from Koch own. Koch mission statement is provide guidance, support and capital to their family-owned portfolio of growing and diversified (Koch Enterprises). Any business economical, and can succeed in the marketplace, any form of energy, they support. This does not mean that they are against renewable energy sources. They also state that they try to keep the environment in mind when they conduct business. However, they do heavily support coal, oil and fossil fuel production. This is simply due to the fact that these forms of energy benefits them the most economically. Koch industries was described as trading, investment, and operating company that aggressively identifies and acquires companies in which it can leverage its strengths to generate superior earnings or market (Koch Industries). This proves they perform and carry out business based on what can give them the highest return James 3 economic wise. They do not like to do business with companies that have debt or may experience it. They also believe that they are doing this to benefit society and employees as it offers security economically. As a result, Koch Industries do not invest much into renewable energy companies and by doing this they holding the environment at risk of pollution which goes against one of their supposedly Koch industries has been found giving of dollars to nonprofit groups that criticize environmental regulation and support lower taxes for (Jane Mayer 1), which shows that they basically only support nonrenewable energy sources to make it in the business world. Koch industries may have huge differences from Solar Energy Industries Association, but that does not mean that they do not have similarities. One way in-which these two organizations are similar is that, they both are very influential in the energy production field, regardless of whether it is nonrenewable or renewable. There is nothing wrong with Koch business philosophy, they are only trying to stay and live a successful life as they have made billions of dollars in the oil industry. It is understandable why they have done what they did and their attitude towards renewable energy policies. If they agree with such policies, they would have to lower the prices for their products which decreases their income. Solar Energy Industries Association on the other hand, just want sustain and develop economic development with environment sustainability. They are not trying to completely rule out non renewable energy sources, they are just trying to further the reputation of solar power and other renewable energy sources in the business world. From Koch Industries business philosophy, it can be said that they do not care which form of energy they invest in as long as it is economically sound, and will make lots of income. SEIA as stated earlier, wants to raise awareness for renewable energy sources, and establish a James 4 relationship between economic development and environment sustainability. As two powerhouses in the energy production field, working together will only benefit the two. Both parties can establish mutualism with each other. It is only a matter of time before non-renewable energy sources are sky high cost wise, and they are limited in source. This is one problem that all non-renewable companies will have to face one day. Renewable energy organizations such as SEIA can be the solution to such a problem. Renewable energy sources such as solar power, are becoming more cost effective and more developed in terms of technology every year. The growth rate of said sources is outstanding statistically, in fact it is said it has the potential to eventually the energy and financial (Omar Ellabban 3). This benefits both parties, as it protects the environment and can satisfy the Koch Industries hunger for economic power. However, in order for this to become a reality certain things must be put in place. This includes the of local environmental and health benefits; facilitation of energy access, particularly for rural areas; advancement of energy security goals by diversifying the portfolio of energy technologies and resources; and improving social and economic development through potential employment (Eemeli Supari 45). This is necessary in order for this compromise to happen. Koch industries benefit due to the fact that they will be in an industry that has no end and endless potential economically. SEIA also benefits due to the fact that a strong relationship will be developed between economic development and environment sustainability, meaning that the environment will be safe. In terms of the funding for such ideas, a lot of these ideas are policies that would need to be put in place. The only costly aspect of renewable energy is the large amounts of land required for it. This however can be fixed by just using old abandoned lots and factories for the production of clean energy. James 5 Nonetheless, is renewable energy the future? Major organizations such as Koch Industries and Solar Energy Industries Association hold the answer to such a question. Despite both having their differences, which being one mainly that Koch industries do not view renewable energy as a huge economic investment that would pay off as SEIA do. This does not mean that Koch industries completely rule out renewable energy. Based off of this, an agreement can be met between the two. As long as renewable energy can prove to Koch Industries and continue to prove to them that it is the future of energy production and satisfies the Koch Industries business philosophy. In order for this to happen, policies will need to be put in place to lower the cost for such methods and growth each year will be need to be seen. This can make Koch industries realize that they can be the frontrunners of an industry that will never run out of product raw materials, which means it can be a dynasty that will last for a long period of time. James 6 Works Citied Page SEIA, Solar Energy Industries Association, http://www.seia.org/about. Ellabban, Omar, Haitham Abu-Rub, and Frede Blaabjerg. Renewable Energy Resources: Current Status, Future Prospects And Their Enabling  Renewable And Sustainable Energy Reviews 39.(2014): 748-764. ScienceDirect. 30 Jan. 2017. Enterprises, Mission, Vision, Values & H3 Koch Enterprises, Inc., http://www.kochenterprises.com/mission-vision-values-h3. Industries Mission Koch Industries Mission Statement, U.S Securities and Exchange Commission, http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/41077/000119312505225697/dex9910.htm. Mayer, Jane. The New Yorker, The New Yorker, 22 Nov. 2016, http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2010/08/30/covert-operations. Supari, Eemeli, Matti and Janne Feasibility Of Solid Fuel CLC Plant Investment In The Future Energy Systems Including High Share Of Solar And  Energy Procedia 63.12th International Conference on Greenhouse Gas Control Technologies, GHGT-12 (2014): 7508-7516. ScienceDirect. 28 Jan. 2017. James 7 2013 Renewable Energy Institute. Austin, TX: UTCLE, The U of Texas School of Law, 2013.