Mitchell 1 Evelyn Mitchell Mr. Kevin Ip ENC 1102.002 29 January 2017 The Underpayment of Teachers It is no question that teachers are considered underpaid by American standards. Anyone who has gone through American primary school has most likely heard teachers make some comment about their pay. But why are teachers so underpaid despite all the work they are expected to do? Teachers are not only expected to give students a high-quality education but are also watching after children during the day. This could be considered two jobs in a sense, both of a nanny and a tutor. With this in mind, the United States Department of Education made any moves to truly raise pay. This may be due to the fact they are in charge of overseeing the payment of things like books, tests, and district school offices upkeep. With all of these expenses it becomes tight to raise pay, and the last things the government wants to do is raise taxes. There must be some sort of compromise though that will allow both stakeholders to get what they want without either having to give up too much. With both the teachers and Department of Education at odds, there is a solution that can be made that will appease both stakeholders. Ask anyone on the street about how they view our teachers and one conclusion will eventually be reached: Teachers are an extremely important part of society. Yet, with this common idea about teachers, it is also agreed that teachers are underpaid. In an article written by Jason Richwine, it states that school teachers receive a 19 percent salary (Richwine 2012). This statement was made when comparing full-time private workers to Mitchell 2 teachers and the average annual salary they make. So even though teachers are considered essential to the future of the United States they on average receive a 19 percent lower salary. The answer to why this is happening comes from an article written by Peter Temin. Temin makes the comparison between hiring a new teacher to buying a new car stating may not be willing to draw high-quality cars into the and is difficult to discern when hiring a new (Temin). These two statements mean that a new teacher coming out of college is hard to determine whether or not they will be a good teacher. With this in mind, the school system is reluctant to pay teachers a higher salary because it is difficult to determine the quality of a teacher during the hiring process. Due to the lower salary, it becomes harder to attract good teachers into the market. This of course becomes no excuse if a teacher has been in the school system for multiple years. At this point teachers have either proven whether or not they are good or not, and their class standardized test scores can prove that. So at this point, if that is the Department of number one concern, there should be an increase in pay after the first few years of teaching. The Department of job consists of more than just the salaries of teachers. About school districts and approximately 50 million (ED 2016) need to be taken care of as well. These costs include general upkeep and construction of school building as well as textbooks for students. For the year 2016, the president approved the budget of $68.1 billion as the budget for the Department of Education. As mentioned earlier, the department takes care of a lot to keep elementary and secondary schools running but they also provide financial aid on top of that. The Department of Education provides loans, and work- assistance to more than 13 million postsecondary (ED 2016). With these multiple expenses, it can now be understood why teachers are struggling to get higher wages and districts Mitchell 3 are hesitant to pay teachers more. In order for teachers to receive higher wages it appears at this moment to increase taxes in order to put more money into the Department of budget, yet that is the last thing anyone wants. Not only is it a hassle to pass a tax increase through congress but it will be meet with resistance by the American public, especially those who are retired or do not make a substantial amount of money as it is. Although with public schools and 28,000 private (ED 2016) to maintain it becomes hard to see an alternative solution to the issue at hand. One thing both stakeholders have in common though is giving the children in the school system the best possible education the government can currently pay for. Teachers who have been teaching for multiple years primarily do it for the accomplishment they feel when a student does well or learns something new from their class. The Department of Education wants to make sure all students are being taught the same so no child is considered under-educated when compared to another from a different state. With a common goal of the children in mind, a compromise can be reached that will help both stakeholders reach their goals and still give the children the best education possible. Despite what many people think, there is an alternative solution to the issue of the underpayment of teachers and staying within the Department of budget without raising taxes. This solution is to analyze the current United States Governments budget and see where money can be moved around from categories that may have too much to the Department of budget. Even though the work this may take to even get approved by congress will be extensive, it is very possible and the most economical. Taxes would not have to be raised and the money being moved the government already has or is collected by the current tax rates. Mitchell 4 By doing this the Department of Education will have more money to distribute to teachers, making them feel valued and closing the 19 percent gap between them and private workers. The answer to the issue is not thinking what needs to be raised, but what needs to be moved. It is the most economical solution to the problem and allows both stakeholders to achieve their goals without either having to sacrifice anything. Having the budget be revisited may be a long and complicated process but it is very possible. Teachers will finally receive the pay they want, and the Department of Education will receive more money to be able to pay these very teachers more. In the end the real winner is not the teachers or the Department of Education, but the students who will have teachers who not only love their job but also feel valued. Mitchell 5 Works Cited Richwine, Jason, et al. Compensation Question: Are Public School Teachers Education Next 4 (2012): 68. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Saidi, Nicole. Not Your 10 Things Parents and Teachers Want Each Other to CNN. Cable News Network, 14 Mar. 2013. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Temin, Peter. Pay, Low Quality: For Decades The Nation Has Been Able To School Its Children On The Cheap By Exploiting A Trapped Workforce Of Educated Women. Those Days Are Long Gone. Education Next 3 (2003): 8. Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. U.S. Department of Education Budget Home. US Department of Education (ED), n.d. Wed. 27 Jan. 2017. West, Martin R., and Paul E. Peterson. School Money Trials: The Legal Pursuit Of Educational Adequacy. Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institution Press, 2007. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Wong, Kenneth K. Interest: Teachers Unions And Public Political Science Quarterly 4 (2011): 687. Academic OneFile. Web. 21 Jan. 2017.