Brittney Rayfield Ms. Lay Comp II 25 January 2017 Athletes Speak Up The United States has been legalizing marijuana in many states; for recreational and medicinal purposes. Although, the country is becoming more lenient, the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) has stood their ground and stays against drug use in college athletics. While the NCAA and collegiate athletes go hand-in-hand, some opinions counter the regulations. With the different beliefs, there is a possible compromise that could come about. The NCAA does random drug testing at many universities. With any substance, including marijuana, in the system of an athlete, there are regulations and consequences that they have to go through. Some universities vary but there is always a consequence. Some are suspended, some are kicked off of the sports team. Some athletes will argue against the NCAA rules. Some athletes will say that marijuana is an enhancer; not like a steroid but more as a performance. Marijuana is known to help you relax and some athletes will take a dose before a game or match to calm their nerves. Athletes will counter the NCAA rules and say it should not be the way it is. The NCAA and collegiate athletes have their differences but maybe one day in the future there could be an accommodation for them. Marijuana use in college athletics is not permitted at the time but some athletes will testify against the rules for it. While some athletes could use it, it would not be something for every athlete. Some say it could be used as an enhancer, some say it could be used for sore muscles and body aches. While this may be true, and by the research on it, it seems to be correct, NCAA may compromise and let athletes use marijuana in the off-season when there is no competitions. While the NCAA and collegiate athletes are on the same page, there are differences in opinions on certain regulations such as the use of marijuana. The NCAA being adamant on the rules, it may be hard to get around for some athletes. Maybe one day there will be an argumentative case on it and the athletes may win the rights to use marijuana. Works Cited Knopf, A. NCAA to eliminate testing for  (2015): 5-6. Timothy. Legalized marijuana use apply to  n.d. Randy Page, Michelle Roland. Misperceptions of the Prevalence of Marijuana Use Among College Students: Athletes and  (2004): 61-75.