Tayeb 1 Allaa Tayeb Instructor Poston ENC 1102-029 29 January 2017 Arts Education Versus STEM: A Compromise Scribbles of words, pictures and feelings are ascribed upon the walls of buildings across the United States. Graffitists task themselves with filling these blank canvases with their personal expression, forgetting that the walls that they paint do not belong to them. Many see this as useless vandalism, and others believe it to be artwork. Those on the opposition trust that the creation should not be defiled, yet those in support believe the graffiti gives character and life to the city it inhabits. No matter which side someone stands on, there is no denying that architecture and graffiti are both influential parts of American culture, and as they are should be kept alive. This metaphor extends to other components of America as well. Including education. At the moment, our education system is facing an epidemic. Due to defunding and a technologically advancing world, the need for artists has been pushed behind the higher demand for innovators. For this reason, a strict divide has been drawn between those fighting to keep the arts alive in public schools, and those defunding them to ensure students are given an education centered around the STEM fields. Despite these differences, they do hold one goal in common: helping children be successful. For this reason, a healthy and fair compromise that should be adopted is one that involves course lists that include both the arts and STEM subjects. The need for STEM education- Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics- has risen. Many believe that when these subjects are studied by students, they report higher incidences of achievement and overall life success. The argument stands that as our world Tayeb 2 becomes more efficient, the need for doctors, engineers, and innovators far outweighs the demand for creativity. Former president Barak Obama was a large supporter of STEM education. In 2008 he said, time to once again put science at the top of our agenda and work to restore place as the world leader in science and This has led many state legislators to focus attention and funding towards these fields of study, which takes a large portion of the fine arts funding. Supporters of this do not discourage the purpose of the arts, but merely believe that in relation to the importance of STEM fields, the arts are lacking. An academic journal published an article titled STEM Academy Designation Synonymous with Higher Student it discusses some of the benefits of STEM education. The author asserts that the STEM fields have three key features, improving understanding of how things operate, b) increasing the use of technology, and c) integrating engineering principles into (Oner 2). Schools have become increasingly STEM based, and this is attributed to concerns that students are not being pushed into these fields. The same article also provides that, is an increasing concern about the insufficient number of student preparation in STEM fields in the U.S. In order to alleviate these concerns, a greater importance has been placed on STEM (Oner 3). Considering this, it is evident that there is a stark push for students to become In the fight to keep the arts in public schools, those supporting these programs have their own beliefs about the STEM courses. Subjects classified under the arts include: literature, theater, dance, music, visual arts (painting, ceramics, painting, and sculpting), media arts, photography, the humanities, and many more. One of the most vocal opponents of the arts being defunded is the World Alliance for Arts Education group (WAAE). The WAAE seeks to initiate advocacy for arts education across the globe. On their website, they discuss some of their Tayeb 3 intentions, stating that they are to Continue to send out calls for expressions of interest for hosting future world summits and encourage related events, 3) continue to lobby government on behalf of arts education, 4) encourage further arts education alliance buildings around the (Irwin 1). All students learn a bit differently, meaning not all will be able to grasp components of the STEM fields, and vice versa. When you limit a student to only subjects they may not be good at, they may not reach their full potential. Ruben Gaztamibide-Fernandez, author of the article what purpose the Arts? An Analysis of the Mission Statements of Urban Arts in High suggests that arts ae perhaps more relevant to those students who demonstrate an affinity or an inclination towards them [the (30). For this reason, organizations like WAAE fight for arts education; they believe not all students have the same subject interests. The passion and fury of these two opposing groups leads them down a path of total obliteration of the other party, ergo a compromise should be made. Despite the very understandable demands of both stakeholders, the need for a compromise is essential for the future prosperity of students nationwide. Both those who seek to defund the arts, and those fighting to keep the programs alive have one goal in common: the success of students across the United States. On account of this crucial similarity, a compromise allowing both STEM and arts programs to be in public education curriculum should be adapted. This compromise should be sought on the basis that a) students possess the ability to decide for themselves which subject area sparks their interest and b) while the STEM fields do hold more prestige and success in our society, some children are not inclined towards pursuing careers in these fields. Integrating these two fields is another essential component of the compromise; the two disciplines have very important enrichment values to offer. Integrating it would provide a much more effective educational plan for students. Some people across the nation have been Tayeb 4 seeking to build an untied curriculum of varied subjects; they are calling it STEAM, or Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics. Weaving these subjects together is supposed to allow for exploration of different fields in one. Michelle Land published an article titled, STEM Ahead: The Benefits of Integrating the Arts into that details the components of STEAM, the arts, STEM, and all of these concepts looped together. In it, she writes careers such as astronautic geologists, biomimicry analysts, quantum linguists, roboticist, medical mathematicians, and crypto-privacy engineers will likely benefit from these STEAM degree (550). This type of cross-curricular collaboration will not only allow students to decipher for themselves what subjects spark their interest, but will also contribute to making America leaders in science, technology, and the arts. To put this plan into practice, school curriculum must adopt courses that web the arts and STEM in one. Some examples of these classes include: product design, circuit bending, kinetic art, prototype development, and performance art (Land 550). Through the practice of the STEAM theory, a fair compromise can be reached that keeps both sides, as well as the best interest in mind. Across the world, leaders are participating in a technological race. Each is in combat to become the most efficient and advanced in science and technology. For this reason, states have sought public school curriculum that demands that students receive an education that mirrors the skills needed to win this race. This adaption has neglected the needs of the artists, which has raised immense controversy. Keeping both opposing sides in mind, a fair compromise needs to be reached. The most effective one will allow for integrated studies of the arts and STEM fields, and should be adopted immediately. Tayeb 5 Works Cited Gaztambide-Fernandez, Ruben, Racheal Nicholls, and Alexander Arraiz- Matute. What purpose of the Arts? An Analysis of the Mission Statements of Urban Arts in High Schools in Canada and the United Arts Education Policy Review. 117.1 (2016):29-42. ERIC. Web. 26 January 2017. Land, Michelle H. STEM Ahead: The Benefit of Integrating the Arts into Procedia Computer Science 20. Computer Adaptive Systems (2013): 547-552. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 January 2017. Miksza, Peter. Education Advocacy: The Relative Effects of School-Level Influence on Resources for Arts Arts Education Policy Review. 114.1 (2013). 25-32. Education Source. Web. 26 January 2017. Oner, Ayse Tugba, Capararo, Robert m. STEM Academy Designation Synonymous with Higher Student Education & Science/ Egitim Ve Billim. 41.8 (2016): 1- 17. Education Source. Web. 26 January 2017. Sabol, F. Robert. Shifts in the Education Landscape: What do they mean for Arts Education and Arts Education Arts Education Policy Review. 114.1 (2013): 33- 45. Education Source. Web. 29 January 2017.