Ashkon Chamani Chamani 1 Kristen Gocinski Enc 1102.012 January 30 2017 The marijuana struggle Over seven million people were detained due to marijuana related arrests from 2001 to 2010. For nearly 40 years now, there have been many organizations attempting to do away with strict criminalizing laws that involve the possession and consumption of marijuana. These organizations include the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or NORML. And on the other side of the spectrum there are organizations such as citizens against legalizing marijuana, or CALM for short. NORML has been fighting to change the laws governing the imprisonment of individuals that have been caught with possession of marijuana. Whereas CALM has been attempting to stop legislation from legalizing marijuana in the states of California and Ohio. In the most recent election, California legalized marijuana recreationally, and Ohio legalized medical Marijuana. Both organizations stand for opposite goals, but they also share their drive to educate the population about marijuana. In the state of Ohio, where medical marijuana has been legalized, there can be a compromise drawn between the two, where a promise to educate the youth of the possible dangers of marijuana, and also to agree on a certain age at which marijuana would be legal for. These agreements will be made between the cooperation of the two different organizations and allow progression in the state, by increasing awareness of the potential harms of youth interaction with marijuana. Chamani 2 Being one of the largest pro marijuana organizations in the nation, NORML has been a leader in initiative in attempts to help legalize marijuana. Their mission statement in direct context is move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (NORML) their goals have been closely linked to lessening the laws of crimination involving with possession of cannabis. Having been known as a large benefactor of a lobbyist group, NORML also has support in congress allowing them to extend their views. In the article. Meet the senators and congressmen who support marijuana  There are direct references of the pro legalization propaganda that NORML boasts about. They gave their ratings of government officials that were in favor and against the possible legalization of marijuana. The article further describes how NORML gave precise descriptions of how each of the senators and congress members, including a senator in Ohio which received a rating that signified his support for legalization. This shows that NORML is a legitimate representation of most Americans that want to see changes in marijuana laws in the US. Although they have many supporters, there are many Americans that oppose legalizing cannabis, and with those Americans comes along an organization with similar principles, Citizens against legalizing marijuana has had a good number of supporters in the wake of the The mission statement of citizens against legalizing marijuana is take the position that Federal laws against the use, cultivation, and transportation of marijuana should be maintained and enforced and should not be relaxed or softened. Cultivation, processing, transportation and use are illegal under the Federal Controlled Chamani 3 Substances CALM has two main locations where they handle legal affairs, being Ohio and California, where they lost a large battle when California made cannabis recreationally legal. In the article arrested nearly half a million people for pot over the past There was mention of how due to the number of people not willing to vote on legislation due to their beliefs with CALM, they were unable to decriminalize marijuana in a specific county. This shows that people that side with CALM do believe in anti-marijuana rhetoric and therefore their cause is a legitimate one. The article continues by stating the increase in support of legalization in other counties showing the loss of support CALM has had in recent years. Due to their slight decrease in support, this could open for the possibility to make an agreement with an organization that would be willing to help their cause. Both CALM and NORML have their main underlying platforms revolving around marijuana legislation, they just happen to be on opposite sides. The similarities that two organizations have is that they both want to educate the population about marijuana. The main platform that CALM stands for is to make sure that marijuana does not get in the hands of children much as how alcohol finds its way to children. In this sense both organization have that similarity, NORML also is watchful in the legislation ideas to make sure suppliers would be very strict not to sell to minors. Therefore, there is an unseen empathy between the two organizations. This could lead to a discussion between the two, in which case they would see a possible compromise to come from their cooperation. Chamani 4 Both NORML and CALM have had losses and wins, for NORML California recently recreationally legalized marijuana, and for CALM Ohio repealed to legalize marijuana. But in the larger picture there is a trend of states legalizing marijuana slowly but surly, and CALM can clearly see this as well. The compromise of CALM and NORML to work together to help better educate the public about marijuana and the possible detrimental effects it could carry is very important. The reason they would decide to work together on this is simple, the people that support CALM will not listen or believe the information that NORML would be giving out, and the same goes for the followers of NORML when confronted with information from CALM. This is important for CALM in hopes to keep the communities safe in their perspective, and also important for NORML as it could help the process at which legislation could change in Ohio due to less opposition. The way the compromise would take place in the communities would be to first make the public aware that the two organization are now a joint coalition as to make the public listen to what they have to say. The attempts to further educate the public would take place in middle and high schools, with factual evidence that is agreed on by the science community indefinitely. This would be paid for by both organizations, in proportions to the amounts each has to offer. This would benefit both organizations in the end in different ways, by helping keep the mission statement of CALM intact to the most part. And helping speed the process of legalization for NORML supporters. The reason CALM would agree with this compromise is the fact that they know they will slowly lose the battle, and therefore they would rather help educate the public to decrease the consumption once made available. This would can be seen to have happened in Missouri once information of the Chamani 5 medical properties marijuana had for chemo patients, and helped jump start a movement in the area in favor of legalizing medical marijuana, as seen in the article NORML warms up medical pot In conclusion, both organization have very different perspectives on how marijuana should be treated, NORML believe in that it is the right to have available marijuana in dispensaries around the country. And CALM which believes that it is better to not allow legalization of the herb. Regardless of these differences, they can come together for the better of their mission statements and reach a larger part of their goals, which is to keep the public aware and informed of all effects of marijuana. They will come together in this compromise that helps inform the public, and to ease the passage of the inevitable legalization of marijuana with increasing support across the nation, in this way, all supporters will be able to say thy helped change their communities for the greater good. Works cited Working to Reform Marijuana  Support. NORML and the NORML Foundation, Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Citizens Against Legalizing  CALM USA. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Ingraham, Christopher. California arrested nearly half a million people for pot over the past  The Washington Post 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. LEE, MARTIN A. Let A Thousand Flowers  Nation 297.20 (2013): 23-28. Academic Search Premier. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. NORML warms up medical pot  Columbia Daily Tribune (Columbia, MO) 2009: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Ingraham, Christopher. Meet the senators and congressmen who support marijuana  The Washington Post 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Rosin, Hanna. THE RETURN OF POT. (Cover  New Republic 216.7 (1997): 18- 24. The New Republic Archive. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.