Curtis James Professor Adam Carter ENC 1102 January 28, 2017 Physician-Assisted suicide: Human Right or Unethical? Physician-assisted suicide(PAS) is a controversial method that gives terminally ill patients the opportunity to administer lethal doses of medication prescribed by a physician in order to hasten their death. PAS first became legal in the United States in 1997 via Oregon Death with Dignity (Arthur E. Chin, M.D. et al. 577) and is now legal in five other states. Organizations such as Death with Dignity advocate this based on their belief that all terminally ill patients should have complete control over life ending decisions. They are active politically and socially promoting legislation and education favorable towards their views on human rights. Opposed to this is The American College of Physicians (ACP) who believe that it is the physicians responsibility to promote healing and have control end of life situations. The ACP is a medical society for specialists across the world. They support advancements in medicine and follow their code of ethics which guides the beliefs of the physicians associated with ACP. By modifying the Death with Dignity laws in a way that supports both patient choice and physician expertise both groups can come to a compromise on this issue. The Death with dignity National Center is a nonprofit organization that advocates for Death with Dignity laws across the United states and education the issue on based on the belief that terminally ill patients should have complete control over their end of life decisions in order to maintain dignity near death. (Death with Dignity) Their views originate from the struggles that patients endure while faced with end of life decisions such as loss of bodily functions, financial issues, unbearable pain, and being a burden to family members or loved ones. Terminal illnesses like different forms of cancer or heart diseases often come with excruciating pain that can be suppressed through various methods that may not be efficient or even temporary. Patients experiencing this pain combined with a dwindling life expectancy may be more inclined to seek PAS to relieve this pain. This is very controversial, in the article is Death with the author quotes J.D. Velleman, any case, it is generally agreed that when a life involves such unbearable pain that whole life is focused on that pain, she loses her dignity as a human (qtd. In Gentzler 466) Although it is disputed on whether PAS is the solution to extreme patient suffering, it is generally accepted that the patient loses some dignity in their death when the last days before their death are filled with pain and suffering. Death with Dignity attempts to save the patient from this loss of dignity by giving the power to the patient to completely control end of life decisions. Along with pain terminally ill patients must also struggle with dependency near the end of life due to loss of bodily functions. Importance of dependency varies among patients based on how independent they were before being diagnosed with a terminal illness. But with the belief in being independent patients prefer to control their time of death while they are competent and physically able. physicians reported that their patients had been decisive and independent throughout their lives or that the decision to request a lethal prescription was consistent with a long-standing belief about the importance of controlling the manner in which they died. Thus, the decision to request and use a prescription for lethal medications during the first year of legalized physician-assisted suicide in Oregon was associated with views on autonomy and (Arthur E. Chin, M.D. et al. 582) This study concluded that during the first year after the Death with Dignity act was passed patients who relied on being independent throughout their life felt that losing that independency was a major factor in choosing PAS. The Death with Dignity Organization believes that this choice is a human right and all of these factors are immeasurable to those who are not in the place of the patient suffering, by modifying the Death with Dignity act and giving more power to patients this basic human right can be fulfilled. The American College of Physicians consists of physicians that follow the ACP code of ethics which guides the actions of those who are associated with the organization. According to this code the ACP is opposed to Physician-Assisted Suicide, College concluded that making physician-assisted suicide legal raised serious ethical, clinical, and social concerns and that the practice might undermine patient trust; distract from reform in end-of-life care; and be used in vulnerable patients, including those who are poor, are disabled, or are unable to speak for themselves or minority groups who have experienced (ACP Ethics Manual Sixth Edition) Their belief is that the physician should be a healer and a comforter, using various methods to keep the patient even if that leads to death unintentionally. This is the basis of the patient-physician trust relationship that the organization values. PAS violates this by on the patient instead of doing everything possible to keep the patient comfortable or potentially heal them. Palliative care is a service that cares for patients that are in situations that require special attention such as terminally ill or becoming progressively ill. The ACP says, show that many individuals do not know what palliative care is but when told its definition, they overwhelmingly respond that they would want it for themselves or their family members if they were severely (Wayne Riley) If more patients were educated about palliative care and other end of life services they believe that more patients would prefer that over PAS. Patients that suffer from depression and other psychological disabilities resulting from their terminally ill position are more vulnerable to PAS and the ACP believes that this a reason why PAS should not be legalized. The ACP advocates healing and comfort rather than ending a life, if the Death with Dignity Act can be modified to promote Palliative care and more restrictions on phycological tests for patients then the ACP will be more welcoming to the law. The Death with dignity organization and the ACP are opposed on whether the Death with Dignity act should be legal but there are some aspects on the topic of Physician-assisted suicide where they share some similar views. Death with dignity believes that patients should have total control over end of life situations while the ACP thinks that it is the role to make sure the patient is taken care of and is being healed. Although these are two opposite views both organizations have the best intentions for the patient in mind. Death with dignity thinks that the patients know what is best for them because it is their right and the ACP thinks physicians are the professionals and they can propose the best course of action for the patients. To solve this discrepancy both organizations should propose an amendment to the current Death with Dignity Act that is established in Oregon which is the predecessor to the other PAS laws. Currently the law states, adult who is capable, is a resident of Oregon, and has been determined by the attending physician and consulting physician to be suffering from a terminal disease, and who has voluntarily expressed his or her wish to die, may make a written request for medication for the purpose of ending his or her life in a humane and dignified (Oregon Revised Statute ch.127) The amendment proposed is that before patients can write a written request multiple phycological tests must be performed to make sure that they influenced by other forces and they are required to be informed about palliative services and given the opportunity to explore all end of life options before they can sign the request. Also, once phycological tests are done and they are fully informed about palliative services physicians in the state of Oregon cannot deny the patients request. The Death with Dignity organization benefits with this amendment because physicians are not able to deny patients request once they are cleared and they give the patients complete control due to the phycological testing. The ACP benefits because patients will be fully informed of palliative options and must be tested before being able to write a written request, but give the fact that once patients pass the tests physicians cannot deny their PAS requests. Physician-assisted suicide is believed to be a human right by some and breaks the ethical code of others. In all, if a patient is determined to be competent, passes government mandated phycological tests, and is fully informed of other options, organizations such as Death with Dignity and The American College of Physicians should be able to come to a compromise on how the process of Physician-assisted suicide should be carried out. Works Cited About  About Us ACP. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.deathwithdignity.org/about/>. James R. Webster, MD, MS, and Steven E. Weinberger, MD. ACP Ethics Manual Sixth  Ethics Manual Sixth Edition ACP. Ed. Rebecca Andrews, Clifton CLeveland, Charles Cutler, Serle M. Epstein, MD, David A. Fleming, MD, Angela C. Johnson, MD, Edwin P. Maynard, MD, David W. Potts, MD, and William A. Reynolds, MD. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.acponline.org/clinical-information/ethics-and-professionalism/acp-ethics- manual-sixth-edition-a-comprehensive-medical-ethics-resource/acp-ethics-manual-sixth- edition#ref-82>. Can you receive Medical Treatment and Hospice  Can you receive Medical Treatment and Hospice Care? Center for Hospice Care Southeast Connecticut. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gentzler, Jyl. What is a Death With  The Journal of Medicine and Philosophy 28.4 (2003): 461-87. Web. Arthur E. Chin, M.D, Katrina Hedberg, M.D., Grant K. Higginson, M.D., M.P.H., and David W. Fleming, M.D. Legalized Physician-Assisted Suicide in Oregon The First  Survey of Anesthesiology 45.2 (2001): 577-83. Web. <http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejm199902183400724#t=article>. Materstvedt, Lars Johan, David Clark, John Ellershaw, Reidun Anne-Marie Boeck Gravgaard, H. Christof Josep Porta I Sales, and Charles-Henri Rapin. Euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide: a view from an EAPC Ethics Task  Palliative Medicine 17.2 (2003): 97-101. Web. Oregon Revised  Oregon Revised Statute. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://public.health.oregon.gov/ProviderPartnerResources/EvaluationResearch/DeathwithDignit yAct/Pages/ors.aspx>. Quill, T. E. Palliative options of last resort: a comparison of voluntarily stopping eating and drinking, terminal sedation, physician-assisted suicide, and voluntary active  JAMA: The Journal of the American Medical Association 278.23 (1997): 2099-104. Web. Riley, Wayne. ACP asks California Governor Jerry Brown to veto physician-assisted suicide  ACP asks California Governor Jerry Brown to veto physician-assisted suicide bill ACP Newsroom ACP. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.acponline.org/acp- newsroom/acp-asks-california-governor-jerry-brown-to-veto-physician-assisted-suicide-bill>.