Nguyen 1 NGUYEN Hoang Thuan Kristin Gocinski Composition II ENC1102 January 30, 2017 Finding Equality It is said that men are created but is that true to what everyone believe? Until this day, inequality still exists in the society. For thousands of years, there were people who seek for equality, unity, and peace. The world has never been equal, from the treatment of slavery to the ignorant in gender inequality. Back then, it was rare for a woman to be heard or free the slaves so that they can help to run the country. As time goes on, equality for African-American and women are regaining, but they really get appreciated by the society. Nowadays, there are organizations that unite people to gain a louder voice in the society, to find their dignity, and to find their values. The first stakeholder is the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which stands up for African-American people to campaign for their civil rights. On other hand, The National Organization for Women is a stakeholder that unites women in general, to gain equality in the society. However, the world has been divided into many different parts, no longer united as one. The two different groups stand up with their ideas to equalize the orders of world, but it seems people cannot stand with each other, whether it is about race or gender, yet humankind cannot attain peace and unity. According to Glanton, she stated in her article, is a black movement and whites are not It seems that both groups are seeking for equality, which they have the same goal, but due to the different perspective, they quite get along with each other. Nguyen 2 For a long period, many African American lives were destroyed during the slavery, which made their descendants lives event harder. All of the hard works that they have to put in were contributed to the whites and to the society, not for their own. After the civil war, blacks started to be elected into the congress by the passage of Reconstruction Acts. Today, blacks still got stereotyped by their pasts. However, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) has its moves to find racial equality for black people in the society. As Woodley mentioned in her article, Art of Equality, overcoming stereotypes and the belief of the majority that African Americans were physically, intellectually, and morally inferior to whites, the NAACP believed it could begin to defeat (Woodley). In other words, the movement of the group is trying to equalize the perspective of people about blacks and whites. Art of Equality explored the roles of African American during American progressive period to show an in-depth analysis of the Black community and culture. Moreover, Woodley also mentioned that the NAACP works to minimize existing prejudices by the production of arts, which are creative pieces of African American artists and musicians. By encouraging racial pride, the group not only changes the attitudes of the whites, but also changes the perspective of the society about the Black community, so that the equality for African American can be attained. The NAACP dedicated to serve the Black community as a whole. However, not only African Americans in particular are underrepresented, but women in general are also left behind in the society. Similar to African American, women were seen as playing a minor role in the society. For years, women have been fighting for their rights, but they still get the value that they are deserved. According to Sipe et al., tend to work in dead-end Nguyen 3 jobs, resulting in a lesser likelihood of promotion, and women are less likely than are men to exercise authority in the (340). In other words, women are less favorable than man in the U.S. workplace, which shows that women are underpaid and have less opportunity to get a good job. Since gender discrimination is a thing, The National Organization for Women (NOW) is a stakeholder that is approaching knowledge and information to empower women and to gain more rights. The group has been gathering women in general, to make a louder voice to gain more rights. Moreover, the group main objective is to promote rights by taking action through international grassroots activism. Add to the statement that Sipe had mentioned, Pomerleau stated in his article, have achieved equality under law but minority women, still relegated to the bottom of the economic ladder, can only achieve equality in token The NOW is the group is similar to the NAACP due to a reason that they want to reach the same goal, where everyone is equal in this world. The NAACP and NOW have different strategies in fighting for their voice, their value, and their equalities. The main objective that both groups have been fighting is the same, which is to gain more right and to be equal. According Woodley, the group helped achieve substantial victories in the courtroom, the struggle for civil rights extended beyond gaining political support. It also required changing social (340). Admittedly, that there were the Civil Right Act of 1964 and the Equal Pay Act of 1963 to protect them, but the amended laws and rights are not as affective as the social attitudes. Thus, the two groups are fighting against the same enemy, which is the but in different aspects, one is black and white, another is men and women. In the modern world, knowledge is the key to balance out humankind. Nguyen 4 In order to make the world a better place, every individual must acknowledge each other and have a special sympathy between each other. There should not be conflict between individuals or groups, so that all can get along. For instance, the Black community should not avoid whites when they try to help. As Glanton stated in her article, benefit when others recognize the value of racial equality. And our message is stronger when the races stand together and speak with one When people can get together, it will be a stronger and bigger campaign, so that it can reach to more individuals. Moreover, the two groups should not be egotistical about their past or what they have been through, because it is all about the future and the past can be use as a valuable lesson to the progress. Since the new movement must be organized and lead by a great example so that the suggested leader would be Michelle Obama, the former First Lady. According to Gamble, Obama is the tension between respectability and the authentic representation of self. This push-and-pull defines many black women in the public none have struck a balance Michelle Obama is the first colored first lady and was respected by a lot of individuals, so she is one of the best options that the two groups should choose to be a leader. She shows her understanding about herself and her people, as African American women. The campaign can start whenever the two groups have accepted each other, and the individuals within the groups or the outsiders can raise the fund to make the movement even further. Thus, the loudest voice that speaks for the Black community and women will reach out to more politicians, individuals, and worldwide. In conclusion, the African American and women in general are striving to be equal and they are getting help from the NAACP and the NOW. Their movements are not Nguyen 5 getting enough of attention or are not concerned by some individuals. However, if the two groups come together and make their first move as unity, where the African American should accept the willing from the white people, who want to help in fighting for equality. Then they can use their loudest voice to reach out to the world and get a lot more of attention from it. Nguyen 6 Works Cited Gamble, Joelle. Michelle Obama navigates the politics of respectability and authentic  American Woman 3p 304.1 (2017): 60-62. Print. Glanton, Dahleen. Is there room for whites in the fight for black  Chicagotribune.com. Chicago Tribune, 12 Jan. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Pomerleau, Clark A. Empowering Members, Not Overpowering Them: The National Organization for Women, Calls for Lesbian Inclusion, and California Influence,  Journal of Homosexuality 57.7 (2010): 842-61. Tandfonline. 27 July 2010. Web. 30 January 2017. Sipe et al. University Perceptions of Gender Discrimination in the Workplace: Reality Versus  Journal of Education for Business 11th ser. 84.6 (2009): 339-49. USF Libraries. USF Librarian, 1 July 2009. Web. 30 January. 2016. Woodley, Jenny. Art for Equality: The Cultural Campaign for Civil Rights. Kentucky: U Press of Kentucky, 2014. Print.