Tillman 1 Tillman, Simone Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102, Section 17 29 January 2017 Sexual Education in Schools The topic of sexual education in the US school system has had mixed feelings on how to go about it for many decades. There are plenty of organizations that only want to teach abstinence and plenty that refuse to teach any abstinence and want to focus on giving students a ton of information on the subject. The Medical Institute for Sexual Health is an organization that works to get abstinence-only programs into schools. The Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States focuses on distributed uncensored and updated information on anything sexual-health related. If the Medical Institute for Sexual Health and the Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States would work together, they could create a better program that could benefit students more than the programs on their own. The Medical Institute for Sexual Health (MISH) is an organization that dedicated to aligning and disseminating scientific data that promotes optimal health and (Medical Institute for Sexual Health). Their goal is to solidify families by promoting healthy relationships. They give out information packets, hold conferences, host parent workshops, and talk to government officials to work towards their goal of helping wellness and health. They believe that parents are an important factor in sexual education, so they work to inform and train parents in becoming good mentors in the subject as well as creating programs for children at schools. Their programs have a strong focus in understanding STDs/STIs and on avoidance Tillman 2 through abstinence. Unlike many other abstinence-promoting organizations, the Medical Institute for Sexual opinions are from a more scientific view. According to the Medical Institute for Sexual Health, is not outdated or old fashioned but very (Medical Institute for Sexual Health). The organization is not completely against anyone that does not partake in abstinence, but they still promote it as the only sure way to avoid sexually transmitted diseases. The Sexuality Information and Education Council for the Unites States (SIECUS) is an organization that was formed to families, educators, and policymakers access to fact- based sexuality information through publications, websites, trainings, and myriad other (SIECUS - Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States). SIECUS works to be a source of unregulated and regularly updated information on sexuality for the community. This organization supports a comprehensive sexual education curriculum. Comprehensive sexual education is the approach to provide young people with complete, accurate, and age-appropriate sex education that helps them reduce their risk of HIV/AIDS, other sexually transmitted infections (STIs), and unintended (SIECUS - Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States). The Sexuality Information and Education Council also works to inform children about other aspects of sexuality, including but not limited to sexual rights, abortion, orientation, and gender equality and equity. Their programs focus on giving students all the information for any and every possible question they could possibly have about sexuality. These organizations are both amazing and do a lot for their communities. While they both have different views and methods, the organizations truly just want their future their children to be safe. Whether that be through abstinence or through comprehensive safeguards and knowledge in the opposite case, both main goals are for children Tillman 3 to avoid some of the unnecessary diseases and health risks that may come with sex. Both have extensive knowledge to pass down and together, they could reach even more people. In his book, Sex and HIV/AIDS Education in Schools, Douglass Kirby wrote: The weight of evidence also suggests that sex education programs in general, and especially some specific programs, can increase the use of condoms and other forms of contraception when young people do have sex. Not surprisingly, those programs that emphasis delaying intercourse are more effective in achieving that end, while HIV education programs, which emphasis reducing unprotected sex, are more effective in achieving protected sex. (403) He found, through his research, that every program was successful in some way. Abstinence programs worked to delay the age that teenagers had sex and the HIV education programs worked to increase the rate of protected sex. As proven by their communities, both MISH and SIECUS have worked very well despite having different methods and things to teach. One would assume that a combination of the two knowledge would lead to both a delay in intercourse and an increased rate of protected sex over unprotected in individuals who then do proceed in intercourse. The organizations could combine their efforts through combined programs. Instead of just promoting abstinence or instead of ignoring that option, the two organizations should combine their ideas. They should actively promote abstinence as the only sure way to avoid sexually transmitted diseases and they should also pass on comprehensive sexual education knowledge for those who do not go the abstinence route. This way, both options are equally present and the choice is in the hands. Instead of being stuck with only one opinions, students can willingly choose which method to follow and still be knowledgeable about the other options that they have in case they change their minds later. After Tillman 4 all, it is better for a student to learn from reliable sources rather than be stuck having to sift through a ton of unreliable sources on sexual education online just because an organization willing to teach something they completely like. The organizations have to merge, they just have to acknowledge each other. This way, instead of states choosing what a student should learn, a student chooses what they learn. With the combining of these two messages, more organizations can follow their lead to create a more knowledgeable student population. A great compromise would have both programs represented and available in every school. The MISH and SIECUS organization are both known in their communities for all their work to reduce the rate of sexually transmitted diseases in students. The two programs, together, could create better classes that work to inform students in a better way than they do on their own now. Tillman 5 Works Cited Kirby, Douglas. Sex and HIV/AIDS education in  BMJ: British Medical Journal 311.7002 (1995): 403. Medical Institute for Sexual Health. Medical Institute for Sexual Health, n.d. Web. Jan. 2017. <medinstitute.org>. SIECUS - Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States. Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States, n.d. Web. Jan. 2017. <siecus.org>.