Gallagher 1 David Gallagher Prof. Van Winkle ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Global warming has transformed into climate change. What used to be man-made, or anthropogenic warming of the planet, is now referred to as climate change. This mainstream belief that humans are responsible for changing the climate of the Earth is re-enforced when we experience smog, acid rain, oil spills, and other man-made phenomena. Even though these localized events are proven anthropogenic, the temperature of the planet, and influence on it, has been debated for years. Organizations like Climate Lobby and Friends of Science have opposing views about climate change. Politicians around the world have used this issue to propose a tax on carbon emissions on fossil fuel based companies and consumers that have been resisted by certain populations, countries, and businesses. By examining the details of the issue, certain compromises can be obtained when dealing with human caused pollution. Climate Lobby (CCL) is an international grassroots environmental group that trains and supports volunteers to build relationships with their elected representatives in order to influence climate (Wikipedia, via Bornstein, David (29 March 2013). for the greater The New York Times. Retrieved 14 November 2013.) since 2007, the goal of CCL is to build political support across party lines to put a price on carbon, specifically a revenue neutral carbon fee and dividend at the national 2017) The CCL believes that the consumption of fossil fuels leads to a rise in greenhouse gases and therefore a rise in temperatures on a global scale. For the United States, they propose a four step fee on all fossil fuels and other greenhouse gases at the point Gallagher 1 where they first enter the This plan begins with a $15 per ton of CO2 equivalent emissions with at least a $10 per ton per year increase total U.S. CO2-equivalent emissions have been reduced to 10% of U.S. CO2-equivalent emissions in 2017) This proposal goes on to explain dividends given to each consumer household, and initiates tariffs on goods entering the U.S. They also focus on attracting people with similar ideas to help sway lawmakers to implement this Fee and projected to prevent over 230,000 premature deaths over 20 years from improved air (Citizensclimatelobby.org, 2017) Friends of Science (FoS) is a Canadian non-profit advocacy organization based in Calgary, Alberta. The organization takes a position that humans are not responsible for the currently observed global that Sun is the main direct and indirect driver of climate not human 2017 via of retrieved 2008- 12-08) This group was founded in 2002 after Canada signed the Kyoto Protocol International treaty which extends the 1992 UNFCCC that commits State Parties to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, based on the premise that a) global warming exists and b) human- made CO2 emissions have caused 2017) FoS details 10 myths of climate change. According to their website at friendsofscince.org, Goal is educate the public about climate science and through them bring pressure to bear on governments to engage in public debates on the scientific merits of the hypothesis of human induced global warming and the various policies that intend to address the 2017) FoS states that water vapor is the main greenhouse gas, consisting of about 97% of atmospheric gases, and CO2, the largest of the remaining greenhouse gases, is only about .04% of total atmospheric greenhouse gases. (friendsofscince.org, 2017) They also argue that CO2 is not a pollutant, as it Gallagher 1 essential to life on Earth. It is necessary for plant growth since increased CO2 intake as a result of increased atmospheric concentration causes many trees and other plants to grow more Is global warming real? In a geophysical study first published on 12 November 2003 by F. Gonzalez-Rouco, H. von Storch and E. Zorita, scientists used borehole based soil samples to reconstruct global temperatures over the time period from 1000-1990. of borehole temperature profiles are perhaps the only direct measurements of past temperatures, in contrast to the analysis of other climate 2017) In this study, there are highs around the years 1140 and 1990, with low points around 1450, 1700 and 1820. Average temperatures range about 1.5 degrees Kelvin difference from each other. This study, even though admittedly is not an exact representation because of vegetation, snowfall, etc. does confirm that the Earth goes through periods of warming, along with periods of cooling. How much CO2 is in our atmosphere? According to a study published on 25 November 2005, record of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations measured on the EPICA (European Project for Ice Coring in Antarctica) Dome Concordia ice core extends the Vostok CO2 record back to 650,000 years before the (science.sciencemag.org, 2017) Concentrating on the interval between and thousand years ago, lowest and highest values (of CO2) measured during a glacial cycle are on average 182 (plus or minus) 4 ppmv and 296 (plus or minus) 7 ppmv, (5)(science.sciencemag.org, 2017). 300 parts per million is equivalent to .03% of the atmosphere. This corresponds to the data we have today. We can agree that both CCL and FoS agree on several points. They both realize the importance of the opinion on climate, and the affect it has on government policy. They Gallagher 1 also agree that the public should be more informed about the issues, and study the facts for themselves. Man-made or anthropogenic pollution does cause negative health effects for humans and the surrounding environment. Where the two groups differ is over the claim that anthropogenic pollution causes the Earth to warm, and the relationship of CO2 levels in our atmosphere. These groups disagree on the intensity, cause and necessary actions related to global warming. FoS warns that any type of carbon tax will be very harmful to the ordinary citizen who will end up suffering financially from it. CCL warns that the planet will suffer if a carbon tax is not enforced. CCL also warns that there is a time-limit on action due to the exponential rise of CO2 causing warming that can not be reversed after a certain tipping point. FoS argues that the Earth goes through periods of global warming and global cooling that have and will continue to go on regardless of carbon emissions, because this cycle is cause by the Sun. CCL must revise their planned legislation to take into account the facts of the nature of the planet. FoS must concede that oil and gas are not the best resource for consumers. Each side must have representatives to sit down at a meeting or conference call and discuss a policy that is feasible for everyone. There is no debate that we pollute the environment with our plastic and trash that we litter all over the planet. There is no debate over smog clouds that hang over cities across the world. There is a debate over global warming. The fears of climate scientists since the premier of Al Inconvenient have not come to fruition. Carbon dioxide is not the evil that it is advertised. It is a necessary part of our ecosystem. If there is legislation to be applied, we must consider facts, and not the amount of money that will be funneled through lobbyist created institutions. Gallagher 1 A tax on companies, not the public, that imposes fees for direct pollution would be a great compromise for these groups. Like the state of Massachusetts mandating health care for its citizens before Obamacare; this kind of legislation should start at a state-level. Learning from the benefits, consequences, and secondary affects from a localized law, this legislation can then be amended to fit a larger scale, like a country or larger region. There is no hurry. The Earth will not bake in the meanwhile. By taking the time to study the data, and histories of climate and law, groups like these can work towards a better future, without coming at the expense of the population. Gallagher 1 Annotated Bibliography 1) The Editorial Board, Ambitious Carbon Tax New York Times, 24 October 2016, Accessed 26 January 2017, www.nytimes.com 2) Insight into Climate www.friendsofscience.org/index.php?id=1, Friends of Science, Accessed 26 January 2017, www.friendsofscience.org 3) Climate Climate Lobby, 2017, Accessed 26 January 2017, citizensclimatelobby.org 4) http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2003GL018264/full 5) http://science.sciencemag.org/content/310/5752/1313.full