Student 1 Student Professor Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Reaching out to Veterans Since 2001, the start of war in Afghanistan, the suicide rate among veterans has increased by thirty-five percent, consequently, making veteran suicide a rising epedimic in America (Philipps). As a means to support the veterans who have suffered as a result of their time in duty, Cannabis was developed by Sgt. Aaron Augustis in 2016. The newly developed organization serves to educate and support veterans suffering from mainly post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in the decision to alleviate symptoms via cannabis; support extends to family support groups as well. According to the Cannabis brochure, Sgt. Augustis served as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2003, and personally witnessed the beneficial effects of cannabis in alleviating trauma post war. The overall message being advertised by the organization is a greater acceptance and use of cannabis to treat suffering veterans. Through the use of two images utilizing appealing visual design strategies and persuasive rhetorical appeals, the Cannabis educates and acts as a support group for veterans who use or are considering using cannabis to treat mainly PTSD and various other side effects of war. The visual cues that help to convey figure message of support include color, text, photography, and typography. The colors red, white, and blue are not only intense, eye-catching, contrasting colors, but also hold symbolic to the United States of Student 2 national colors displayed on the flag. This increases the perceived patriotism. Not to mention, the text of the image, are here to support our is atop a photograph of U.S. military men in full uniform, holding guns. The text blatantly spells out the aim to support veterans and the image elicits a strong response by displaying military personal in action. The method of support offered is clarified by the name of the organization, Cannabis and the logo including the cannabis leaf in place of the stars in the American flag. Along with color, text, and photography, the typography used in the image effectively captures the intended attention. The text in white provides a stark contrast against the red and blue that causes the text to stand out, while also highlighting the patriotism of the organization. Being that the intended audience is veterans who suffered as a result of their time in duty, the color choice is fitting. The all caps, bold font tends to go along with the military aesthetic of intensity and firmness. The visual layout of the image leads the eye from the bold text to the logo of the organization and lastly to the photograph underneath. Figure one uses the rhetorical appeals ethos and pathos in order to portray the intended aim of the organization and consecutively attract the intended audience. The organization is non-profit; thus, the persuasive techniques are used only for the purpose of convincing the intended audience to accept the helping hand. Ethos is described as a technique in which the author attempts to demonstrate his or her authority and/or credibility (McKee and McIntyre 25). The date of establishment, place of establishment, and the name of the organization provided front and center in the logos provides credibility. Furthering the use of ethos, the use of red, white, and blue appeals to Student 3 the intended audience: veterans who have experienced trauma as a result of war; the strong sense of patriotism these colors elicit helps the associate trust and honor with the organization. The second main rhetorical appeal seen in figure one is pathos, which is described as the appeal to emotion (Lee et al 35). Pathos is displayed in this image through the use of text, color, and photography. The text reads, are here to support our This caring, warm message elicits enough emotion without further reading into the intent. However, the phrase adds to the emotional response, as it paints the veteran/viewer as an admired, larger-than-life person. The color of the text also elicits a strong emotional response, as the three colors red, white, and blue are national colors used to provoke patriotism. The photograph underneath the logo and text appeal to emotion because the subject is American military men in full uniform performing their duties. The second image uses many of the same visual cues seen in the figure one. The colors in the image are earthy in the background image; the natural landscape goes hand in hand with the typical military uniform of the American soldier. This emphasizes the militaristic aesthetic of the ad and whom it calls out to. The images use of tones that are typically associated with rugged, adventurous people helps associate veterans with the respected nature of aesthetic principles that comes along with the U.S. military. The typography of the image stands out, as the large white text juxtaposed atop the black outline creates a vivid, contrasting text that catches the attention as intended. The text that is largest communicates the name and purpose simultaneously. Underneath the main text, the image reads, are a safe educational resource and family support group for Veterans who use medical This Student 4 message demonstrates the purpose, while also allowing it to appear trustworthy. Through the use of the rhetorical appeals pathos and ethos, figure two elicits strong responses from the audience, which seemingly help to elicit trust and likeability in the organization. Pathos is seen in the image through the photograph of the U.S. soldier in full uniform, holding a weapon, in the middle of a desolate area. This appeals to veterans who see this image and relate to the conditions of this soldier and the typically lonely nature of the military experienced when switching military bases, losing friends in combat, and/or simply being away from family and friends at home. The image displays ethos by providing the logo at the main focal point. The logo provides credibility for the organization as it includes its name, and date and place of establishment. The text, are a safe educational resource and family support group for Veterans who use medical demonstrates the overall aim of the organization, while also attempting to persuade the viewer of its credibility through words such as and Cannabis attempts to make their website more inviting and credible to their intended audience of veterans and family by supplying figures which use enticing visual cues and rhetorical appeals. Veterans often suffer from PTSD, which is caused by severe trauma experienced in service. While PTSD is the most common effect of war, various other emotional and physical tolls can be experienced as a result of service. Both figure one and two contribute to the goal of reaching out to veterans suffering as a result of their efforts in war. (WC: 1136) Student 5 Works Cited Lee, Kendra Gayle et al. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. University of South Florida, 2014. Accessed 20 Feb. 2017. McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. University of South Florida, 2014. Accessed 20 Feb. 2017. Philipps, Dave. Rate Among Veterans Has Risen Sharply Since The New York Times. https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/08/us/suicide-rate-among- Accessed 27 Feb. 2017 Veterans Cannabis Group. http://veteranscannabisgroup.com/. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Veterans Cannabus Group. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017 Student 6 Figure 1: Student 7 Figure 2: http://www.veteranscannabisgroup.com/