RUNNING HEAD: REPLACING OF FOSSIL FUELS 1. Can Hydrogen Fuel Cells Replace Fossil Fuels in The Future? Kaung Su Khin Zaw University of South Florida REPLACING FOSSIL FUELS 2 Abstract In this paper, two stakeholders, Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA) and Tesla Motor Company, have different viewpoints on the replacement of hydrogen fuel cells in vehicles in the future. Firstly, perspectives of FCHEA on hydrogen fuel cells are discussed with evidence and support from another resource of peer-reviewed article about benefits of hydrogen fuel cells toward the environment. Secondly, opinions of Tesla Motor Company are viewed with its background, history, and evidence to support about the reasons not to invest hydrogen fuel cells. Thirdly, connections between two stakeholders will be checked with their past collaboration in different projects or positions to see differences and similarities between them. What sort of issues they are arguing and their common ground for a specific purpose must be searched to make a compromise about using hydrogen fuel cells in low price. Finally, offering a good measure is presented to tackle obstacles both stakeholders encountered. This solution has the ability to contribute benefits not only FCHEA but also Tesla Motor Company. In order to prove about the reality and possibility of offered solution, a credible and valid source of evidence should be discussed. Keyword: Hydrogen fuel cell, Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association, Tesla Motor Company REPLACING FOSSIL FUELS 3 Can Hydrogen Fuel Cells Replace Fossil Fuel in the Future? According to an increase rate of air pollution due to burning of fossil fuels and a decrease rate of fossil fuel extraction, alternative, green, and eco-friendly energy sources have become essential to be searched by researchers. Among energy sources, hydrogen fuel cell is one of the best options to replace the use of fossil fuels in vehicles and power supply in the future. However, there are two stakeholders holding different views on hydrogen fuel cells: Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA) and Tesla Motor company. FCHEA states that hydrogen fuel cells do not produce any hazardous gases harming to the environment and its waste is water; the reaction of hydrogen and oxygen produces water. In a hydrogen fuel cell, hydrogen gas is combined with oxygen gas to give heat energy which drives an engine. On the other hand, Tesla Motor company claims that hydrogen used in hydrogen fuel cells is produced from electrolysis of water, requiring energy to break bonds between water and costing a considerable amount of money in mass production so electricity from burning of fossil fuels is used indirectly in hydrogen fuel cells and it is not regarded as a pure and eco-friendly energy resource. Thus, producing hydrogen using electricity from solar energy can be a measure to be pleased both organizations. Background, History, and Evidence of First Stakeholder Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA) is a leading organization that produces alternative energy resources for supporting the environment. It promotes products utilized hydrogen fuel cells and conducts several research and experiments about hydrogen fuel cells by branching out into smaller organizations and research around the world. Then, it provides information and facts about safety, processes and methods to all policy makers and REPLACING FOSSIL FUELS 4 governments to change the energy resource for the future. Additionally, in order to attract the public for the use of hydrogen fuel cells, this organization is planning to educate about benefits of fuel cells. Not starting to change the whole power supply, does it try to change the consumption of energy needed for automobiles by introducing hydrogen gas stations in California with the collaboration of the U.S Department of Energy and Toyota Automobile company which produced a new car model, Miral with hydrogen fuel cells. From its website, fuel cell systems vary greatly in size and power, from portable systems for smartphone battery recharging, to combustion engine replacements for electric vehicles, to large-scale, multi- megawatt installations providing electricity directly to the utility Therefore, it aims to bring hydrogen fuel cells as a more acceptable, greener, and eco-friendly renewable resource in the future (http://www.fchea.org). In the article called Overview of Fuel Cell Technology Fundamental and details about reactions in the fuel cell are discussed with diagrams and charts, introducing the history of the fuel cell back in the nineteenth century. Advantages and disadvantages of fuel cells are calculated with cost of production, efficiency, durability, and safety compared with these of fossil fuels. Additionally, it also involves amounts of money investment from each country for hydrogen fuel cells by stating, leaders are finally paying attention to, a revived interest in hydrogen and fuel cell and shows the future plan for hydrogen fuel cells in vehicles and industries (Omar & Mehmet F, 2014, p-815). Both authors, Sharaf Omar Z, and Orhan Mehmet F (2014), concluded from a literature of fuel cell research that a fuel cell provide combination of high because of its output energy being the same as that of fossil fuel to perform workload and REPLACING FOSSIL FUELS 5 operation that most other energy conversion devices because of water as its disposal at the end of the process (p. 815). Background, History, and Evidence of Second Stakeholder On the other hand, the second stakeholder, Tesla Motor company argues that hydrogen fuel cells are not purely ecofriendly as hydrogen used in fuel cells depends on electrolysis of water. Tesla Motor company is an American Motor company which has emphasized on electric vehicle industry. It contributes automobiles using electric battery and insists to hydrogen fuel cell even though most of automobile companies are trying to reach out hydrogen fuel cells in their products. Tesla co-founder, Marc Tarpenning pointed out that is the most common method. You put electricity in water and it separates it, but you are pouring energy in order to make hydrogen, and then you have to compress it and that takes energy, and then you have to transport it to wherever you actually need it, which is really difficult because hydrogen is much harder to work with than gasoline or even natural gas this electrolysis method requires electricity which comes from burning of fossil fuels in power supply industries. Additionally, another tangible evidence to support the perspectives of Tesla company, an investigation participated by a group of people who know more information and facts about fuel cell vehicles than other population proves that with the issues related with hydrogen sources, some participants complained such as going to have a fuel cell powered by a hydrocarbon, then not really advancing the ball sustainability wise ( Hardman, Shiu, Steinberger-Wilckens & Turrentine, 2017 Therefore, Tesla company is not willing to invest in hydrogen fuel cells in its products because of dependence on fossil fuels indirectly and it keeps on manufacturing battery electric vehicles. REPLACING FOSSIL FUELS 6 Finding A Common Ground According to Disruptive innovations: The case for hydrogen fuel cells and battery electric Tesla is regarded as a case study of a disruptive as it counterargues with the rest of energy companies to use of hydrogen fuel cells (Hardman, Steinberger-Wilckens & vande Horst, 2013,15438). In historical examples of both stakeholders, they shared ideas and processes of building battery electric cars before a huge and rapid innovation of hydrogen fuel cells. From opinions of Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA), a hydrogen fuel cell is able to be renewable for the environment because of its efficiency and durability by reducing expenses of hydrogen production in mass, and improving safety, transportation, and storage. However, Tesla Motor company opposes that hydrogen fuel cells depend on electricity supply from fossil fuel the price of hydrogen gas for fuel cells is expensive as it includes two more steps; the first one is to apply electrolysis of water and the second to store hydrogen in a safe place. (Hardman, Steinberger-Wilckens & vande Horst, 2013, 15439-15441). Thus, both stakeholders have a common ground which is to make a new energy cleaner and eco-friendly to the nature without depending on fossil fuels. Proposing A Solution In order to find a solution for both stakeholders, electrolysis of water to obtain hydrogen is caused by electricity from alternative energy sources such as solar, wind and hydropower as other alternative energy sources cannot produce as many electricity or energy as hydrogen fuel cells but these energy sources can give enough energy to perform electrolysis of water for production of hydrogen gas. To support the compromise, in Saudi Arabia, the percentage of electricity from wind energy and solar energy in different places were tested. As the result, hydrogen production can be likely to improve with power supply from other alternative energy REPLACING FOSSIL FUELS 7 sources. It is predicted that the price of hydrogen gas in mass production for fuel cells from alternative energy resources, will be lower than that of fossil fuels ( Al-Sharaf, Sahin, Ayar & Yilbas, 2016, p. 33). For FCHEA, hydrogen used in fuel cells can be produced in mass amount to outweigh advantages over disadvantage so people will likely to be attracted to use hydrogen fuel cell products, especially automobiles. Likewise, Tesla Motor company should start to invest money into research about installing hydrogen fuel cells in its vehicles as most of governments, policy makers, and some automobile companies are trying to replace fossil fuels with hydrogen fuel cells and the demands on hydrogen fuel cell vehicles will be higher once hydrogen fuel cells and hydrogen are widely commercialized in the future. Conclusion To put it in a nutshell, issues such as air pollution and climate change, related with using fossil fuels for energy resources has become increasingly aware around the world so replacing dependence on fossil fuels with the use of hydrogen fuel cells can tackle problems encountered today. Thus, producing hydrogen in mass production with alternative energy resources is a measure on reducing high expenses of hydrogen fuel cells and improving acceptance of them by energy, automobile companies, consumers, and governments in the future. REPLACING FOSSIL FUELS 8 References Al-Sharafi, Abdullah. Sahin, Ahmel Z. Ayar, Tahir. Yilbas, Bekirs. (2016) Techno-economic analysis and optimization of solar and wind energy systems for power generation and hydrogen production in Saudi Arabia. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Review. Elsevier Ltd. 69,33-49. Hardman, Scott. Steinberger-Wilckens, Robert. vande Horst, Dan. (2013) Review: Disruptive innovations: The case for hydrogen fuel cells and battery electric vehicles. International Journal of Hydrogen Energy. Elsevier Ltd. 38(35), 15438-15451. Sharaf, Omar Z. Orham, Mehmet F. (2014) An overview of fuel cell technology: Fundamentals and applications. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Review. . Elsevier Ltd. (32), 810- 853. Hardman, Scott. Shiu, Eric. Steinberger-Wilcken, Robert. Turrentine, Thomas. (2017) to the Adoption of Fuel Cell Vehicles: A Qualitative Investigation into Early Adopters Transportation Research Part A. Elsevier Ltd. 95,166-182. Lambert, Fred. (2016, May 23), Tesla co-founder says hydrogen fuel cells are a Retrieved from https://electrek.co. Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association, (2017), Retrieved from http://www.fchea.org