Intermediate essay draft Emmanuel Fernando Martes Composition II Adam Carter The ethical discussion regarding modern agriculture The dynamic change of agriculture throughout history, has led to a major argument regarding the morality of the: Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations which are farms in which animals are kept in (http://www.mass.gov; 2017), in order to be able to make agriculture efficient enough to control population growth. Moreover, this agricultural method has led to the discussion of this practice between organizations, such as: and Ethical Faming which defend their ideals regarding the efficient but destructive use of this farms. In this way, PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) is an organization that fights for the rights of animals, having with them the support of over 5 million people, to fight for their ideal: are not (http://www.peta.org; 2017). On the other hand, Ethical Faming is an organization formed by: Farmers, and government officials, which fights for the conservation of agricultural practices, developing with this their argument: ethical animal farming practices and supporting local, ethical animal (http://www.ethicalfarmingfund.org; 2014). Along with this organizations, they have research, data, arguments and analysis to support their statements, yet the idea of developing a compromise between both of them can be influential to make the argument less significant, reason why developing a written law that reduces the amount of animals permitted in this farms and having sanity conditions in the farms can benefit both organizations whereas they need to give up something from their interest. Furthermore, the development of the: Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations leaded to a struggle between: Ethical Faming and in order to define the best method to use agriculture to control the exponential population growth since the reason why creating a written law that reduces the amount of animals permitted and that requires sanity conditions on the farms, will asset a benefit to both organizations. have been portrayed as a damage to the environment and to the health of both animals and humans, yet organizations tend to mislead the information, as they are not portraying the benefit of this type of farming. Whereas the research is not extensive, this practice is possibly the only solution to feed a large and demanding society because of the efficiency people can get from it. The fact that 1,000 cows or 3,000 hens can be kept in one place (http://grist.org/; 2012) helps the development of a safe environment because confined indoors are In Your 2015) as they are not affected by natural and they are being treated periodically with antibiotics that help them survive in a healthy way (Antibiotics like FDA, have been approved by studies made by the Animal Health Institute, showing that they do not have side effects on Furthermore, this is what such as: The Ethical Faming Fund and Grist try to portray, as their research demonstrates how the efficiency of this farming has led to an improvement in the economic cycle; demonstrating that nowadays society cannot support pasture animals because currently occupies almost 89 million acres in the US, soy a little over 84 responsible agriculture project; 2017) Leaving with this no land available for the conservation of this type of farming. Also, they show how the toxic feces or also called manure can affect water resources; but showing at the same time how 300 million tons of manure can work as a fertilizer to the soil, helping with this the production of other essential resources, such as: Corn, vegetables, fruits, wheat... This organization, do not states that are the perfect solution, yet it is the only available at the moment to support human needs, reason why governments have adopted laws to support this type of farming, such as the Water Act and 40 C.F.R. Part which allows this practice in all states of the United States. (National Conference of state legislatures; 2000) On the other hand, PETA portrays that population growth is not what people should be concerned about; on the contrary they state that the idea is to be able to enforce rights under any circumstance. They invoke on their official web page (www.PETA.org) that should not be used for any of the following things: Wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, abuse or exploit; basing their arguments on the analysis by Peter Singer, they are able to demonstrate the importance of preserving the rights and they even highlight the idea that animals, have treatment but equal Moreover, the way works, contradicts each of the ideals this organization is trying to preserve, specially on how antibiotics and hormones (Bovine Growth Hormone for example) are used in order to accelerate the growth process and for being able to maintain the animals (Knowing that in Tewksbury Massachusetts it was found the evolution of the bacteria E. Coli on pigs because of the conditions the animals were leaving in) (www.cdc.gov; 2010). Also, they support their argument based on the condition animals are living in, starting from the odors produced because of the accumulation of ammonia, hydrogen sulfide and Carbon Dioxide, as well as, the alimentation they are getting, emphasizing on the fact that most of the water that is used to feed the animals is combined with all the manure and the nitrates, making the water fully contaminated and susceptible to bacteria and viruses (Congressional Research Service, 2008). Furthermore, this shows a major credibility on the information, as it is showing the consequences have on and how this actions impacts humans too, demonstrating an objective and unbiased argument, which has incentive governmental entities to develop laws that would improve the conditions animals are leaving in; for example federal Clean Water restricts farms to dispose the toxic feces in certain places, as well as emitting determined amount of gases to the environment (http://www.sierraclub.org/michigan/why-are-cafos-bad; 2014). Both stakeholders have the scientific proof, data and ideas to support their arguments and they know that these farms are not the perfect solution to the ideas each organization wants to support, but it could certainly improve by finding a compromise that would benefit both. Moreover, if a written law is developed by the United States legislature power, in which it is stated that: These farms can have just: 500 cows or 1,500 hens, the use of antibiotics and hormones is forbidden and that the space between animals should be at least 80 cm, would be beneficial to both of the organizations. First, PETA would be benefited, as it will improve the condition of life on the farms, but at the same time would be negatively affected because they will let animals be eaten (Contradicting one of their principles). On the other hand, Ethical Faming will be letting go economic profit because of the reduction of animals available and how they use hormones to grow the animals, but at the same time they would avoid the contamination of water and food, restraining with this the spread of diseases and lawsuits from other organizations. Furthermore, it is clear that the compromise will be affecting both sides positively and negatively, but it will ended up leading to a solution to this controversial issue of our history. To conclude, it is clear that the development of the: Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations leaded to a struggle between: Ethical Faming and in order to define the best method to use agriculture to control the exponential population growth since the reason why creating a written law that reduces the amount of animals permitted and that requires sanity conditions on the farms, will asset a benefit to both organizations. Additionally, the compromise could be a successful solution to this issue, due to the fact that everyone is affected by this controversial aspect because all what we eat comes from this farms and sometimes we are not even able to realize it; an example is how in the Hillsborough county there is 5,864 animals (http://www.factoryfarmmap.org; 2015) that come from slaughter houses and people are not consent about it. Finally, it is clear that the arguments each stakeholder has, can be unified throughout a compromise that is a viable solution to the issue and it could help preserve animal rights, maintain the environment and fulfill the needs of the population. References Zboreak, Vanessa. Yes, In Your Backyard - Model Legislative Efforts To Prevent Communities From Excluding Cafos  Wake Forest Journal Of Law & Policy 1 (2015): 147. HeinOnline. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 Lyons, Emily R. Authority Gone Awry: The Flawed Cafo Reporting  Vermont Journal Of Environmental Law 15.(2014): 599. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Titley, Kristin. Environmental Law--Regulation Of Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations--Reducing The Nuisance: How Arkansas Can Use Its Right-To-Farm Statute To Protect Against The Destruction Of  University Of Arkansas At Little Rock Law Review 37.(2015): 495. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. MCLAREN, WILLIAM M.1. The Death Of The Duty To Apply: Limitations To Cafo Oversight Following Waterkeeper & National Pork  Journal Of Animal Law 11.(2015): 87-113. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Concentrated Animal Feeding . Ncsl.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Animal Antibiotics - Animal Health . Animal Health Institute. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Greenaway, Twilight. Confined Dining: A Primer On Factory Farms And What They Mean For Your . Grist. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Environmental Impact Of Factory . Socially Responsible Agricultural Project. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Barker, Rodney. Pros of factory farming: Are there . Ethical Farming Fund. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Roser, Max. World Population . Our World In Data. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Government, U.S.A. Concentrated Animal Feeding . Ncsl.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Why Are Cafos . Sierra Club. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Factory Farming: Misery For . PETA. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.