1 Megan Longerbeam Professor Hernandez ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 Teaching to the Test Tests have been utilized since the beginning of civilization to appoint the most fit people into office. Since then, standardized tests have become a very normal occurrence for children in the education system. These modernized versions are used to determine intelligence and find students with possible learning difficulties (Issitt). While the League of United Latin American Citizens supports the idea of standardized tests so they can set students up for success in future endeavors, FairTest and other similar organizations are fighting these high-stake tests Neill). In order to appease both groups, a compromise can be made to protect students from such high stake tests but also to ensure every child is receiving the same level of education. The government should set into place a set list of subjects to teach, but leave the testing of these subjects up to each school. This will ensure that every student is receiving the same education without being discriminated upon. The National Center for Fair and Open Testing, FairTest, aims to end the discrimination of race, gender, and class placed by standardized tests. This organization believes multiple choice questions do not encourage deep thinking but measure a superficial level of intelligence (Neill). Quinn Mulholland, writer of Harvard Political article Case Against Standardized discusses the complications with President signing of the No Child Longerbeam 2 Left Behind Act. If schools did not make yearly they were administered By 2011, Mulholland found that almost half of our schools are failing in the eyes of the government (Mulholland). A development in the Every Student Succeeds Act which replaced No Child Left Behind has brought about both hope for reform as well as possible risks. This act allows for testing to be moved from federal decisions to the local government in deciding what is tested on. Although local authorities and parents hold more power, there are also many tests given to students that are not federally required. This means that local authorities could actually require more tests than the federal government had. To achieve their goal, FairTest is seeking the help of students, parents, and educators to opt out of standardized tests while informing their local officials of the misuse of such high stake tests (Neill). Protecting students is not only goal, it is also the goal of the League of United Latin American Citizens. LULAC opposes the efforts of FairTest as they believe standardized tests provide data to improve education and advocate for the equality of students. LULAC was formed in 1929, a time when Hispanics were discriminated upon and denied their rights. This organization was formed in order to empower the people who needed it most. While education is only a fraction of what this organization stands for, they are passionate about setting students up for success in college and in the working world (LULAC). Both FairTest and LULAC aim to protect students from inequalities, but their stances on standardized testing differ dramatically. Every student must be represented in order to accurately assess schools and teaching methods. In their Oppose press release, LULAC contests along with many other Civil Rights organizations that until federal laws were put into place to require every student to partake in the standardized tests, certain groups were excluded in taking the test so schools would receive Longerbeam 3 higher scores without having to teach every student (Leadership Conference). LULAC recognizes that there are still ways to misuse the data recorded from these tests, but believe the most important issue is teaching every student the same subject matter regardless of their race, gender, and class (LULAC). Even if either one of these organizations accomplished their goals completely, problems would still persist. FairTest aims to abolish standardized tests completely to avoid any kind of discrimination that could come about. If this were to happen, a chain of events would follow shortly thereafter. First, there would be no way to verify that the same subjects are being taught across the country, or even in the classroom next door. To set students up for the collegiate level, there must be a set list of subject matters to be covered in order to ensure no one student is left behind. Also, these standardized are a very important factor in how funding is distributed to schools. The government relies on test scores to award money to schools where it is needed most (Issitt). The U.S. Department of Education sets aside $403 million to administer state tests. After these results are collected, another $25 million is used to aid the schools with pressing needs for developments in their programs Without these results, there is no way to help areas in need. Although there are some problems with these tests, without them the government has no way of knowing where their efforts should be focused. On the other hand, if LULAC were to get their wishes, education would become more about filling in bubbles on a sheet of paper than using a solid foundation of knowledge to face problems. Valerie Strauss, a writer of the Washington Post, claims in her article that students take an average of 112 standardized tests in their twelve years of school. This comes out to about 25 hours of test-taking per year for each student These tests are used not Longerbeam 4 only to determine the intelligence of students, but also the teaching practices of educators. If tests become the most important aspects of school, teachers will only teach to what is on the test. Teachers are supposed to provide help in inspiring students to want to learn. If teachers are not passionate about teaching to the tests, the education will suffer. Since many teachers have shown their discontent with these tests, it is likely that if the government does not regulate the amount of tests students can take, the quality of education will suffer. There must be a compromise in order to avoid these problems but to also appease FairTest and LULAC. In order for both organizations to comply with a compromise, it must support the core beliefs of both. Luckily, the core beliefs of FairTest and LULAC are the same. They both aim to help students and get rid of discrimination, and a simple plan can help their efforts while also bettering the education of students. The first step to put this plan into action is to have the government realize there is a problem with the amount of tests they are requiring. This step is already accomplished as the U.S. Department of education understands that standardized tests can take away from valuable teaching and learning in the classroom If the Department of Education comes together to create a list of the most important topics to teach in certain grade levels, this would ensure that every student across the country is receiving the same information. With this list of topics, schools and educators can teach and test their students as they see fit. This will return the passion to teach to educators while relieving the stress of students. The combined $428 million used to perform these tests will be dispersed equally to public schools in order to be fair in their distribution. Students are currently required to pass certain tests to graduate or even advance to the next grade, however these will no Longerbeam 5 longer be in use. Once the college level is reached, colleges are granted the right to test on subjects before accepting students into their establishment to keep their standards intact. Colleges can be allowed to see any tests taken in high school or perform their own tests for placement. This allows LULAC to accomplish their goal in using some sort of test to appropriately ready students for college. This compromise can easily be adopted by both groups since it relieves students of such rigid high-stakes tests while also preparing them for college or the working world. This compromise is not only going to benefit FairTest and LULAC, but it will also better the education system in the United States. Since both organizations would have faced their own set of problems if their goals were carried out completely, a compromise is the only way to completely solve the issue of standardized tests. Two stakeholders with seemingly opposite views can unite as one stronger force to set positive change into effect. Longerbeam 6 Works Cited Confirmed: Standardized testing has taken over our schools. But to  The Washington Post. WP Company, 24 Oct. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Fact Sheet: Testing Action  U.S. Department of Education. N.p., 24 Oct. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Issitt McMahon, Micah L. Maureen. Standardized  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. Civil Rights Groups: We Oppose Anti- Testing . LULAC. N.p., 5 May 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Education  League of United Latin American Citizens. LULAC, 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Mulholland, Quinn. Case Against Standardized Harvard Political Review, 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Neill, Monty, ed. The National Center for Fair & Open  The National Center for Fair & Open Testing FairTest. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.