Milien 1 Miwolf Milien Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 23 January 2017 The hidden side of FIFA It is hard to forget the memorable 2014 FIFA World Cup which took place in Brazil. It will probably go down as one of the most shocking tournament in sports history with the host losing 1- 7 to Germany. FIFA is one of the top entertainment industry around the world and no doubt the most famous sport organization on the planet, because of the practice of soccer all around the world. As a result, the FIFA World Cups are one of the most watched events every four years which makes them a big part of the human culture. The tournament is known for having positive feedbacks, because it brings so much joy in the heart of many fans who have the opportunity to see their country compete for the most prestigious trophy in soccer history. However, the FIFA World Cups contains a dark side that is unknown by most of its followers. The biggest controversy up to date is the fact that FIFA exploits migrant workers to build expensive stadiums for the 2022 World Cup which will take place in Qatar. These factors tend to ignore morale human rights in order to make the World Cup a reality. Two organizations who have big concerns over this subject are FIFA itself and Amnesty International, who looks to end abuses of human rights around the world. While FIFA wants to build expensive infrastructures while making the biggest profit possible, Amnesty international wants the exploitations to end. These factors tend to ignore morale human rights in order to make the World Cups a reality. It is also important to say that both organizations possess a common general vision. They both hope to contribute to a better future in Milien 2 their own ways: FIFA through entertainment and Amnesty International through helping those suffering. The conflict between these twos can come to an end if FIFA decides to only organize the World Cups in countries who are already economically and physically ready for a global tournament with minimal corruptions. When most people hear the word FIFA, the first thing that comes in mind is the joy which comes from watching soccer. According to Mao-Chou Hsu, sports events has become a big part of recreational (13). When the amount of happiness that it brings to our society is taken in consideration, the organization can really be considered as a gift give to us by mother nature. The personal history that it gave to most people on the planet is just indescribable. According to FIFA, its mission statement is to improve the game of football constantly and promote it globally in the light of its unifying, educational, cultural and humanitarian values, particularly through youth and development . It also looks to the world through its inspiring tournaments and to build a better future through the power of the The World Cup contributes to a better future in many diverse ways. Through a study, it was concluded that tournament provides both economic benefits and an excellent stage for cultural (Hsu 14). It was later reconfirmed that World Cup provides economic and cultural development, international visibility and cultural diplomacy, and boosts every aspect of tourism. The value and significance of organizing this event are (Hsu 17). Therefore, it can be said that FIFA values the game of soccer a lot, as well as its contribution to build a better future in any ways possible through soccer. Nowadays, the abuse of laborers is a real and severe problem. Many groups and individuals are mistreated on a daily basis all across the globe. Most of these mistreatments are made behind the scenes. Unfortunately, many who are abused do not have a big enough voice to speak for Milien 3 themselves. They might speak out but not heard. They might be millions but possess no actual powers. Because of this factors, many organizations have been created to defend those people. Amnesty International is one of the biggest one in the World. According to Amnesty International, its mission statement is contribute in building world in which every person regardless of race, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation or gender identity enjoys all of the human rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and other internationally recognized human rights Amnesty International people from all over the world to fight for human rights using research, action and Consequently, it can be said that the organization values human rights and equality. According to Azadeh Erfani, order to host in 2022, Qatar will rely on the labor of approximately one million foreign laborers to build the stadiums and infrastructure necessary to hold the World (623). It is also said that bulk of economy rests on the shoulders of foreign construction (Erfani 623). Foreign laborers are taken advantage of by being exploited in many cases. Amnesty International stands against it and look to do their best to fight against it. Although FIFA and Amnesty International do not stand together. Their core purpose is actually a lot more similar than most people would think. At the end of the day, both organizations want to contribute to a better future. The only difference is that FIFA wants to do it through soccer while Amnesty International plans to do it by helping those in needs. They both value the happiness and interaction of people around the globe. Through their common ground, it is definitely possible for this two organizations to stop fighting against each other and resolve the problem while building a positive relationship in between. To every conflict exits a possible compromise. The main problem which exists between FIFA and Amnesty International are the high cost of the 2022 FIFA World Cup and the Milien 4 exploitation of workers to construct infrastructures. Amnesty International wants FIFA to quit organizing such expensive tournaments because they end up exploiting migrant workers. However, if the World Cups are prepared in a much cheaper way, FIFA might lose some viewers and its goal to make a better future by bringing people together might be in jeopardy. In recent years, many people attend the World Cups because of the luxurious innovations made. Amnesty International cannot expect the full termination of exploitations of workers, because for many, working in the preparation of the tournament is the only job available to them so it will most likely continue to occur behind the scenes. With no surprise, there is a numerous number of compromise possible. One is for FIFA to only organize the World Cups in countries who are already economically and physically ready for a global tournament with minimal corruptions. According to Andrew Spalding, hosted its two mega sporting events in the midst of a vigorous global anti-corruption (71). Because of the movement, there were no issues regarding the events. The minimal amount of corruptions which may prevent laborers from being exploited. The preparation of the World Cup will still cost a lot of money but it will be a lot less. By needing to build less infrastructures, less workers will be needed, which will result to a huge decrease of their exploitations. An issue that has been circulating around the world lately is the exploitations of workers by FIFA in the preparation of the 2022 World Cup. FIFA and Amnesty International are two of the biggest stakeholders regarding this issue. While FIFA want to build luxurious infrastructures to attract supporters to come attend the World Cup, Amnesty International want a termination of the exploitations of workers to happen. They are both looking to contribute to a better future in their own ways. FIFA is doing it by bringing people together through the game of soccer while Amnesty International achieve its goal by helping those in needs. A possible compromise is for Milien 5 FIFA to only organize the World Cups in countries who are already economically and physically ready for a global tournament in order to decrease the need of building new, expensive and innovated infrastructures. The country also needs to have a minimal amount of corruptions which may prevent laborers from being exploited. This will definitely reduce the exploitations of laborers by a huge margin. With this compromise in place, both organizations will be able to make their mission a reality with no big issues. Milien 6 Works Cited Mao-Chou Hsu. Benefits of 2014 FIFA World Cup in USFLibrary, 2014, pp. 13- 19. Accessed 27 January 2017 Andrew Spalding. EVENTS AS SITES OF INTERNATIONAL LAW, SOCIETY, AND GOVERNANCE: THE 2014 BRAZILIAN WORLD CUP: INTERNATIONAL RESPONSES TO CORRUPTION AND MONEY LAUNDERING: FROM THE 2014 WORLD CUP TO THE 2016 OLYMPICS: ROLE IN THE GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION USFLibrary, vol. 21, 2014, pp.71. Accessed 27 January 2017 Azadeh Erfani. AWAY RESPONSIBILITY: ROLE IN RESPONSE TO MIGRANT WORKER ABUSES IN 2022 WORLD USFLibrary, vol.22, 2015, pp. 623. Accessed 27 January 2017 FIFA. FIFA.com, http://www.fifa.com/about-fifa/. Accessed 27 January 2017 Amnesty International. Amnestyusa.org, http://www.amnestyusa.org/about- us/our-mission. Accessed 27 January 2017