Alexis 1 Usha Alexis Dennis English Composition 1102 29 January 2017 Title: GMOs, do we have a right to know? We may think that the term GMO is a fairly new concept, yet the introduction of gentically modified foods and organisms started in the Advance research was conducted to deepen the understanding of gentically modified products throughout the years. Now, as American consumers we are faced with the fact that are incorporated into the majority of our foods. The question is, we have the right to choose whether we want to ingest foods that contain altered genomes? In this research paper, there wil be an indepth research on the actions of other countries and their measures to make sure that the issue of GMO use and procedure are disclosed to all consumers.While the organization of Mansato believes that GMO foods promote effective productivity of produce because GMOs can be altered in genetic material to bring about favorable traits in the produce; Label GMO Florida opposes GMO productivity due to the fact that GMO products have not been thoroughly investigated to determine any trace of prolonged side effects of GMO foods when ingested into the human body.Label GMO urges that companies at least label when the product has GMO components within it.To satify the objective of both groups GMO foods should still be administered but labeled on each product that does contain GMO substances. Those companies that label efficiently would get higher rating,than ths that do not. Last Name 2 Is the production of genetically modified organisms, eploiting nature or just science? percent of the processed foods that American consumers eat daily contain plants that have been genetically HEMPHILL, T. A., & BANERJEE,2014). There is no doubt genetically modified food is becoming more and more prominent in our food chain. But what exactly is a GMO? GMO is the outcome of geneticist manipulating the genes from the DNA of one kind of animal and artificially inserting that same gene into another GENTETICALLY MODIFIED ORGANISMS AND ETHICS RESEARCH PROJECT 2 unrelated animal. And this is through the use of gene technology in a way that does not occur naturally through mating and/or natural recombination.Genetically modified organisms are very unnatural. GMO is created by the insertion of one or more functional genes from different species into the genome of an organism. This technique is used to produce new genetic combinations that are of value to science, medicine, agriculture and industry, and it has been used with several species of plants, animals, fungi and (Milavec, M., Dobnik, D., Yang, L., Zhang, D., Gruden, K., & J. , 2014) A recent debate erupted where battle with decision of rather or not genetically modified products should be labeled. Those in favor of the label, stress this because the American people should be informed on what exactly they are ingesting when purchasing consumption products. It is seen as unethical if official withhold the fact they maybe ingesting genetically modified foods. Personally a question of freedom of choice of everyday consumer. Some of the more prominent organisms genetically modified are plants, vegatable, meat, and fish.GMO chickens are the most facsinating.Chickens can be genetically modified to grow larger than normal, to produce more meat for consumers and add to the production profit.Chickens can also be genetically modified to be featherless,which cuts the cost of the Last Name 3 equiptment to remove the feathers on the chicken before slaughtering it.Truely defy nature and allows manufacturors to get the exact product they need to make money.Its propaganda!!!!!Big bussinesses and manufacturers stress that are not scientifically proven to be harmful to humans. And labeling would only scare the consumer away for puchasing the product.A consumer has the right to know!!!!! The FDA is not concerned about the risk of in fact they express that they are safe and harmless.The USA does not require genetically modified foods to be labeled. In Europe companies are required by law to label and disclose all the ingredients consumer ingest.One of the laws put in lace was the GMO Proposal and this law aims to enable the member states to ban on their territory the use of GMOs authorised under the EU legislation. (Paskalev, V. 2015) Each state has the right to ban genetically modified organisms in the market. When it comes to the consumption of the the goverenment created specific branches of legistation to regulate the products.A plethora of regulation is implimented to ensure the consumer has freedom of choice. The genetically modified product must be tested and ensured safe for the European consumer.Genetically modifying food has been said to alter the nutritional substances of that particular substance.This means essential nutrient are removed, devalues and alters the organism. While Europe stresses on regulating and labeling genetically modified foods, China continues to make a profit on the production of genetically modified organisms. The GMO industry has enriched China financially and this has added great amount of stability to China. China has turned into a GMO source, and sees bioengineered seeds as vital to a modern farming officials of China strongly support the development of genetic technology Last Name 4 to futher advance the genetically modified food production.Billions of dollars are spent to bolster the research being done,which is very extensive. (Roberts, D., & Bjerga, A., 2015) Dennis Halterman, a research geneticist for the U.S. Department of Agriculture, developed a presentation that empasized that potato should contain Bt toxin a protein that comes from a bacteria and is used in both organic production and biotech (GMO) crops , this toxin can help protect the plants from insects. (BEECHER, C, 2016) This toxin will act like a sort of pesticide that discourages insects from eating the potatoes. Certainly this is a smart idea, yet if this causes great damage to the insects, what effect can it have on human beings? There needs to be a huge amount of time and effort put upon the research of the effects that genetically modified foods can have on human beings. Scientist are more interested in widening and expanding their intellect on th subject of genetically modified organsim, yet negelect to find out the side effects of altering the genes of these organisms. When it comes to there are two view points.One side demands mandatory labeling of while the otherside does not find the action of labeling is necessary. There is a continued battle in federal court about this issues.In Congress, the House and Senate appear split over whether such labeling should be a state or federal issue. More attention is brought upon the debate and action is starting to take place. In 2013, for example, Whole Foods announced that by 2018, all products in its U.S. and Canadian stores must be labeled if they contain genetically modified organisms. (BEECHER, C,2016). In Ghana, officials hold the issue of genetically modified food as a top Biosafety Act (2011), Act 831,was enacted by the National Biosafety Authority with to ensure an adequate level of protection in the field of safe development, transfer, handling and use of genetically Last Name 5 GENTETICALLY MODIFIED ORGANISMS AND ETHICS RESEARCH PROJECT 5 Modified organisms resulting from biotechnology that may have an adverse effect on health and the These official are concerned about the welfare of their country citizen rather than their profit from businesses. Although, tools have been used to modify agricultural produce in agricultural research institutes contributing to better yields, pest and weather (Amofah, G, 2014). Indeed when crops are genetically modified to withstand natural obstacles such as insects, disease, weather, and lack of water; this will promote a higher production of crops. Geneticist must reduced the use of chemicals and pesticides on insect resistant plants, which will result in healthier food .Enriching the nutritional components of crops to bolster human health through food, will definetly shine a positive light on enetically modified provide huge potential for production of pharmaceuticals and vaccines which will be much easier to ship, store and administer than traditional injectable (Amofah, G, 2014). fear that the lack of labeling of GMO products disables postmarketing surveillance of the GMO products for safety. Most of the trials supporting introduction of GMOs are not independently done and are commercially driven.The trial designs are laboratory design and of short (Amofah, G, 2014). I feel that the advancement of technology towards genetically modified organisms is a great thing. Scientist are able to insert desirable characterstics to organisms they choose, and this ability in turn creates an efficient food industy. But also concerned about the effects of the Last Name 6 alteration of genes, and risk it may have on human health. Officials should encourage more research to be done to ensure that are in fact safe for us humans to ingest.