Mourra 1 Saskia Mourra Janie Gill ENC 1102-077 29 January 2017 Vaccinations Immunization is the process of making a person immune to an infectious disease by the distribution of a vaccine (World Health Organization). Many people have strong point of views regarding vaccinations as to whether they should or should not vaccinate their children. Whether one chooses to vaccinate or not, they both have their own set of risks. People see vaccinations as a black or white viewpoint, but a gray are (compromise) is not an impossible task. The Voices for Vaccines support the idea of vaccinations while the Anti-Vaccination Movement object of vaccinations. Those who are pro-vaccinated believe that if one is vaccinated, they are protecting their vaccinated herd because one unvaccinated person endangers the unvaccinated herd since no one has any protection against any of the diseases. The Anti-Vaccination Movement informs parents of the risk of immunization such as autism. is a complex neurologic disorder that typically manifests in the first few years of live and primarily involves a deficiency of typical social skills and (The Committee for Skeptical Inquiry). The Anti-Vaccination Movement believes that the Mumps-Measles-Rubella vaccine is the vaccine that causes autism. The reason behind this belief is that in the the number of vaccinations increased as well as the significant number increase of autism diagnoses. Vaccinations hold a host of a disease, which is entered into the bloodstream and could possibly spread the disease or be the cause of another, such as autism, autoimmune disorders, brain damage, and Sudden Death Infant Syndrome (SIDS). According to Mourra 2 vaccines.news, all vaccines contain a number of lethal chemicals that are linked to serious neurological damage including antibiotics, formaldehyde, acetone, and yeast proteins. The majority of schools in the United States of America make vaccinations mandatory in order for children to attend and get the proper education. This causes children who are not vaccinated to be home schooled and cannot attend a proper education with teachers and classmates. The Voice for Vaccines informs parents about the safety, importance, and benefits of immunizations such as preventing disease. This organization is a parent- led organization supported by scientists, healthcare professionals, and public heath officials. They want to give parents who vaccinate a chance to speak up about their choice since the majority of voices speaking on the behalf of parents who vaccinate, are those who oppose of vaccinations (Voices for Vaccines). According to Adult Vaccinations, vaccines are just as important to your overall health as diet, exercise, and regular check-ups because they play a role in keeping you healthy and safe from infectious diseases. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends vaccinations throughout your life to protect against many (Adult Vaccinations). Since vaccinations are mandatory for children to attend schools, those who support vaccinations do not have any issues with their children getting the education they need. Skipping a vaccine leaves body vulnerable to illnesses such as shingles, influenza, and hepatitis B. The argument between both organizations is whether a person can or cannot the disease from the vaccine and whether the ingredients in vaccines are safe or contain harmful substances. Rather than arguing with one another, both organizations that represent every point of view should come together and find a gray area known as a compromise. Since children are not allowed to attend Mourra 3 schools unless vaccinated, there must be a compromise found since many believe that the government should not interfere in personal medical choices. A recent compromise being situated in the state of Vermont called the Vaccine Compromise Bill, allows them to rules requiring a range of vaccines for all school-aged children. This bill is still being reviewed since the vaccines being are for the disease that can be clearly preventable such as the measles, whopping cough, and the flu according to Senate President Pro Tem John Campbell. Campbell refused to sign the bill saying, cannot in all good conscience sign a report when I deeply feel we are putting our children at Another compromise would be having those who are not vaccinated go to school with others who are not vaccinated as well. This allows for those who are vaccinated to remain attending schools where immunization is mandatory in order to attend. The topic of immunization and vaccinations is a touchy and one-sided subject since a compromise is hard to find and help both organizations. The Anti-Vaccination Movement believes strongly in their viewpoints and research on the reasons why vaccinations are harmful. The Voice for Vaccines strongly believe in their research and evidence as to why and how vaccinations are efficient. No issue or problem should have just a black or white point of view where there is no possibility of finding a gray side. Every issue has a gray area where both sides can come together and make a compromise that supports both sides. Those who are pro-vaccination believe that vaccinated one person protects their herd from those who are not vaccinated. In other words, they think about not only themselves, but also the whole population. Those who are anti-vaccination believe that not getting vaccinated protects them. This is why a compromise is needed to be found so that both stakeholders can support Mourra 4 themselves while supporting one another and help protect our generation as well as the future generations after us. Mourra 5 Work Cited 10 Reasons To Be  10 Reasons To Be Vaccinated. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Vaccines  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., 19 Sept. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Deshevoi, Sergei.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Novella, Steven. The Anti-Vaccination  CSI. N.p., Nov.-Dec. 2007. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Pane Baker, Alan. Conference Committee Agrees on Vaccine  VTIGGER. N.p., 30 Apr. 2012. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Samuelson, D. Ten Reasons Not to  Vaccines News Vaccines News Health Related News. N.p., 20 June 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.