Andrew Hudson Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 30 January 2017 God In the Closet: The Separation Between Religion and Sexual Orientation As America moves further into the future, more people take advantage of their first amendment: freedom of speech. A common freedom of speech social issue that has been pressing many citizens for decades, if not centuries, is equality for gay rights. Gay marriage was recently legalized across the country in June of 2015 by president Obama and approval from congress. Many disagree with this law across the fifty states because it lays contrary to their religious beliefs, the main border that interferes with those fighting for sexual orientation equality and freedom of religion to agree. Organizations like the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) advocate civil rights for gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, and queer citizens (LGBTQ) and try to build a world where these people can be open, honest, and safe in their community. Opposing organizations like the American Family Association (AFA) try to educate the public on absolute truth and that culture based upon biblical morals serves the best well-being of the nation. Though the morals of these organizations differ, they both seek to educate the public for their greater goods and have potential to come to a compromise. HRC has been an organization serving the LGBTQ people for nearly forty year. The Human Rights Campaign a world where lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer people are ensured equality and embraced as full members of society at home, at work and in every (HRC). In Carole article State of she mentions how the lives of those in the gay community is just as dimensional as those that are heterosexual. heritage, gender identification, sexual identification, familial relations, social mores, and numerous other factors are as strong a variable among homosexual couples as they are for heterosexual (Jurkiewicz 152). Because same-sex couples face the same structure of family, life, and work as multi-sexual couples, this is why the HRC fights for equality for LGBTQ. America is a heterosexual-based community where homosexuality is considered strayed from mainstream values and put into a sexual orientation minority category. Jurkiewicz continues to support the values of HRC by describing how homosexuality ranges among races. For black, gay men in the south in particular, there is a certain bias that segregates them from other gays. common practice of black Southern gay men [is adopt a ask, tell approach to their sexuality. These men are characterized as having effeminate mannerisms and same-sex partners, while frequently being married to women and fathers of children, a circumstance of which the community is fully aware but which is not publicly (Jurkiewicz 156). This is exactly what organizations like HRC are trying to prevent, a population being forced to hide their true selves and masking it with the traditional looks of an American family. Discussing American family values, the American Family Association is an organization to reach out to the public and educate to have the foundations of American tradition revitalized. With the ideology of Christianity behind the organization, AFA that God has communicated absolute truth to mankind, and that all people are subject to the authority of Word at all (AFA philosophical statement). The ideas that the AFA try to point out are that of gender roles playing a vital part in traditional religious views they demonstrate to their supporters. In Andrew article and Female He Created Them: Gender Traditionalism, and Attitudes Toward Same-Sex he states traditionalism closely associated with attitudes toward homosexuality. Individuals (both men and women) holding more traditional gender beliefs are generally unfavorable toward (Whitehead 481). This concerning the AFA correlates to how they have opposing views with the HRC. The AFA negatively views homosexuals because of the traits that they posses of the other sex, making gay men look feminine and lesbian women masculine. This reserve gender role pay offends those of conservative religious views because marked division of labor and authority between the sexes is often present within the idea of the that most religious groups hold as the ideal Because homosexuality is an alternative to the traditional understanding of family, proponents of traditional marriage view same-sex relationships as a severe threat to the institution of marriage and thus a threat to a functioning, stable social (Whitehead 481). When homosexuals abide from their gender role, this seems to deface the value of tradition and Christianity AFA tries to restore. Similarly on the views of AFA, they believe that the United States was founded under the direction of God and that traditional family morals are a vital structure of American tradition. Same-sex couples break these traditions and by traditional gender beliefs leads to the breakdown of the traditional family. This in turn results in societal disintegration, which will cause God to cease blessing the United States and let it (Whitehead 483). While the beliefs of the HRC and AFA tend to be at odds with one another, they both have valid reasons to suppose their beliefs structure society to be better, making a good playing field for common ground. Both the HRC and AFA challenge the opinions that are out there of social issues regarding gay marriage, but can combine their differences to see more eye to eye. For example, the HRC posted an article mentioning how Conservative Judaism, one of the major four branches of Judaism, is beginning to accept LGBTQ citizens into their religion, as believers and rabbis. Though the each rabbi does not have to agree with what the Rabbinical Assembly and the Committee on Jewish Laws and Standards, Conservative Jews will encounter a wide range of experiences at Conservative institutions. Some are welcoming and affirming, ordaining LGBTQ rabbis and celebrating same-sex marriages. As a denomination, however, Conservative Judaism has taken a firm and public stance for (HRC 31 May 2016). This could be an outreach to the AFA that other religions besides Christianity are outreaching to the gay community as sign of how the world is changing, but can also still withhold their moral values while still some choose not to accept the changes and ethics of the evolving gay community. But while other religions are advancing in accepting those of the HRC community, the AFA claims to be eternally standing with their beliefs of holiness. Christians, we can and must guard our religious freedoms while showing mercy to people in bondage to homosexuality. Avoiding problems in the future depends on what we do (AFA 19 August 2015). Seeing that HRC and AFA try to achieve different objectives, they are both within their rights to express how the want to act. The AFA and HRC, like any religious or social activism organization, have their rights to speech and religious freedom granted in the First Amendment and can choose to believe in whatever they so choose. The issue of gay marriage often falls into a heavy political conversation. The conversation in this case lies between the HRC and AFA. Because AFA is heavily involved in the church and the works of Christianity, and HRC is a social group working to better the views of the LGBTQ in politics, a proposed compromise between these two organizations is the separation between church and state. Separation between church and state is a historical phrase once stated by Thomas Jefferson meaning that the affiliation of religion can not be involved in process of dealing with political issues. In Joe Phillips, Shin-Do Sung and Joseph article Marriage, Korean Christians, and the Challenge of Democratic they describe a younger (second) and older (first) generation of Korean Christian pastors that engage with living harmoniously with homosexuals. Phillips, Sung, and Yi write about first generation Korean pastor Richard Shin who once did not support homosexuality in religion now supports the idea with a revision of second generation pastoral views. is the Bible. Bible (Phillips, Sung and Yi 418). This ideology is what many Christians like the AFA believe but it is what sets the two groups from compromise. With church and state, AFA still practices their beliefs and advances their interpretations of the bible. HRC maintains their legal right to gay marriage and is unprecedented by Christian views. As pastor Shin in the article mentions, have to understand [gay embrace them, and help them. But if we just keep criticize them, [gay will never come to (Phillips, Sung and Yi 418). This is another advantage for both groups as going to church can unite the AFA and HRC. The issue of gay marriage is still strongly discussed among politicians and churches throughout the states and continues to be questioned whether legally moral or unholy practice. The HRC and AFA are both at head to have it be accepted into everyday life and realized as irregular to traditional family matters. Though distinct differences, they share common interest in creating a world where gay marriage exists as an act of the people. The way for all views to be melted into harmony are through the separation of church and state where views are accepted and respected among citizens.