Higgins 1 Amanda Higgins Professor Phillips Composition 2 28 January 2017 Should College Athletes Get Paid? College athletes are students first then athletes. Some people look at them as only athletes and maybe even employees of the school. The National Collegiate Athletic Association(NCAA) does not believe they should pay college athletes while on the other hand the College Athletes Players Association(CAPA) believe they should be compensated for all the work they put into making the school money. A compromise that can help them both is if college athletes can accept endorsement deals. For the amount money they are bringing into the school, they should be able to at least accept endorsement deals as a and reward for their hard work. NCAA believes if they pay their college athletes that it will take the out of NCAA President, Mark Emmert says, you move from that model to a model where the students who play the games are paid, well now you have student athletes anymore. We already have that. the NFL, and the NBA and Major League (Press, Stipend is not for move). NCAA made a compromise with the schools and athletes on their payment. The compromise was an option for conferences to add up to $2,000 annually to athletic scholarships. Some viewed the stipend of spending money as the first step toward eventually paying students to compete. Emmert said the money is simply meant to close the gap between a scholarship - which only covers tuition, room and board and books - and the full cost of (Press, Stipend is not for move) are still supporting them as students, not as somebody we are paying to play a Emmert says, who is a former Higgins 2 president for the University of Washington. (Press, Stipend is not for move) Emmert is very against paying collegiate athletes. He wants to avoid them becoming employees of the school and staying student athletes. Students are not professional athletes who get paid to play their game. They are students receiving the opportunity to go to college through their specific sport they play. They get paid through their scholarships. Their scholarship pays for room, board, fees and tuition and other affordable expenses. sports is not a career or profession. It is the vehicle to a higher education degree. This access is contingent upon continued enrollment, participation in the sport for which they received the scholarship, and academic (Mitchell, Students Are Not Professional On the other hand, CAPA believes differently. CAPA believes that college athletes should be paid for their hard work and dedication. Some so demanding it makes them put the sport over school and if they do not abide by the rules and rules, they can be let go of the team, which in some cases means they cannot attend college anymore. to Kain Colter, Northwesterns senior quarterback, the university often required players to put football ahead of education, foiling his pre-med plans and forcing him to abide by a strict schedule over which players had little (Wolverton, College Athletes Athletes Player Association(CAPA) is not asking that college players be paid a professional salary, Ramogi Huma, former college football player and President of CAPA says, but that they receive the full cost of going to school current athletic scholarships cover all expenses along with better health (Reed, College Scholarships have limitations. They are sometimes only limited to a year and maybe get renewed. They have medical care and sometimes are bare on food. They allowed to accept endorsement deals from outside the Higgins 3 school. Their hard work can only get them so far. While under scholarship, athletes must obey many NCAA rules that restrict them to earn outside income, accept gifts or even sell autographs or items that connected their role as a player. Scholarships are very vague on what they cover and leave some athletes struggling, especially with food. lifestyle of college athletes remains highly restricted by NCAA rules and guidelines established by individual athletic programs. Full scholarships pay tuition and room and board but can fall short of the complete cost of attending school, by several thousand dollars. Last April, Shabazz Napier, star of the national champion Huskies basketball team at the University of Connecticut, discussed the impact of scholarship limits, which, coupled with his lack of money, he said, sometimes left him short of food. NCAA rules restricted the meals and snacks that could be provided for scholarship athletes. Many athletic scholarships are granted only for one year, renewed at the discretion of coaches. A player who perform can find himself cut loose. Medical care most often does not extend beyond college, and a player who is seriously injured can face considerable long-term (Reed, College To lessen the blow of this argument, a need of a compromise is desperate. A compromise that works for both sides of this dispute is if college athletes can accept endorsement deals. If you work hard to get noticed by the media, you should be able to get rewarded. Gary Parrish, the writer of the article Everybody wins if the NCAA will allow players to accept endorsements, says schools would still get to make money off of student-athletes without having to pay them. But the notable student-athletes would suddenly be getting real money for the time they spend in college. And this system might also help keep some notable student-athletes in school longer because a company could essentially pay them to stay in school longer, if it (Parrish, Everybody Wins If the NCAA Will Allow Players to Accept Higgins 4 ). Simply put, if some company, large or small, wants to make a student-athlete an endorser, and the student-athlete wants to do it, let them do it. And then what have is a system where the best players in the biggest sports would be financially compensated, and the system cost the NCAA or its member institutions anything. (fourth tab) the best for everybody. In the beginning of the paper we had two conflicting sides. And by the end we brought together those conflicting sides by our compromise. The NCAA restricts the players to get compensated for their hard work and CAPA wants/needs the players to get compensated. The compromise does a little bit of both. It keeps the in student-athlete but it also rewards the best players. The schools are not paying their students, the company that wants to endorse the player is and the player is finally getting paid for the success. NCAA is just afraid they are going to make their students into employees but with this compromise that is not going to happen. Higgins 5 Works Cited Karaim, Reed. Paying College  CQ Researcher 11 July 2014: 577-600. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mitchell, Horace. Students Are Not Professional  Usnews.com. N.p., 6 Jan. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.usnews.com/opinion/articles/2014/01/06/ncaa-athletes- should-not-be-paid>. Parrish, Gary. Everybody Wins If the NCAA Will Allow Players to Accept  CBSSports.com. N.p., 12 Apr. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.cbssports.com/college-basketball/news/everybody-wins-if-the-ncaa-will- allow-players-to-accept-endorsements/>. Press, The Associated. Stipend Is Not for  NCAA.com. N.p., 03 Nov. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.com/news/ncaa/article/2011-11-03/stipend-not- %E2%80%98pay-play%E2%80%99-move>. Solomon, Jon. Court Shuts down Plan to Pay Athletes, Says NCAA Violates Antitrust  CBSSports.com. N.p., 01 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.cbssports.com/college-football/news/court-shuts-down-plan-to-pay-athletes- says-ncaa-violates-antitrust-law/>. Wolverton, Brad. Are College Athletes Employees? Former Labor-Board Chairman Says  The Chronicle of Higher Education 14 Mar. 2014. Expanded Academic ASAP. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.