Derrick Rodriguez-Clemente ENC 1102 F 2-445 Ms. Poston January 29 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft In society, controversial topics are all over our media outlets. One of the most talked about topics happens to be gun control. A topic that whether for or against it people have very passionate views on. Gun control comes with very extreme views such as the gun protestor view which is guns should be banned from everyday life while a gun owner would like to carry their weapon with them at all times. One thing that both parties can agree on is that guns in the wrong hands can be very dangerous and that there should be a way of keeping society safer. Carrying of a concealed weapon (CCW) is a good way for gun owners to be able to carry their firearm with them where they go as long as the gun is put away unless a life-threatening situation comes to be. CCW permits are not just given to anybody one must be a 21-year-old U.S citizen that shows competency with a gun. By having these requirements, it eliminates the chance of illegal aliens being able of to get a CCW permit. Strong laws are key to regulating the carrying of concealed weapons. States with weak CCW laws are more vulnerable to the illegal trafficking of gun laws. CCW not only allows fun owners to carry their guns with them but it also helps regulate the guns in an area. Allowing civilians to carry their weapons with them allows them to be protected from criminals trying to harm them. Most people that carry guns hope that never in their lives they get put in a situation to have to use it. Instead most people carry their gun because they know that their life and the lives of their friends and families are worth protecting in a criminal infested world. A person that carries a gun feels well protected wherever they go it not only protects them but the people that are around them. In case of a potentially dangerous situation a typical gun owner understands that it is not very likely that there is going to be a police officer nearby to protect them. Therefore, they take matters into their own hands by carrying a weapon with them which will make the criminal think twice before proceeding with their wrong doing. Organizations against guns such as the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence would like nothing better than to get rid of guns as a whole in order to keep our society safe. Gun control came to be such a hot topic because of all the recent public and school shootings that have happened in our country. According to data released by Mother Jones, since 1982, there have been at least 72 public mass shootings across the country. Thirty-five of these mass shootings have occurred since 2006. Having guns that are so accessible to the public has become a real issue because it seems that every day there is a new mass shooting on the news. People with CCW permits are responsible for killing at least 14 law enforcement officers and 622 private citizens since May 2007 according to a study released by Violence Policy Center. Homicides are not the main problem with guns since most gun deaths came by suicide. Firearms were used in 19,392 suicides in the U.S. in 2010, constituting almost 62% of all gun deaths data provided by the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence (LCPGV). The accessibility of guns is a reason why gun suicides are so high. The person that commits the suicide does not have to necessarily own the gun but if they know where a gun is in their house or around them they could easily use it. On average, 49 gun suicides were committed each day for the years 2005-2010 (LCPGV) making guns the most prevalent way of committing suicides in the U.S. during that span. By eliminating guns, we would also be eliminating thousands of suicides every year. Criminals have easy access to a firearm which is why firearms were used in in 68% of all homicides. Regions and states with higher rates of gun ownership have significantly higher rates of homicide than states with lower rates of gun ownership (LCPGV). Guns are not just used to protect people they are also used to harm people as shown by the incredibly high number of gun homicides. According to the National Crime Victimization Survey, 467,321 persons were victims of a crime committed with a firearm in 2011. Not all of those victims were involved with a homicide but that number includes the people affected by robbery as well as aggravated assault. A criminal that holds a gun is more likely to be more aggressive than someone without a gun. Both parties can agree that a firearm in the wrong hands is a very dangerous thing and that there should be ways to avoid such a situation. Something that could help keep our society safe could be doing extensive background checks before an individual is able to purchase a firearm. Those back- ground checks would include the usual criminal history, public records as well as arrest records but these would be performed more like an investigation. Each individual will be investigated for criminal activity, people they are affiliated with as well as gang activity in order to ensure that the firearm is being purchased by a productive and well fitted member of our society. The back-ground checks will take longer than the traditional ones but it will be well worth it when our gun related crimes go down. Another measure that will result in safer society would be to have mandatory semiannual mental illness checkups. Once the gun is purchased the gun owner must be required to get checked for any new or developing mental illnesses. To ensure that the gun owner is at a stable mental state in order to continue owning the gun. Mental illness plays a huge role in mass shootings such as the most recent one at the Fort Lauderdale airport where the suspect was hearing voices in his head therefore he acted upon what the voices were telling him to do according to USA TODAY. Mental checkups will eliminate the possibilities of an ill minded human owning a gun. Free educational to help inform people on what to do in case of a gun situation would also be a way of keeping our society safe. Knowledge is power in this situation the better suited the people involved are the more likely that they will come out of the situation with their lives. These classes could be for gun owners and those who do not care for guns. It would be a way of bringing both parties together without arguing instead they would be together to keep each other safe in a future situation. Even though both parties hold extreme views when it comes to firearms these could be some ways of meeting in the middle while also keeping our society safe. The compromises are very achievable but could take a little bit of time to get programs that provide the services. Regardless of the time both parties should come together in order to make these changes as soon as possible to keep the people of our country safe. Work Cited Statistics on Gun Deaths &  Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Concealed Weapons  Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Eligibility  Eligibility Requirements / Concealed Weapon License / Licensing / Divisions & Offices / Home - Florida Department of Agriculture & Consumer Services. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gun  National Institute of Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cardona, Alexi C. Fort Lauderdale Airport Shooting Suspect to Be Arraigned  The News-Press. N.p., 30 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.