Smith 1 Storm Smith Kristin Gocin ENC 1102 012 30 January 2017 Female College Athletes Female athletes ranking in the top 100, get paid $13 to $23 million in endorsements wile a male athlete can make from $28 up to $58 million in endorsements and promotions. Recent controversies involving the Title IX rule, with the gender breakdown of collegiate athletes have caused colleges to look into these cases that are involving sex discrimination, and endorsement contracts. The NCAA is the main attribute when it comes to athletes in college, whether you are division I, II, or III, you are linked to the NCAA and must follow the contract which has regulations and commitments. ESPN [Entertainment and Sports Programming is a main contributor to endorsements with athletes both professional and collegiate as well as male and female athletes. While the NCAA mainly deals with college athletes and maintaining their goals; ESPN involves professional athletes among collegiate and the fans that follow the sports. The NCAA and ESPN both want their athletes to be safe in the promotions and maintain a positive appearance to the public and want to gain profits for their specific company. College athletics have many regulations regarding their profile and their portrayal towards the public; endorsements allow for college athletes to jumpstart their careers as well as a franchise, however female athletes are not impacted by this promotion a majority of the time. The NCAA and ESPN, along with other endorsement agencies, should come together to lessen some regulations on promotions of athletes that the NCAA may have and create ways to involve female collegiate athletes among the sponsorships that are given out. Smith 2 The mission statement is purpose is to govern competition in a fair, safe, equitable and sportsmanlike manner, and to integrate intercollegiate athletics into higher education so that the educational experience of the student-athlete is (NCAA Core Values). The equality based in the collegiate sports continues to be a cause for many issues involving; cutting of athletes from teams to keep the gender breakdown at an equal minimum creating cases of sex discrimination. Even with the Title IX coming into existence, athletes still only account for thirty-five percent of college athletes and garner less than a quarter of annual athletic operating and recruiting (Lynch). The statistics show even when rules are set, female athletes continue to be a lower count in the overall percentage of collegiate athletes which puts female athletes at a disadvantage for endorsements and opportunities in making money and going professional. Many advocates for female athletes recognize problems with cutting men athletes to maintain participation rates but know that sports get more recognition than female sports. The Title IX law itself speaks nothing of athletics but just in maintaining equality between men and women and hinders discrimination based on sex in federal programs. The issue of Title IX may be resolved by creating the same number of teams for females as there are for males. There still continues to be more of male athlete numbers in participation than in female sports which can cause universities to defund certain athletics to save money. There are other sports organizations that have issues with gender based issues trying different ways to resolve them. goals are serve sports fans wherever sports are watched, listened to, discussed, debated, read about, or (ESPN Mission Statement). Using athletes to endorse products is widespread because athletes who are top in their game can derive significant income from these promotions. Both the endorser and the athlete must be cautious when it comes to Smith 3 endorsements to protect their image from being negatively affected. image is particularly at risk if the product is one that is linked to health (Till) athletes must stay in safe promotions so their athletic careers are not jeopardized. Athletes such as; Michael Jordan, Mark McGuire, Ken Griffey, Jr., and Jeff Jordan [who are all male have given their name out to be used as promotions and endorsements. When asked who are the athletes that are given endorsements they are typically male athletes so the issue that can be brought up is why are female athletes not as endorsed or promoted as male athletes. Endorsements have even branched out to extreme sports, Tony Hawke, and has gained a lot of publicity and popularity in the promotions field. Endorsement companies want to promote those athletes who bring in the most money so they can branch off into more sub companies to keep their audience engaged. ESPN hosts many athletes on their shows to conduct interviews about their past or upcoming season, discuss topics that have been brought up within the life or to debate about something that has come up within the sports family. While the NCAA and ESPN are top supporters for athletes in different ways they still have many common attributes. The NCAA has their athletes to protect while ESPN has their own business, their fans, and the athletes, as well, to protect. They both want to have endorsements and promoters while keeping a positive image for the public. The NCAA has regulations to keep their athletes from disrupting their appearance and ESPN has certain rules on which topics they can discuss that will give them high viewers and which topics not to talk about because people will not want to watch the segment. The male-centric sports world has shown that male athletes have made more money in endorsements than any female athlete could imagine. But since the rise of female in sports, the marketing industry has been leaning towards female promoters and giving the money Smith 4 to female athletes than just male athletes. Female sports have never ranked in the contracts with top brands due to the competition with male athletes, recent lit of the highest- paid athletes, Maria Sharapove and Serena Williams, were the only women to crack the top one (Richards). Even with top female athletes making up to $23 million male athletes break that making $28 to $58 million and even higher depending on the sport. Bringing both companies, the NCAA and ESPN, to work together to create a compromise of having female college athletes being endorsed so when they make the big leagues their endorsements continue and they can eventually make up to the same amount as pro male athletes. Female athletes work just as hard and bring many fans to watch them especially, the U.S National Team, and yet female athletes are not as promoted like that of male athletes. Since recently, athletes like Serna Williams and Ronda Rousey have begun to campaign with sponsors like Gatorade, Beats by Dre, Reebok and many other top brands to get their names out for female athletes to want to too. By bringing more female athletes into the endorsement ring along beside the male athletes, companies like ESPN, Nike, UnderArmour, etc. will continue to bring in profits and keep a positive image. Bringing more female athletes into endorsement and promotions world will benefit not only the athletes but also the companies sponsoring them because they will be making money. The NCAA will be able to keep an eye on their athletes to make sure they are doing the proper thing and following the rules and ESPN and other sponsors can bring in more viewers. The goal of both stakeholders is to keep discrimination out of the colleges and the press, they want the athletes to be safe and the only stress is who wins the national championship. Smith 5 Works Cited Mission Storify.com, https://storify.com/apstarnes/espn-mission-statement Core NCAA.org The Official Site of the NCAA, www.ncaa.org/about/ncaa-core-values Lynch, Michael W. TITLE PYRRHIC VICTORY. (Cover  Reason 32.11 (2001): 28. Academic Search Premier. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Richards, Katie. Why Brands Are Finally Choosing More Female Athletes For Big Endorsement  Adweek (2015): 1. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Till, Brian D. Managing Athlete Endorser Image: The Effect Of Endorsed  Sport Marketing Quarterly 10.1 (2001): 35-42. Business Source Premier. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.