Cody Berry ENC 1102 Dennis Mont Ros MW 11:00-12:15 With or Without Violence Violence has been the main controversial issue revolving around video games, and especially when they are being played by children. One group that is actively against violent video games is the Parents Television Council (PTC) whose mission is to protect children and families from graphic media because of their long term harmful effects. Not directly opposing the PTC but in defense of the media industry is the Entertainment Merchants Association (EMA) whose mission is to protect the rights of, foster the health and vitality of, and provide a forum for those engaged in the sale, rental, and or commercial delivery of video or video game content. The PTC has a bit of one sided conflict with the EMA, but these two organizations do not have direct opposition toward each other. But, one could say that since the PTC is fighting against violent video games, the EMA is defending their title as a legitimate source of entertainment and therefore, can be distributed as such. A compromise between the two has been met, it is the Entertainment Software Rating Board or ESRB. It is an age restriction rating on certain video games due to the content of the game. Despite the restrictions, there are loopholes such as the fact that the parent can buy their child a mature rated video game since they themselves are of age. I believe that eliminating these loopholes is an easy compromise between the two organizations that way, the EMA can help distribute the media while the PTC does not have to worry about children playing the violent games. The PTC is very strongly against violent video games. They begin their informational website with hostile intent, video game world, children can as murderers, out mind-altering tasks with realistic The way they see it, a child could go in and buy games meant for adults and parents need to be more involved in the decision-making process for purchasing said video games. They urge lawmakers to support legislation attempting to enforce age ratings for games by financially penalizing lawbreakers. The information is backed by many independent studies the long-term harmful effects and they are also involved in various legal activity to lobby against the freedoms of violent video game distribution. For example, in 2011 the Supreme Court struck down a previously proposed law for banning the sale of certain violent video games to children due to the first amendment. The law was proposed by the PTC back in 2005 and was passed in California. It restricted the sale of violent videogames with a mature rating or higher to people under the age of 18 and required clear ESRB labeling. very clear as to this stance on the subject, they detest the fact that children are able to play violent video games because there is some evidence that shows a relation between violent exposure and increased aggression in children. Conversely, the EMA just supports the rights of distributors to sell all types of entertainment. While the information page is hostile and completely one-sided, the mission and goal page provides a plethora of information that describes what the organization is about and its purely business. Member relation goals, profit margins, and public relations. The EMA was involved in the Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association by declaring a judgement action against California for their video game restriction law. The Supreme Court ordered in favor of the Association in defense of the First Amendment and the fact that the state was not tailored enough to seem to have an interest in preventing psychological harm to minors. While the two groups are not directly at odds with one another it is clear there is opposing interest and indirect conflict since the PTC proposed the law that the EMA brought to court. In conclusion, the ESRB label is the current day compromise that exists for this debate, however it is very easy for a child to obtain a violent videogame through their parents. The PTC says that the parents should be more involved in the decision-making process, however nowadays an individual under the age of 18 is not able to purchase a mature rated videogame without the consent of a parent or guardian. I believe a compromise would be financial penalty for companies and or organizations who violate age restrictions and distribute mature games to minors. That way, at least distribution to minors is illegal and only persons over 18 may purchase mature rated video games. As it stands, from my experience, if a minor attempts to purchase a video game rated M for mature they are asked for their ID and will not be allowed to purchase the game if under 18 and purchase of a mature game for a minor requires the individual to be 21 or older. Word Count: 809 Work Cited Background of the Issue - Violent Video Games -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. PTC History on Violent Video  PTC History on Violent Video Games. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Burnell, Jennifer Lane. Entertainment Merchants  Strategic Plan and Mission. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Brown v. Entertainment Merchants  Oyez. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.