Garrett Ferguson Professor Hernandez ENC 1102 Comp II 29 January 2017 How does the human population prepare for the future? live in an age where the need for Sustainable development is coming to a more problematic question than one could ever think of. Sustainable developmental principles emphasize the significance of the use of renewable energy resources in architecture. Just look at the history of the Atmosphere, it has been through a copious amount of Stated by Mikhail Budyko a Russian climatologist and one of the founders of physical climatology states catastrophes, which many times occurred in the geological past, caused the extinction of large or small populations of animals and plants. Changes in the terrestrial and marine biota caused by the catastrophic climate changes undoubtedly resulted in considerable fluctuations in global carbon cycle and atmospheric gas In his book climate catastrophizes. The public needs to be informed of their planets status for stability for life. With (SEPA) Solar Electric Power Alliance and (CESA) Clean Energy States Alliance the ability to help the public become aware of their planets need to be healthy. Both Alliances need to resolve a plan to achieve helping both organizations with the ability to help everyone have a To thus allow for humans to live not only longer on earth, but help sustain their ability to function properly by living in a healthier atmosphere. So if humans are to live not only longer on earth, they will need to sustain some renewable energy sources. (SEPA) Smart Electric Power Alliance is a valuable stakeholder in forming earth toward a healthier planet with help of not depleting all its resources. Per sepapower.org Their goal is to achieve a Smart Energy Ecosystem. What is this? Well it is described as our collective goals for a better electric power system depends on smart collaborations. Complementary technologies must be intelligently integrated into a more efficient, responsive, and modernized electric grid. SEPA provides our members with the community, data, insights and expert facilitation to make that SEPA is one of the largest alliances for helping the public with not only benefits on saving money, but they help the public with creating a healthier environment with an incentive. The ability to help save electricity allows for fewer resources to be used, yet with not that many people using solar power, how does one save the earth if only a select few try to save it. SEPA needs to seek help they want to overall make a for humans to live on. SEPA is not the only alliance that works towards keeping a healthier Earth. (CESA) Clean Energy States Alliance is an organization that has a very meticulous method of keeping the environment healthy from the political perspective. Stated by cesa.org members represent diverse organizations, from state energy offices and public utilities commissions to municipally owned utilities and quasi-governmental or third-party entities specifically established to administer clean energy funding and programs. CESA looks towards a future that has a clean energy status and allows for a healthier earth at a more affordable cost for each human. plan is to help with fighting out the law enforcement side of use of cleaner energy resources for energy for households and companies. Per cesa.org staff is comprised of professionals with a diverse set of backgrounds and skill sets from lawyers and financial experts to former state clean energy fund managers. Their mission is to work with all sectors of the economy, including businesses and local citizens, to accelerate the commercialization of clean These changes that this alliance is hoping to create will help their overall goal of achieving a healthier planet for the future. For one to understand the problem of the fact that Earth is unhealthy and is slowly losing its ability to be stronger in the Environmental atmosphere. One will need to be told that there is a problem in the first place! How will these alliances attack promoting marketing This will bring more attention to the public to be aware of needing to make the earth healthier then. Plus each alliance could even market a comparative advantage for each to specialize in their own effort to create a What does the comparative advantages suggest for each? Well SEPA has a comparative advantage of helping the public with use of solar and other renewable resources, compared to CESA whose comparative advantage relies in the law perspective with help behind the lines of the media and government. Between CESA and SEPA both are influenced on creating a healthier planet. Their compromise can keep both as separate companies but allow both help on effort on creating more use of each common renewable resource. With SEPA helping fund the main campaign for creating a heavier use of solar power and CESA helping allow the use of this energy to be affordable to the average persons budget, without all the taxation, costs of installing and allowing for use to be cheaper , the ability to have a longer living planet could be plausible. How do we know how each helps in the actual world besides just statements? CESA works with other companies to allow for savings with the use of Solar and other renewable energy sources, per energy.gov Through SunShot, the Energy Department supports efforts by private companies, universities, and national laboratories to drive down the cost of solar electricity to $0.6 per This secondary source proves the drive for a healthier Earth of CESA can help ability with supplying the everyday public with a renewable resource like solar energy to grow beyond expected. What about SEPA you might ponder? SEPA is working towards a Electrical Market that can conserve on money for solar action on pricing per panel. To take it a step further, one can predict that SEPA may even help in the Publicly Supported Solar Loan Programs that CESA runs for inform state and municipal officials about best practices and the various approaches to opening up the lending marketplace for residential Per Travis Lowder Guide for States and With the compromise to create a healthier planet, CESA and SEPA could market a comparative advantage for each to specialize in their own effort to create a SEPA helping fund the main campaign for creating a heavier use of solar power and CESA helping allow the use of this energy to be affordable, programs being able to grow and plans to expand to new limits, all of this is possible when both alliances work together. After all of this the public can rest knowing that their planet is becoming healthier while their incentive to save money for the future is helping grow the possibility for longer life on earth. Work Cited CESA: Clean Energy States  CESA: Clean Energy States Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Energy  Energy Efficiency Department of Energy. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lowder, Travis. Publicly Supported Solar Loan  A Guide for States and Municipalities (n.d.): n. pag. Web. Makonin, Stephen, Fred Popowich, and Bob Gill. The cognitive power meter: Looking beyond the smart  2013 26th IEEE Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering (CCECE) (2013): n. pag. Web. Smart Energy Research for Electric  SEPA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.