Ekaterina Artemyeva 1 ENC 1102 P1 Intermediate Draft 01/29/2017 Euthanasia For Terminally Ill Patients Today, we live in the world of advanced medicine and many techniques of curing ill persons, however, there are patients that carry some illnesses, which yet have no cure today. Those illnesses involve diseases such as cancer, Ebola and other diseases that cause unbearable pain for its carriers. As a consequence of terrible pain that does not let patients continue living normally, many of terminally sick patients are willing to end their lives with help of a physician. To be more specific, lethal injection is given to a patient who is in agony and willing to die in order to escape from unbearable pain. According to Tinna Smets, back to 1980s, Netherlands was the first country to offer a possible solution for such patients. In addition to a background and history of life-ending practices, Judith A. C. Rietjens argues in Journal of Bioethical Inquiry about one of the reason why Netherlands decided to legalize euthanasia. He stated that there was a physician, who helped to end her life due to unbearable pain after repeatedly asking for requests of euthanasia. The physician eventually received a sentence and while in prison, the court decided to open a regulation about euthanasia by that a physician does not always have to keep a patient alive against his or her will, when faced with pointless (A. Judith, 272). This is how euthanasia was first introduced. According to Soumya Karlamangla, regarding United States of America, euthanasia has been illegal for the most of the times; however, assisted suicide is now legal in some states, such as Colorado, Oregon, Washington, California, Vermont and Montana. In 1996, Oregon Ekaterina Artemyeva 2 ENC 1102 P1 Intermediate Draft 01/29/2017 became the first state to acquire the practice. Today this topic causes a lot of tension between different groups who has diverse points of view about euthanasia. The first group is the terminally ill persons who wish to end their lives because of intolerable pain and the other is the doctors who has given a Hippocratic Oath and do not wish to violate the medical ethics. However, there might be a possible solution that could be suitable for both ill patients and doctors, which is palliative care (B. Broeckaert). One of the stakeholders who are interested in assisted suicide the most is incurable ill patients, who are willing to end their lives and die with dignity. There was a research conducted by Ezekiel J. Emanuel, which was aimed on collecting data about experiences and attitudes of oncology patients. The author of researched interviewed around 700 people in total, 155 of which were oncology patients. One of the findings was that around two thirds of patients found assisted suicide and euthanasia acceptable but only for patients who undergoing constant pain. On the other hand, there were also oncology patients who found it less acceptable because of the burden on the family of the sick. In addition, less than 15% of oncology patients had a serious discussion about the possibilities of euthanasia and assisted suicide with their physicians. Moreover, the research has also found that since 1990s public support of physician assisted suicide and euthanasia has increased from 48% to 69%. In addition, there was also another research that has ben conducted by Hilde Buiting, who examined around 160 files of reported assisted suicide cases that have been approved by review committee. The study was Ekaterina Artemyeva 3 ENC 1102 P1 Intermediate Draft 01/29/2017 mainly focused on what makes the patient choose to die and what kind of symptoms they are undergoing. One of the results was that around 23% of patients had repeatedly requested an approval for assisted suicide due to the fact that they were experiencing unremitting pain. According to the research, the arguments of some of the patients were that they had constant pain, fatigue, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, sense of confusion and fear. Moreover, some of the results were reporting that 20% of patients had lost some functions such as language, appetite and swallowing capacity, however, are mentally healthy. Another argument of why patients did not wish to continue living is that because their life had lost all the quality and they were feeling as hey were putting burden on their family. In other words, terminally ill patients did not wish to continue living mostly because of the pain they were experiencing, and the burden on their families. On the other hand, there is also another stakeholder in the issue, who shares a different point of view, which are doctors. According to Doctors Opposed to Euthanasia (DOE) organization, they believe that euthanasia or assisted suicide creates a lot more problems then it claimed to solve. Their counterarguments are that as a consequence of legalizing euthanasia in some countries, it had caused loss of trust in doctor-paient relationship, meaning that now when a patient is terminally ill, they would not believe in a doctor as a saver; but rather then someone who can help them to die to escape from the constant pain and other symptoms as listed above. Moreover, they believe it causes the conflicts between families since the relatives of the sick will not accept the practice. Ekaterina Artemyeva 4 ENC 1102 P1 Intermediate Draft 01/29/2017 According to the British Medical Journal, doctors are also against euthanasia because of the accepted code of medical ethics, which is called Hippocratic oath. They strongly believe that even in a very serious case such as terminally ill patient, goal is to help the patient and provide necessary treatment, and not to end life. As stated in Hippocratic Oath: will neither give a deadly drug to anybody who asked for it, nor will I make a suggestion to this This suggests that if a doctor will be helping a patient with euthanasia, she or he will directly violate the accepted code of ethics of medicine. Nonetheless, there could be a potential solution that would benefit both doctors that sworn Hippocratic Oath and hopelessly terminally ill patients with constant pain wishing to end their lives. According to World Health Organization (WHO) Expert Committee, there is an alternative to euthanasia, which is palliative care. The purpose of palliative care is to ease the physical and psychological pain of loneliness of the patient. The WHO concluded, ...with the development of modern methods of palliative care, legalization of euthanasia is unnecessary. Now that a practical alternative to death in pain exists, there should be concentrated efforts to implement programs of palliative care, rather than yielding to pressure for legal  Here the members of the WHO organization suggest that is there is an alternative such as palliative care, why consider euthanasia? R. Lamerton concluded in of the Dying Priority that palliative care would relief most of the symptoms of the dying and will provide with psychological help as well. Moreover, palliative care would also exempt doctors from violating the Ekaterina Artemyeva 5 ENC 1102 P1 Intermediate Draft 01/29/2017 medical ethics. As stated above, palliative care is a possible solution to the conflict between patients with no hope and doctors who are faithful to their oath. Ekaterina Artemyeva 6 ENC 1102 P1 Intermediate Draft 01/29/2017 Work Cited Alternatives to  Alternatives to Euthanasia The Life Resources Charitable Trust. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Broeckaert, Bert, and Rien Janssens. Palliative Care and  Ethical Perspectives 9.2 (2002): 156-75. Web. Buiting, Hilde, Johannes Van Delden, Bregje Onwuteaka-Philpsen, Judith Rietjens, Mette Rurup, Donald Van Tol, Joseph Gevers, Paul Van Der Maas, and Agnes Van Der Heide. Reporting of euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide in the Netherlands: descriptive  BMC Medical Ethics. BioMed Central, Oct. & nov. 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ezekiel J. Emanuel MD. Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted  Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide Oncology JAMA The JAMA Network. N.p., 05 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smets, Tinne, et al. The Medical Practice Of Euthanasia In Belgium And The Netherlands: Legal Notification, Control And Evaluation  Health Policy 90.(2009): 181-187. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rietjens, Judith A. C., Paul J. Van Der Maas, Bregje D. Onwuteaka-Philipsen, Johannes J. M. Van Delden, and Agnes Van Der Heide. Two Decades of Research on Euthanasia from the Netherlands. What Have We Learnt and What Questions  Journal of Bioethical Inquiry. Springer Netherlands, Sept. 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ekaterina Artemyeva 7 ENC 1102 P1 Intermediate Draft 01/29/2017 Palliative Doctors Are Against  BMJ: British Medical Journal 1993: 267. JSTOR Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.