Lauren Osenton ENC1102.088 Bianca Hernandez 1/29/17 Non-renewable vs. Renewable energy Fossil fuels and clean energy are two subjects that have been debated for years. The U.S. has been using fossil fuels for so long so most people are accustomed to them but depleting and alternative energy is better for the environment. Future generations are going to struggle for energy sources since fossil fuels are depleting and the government supporting alternative energy as much as they are supporting the use of fossil fuels. The American Petroleum Institute, or API, is an organization that promotes the use of oil and natural gas safely. API works to improve air quality while meeting the fuel demands of the nation. API conducts a lot of research to find ways to help improve air quality. API is also promoting natural gas and states that natural gas is the of our API has worked to create millions of jobs in the petroleum industry and according to IHS Global Insight, the natural gas industry has created over 3 million jobs. President Donald Trump has repeatedly said that he does not believe in global warming, which could cause the production of renewable energy to come to a halt and for the use of fossil fuels to increase even more. Greenpeace is a program that uses peaceful protest to bring awareness to a plethora of environmental issues. Greenpeace supports renewable and clean energy. Gabe Wisniewski, the director of energy campaigns for Greenpeace in the U.S., calls Greenpeace an organization that afraid to challenge corporations or the government and speak the truth about what is happening. Greenpeace wants to a U.S. powered by 100% renewable and to do that, they have several running campaigns. One campaign is called It in the and this campaign works to inform the public of the detrimental effects of using coal, oil, and natural gas. According to Greenpeace, coal is of the most polluting energy sources out Since coal and other fossil fuels have such a negative impact of the environment, it is suggested that we invest more in renewable energy. Greenpeace also has a campaign that is working to make the U.S. 100% renewable energy. To do this, Greenpeace is partnering with large companies and owners of communities to help them power their area with renewable energy. When big companies, like google, rely 100% on renewable energy, it leads the way for many other places as well. Not only is renewable energy good for the environment, but it also helps the economy. Greenpeace states that the industry employs more people than coal also much safer. Most greenhouse gas emissions come from the burning of fossil fuels, which is ruining our ozone. a chain reaction with many devastating effects. The American Petroleum Institute and Greenpeace are promoting two opposite products in two opposite ways. The API is geared more towards investors in fossil fuels while Greenpeace is working towards informing the public. API works with large companies and Greenpeace protests with citizens. These organizations yet come to a compromise because working towards different things. Greenpeace would rather better the environment, while API would rather make money and stay relevant to the wealthy people in the U.S. As a compromise, the U.S. should slowly transition into a country that relies on renewable energy. During the transition, with the money made from renewable energy, fossil fuel companies could turn their land into sites for wind or solar plants, and start to gain money from that. Transitioning into a country that relies on renewable energy will help better the environment and economy for future generations by reducing global warming and creating jobs. Works Cited Global Greenpeace.org Api.org Greenpeace: Trump is a  UPI Security & Terrorism 2016: General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. American Petroleum Institute Holds A News Teleconference On Hydraulic Fracturing  Financial Markets Regulation Wire (2016): General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.