Justin Cox Adam Carter ENC 1102 1/29/2017 Low-income families across America are slowly being driven out of their homes due to an increase in rent rates and the overall living wage in their neighborhoods; this process is known as gentrification. Beyond wealthier residents, gentrification also brings a culture change to communities filled with poor families. In response, Right to the City was founded in late 2007 with the purpose of protecting communities facing gentrification. Right to the City (RTTC) is a non-profit organization which advocates for the practice of land and housing prices being independent from market speculation. On the other hand, landlords are advocates for gentrification because it allows them to maximize profits. If there is a desire from potential residents to pay more for the same living space a low-income family currently occupies, then landlords hesitate to take advantage of the opportunity. This  forces us to ask ourselves whether or not profitability outweighs right to housing. The laws of natural selection may or may not apply to the human race. Regardless, it is our moral obligation to empathize with and assist those who are less fortunate than us. With that said, it is easy to determine why Right to the City believes that housing a commodity but a human , and I would have to completely agree. This is why Landlords should be restricted from vacating residents for the sole purpose of maximizing profits. Instead, Landlords should only be allowed to increase rent rates relative to the residents income in order to achieve a compromise between the two parties. Right to the biggest issue with gentrification is that it appears intentions are racially motivated. Although the displacement of low-income families has nothing to do with race, history and statistics may show otherwise. This is due to the fact that the majority of towns that are facing gentrification are predominantly black, yet African Americans make up a minority of the population. According to Lance Freeman, author of Goes the Hood: Views of Gentrification from the Ground Up, the two cities facing the worst case of gentrification are Harlem and Clinton Hill. Of which, the percentage of residents who are black is 81% and 100%, respectively (Freeman, Lance. Goes the Hood: Views of Gentrification from the Ground Up). African Americans in the United States only make up 13.3% of the population (United States Quick Facts). As you can see, if is clear why Right to the City believes gentrification is race related. In order to combat that, my compromise eliminates the possibility of race playing a role in residency by solely focusing on their income. Low-income families certainly have the right to remain housed, but landlords have just as much a right to increase rent rates according to market demand. With this said, the benefits of maintaining low-income residents outweighs the negatives which derive from putting the families out on the streets. Homelessness can lead to a multitude of consequences, that not only affect the individual, but also the surrounding community. According to Sandro Galea of Boston University, individuals who are have premature than those who are appropriately housed, with injuries, unintentional overdose, and extreme weather events being important drivers of this Sandro. Homelessness, Its Consequences, and Its ). In other words, one is much more prone to health risk and mortality when homeless. In the same article, Galea also states that adults are also at greater risk of use and compared with the general (Galea, Sandro). The potential outcomes of taking a family out of their homes certainly outweighs a desire to increase profits. It is vital that low-income families remain housed in order to maintain their mental and physical health. If we take into account each situation, instead of standardizing rent rates, many families will no longer be at risk of losing their homes. not suggesting lowering prices, but instead increasing prices relative to each income. This will maintain affordability amongst low-income families and reduce their risk of becoming homeless. John Butin of Slate magazine also recognizes that all too often fail to fit remedies to the John. Gentrification Is a ). In other words, there are no policy in existence (or very few) that set rates based on the occupants income. This portion of the compromise provides landlords with an opportunity to increase profits while maintaining residency of the current tenants. In order to fulfill the compromise, both parties will have to come to a mutual understanding that their individual demands will not be fully met. Landlords have every right to raise rent rates relative to current market prices. With this said, tenants also have the right to not be stripped of their homes due to their inability to keep up with price increases; especially if they built a reputation for being a tenant. Implementing a system which allows landlords to increase profits while simultaneously preserving the current tenants will satisfy both of the parties desires. Allowing landlords to raise rent rates relative to the tenants income will provide both parties with a portion of their desires; landlords are making slightly greater profits and tenants remained housed. Bibliography: Phillips, Dawn, and Mark Swier. Mission &  to the City . N.p., Jan. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Freeman, Lance. Goes the Hood: Views of Gentrification from the Ground Up . Philadelphia: Temple U, 2006. Print. Buntin, John. Gentrification Is a  Magazine . N.p., 14 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Galea, Sandro. Homelessness, Its Consequences, and Its  of Public Health . Boston University School of Public Health, 28 Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. UNITED STATES QuickFacts from the US Census Bureau . USA Government, 5 July 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.