Accountability of non-profit Charity Nowadays, charity became a heated top among society. The starting point of charity is helping people with difficulties. However, as charity organization turns into large-scale and common, many fraud activity appears successively in non-profit charity. a non-profit organization like UNICEF claim they are non-profit organizations. On the UNICEF official website, it states the mission of them is to protect children with most disadvantage and to work with others to overcome the obstacles that poverty, violence, disease and discrimination place in a What is more, they also save children from the bad environment as they declare on their official website, involve everyone in creating protective environments for children. We are present to relieve suffering during emergencies, and wherever children are threatened because no child should be exposed to violence, abuse or exploitation. However, In the article Fraud and Corruption in U.S. Nonprofit Entities: A Summary of Press Reports 2008-2011, Deborah S. Archambeault1, Sarah Webber1, and Janet Greenlee states that fraud occurs highly on business and non-profit organizations, Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) estimates in its most recent fraud study, covering for-profit and nonprofit organizations, that the typical organization loses 5% of its revenues to fraud each year (ACFE, . People donate their assets to the charity organization but subscribers can not know where their money exactly used in. Because the big amount of fraud activities exist in a current charity organization, not all those money were used on philanthropy. Thus charity organization should public their financial statement, at the mean time, provide information to the public in order to improve awareness of people, help them to choice normative charity organization and severely punish corruption of charity. On the one hand, a non-profit charity like UNICEF organization aim to assist the child, and poor people. And ACFE organization is to reveal the dark side of the charity. UNICEF is a non-profit organization, this organization appeal to people to join them and make a contribution to the society, such as help children who live under the bad environment or suffering in violence. works in 190 countries and territories to protect the rights of every child. UNICEF has spent 70 years working to improve the lives of children and their families. Defending rights throughout their lives requires a global presence, aiming to produce results and understand their Not only have set up donation activities, they also provide a chance to people to volunteer with them and public their stories and created a social platform on the social media, so that people can speak out their own voice and see what this organization did. However, an association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) are contrary with UNICEF organization, since UNICEF is one of the non-profit charity organization. The aim of the ACFE is to investigate fraud in the charity organization, nonprofit sector is particularly sensitive to the negative effects of fraud. In terms of fraud exposure, many nonprofits lack sophisticated internal What is more, each type of fraud is possible in any organization, nonprofits are particularly susceptible to asset misappropriation, as these organizations often lack basic controls that would help to prevent or detect this type of What is more, non-profit organization is difficult to investigate, the only way is through survey, the ACFE data provide a helpful point of reference on fraud, generalizability to nonprofits is limited because the data presented are survey-based aggregations of information from the nonprofit and for-profit sectors, with only about 11% of the fraud cases included in the study involving nonprofits (ACFE, Thus in view, non-profit charity organization exist a high possibility of fraud. Even thought this two organization seems opposite each other at some point, both of them still share common ground, since they both agree to help people with difficulty. Since the goal of non profit charity organization is to help people with disadvantage, UNICEF states the world, millions of children are denied these rights and deprived of what they need to grow up healthy and strong because of their place of birth; because of their race, ethnicity or gender; or because they have a disability or live in And the mission of ACFE is to detect fraud in order to reduce fraud rate and make sure people need help could receive all the money donated by subscribers. However, from official website, we can see that it is a big organization. However, except big non-profit like UNICEF, much more small non-profit organization exist in our society, nonprofits are often small organizations with very limited resources, even a minimal dollar loss can have a significant effect on the organization and its ability to carry out its For the charity they need to earn back their reputation or build a good reputation for themselves, provide information to prove themselves are trustable negative reputational effects of a scandal involving a nonprofit organization can negatively impact future contributions (Petrovits, Shakespeare, & Shih, 2011; Prakash & Gugerty, Advertise their goal, and some detailed information to let people know what they are doing, where did they use money in. Write or make a video to improve awareness of the public about how to justify normative charity and fraus charity. For ACEF organization they only can use survey to detect fraud charity, so that they can only get limited information in a long-term research. They might work with a normative charity organization to get more information and do more survey . All in all, even though ACFE and UNICEF Organization have differences and contradictions, they both aim to help people with difficulties. Although many fraud activities occur in some non-profit charity among these activities appears because of people want enrichment for their own interest. A normative organization like UNICEF should work together with ACEF organization to against those fraud activities and enrich knowledge about charity in order to help them make the right decision when they intend to donate. Because many children are in a cycle of disadvantage, children from the poorest households, like Sumiya, are effectively pre-selected for heightened risks of disease, hunger, illiteracy, and poverty based on factors entirely outside their control. They are nearly two times as likely to die before the age of 5, and in many cases, more than twice as likely to be stunted as children from the richest households. They are also far less likely to complete school, meaning that those who survive this precarious start find little opportunity to break free from their poverty and to shape their own In this way, both of them could achieve their common goal, which is let people need help could really get help from charity organization and reduce fraud charity organization. Works Cited Archambeault, Deborah S., Sarah Webber, and Janet Greenlee. Fraud And Corruption In U.S. Nonprofit  Nonprofit & Voluntary Sector Quarterly 44.6 (2015): 1194. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. UNICEF  Home UNICEF. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.