Vilas Ramachandran U78082675 [Type Equitable Solution to the Dakota Access Project This nation has always faced a difficult choice between promoting capitalism and upholding the rights of its citizens. The theory that promotes free business practices does so to attract companies to innovate and thus increase the standard of living in the country. However, this has not come without putting in jeopardy the responsibility to those affected by those business practices. Recently, the very balance between capitalism and the rights of property owners has come into question over a pipeline in the Mid-West. The Dakota Access Pipeline Project would extend 1,168 miles, across four states, and carry crude oil to another pipeline that connects to the Gulf of Mexico (Kennedy, The Dakota Access Pipeline). The pipeline runs through farms, small towns, and tribal land. The project, which was approved by the Army Corps of Engineers in July of 2016, is said to reduce transportation costs by millions and to be a safer more efficient method to transport crude oil. The major issue with the pipeline is the potential environmental impacts to the communities and towns that it runs through. The company that is currently heading the construction is Energy Transfer Partners. They claim that the pipeline the safest and most environmentally sensitive way to transport crude oil from domestic wells to American consumers (Dakota Access Pipeline Facts, On the other hand, environmentalists, mainly the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, have expressed fear an oil leak would threaten water quality for many members of the tribal community (Whyte, Native American People Resistance Is About Climate In order to successfully understand the current situation in North Dakota, which is where most of the current protests are occurring, a better understanding of the backgrounds of both Energy Transfer Partners and the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is vital. Energy Transfer Partners is a Texas based company, which was established in 1995. They own and operate about 71,000 miles Vilas Ramachandran U78082675 [Type of natural gas pipeline across the country. The corporation currently owns the largest percentage of the pipeline at about 36.75 percent (Two Bulls, The Financial Powers Behind the Dakota Access Pipeline Must Be Confronted). Thus, they have the most influence over how, where, and when the pipeline will be built. Inherently, they are most invested in seeing that the pipeline be built and receive the most criticism for the project. On the other hand, the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe was established in 1868 and consists of territory in both North and South Dakota (Standing Rock, 2016). The members of the Sioux Tribe resist the pipeline mainly because it runs through Lake Oahe, which is Standing primary source of drinking water. They fear that one day the pipeline may leak causing contamination of the sacred lake and their source of water. Both groups have much to lose and thus their apprehension to the other sides view point is justified. To Energy Transfer Partners, more than a billion dollars is at stake and potential income for years to come. To the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, centuries of history as well as the sanctity and safety of their sacred source of water is at stake because of the pipeline. However, a solution is viable through civil and disciplined negotiation. The conflict can be resolved without a massive economic loss to Energy Transfer Partners, by rerouting the pipe by a few miles and building a refinery. This would protect the main aspects of capitalism, while also protecting the rights of private landowners. Reason for Further Contention For the past couple months, since the Army Corps approved the pipeline, the two sides have refused to see the merits of the other side. In fact, according to Bob Eccles from Forbes, Energy Transfer Partners have not taken the concerns about sacred lands and water seriously (Eccles, Standing Rock Protest: Finding the Long-Term Solution). Clearly, this leads to further Vilas Ramachandran U78082675 [Type resistance from the tribe as they feel as if their grievances are not being addressed in a professional and respectful manner. Furthermore, like most controversial issues, the Dakota Access Pipeline has become extremely polarized and this polarization makes compromising that much more difficult to execute. The recent narrative of politicians, reporters, and even ordinary individuals via social media has made the resolution to this problem convoluted. Individuals who have, also, made their voices heard through the destruction of construction equipment make coming up with a reasonable resolution difficult. Another major reason as to why there is yet to be a compromise is because individuals, who have not done much research, enter the conversation and make incorrect assertions that influence others. Both Energy Transfer Partners and Standing Rock Sioux Tribe need to stop viewing each other as their rivals and instead see the merits of each arguments. Furthermore, individuals need to avoid further polarization of the issue and have meaningful discussions about the pipeline. A member of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, when asked about a possible solution to the problem, said that feel that we can reach a peaceable resolution but that all sides need to be talking to each other, the eyes of the world are on North Dakota right now (Whittle, We Opened at Standing Rock, My Fellow Native Americans Make  Common Ground Between the Two Parties Both the Energy Transfer Partners and the Standing Rock Sioux tribe have common ground that can make reaching a fair solution easier. They both want successful and thriving communities in North Dakota. For the Energy Transfer Partners, a successful community ensures that their business continue to be profitable and they can safely invest their money in the state. For the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, a successful and thriving community ensures that their children and future generations can live safely and can attain their true measure of happiness. There is always Vilas Ramachandran U78082675 [Type common ground between two parties, even if at times the motives behind the common ground are different. Possible Solution to the Issue For months, many organizations have attempted to find an equitable solution to the problem that is economically feasible for Energy Transfer Partners and environmentally acceptable for the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe. A viable option seems to have arisen from politicians in North Dakota and some members of the tribe. The solution that they came up with involves rerouting the pipeline, so that it runs north of Bismarck (Nowatzki, Dem Solution to DAPL: Build a Refinery, Reroute Pipeline). This route was already considered, but was abandoned because the current route is cheaper. However, Energy Transfer Partners would still be making a profit off the pipeline even with the increased cost from the alternative route. Furthermore, the proposal also calls for a new state-owned oil refinery, but private investors would also be able to fund the refinery. This would save the jobs that cutting the pipeline would eliminate and reduce the export of crude oil. The only downside of this plan is the amount of time it would take to construct the refinery and reroute the pipeline. However, there is no viable plan that can satisfy both sides and be achieved quickly. Rerouting the pipeline and constructing the refinery ensures that the Standing Rock Sioux water source is protected and it ensures that Energy Transfer Partners still stand to make an enormous profit. A meaningful and equitable compromise requires both sides to give up something that they hold dear to them. Compromise is how this country has developed and is the reason why major problems have been solved without much violence. The Dakota Access Pipeline Project has become one of the most polarizing issues in the United States. However, without both sides coming Vilas Ramachandran U78082675 [Type together to settle the issues through an equitable legal remedy to avoid more conflict; this issue will continue to be a point of controversy for years to come. Rerouting the pipeline, while also building the refinery ensures a peaceful and just resolution to an issue that has already gone on for far too long. The time has surely come for the two sides to set aside their differences and ensure that the community is able to live without a constant state of chaos. Vilas Ramachandran U78082675 [Type Works Cited Eccles, Bob. Standing Rock Protest: Finding The Long-Term  Forbes, www.forbes.com/sites/bobeccles/2016/11/22/standing-rock-protest-finding-the-long- term-solution/#5bce5ef5ee96. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Energy Transfer Partners. Corporate  Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. ---. The Dakota Access Pipeline is the Best Way to Move Bakken Crude Oil to  Dakota Access Pipeline Facts, daplpipelinefacts.com/. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Kennedy, Michael. The Dakota Access  Earthjustice, earthjustice.org/cases/2016/the- dakota-access-pipeline. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Nowatzki, Mike. Dem Solution to DAPL: Build a Refinery, Reroute  INFORUM, 22 Sept. 2016, www.inforum.com/news/4121250-dem- candidates-solution-dapl-build-refinery-reroute-pipeline. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Standing Rock Sioux Tribe.  standingrock.org/history/. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Two Bulls, Krystal, et al. The Financial Powers Behind the Dakota Access Pipeline Must Be  Common Dreams, www.commondreams.org/views/2016/10/12/financial- powers-behind-dakota-access-pipeline-must-be-confronted. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Whittle, Joe. Opened at Standing Rock, My Fellow Native Americans Make History US News The  The Guardian, 30 Nov. 2016, www.theguardian.com/us- news/2016/nov/30/standing-rock-indigenous-people-history-north-dakota-access- pipeline-protest. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Vilas Ramachandran U78082675 [Type Whyte, Kyle P. Native American People Resistance Is About Climate  U.S. News.com, U.S. News, 19 Sept. 2016, www.usnews.com/news/articles/2016-09-19/why- the-native-american-pipeline-resistance-in-north-dakota-is-about-climate-justice. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017.