Acevedo 1 Marisela Acevedo Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Factory Farming Factory farming is an industrial operation that is dedicated to raising very large numbers of animals to use for food. Currently, more than 99% of farm animals in the United States are raised in these factory farms (Farm Animal Welfare). The characteristics of factory farms include having an excessive size, condemning animals indoor with minimal room, and being mutilated to adapt to farm conditions (Grace Communications). Factory farming allows for greater availability and variety of animals to be produced at a cheaper cost. The biggest benefit of factory farming is that of providing a large amount of food for society (Green Garage). To companies like Smithfield, producing a vast amount of food is of great benefit for them. On the other hand, organizations like People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals(PETA) focus on changing the way people think about all this food production. They bring to the attention of viewers about the animal cruelty that is happening on these farms. Between producing more food for the people and protecting the rights of these animals, it is easy to see that a compromise must be reached to produce quality food that does not involve putting defenseless animals through extreme cruelty. Smithfield Foods is a packaging meats company, who is the largest pork processor and hog producer. They mainly concentrate on producing food the right way, while treating animals right and humane. Their vision is to transform their business into a world-class consumer packaged goods company. They provide animal care, community involvement, and follow food Acevedo 2 safety and quality programs. They commit to doing things right, guide through three simple principles: Responsible Operations, Transparency, and Innovation People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is an animal rights organization that focuses on the areas where animals suffer most intensely for long periods. These areas can include the food industry, clothing trade, laboratories and the entertainment industry. PETA does its work through research, animal rescue, public education and cruelty investigations. This organization believes animals are not meant for humans eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other way The founders of this organizations wanted to find a way to change society by promoting a healthy vegan diet. Since the beginning, they have protested publicly the cruelty animals go through, and have found ways to expose what truly goes on behind the walls of animal laboratories. They have had lots of success in getting exposure and claiming rights for animals (PETA). PETA exposed Smithfield Foods when undercover footage using drones captured the environmental devastation caused by factory farming. Next to the factory, appeared a gigantic lake the size of four football fields of urine and feces. Inside the factory, however, female pigs went through constant cycles of forced pregnancy, newborns had their testicles ripped off, tails cut off and ears dismembered. Smithfield manipulated to make them grow bigger, which caused many of them to suffer from joint problems. When in the Smithfield Slaughterhouse, pigs were beings hung upside down, and their throats slit, in many instances, the pigs would still be alive when this was happening. After efforts from PETA to stop this cruelty, Smithfield said it would discontinue the use of small gestation crates, but later on, went back to using them (PETA). Acevedo 3 While Smithfield wants to produce top food for the people, and PETA wants to advocate for the cruelty animals go through in these factory farms, they share the desire of bringing a way for people to eat well. PETA advocated for going the vegan way, and Smithfield produces meat, but they still want people to eat right. The biggest issue for Smithfield is animal cruelty. It is understandable that factory farming produces a greater amount of food, but there should be a way for PETA and Smithfield to come to an agreement on the fair treatment of animals. For both PETA and Smithfield to flourish, animals in the hands of Smithfield need to be treated with better care. They should be allowed to have enough space to roam around, and when being put down, they should be killed without putting them through pain. The only way this will happen is if a law is passed that forces companies to produce quality animals without making them suffer. Creating regulations that must be strictly followed and maintained, to make sure workers are not abusing the animals would make a difference. They need a lot of inspectors constantly checking to see everything that is supposed to be happening, really is. Gestation crates should be permanently removed from these companies, and each company should only be allowed to have a specific amount of animals they can care for. Factory farming can be beneficial because it produces a great amount of food for society. It can be said that with the increasing population, without these factory farms, it would be very hard to feed the world. Huge companies profit from having a lot of animals in their company, but we realize the reality of what goes on behind the scenes of these sites. We eat food without knowing how it was produced and all the steps that were involved in putting a meal on your plate. While factory farms can be a great benefit, it can be a great suffering to the animals that are confined to these places. Many of these endure very harsh environments that do not allow Acevedo 4 them to behave like natural free animals. They are often beaten by workers and treated as if they were just a number. They are modified so that animals can produce more meat on their bodies, but unfortunately, this causes them to get diseases or not be able to get up because of the weight of their bodies. This happens with all types of animals such as pigs, chickens, cows, etc. That is why organizations such as PETA intervene so that animals can have a better quality of life. That is why, the only way for companies like Smithfield and organizations like PETA to be able to work together, is if Smithfield agrees to completely remove gestation crates and follow strict guidelines and regulations that allow for animals to not be put through a suffering process. Acevedo 5 Works Cited Farm Animal  ASPCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 History: Compassion in  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Http://greengarageblog.org/author/greengarageblogadmin. List of Top 19 Factory Farming Pros and  Green Garage. N.p., 19 Aug. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Factory  Factory Farming. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Foundation, GRACE Communications. Industrial Livestock  GRACE Communications Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.