Kelley 1 Jen Kelley Adam Carter English Composition II 29 January 2017 To Hear or not to Hear When a baby is born deaf or hard of hearing, the parents are left with a decision that has stirred up controversy: whether or not to give the baby cochlear implants. Cochlear implants are a device that allows a person to sense sound The debate revolves around the idea that doctors are viewing deafness as a disability that has a cure; however, people who are deaf see deafness as a growing culture. One of the main advocates for allowing the child to be emerged into the Deaf culture is the National Association of the Deaf (NAD). NAD is a civil rights organization that was created in the 1880s protecting the rights of the Deaf community. NAD recognizes that there are growing technologies making life run smoother for people who are deaf; however, they believe cochlear implants are appropriate for all people who are deaf. Furthermore, they fight the idea that a cure for deafness Statement on Cochlear On the other hand, there are organizations like Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing (AG Bell). AG Bell is an independent, nonprofit organization with the goal of enhancing listening and spoken language for the deaf and hard of hearing. AGB highly emphasizes the importance of cochlear implants Statement: Cochlear Although both of these organizations have different goals, a common ground can be found between the two. They both highlight the importance of early intervention for children born deaf or hard of hearing, as well as the importance of improving the quality of Kelley 2 life for these children. In order to reach an agreement between the National Association of the Deaf and the Alexander Graham Bell Association, they should first become empathetic to the other view and try to understand it. Then, there should be educational classes for parents to attend focused both on information about cochlear implants and the Deaf culture so the parents can be knowledgeable about both routes. NAD recognizes that parents do have a choice of whether or not to give their child cochlear implants; however, they agree with how doctors and media are treating it as a problem that needs to be solved. They write, implants do not eliminate deafness. An implant is not a and an implanted individual is still deaf. Cochlear implants may destroy what remaining hearing an individual may Statement on Cochlear Here, audience is the media, medical professionals, and parents of the deaf. NAD views deafness as a culture. Therefore, they agree with how doctors are trying to pull deafness out of a child. They are rebutting the way that medical professions go about dealing with children who are born deaf. Whether or not the child has an implant or not, NAD highly argues that people who are deaf can flourish just as much as anyone else in society. A strong advocate of this view is Robert Sparrow in the Journal of Political Philosophy. He writes about how the majority culture is imposing bias views on a minority culture. He sees that there may be a point in time where one needs to be (Sparrow 135). By majority culture, Sparrow is referring to the hearing culture. By minority culture, he is referring to the Deaf culture. As the cochlear implants become more advanced, the minority culture is getting smaller. Along with this, they also restrict the chance of being fully part of either of the cultures meaning the child will never fully be part of the hearing culture or the Deaf culture. Although Sparrow agree with how medical professionals are treating deafness, he does believe in the Kelley 3 integrity of people who are deaf to make their own decisions. AG Bell also emphasizes the importance of improving the quality of life for someone who is deaf, but in a different way. On the other end of the controversy is AG Bell, an organization that has been advocating for cochlear implants since the 1990s. AG Bell sees independence for a child born deaf or hard of hearing as only being achievable if he or she has the chance to fully interact with the hearing world. Their mission statement summarizes the importance of the acquisition of spoken language, the importance of knowing the risks and benefits of the cochlear implants, and the importance of early intervention Statement: Cochlear Here, AG audience is oriented toward parents who have a child who is deaf or hard of hearing. In comparison to view, AG Bell believes in the importance of being able to interact with the hearing world, and the earlier the child starts the better. A study that was done in a medical journal called Ear and Hearing confirms the importance of this. In their study, they found that children who got cochlear implants under 12 got higher scores on receptive and expressive language growth than children who got cochlear implants between 12 and 24 months (Dettman et al. 17). These results conclude that early intervention is in the best interest for a child if he or she is going to be implanted. Although this journal focuses on the importance of early intervention for implantation, they share the common goal with NAD about early intervention overall. The cochlear implant controversy has been long debated; however, the only way to move forward is finding a common goal both sides are arguing for. Both NAD and AG Bell highly emphasize the importance of early intervention. AG Bell argues the importance of early intervention to improve the results of the cochlear implants, and NAD argues the importance of it to learn sign language. Along with this, they also both agree on the idea of improving the quality Kelley 4 of life for people who are born deaf or hard of hearing. According to NAD, they will recognize any technological advancement that will improve the quality of life for people who are born deaf Statement on Cochlear By technological advancements, they are referring to items like text telephones. AG Bell finds the way of improving the quality of life for people who are deaf or hard of hearing is being able to fully communicate with the hearing society Statement: Cochlear Although they are both trying to improve the lives of people who are Deaf in different ways, they have similar motives. What would be in the best interest of both of these groups would be for the groups to recognize each views, and educational classes for the parents before making the choice to implant the child or not. The first way of dealing with this dispute is having both sides eliminate preconceived notions about the other point of view, and then educational classes for the parents. According to the transformative model, mediation practice consists of providing opportunities for empowerment and recognition. Empowerment occurs when the parties gain greater clarity about their goals, resources, options, and (Mareschal 428). Therefore, for the cochlear implant debate, the first step to solving the debate is putting one another in each shoes. AG Bell needs to look at deafness in the cultural form, and NAD needs to look at the benefits of being able to fully communicate with the hearing society. Then, education classes for both sides need to be available for parents to seek when trying to make the decision. A beneficial set up would be one similar to the set up for school-based alcohol and other drug prevention programs. Although cochlear implants and drug prevention are completely different, awareness is one of the ultimate goals. The set up outlined in this journal is adopt a curriculum, address multiple strategies, choose instructional leaders, allow for active participation, and modify (Elmquist 16). The curriculum for the cochlear implant educational Kelley 5 class would involve education about the risks and benefits of cochlear implants, and it would also involve learning about the Deaf community and American Sign Language (ASL). Addressing multiple strategies is vital for the resolution for this debate. The multiple strategies are the choices the parents are making for their child. Awareness of all the strategies so the parents can make an educated decision is needed. Then for instructional leaders, there should be a medical professional like an audiologist, and someone part of the Deaf community. The parents should be allowed to ask questions, and discuss experiences with the other people in the group. Finally, as the program moves along, modifying it to better fit the needs of the parents is also needed. By having educational classes for the parents, it allows the parent to more confidently make a decision for their child. There will always be activists on both sides of this argument that will be blind to the other side; however, if raised awareness of both sides and less biases, the extreme views can be decreased. Although neither of the sides can ultimately win this, in their best interest to understand the alternative view. also a necessity that parents can have resources available to them to help make the decision, like the education classes outlined above. This education class for parents will meet the needs for the common goal of both of the organizations, which is improving the quality of life for the person who is deaf or hard of hearing. Parents will be able to make the unique decision of what they believe is best for their child more confidently. Kelley 6 Works Cited Cochlear  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 21 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dettman, Shani J., Darren Pinder, Robert J. S. Briggs, Richard C. Dowell, and Jaime R. Leigh. Communication Development in Children Who Receive the Cochlear Implant Younger than 12 Months: Risks versus  Ear and Hearing 28. (2007). Web. Elmquist, D. L. School-Based Alcohol and Other Drug Prevention Programs: Guidelines for the Special  Intervention in School and Clinic 27.1 (1991): 10-19. Web. Mareschal, Patrice M. Solving Problems and Transforming Relationships: The Bifocal Approach to  The American Review of Public Administration 33.4 (2003): 423-48. Web. Position Statement: Cochlear Implants in  Position Statement: Cochlear Implants in Children AG Bell Listening and Spoken Language. Alexander Graham Bell Association. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Position Statement on Cochlear  National Association of the Deaf. 6 Oct. 2000. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Sparrow, Robert. The Journal of Political Philosophy 32.2 (2005): 135-52. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Kelley 7 Kelley 8 Trying to remove preaffirmed notions