Felix Rodriguez ENC 1102 1/29/2017 Education is a very important thing in our nation. The way we teach our kids has a direct impact on the world around as they grow up. The educated usually set the standard for all those who are not as fortunate. The more students are educated the more impact we as a nation can have on the world around us. This leads to America designing something called which is a set of standards each state has to follow to allow students to be on a more even playing field. However, this has been met with opposition. As you set standards on education you limit those who can exceed those standards and you leave behind those who can not keep up. However, with a set standard there is confusion on what a child will learn, the material is all the same. It becomes easier to teach and easier to have less overlap between two children in the same grade. These arguments and more have been brought up before in the state of Florida in regards to this new teaching system. Exploring these lines of thought and more will determine if there is something that can be done to appease both sides or if some middle ground in between for these groups of people to reach a compromise. On one side you have an organization called FreedomWorks, which is grassroots organization, which feels that this is another move to have the federal government in every facet of our lives. If you take one look at their webpage it clearly states the following : desire for less government, lower taxes, and more economic Freedomworks is very big into giving the states the power to decide what works best for their own education On the other side you have the government who clearly defines its feelings that we need to motivate a very stagnant education system. It would take note to notice this the biggest pusher of this side of the argument would be the people within the Obama administration rather than the newly appointed Trump administration. administration might have a different view on how to approach education but due to the lack of plentiful concrete information this will focus more on the battle between the two sides since the Obama administration took hold. On the side against Common core you have the group of government officials who stand against most of the policies that Obama tried to put into place and of course the organization mentioned before called FreedomWorks. Their argument states that it is incorrect to other states into adopting their ways of how they think education should be done and implemented. They take it a step further saying that government should not even have a hand in the education and that the way this should be approached should be protected under the 10th amendment where any powers not granted are reserved for the states. The biggest weakness to this side of the argument is that they have yet to truly purpose a powerful and sound convincing argument that can replace Common Core if they had their way. They bring up points however saying that with standardization of the education system it pushes states into a tough spot because if they do not adopt the standardization then they lose federal grant money that helps fund their own schools among other things. As Cory Turner said in a piece for the NPR, said, President Obama did use federal dollars, through the Race to the Top program, to encourage (critics prefer ) states to adopt new, more rigorous standards. And, in the throes of a downturn, that extra school money was a powerful This idea of thinking that states are being placed into a standardization of teach is something that is also brought to light in a report done at the University of Colorado. William Mathis, a director of Education and Public Interests at the University of Colorado states that one of the biggest critics against common core is that with the standardization of the education is that you children into a narrow scope of testable material, and that needs are far greater than that and should be allowed more On the other side of this argument is the government with their own supporters who believe that lately because of the lack of a rigorous curriculum, states are allowed to devise their own programs. Since this happened it is figured that states are reaping the government money needed to fund their own state but cutting corners in important parts of education and at the same time undermining students in the long run. To take it a step further, in an article by US News they questioned Thomas Donohue, a man who is the president of the US Chamber of Commerce, where he stated, standards are not federal program or a federal mandate. It was created at the state level. Curriculum remains within the control of districts, school boards, school leaders and Donohue wrote. So he tries to argue that the fact that states are being strong armed or forced to follow a strict guideline is not true. He then further states that the people against it should, direct their outrage at school systems that tolerate low standards and churn out kids ill-prepared for college or a Another thing is that Common Core has already been implemented in 45 states, meaning that the change has already begun on a large scale. Since it already has begun the opposition has not been able to bring up a more viable replacement for Common Core. Also it can be heard on the news time and time again that students are unable to compete on a global market due to being less prepared for college after they leave high school. The government felt that it was finally time to raise the standard so that more students are able to gain an education that allows them to enter the global marketplace with a competitive advantage. Another thing that has to be looked at is the fact that not every student will be able to make it on a level that is considered for the global The goal of Common Core is to reach out to as many students as possible and bring them all to a level that considered acceptable for global competition. The government feels that because states have been given free reign to design whatever they want, it allowed too many students to fall to the wayside and have no chances of realizing their full potentials. The next question has to be asked is how a middle ground found in a situation where the two sides will not see the views of the other. Thankfully in an article mentioned earlier by William Mathis he outlines some possible reforms that can be made so that Common Core is not abolished but more practical and personally I can agree with. To summarize what William Mathis said he outlined three possible approaches: first, instead of treating Common Core as an end all be all of the education reform, treat it more as a guideline for schools that need improvement. For example, say a local high school is graded by the state and are considered a D or an F school then the Common Core curriculum would step in and attempt to bolster the school and its students. Second, give the Common Core program a more extensive look and reformation so that it can be acceptable by all parties and at the same time give the program a chance and experiment with parts or the complete components of Common Core so that they themselves can offer input that can better the program. Lastly, the article states that it is unwise to place such a strict program on schools because it can lead accountability issues. Since testing is not the only way to test how well a student is doing, to have a system that follows the testing as a means to determine if the student is learning would only make it more difficult for everyone involved. To summarize, it is not easy to find common ground on an issue that has caused quite a rift between two groups of people. With the people for Common Core stating that the states are just cutting corners and the people against it saying that the government is just trampling on state rights and are trying to impose their will, it is difficult to find something that both sides can come to terms with. However, when this issue is approached with a level head and a non biased view you could present Common Core as another alternative for school and areas that have students failing. If the method is not providing students with an adequate education then the standard that the government has come up with will help that school get back on track. I feel this solution provides both sides a reasonable way to fix this issue because at the end of the day both sides want our kids to be able to be successful in an ever growing competitive market. Work Cited Page Mathis, W. J. (2010, July). The Common  Standards Initiative: An Effective Reform Tool? Retrieved January 29, 2017, from http://nepc.colorado.edu/publication/common-core-standards Turner, C. (2016, November 10). Can A President Trump Get Rid Of Common Core? Retrieved January 29, 2017, from http://www.npr.org/sections/ed/2016/11/10/501426803/can-president-trump-get-rid-of-common- core Williams, J. P. (2014, February). Who is Fighting For Common Core? Retrieved January 29, 2017 from http://www.usnews.com/news/special-reports/a-guide-to-common-core/articles/2014/02/27/who- is-fighting-for-common-core Williams, J. P. (2014, February). Who is Fighting Against Common Core? Retrieved January 29, 2017 from http://www.usnews.com/news/special-reports/a-guide-to-common-core/articles/2014/02/27/who- is-fighting-against-common-core About the Standards. (2017, January). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from http://www.corestandards.org/about-the-standards/ FreedomWorks. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from http://www.freedomworks.org/about/about-freedomworks