Blichasz, 1 Joanie Blichasz Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Euthanasia/Assisted Suicide The debate over whether or not people should have the right to decide if they want to die on their own time and with their own hands instead of suffering has endured through decades. Some are for these people having the right to kill themselves or have others assist them in dying such as the Dignity in Dying. However, others believe that assisted killing is wrong and that one should die naturally such as the American Medical Association. Both organizations, the AMA and Dignity in Dying, should consider a compromise such as coming up with a law that benefits not only both sides but the people who want to die. The American Medical Association (AMA) believes that physician assisted suicide/euthanasia is wrong. To them we can help patients/people further their life and reduce pain through, but not limited to, ventilation, renal dialysis, chemotherapy, antibiotics, and artificial nutrition and To them have an obligation to relieve pain and suffering and to promote the dignity and autonomy of dying patients in their In other words, the AMA promotes physicians to care for their patients as best they can even though it could possibly hasten death, however, that does not include assisting in suicide. The AMA defines physician assisted suicide a physician facilitates a death by providing the necessary means and/or information to enable the Blichasz, 2 patient to perform the life-ending (Association). They also define euthanasia as administration of a lethal agent by another person to a patient for the purpose of relieving the intolerable and incurable (Association). Therefore, the AMA believes that physicians are healers and as such they should not assist in killing patients/people. According to an article by David Forrest, and the American Medical of euthanasia may reasonably query whether the terminally ill patient is really capable of deciding rationally what he wants, especially if he is slipping into a semi-conscious or comatose This quote favors the AMA point of view when it comes to euthanasia/assisted suicide because one could question whether someone who is in such a state would be capable of making a decision. The AMA brings up the public and what their perspective about assisted suicide/ euthanasia. The AMA believes that if patients have comfort, respect for patient autonomy, good communication, and adequate pain then this could decrease the demand that the public gives for euthanasia/assisted suicide. Physicians have an obligation to do no harm to their patients. If physicians were involved in assisted suicides this could create societal risk as the public would be less trusting of doctors if they believed they would also help someone die. Dignity in Dying is an organization that is for euthanasia/assisted suicide. The campaign slogan that appears on its main website page is over where we die, who is present and our treatment options. ACCESS to expert information on our options, good quality end-of-life care. CONTROL over how we die, our symptoms, pain relief and planning our own (Join the Campaign). This organization believes that people have a choice of when and how they want Blichasz, 3 to die, especially if they are terminally ill. They want their patients to be relieved of their pain and suffering that they have gone through. However, for them to do this they would need help which is why they came up with their campaign of choice, access, and control. According to the article Right to live vs right to by Suresh Math and Santosh Chaturvedi patients in a persistent vegetative state or else in chronic illness, do not want to be a burden on their family However, the medical field has gotten around this dilemma because of living wills, which allow the person who would be in such a state to say what he or she would like to happen if anything where to happen with them, such as being in a vegetative state, in order not to become a burden on their family. The two organizations do have some common ground between them. They both want what is best for the patient. Neither group wants a terminally ill patient to suffer in pain. Both organizations also believe in autonomy which is control over themselves. This means that they themselves can make decisions without being coerced into anything. The compromise to benefit not only the two organizations but the public is to come up with a law that has certain restrictions that the patients must pass in order for them to choose to die. The restrictions would include doing interviews of the patients that want to die to determine if they are mentally competent, as well as interviewing their family members to see if they are in agreement with the decision. Another restriction would be to consider the severity of their illness by using medical records and their testimony to verify their condition. The AMA officially declared that they any bill to legalize physician-assisted suicide or euthanasia, as these practices are fundamentally inconsistent with the role as a and However, in order for the compromise to work the AMA could possibly allow physicians to have a say in determining if a patient meets certain criteria such as the severity of Blichasz, 4 illness, mental status, and family acceptance, in order for the patient to choose assisted suicide as a medical remedy. In conclusion, the AMA and Dignity in Dying should come to the compromise of creating a law with certain restrictions that would be in place that allows for people to choose to die. They both have some common ground including the fact that they want best for the patient and that they both believe in autonomy, that might help them come to this conclusion. However, with the firm belief that they disapprove of any law condoning assisted suicide/euthanasia, they would definitely need to come up with something such as having the physicians have a say in the decision. Blichasz, 5 Work Cited Page American Medical Association, searchpf.ama-assn.org/SearchML/search.action. Association, American Medical. 5: OPINIONS ON CARING FOR PATIENTS AT THE END OF Cm-2016-Chapter-5-20161117, pp. www.ama- assn.org/sites/default/files/media-browser/code-of-medical-ethics-chapter-5.pdf. Coggon, John. AND THE CONTEXT OF DEBATE: VERSUS Medical law review 18.4 (2010): PMC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. American Medical Association, searchpf.ama- assn.org/SearchML/searchDetails.action?uri=%2FAMADoc%2FHOD.xml-0-497.xml. Forrest, D M. and the American Medical Canadian Medical Association Journal 131.6 (1984): Print. the Dignity in Dying, www.dignityindying.org.uk/. and American Medical Association, searchpf.ama- assn.org/SearchML/searchDetails.action?uri=%2FAMADoc%2FHOD.xml-0-1860.xml. Math, Suresh Bada, and Santosh K. Chaturvedi. Right to Life vs Right to The Indian Journal of Medical Research 136.6 (2012): Print.