Tatiana Tavlan Composition II Professor Carter 25 January 2017 Animal Entertainment When children go to parks such as Lowry Park Zoo, Sea World, Busch Gardens, and they tend to not think about the torture the animals endured by the trainers in order to perform tricks, about how the animals are kept in captivity their whole lives or how they were taken away from their homes in their natural habitat; they think of the positive things like how intelligent and endearing they are. However, as children grow older, they begin to watch documentaries on what occurs behind the scenes of these parks and they start to have a better understanding of what the animals have to experience. Although animal entertainment has progressively become an issue in society, a compromise where Sea World can allow PETA to ensure that animals are kept in a safe environment and are being treated with care, will allow the two organizations to be at peace with one another. PETA, otherwise known as People for the Ethical Treatment of is the largest animal rights organization in the world that includes more than five million members and supporters. They focus their attention on four areas such as the food industry, clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment industry. PETA is highly against using animals as entertainment and believe that they belong in the wildlife. Parks such as Sea World, captures the animals from their natural habitat, puts them in stuffy boxcar or semi-truck trailers and keeps them in a chained or caged in barren. Most of the time the enclosures are not sanitary for the animals and they start to become ill. Animals are forced to take antidepressants like Prozac because of a condition they develop known as This disease is caused from them being unconscious while being taken from one place to another. job is to make individuals more aware of this issue Tatiana Tavlan Composition II Professor Carter 25 January 2017 and their goal is to prevent the animals at the parks from being in critical conditions. The documentaries that show the animals at places like Sea World suffering and being tortured and the articles that explain the things that the animals have to endure on a daily basis infuriated PETA and motivated them to make a change. They began to sue Sea World after finding out that some of the animals had to be taken away from their homes as a baby and forced into small cages just so they can entertain other individuals. More and more people became aware of this issue, which caused PETA to become a one of the largest organizations in the U.S. According to James Shorter research studies, PETA also used mass communications such as print, television/video broadcasting, mail, and the internet in order to for individuals to be more aware of what the animals are experiencing behind the scenes of parks that contain animal entertainment. It is significant in order for PETA to use different kinds of tactics in order to solve this issue in society due to the numerous of animal entertainment parks that are being created all around the world. According to seaworldentertainment.com, SeaWorld Parks & collectively maintains one of the largest zoological collections in the world, which represent more than 800 species of animals. The park includes a variety of animals such as cheetahs, Bengal tiger, West Indian Manatee, black rhinoceros and polar bears where all the employees ensure that all the animals are healthy and living in a clean environment. Sea World also requires their employees to go to an advanced program in order to practice behavioral enrichment, preventive health, veterinary medicine, and facilities design and management. The park strongly believes that using animals for entertainment purposes is very important and necessary because it allows individuals to have a very personal experience with animals rather than watching them on a television Tatiana Tavlan Composition II Professor Carter 25 January 2017 screen. According to their website, Sea World was able to rescue 28,000 animals who were ill, injured or in need of expert care with the help of working in partnership with state, local, and federal agencies. Sometimes it is also healthier for the animals to be taken care of by people instead of by living in the wild because the park ensures that the animals are kept safe and healthy with regimented food and medication that they be able to receive in their natural habitat. Although Sea World and PETA have two completely different views towards animal entertainment, a compromise can be made. An animal wellness advisor should be hired at the park in order to make sure the animals and their new habitat are in good condition. The advisors must ensure that the cages are large enough, the animals are satisfied with the other animals that they have to live with and they must be healthy. This compromise will allow PETA to have less of a negative view towards against animal entertainment and will also cause more people to want to visit Sea World knowing that the animals are happy where they are. The two stakeholders have not come to a compromise yet because PETA refuses to believe that using animals as entertainment harmful due to the many articles that have been released explaining the injuries and deaths of the animals in Sea World. The documentary which shows videos of the trainers abusing the animals made PETA furious along with finding out that they violated constitutional rights. According to peta.org their article states, five of these orcas were violently seized from the ocean and taken from their families as babies. They are denied freedom and everything else that is natural and important to them while kept in small concrete tanks and reduced to performing stupid says PETA President Ingrid E. Newkirk. 13th Amendment prohibits slavery, and these orcas Tatiana Tavlan Composition II Professor Carter 25 January 2017 are, by definition, Due to this violation, it has become more and more difficult for PETA to work with Sea World in order to create a common ground, however, hiring an animal wellness advisor will help establish peace between the two organizations. In conclusion, animal entertainment has been very controversial between Sea World and PETA due to the documentaries and numerous of article that have been published that discusses in detail the abuse that the animals have to experience at the park. Since Sea World is a huge organization the promotes animal entertainment and since PETA is also a large organization that is against animal cruelty, it would be beneficial for the both of them to incorporate the animal wellness advisor compromise in order for the two to become satisfied with using animals as entertainment. There would be less lawsuits, healthier animals, more people visiting Sea World, and less animal cruelty in the world. The animal wellness advisor would also assures that PETA has nothing to worry about since their job is to make sure that the animals are healthy and in a good condition. Tatiana Tavlan Composition II Professor Carter 25 January 2017 Citation Page About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Animals and Entertainment. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Shorter, Jamie ER. The Use of Mass Communication in Animal Rights Fundraising Campaigns. University of Maine, May 2012. Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. Animal  Where Imagination Meets Nature. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. PETA Sues SeaWorld for Violating Constitutional  PETA. N.p., 14 Oct. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.