Daniel Lastorino Adam Carter ENC1102 Music has been a revered form of art by many throughout its history. As technology has evolved, new methods of obtaining music have emerged. This has led to a transition from tangible products purchased in store, to digital copies bought online. This has generally enhanced the industry, as it allows for easier access and greater exposure. However, one issue this causes is piracy, which involves acquiring music without purchasing it. Those who pirate music typically do not see any moral concern behind it, and primarily do so to save themselves money. There are numerous groups which set out to combat this piracy, one being the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The RIAA is a trade group which has filed numerous large-scale lawsuits against piracy groups, to ensure the rights of both artists and their publishing companies. Nonetheless, both the RIAA and those who pirate music can both agree that they have a passion for the artists they enjoy, and this can be used to meet a compromise. The RIAA should revoke all previous methods of combating piracy, and instead implement a law which fines an individual one hundred dollars per offense. This is a realistic law that will give money back to the rightful parties, while still being harsh enough to deter anyone from pirating. Those who pirate music typically only consider the benefit to their actions, and fail to take into account the harm that they are bringing to the industry. There is no direct origin to it, however it has continued to gain prevalence through the test of time. The increased availability of affordable access to the online world allows for more and more peer-to-peer (P2P) networks to be created. These P2P networks are the site of these file transfers, as one network can easily provide files to another without any cost. Disregarding the obvious threats this may pose (as these files are usually unsecured and can house any sort of virus), countless people still continue to participate. A prime benefit behind the act is the money being saved, as conveyed in a 2014 study. Over 500 participants filled out a questionnaire regarding piracy, and one of the strongest correlations found was a positive relationship between economic benefits and attitude toward music piracy (Cesareo & Pastore, 520). In other words, those who perceived music piracy to be good did so due to the fact that they were saving money. A similar questionnaire was produced in 2010, where music piracy was also viewed on the basis of morality. A significant find was that those who reported listening to music more than three hours a day were the most likely to illegally download it (Bonner & 1351). This shows that those who are most avid of music listeners are more likely to find free access to listen. The individuals that are most likely to pirate music do not consider the moral or criminal issues behind it, but instead think about the ability to save themselves money and increase their library. The RIAA has had a variety of methods to combat music piracy, however none of them thus far have been rendered effective. Initially, the group was oriented around filing lawsuits for copyright claims. In the early 2000s, they would sue entire P2P networks, however this transitioned to suing individual illegal file-sharers. A pivotal case showcasing this method was Sony BMG v. Tenenbaum, where Joel Tenenbaum was ultimately ordered to pay $675,000 in statutory After years of this, the RIAA announced that they would no longer take this route, instead implementing what they called a As explained in an article from December 2008, the new method would give customers multiple warnings to terminate their illegal actions. If they failed to comply, they would eventually be cut access from their Internet Service Provider (McBride & Smith, 2008, para. 4). This method is still used current day, and while it has affected more people, it still brings up some concern. Namely, the concern of due process of law is brought up in a 2010 article. The detection system may not always be accurate, and those who are shut down by their providers will not have fair chance to defend themselves (Zilkha, 2010, 690). Despite this apparent flaw in the system, no other solution has been created yet. The trade group has had a long history of harsh yet ineffective methods of dealing with music piracy. A plausible way to meet in the middle between those who pirate music and the RIAA is to modify the laws to properly carry out due process. To do this, the primary source of motivation for the activity needs to be targeted: economic benefit. A journal written 2013 investigates the motivation behind pirating further, and how it would best be stopped. It is stated, the search cost in the piracy channel or reducing the availability of pirated products never improves consumer (Geng & Young, 2013, 22). In saying this, it is implied that there needs to be some immediate fine for pirating. The idea is if the monetary gain is removed from the pirating, it will be undesirable to the majority of those who participate. Thus, the RIAA should implement a system of law comparable to that a parking ticket. The individual who is accused of pirating will receive a fine ranging from a hundred to five hundred dollars, based on the severity of the offense. The fine will also come with information on how to appeal if the person feels he or she was wrongfully punished. Even if the new law does not give as much money back to the RIAA per offense, it will still be enough to demotivate those who pirate. Any small cost for doing so will be enough to prevent many from doing it anymore. The hope of this law is to redirect those who pirate to a way of obtaining music a the least possible cost, which would be legally purchasing it from a secured platform. This way, the RIAA is protecting the rights of musical artists and labels, and everyone can still enjoy their music without being limited their due process of law. Music piracy is considerably more difficult to fight against than most crime. The reason for this is that there is no physical action which is breaking the law, but instead, a cyber crime is committed. This is much more vague to convict against, which is likely why the law has not been properly fit. The compromise to implement a ticket-based system for music piracy will hopefully do away with the ambiguity of previous legislation, and instead set clear cut consequences for the illegal act. It is evident that both parties, those who pirate music and the RIAA, are music fanatics which want to enjoy this form of art. The best way to do this will be to do so fairly and legally. Works Cited Bach, David. The Double Punch Of Law And Technology: Fighting Music Piracy Or Remaking Copyright In A Digital  & Politics 6.2 (2004): 1-33. Source Alumni Edition . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bonner, Steven, and Eleanor Music Piracy: Ethical  Decision 9 (2010): 1341. OneFile . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cesareo, Ludovica, and Alberto Pastore. Attitude And Behavior Towards Online Music Piracy And Subscription-Based  Of Consumer Marketing 31.6/7 (2014): 515-525. Source Alumni Edition . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Geng, Xianjun, and Young-Jin Lee. Competing With Piracy: A Multichannel Sequential Search  Of Management Information Systems 30.2 (2013): 159-184. Source Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McBride, Sarah, and Ethan Smith. Music industry to abandon mass  Wall Street Journal Eastern Edition 2008: 1. OneFile . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Zilkha, Genan. The Troubling Solution To  Intellectual Property, Media & Entertainment Law Journal 20.2 (2010): 667-713. Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.