Jason Patella Adam Carter ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Marijuana in Florida Marijuana has become a very controversial topic in the past few years. Florida recently made marijuana legal for medical purposes but only for people with certain conditions. Some groups such as HelloMD say it is helpful and should be made completely legal, other groups such as SAM (Smart Approaches to Marijuana) say it is very harmful and should be made illegal. Both sides of this argument are valid but it would be very bad to have things just one way or the other. So, SAM and HelloMD as well as others on both sides of this argument of whether marijuana should be legal or not need to come to a compromise. HelloMD and SAM are at odds with Marijuana being legal or illegal in Florida and a good compromise for them is to let medical marijuana stay only for serve medical use and that the possession of marijuana is no longer a criminal offense if they go through some sort of rehab. First I will be talking about the group called HelloMD. HelloMD goal is to create a of medicinal cannabis meaning they want to create people who think marijuana is a good idea (HelloMD.com, HelloMD released an article on their website showing the positive and negative effects of marijuana. They then gave their opinion on marijuana by putting a bottom line section where they say that marijuana is healthy and safe treatment option for a wide selection of anxiety and mood (HelloMD Staff). HelloMD has gathered their own pros and cons for marijuana including a pro being good for coping with pain and a con being smoking can damage lungs in the long term (HelloMD staff). According to Marurizo Bifulco in Cannabinoids and cancer: pros and cons of an antitumour strategy, he and others talk about how marijuana is very effective against attacking cancer cells (123). He also Patella 2 later goes in length about how administration of high oral doses of THC did not increase tumor incidences in a 2 year study which is promising (133). So HelloMD believes benefits out weight the negative effects and seeks to make it legal in its entirety. Second I will be talking about the group called SAM: Smart Approaches to Marijuana. SAM is afraid the more we legalize marijuana, people can come and capitalize on addiction just like the tobacco industry has on smokers. SAM has found some cons to marijuana including 1 in 10 people who start using marijuana will become highly addicted to it, and that marijuana smoke is possible but not proven that marijuana smoke is better than tobacco but it is still some kind of smoke (SAM). INSERT SENTECE HERE. So, SAM sees marijuana as another new kind of tobacco industry and wants it to stay illegal. Third I will talk about why these two groups together. HelloMD wants marijuana to be completely legal while SAM wants it completely illegal. Both groups want to do what is best for people they just have different views of how to do that. With both not being completely wrong or right the best way is to make a compromise that makes both of them give a little and both of them lose a little so they can both do some of what they wanted to do for the people. HelloMD sees mostly the positive benefits, while in contrast SAM see more negative benefits. While there is both positives and negatives to marijuana legalization there can be a middle ground that has some positive benefits as well as a very minimum negative benefit. Next, talk about the compromise and why I think my compromise will solve the argument. My compromise is for there to be decriminalization of marijuana and make it only usable for serve medical uses. SAM biggest fear is that if many people can grow marijuana they can take control of people and make people just as addicted as people are to alcohol and tobacco. However, with the medical use for marijuana it would be out of the hands of many people so that Patella 3 there is a small number getting it and they will be getting it in a different form then the smoke and vapor that most get addicted to. According to Hill, Kevin, in his book Marijuana: The Unbiased Truth About The Most Popular Weed, he talks about some positive and negative benefits to legalizing marijuana. One negative he talks about is there might be some negative effects with legalizing it to everyone that would make a black market occur that would sell marijuana to everyone including kids (87 88). In conclusion, my solution is just one of many possible solutions. HelloMD wants marijuana completely legalized and SAM HelloMD thinks marijuana will be very beneficial for everyone, while SAM is afraid of creating another giant tobacco industry. My compromise is to let medical marijuana stay only for serve medical use and that the possession of marijuana is no longer a criminal offense if they go through some sort of rehab. No one likes caving in completely to the other side but no one also likes arguing forever so if both give a little then, we will be closer to a solution that makes everyone relatively happy. Patella 4 Works Cited Bifulco, Ma, et al. and Cancer: Pros and Cons of an Antitumour British Journal of Pharmacology, vol. 148, 2, May 2006, p. 123 135. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. HelloMD. HelloMD, https://www.hellomd.com/about-us. HelloMD Staff. Marijuana Every Day: The Pros and HelloMD, 23 Feb. 2016, https://www.hellomd.com/health-wellness/using-marijuana-every-day-the-pros-and-cons. Hill, Kevin P. The Unbiased Truth About The Most Popular n.p.: Center City, Minnesota : Hazelden Publishing, 2015., 2015. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. SAM. and SAM, https://learnaboutsam.org/the-issues/marijuana- and-health/. SAM. SAM, https://learnaboutsam.org/the-issues/legal-reform-3/.