Mathers 1 Seamus Mathers Adam Carter ENC.1102 27 January 2017 Euthanasia in Animal Shelters is derived from the Greek word which translates to (Merriam-Webster). Euthanasia in people who are terminally ill has been a debate that has gone on for the past century. However, there is another debate over the euthanasia of animals in shelters. Two groups of animal advocates have very different views on this topic. The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) believes that for the good of all the animals in the shelters, animals that are seriously ill as well as animals that are unlikely to be adopted should be euthanized to increase room for more animals and for the safety of the shelter (Newkirk, We The No Kill Advocacy Center believes that this is an outdated method of running shelters and wishes to bring an end to euthanasia. They want shelters to agree to put programs in place that avoid the need for euthanasia (No Kill Advocacy Center, No Though these organizations have very different views on the morality of euthanasia, they have a common goal in mind: the wellbeing of animals both in and out of shelters. Therefore, it would be for the greater good if there were a compromise between the two that allowed them to work together toward a solution that would work for the wellbeing of the shelters and the animals in them. A possible solution for this is the formation of a joint campaign between the two groups that would work on implementing programs that would decrease euthanasia rates as well as increase living space in the shelters. However, as part of the compromise, the program would also assist shelters in providing proper Mathers 2 euthanasia methods for animals that pose a threat to the rest of the animals of the shelter or are beyond treatment. official stance on euthanasia is that it is a due to the irresponsibility of pet owners who sterilize their animals as well as limited ability to care for these abandoned animals Is Positon on An anecdotal article by one of the founders of PETA, Ingrid Newkirk, goes into some of problems PETA is addressing with dogs they rescue: easy to point the finger at those who are forced to do the caused by a throwaway casual acquisition and breeding of dogs and cats who end up homeless and unwanted, but at PETA, we will never turn our backs on neglected, unloved, and homeless if the best we can offer them is a painless release from a world that have enough heart or homes with room for them. (Newkirk, We PETA sees that euthanasia is the best way to put an animal of its when there is no more they can do for it in terms of treatment or finding it a home An article published in the Canadian Veterinary Journal explains that to maintain a higher quality of life in shelters it is sometimes necessary to euthanize unwanted companion animals. The article also says that when the euthanasia is handled in a designated room by staff who are specifically trained on the application of the euthanasia method, the shelters maintain a lower staff Mathers 3 turnover rate (Turner et al.). PETA has well established that they believe that their stance is the correct way to handle shelter overcrowding and issues with unwanted pets. The No Kill Advocacy Center believes that euthanizing unwanted animals is an outdated viewpoint that needs revision. More specifically they say that it is regressive, anachronistic 19th century model of No 2). The center was founded in 2004 by Nathan Winograd, a criminal prosecutor who also held leadership roles in various animal shelters in the San Francisco area (NKAC, Their mission is to implement their philosophy of zero euthanasia in shelters for animals who undergoing irremediable physical suffering. They define irremediably physical suffering as, animal who has a poor or grave prognosis for being able to live without severe, unremitting pain even with prompt, necessary, and comprehensive veterinary No 2). Therefore, they propose that shelters should follow the for No A series of requirements that see as necessary for shelters to achieve status. Among this list are items such as and & Behavior Prevention & and No 4). An article published in The Veterinary Journal contrasted the numbers of feral cats being turned in and cat euthanasia in shelters in a 11.9 km 2 zip code area after two years of a trap-neuter- return program that sterilized 50% of the feral cat population in the target area. The results showed that in a shelter in the non-target area that the per capita cat intake was 3.5 times higher and the per capita shelter euthanasia was 17 times higher than in the target area (Levy et al.). This shows that the NKAC have programs that they are able to use to decrease euthanasia rates in the shelters. A study conducted by the Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association also found that higher euthanasia rates positively correlated with staff Mathers 4 turnover in animal shelters. Reasons for euthanasia other than health and behavioral issues also positively correlated with staff turnover in the shelters (Rogelberg et al.). This shows that euthanasia for the wrong reasons and done in the wrong way negatively affects the staff who are helping run the shelter. In summary, the NKAC have put together a case for why they think that euthanasia should be eradicated in shelters. Though PETA and the NKAC have very different views on euthanasia they are both correct in some ways. Euthanasia helps shelters with overpopulation issues and, when properly used, helps end the suffering for animals that are beyond treatment (Turner et al.). However, euthanasia also shows a negative effect on shelter staff, also, other methods are available that can bring shelter intake numbers down while also reducing euthanasia (Rogelberg et al.; Levy et al.). Though PETA thinks that euthanasia is unavoidable and the NKAC thinks that it is an outdated and vulgar solution, both agree that euthanasia the most humane way to handle pet overpopulation in shelters. Therefore, a compromise that would satisfy both stakeholders would be one that reduces euthanasia overall while increasing quality of living in animal shelters. However, this compromise would also involve providing proper methods of euthanasia for animals with health and behavioral issues that the shelter is unable to handle. Another part of this compromise would be not euthanizing animals due to age or time spent in the shelter. This compromise would be able to address issues that both are concerned with while also helping the animals in the shelters. The proposed solution that would be able to carry out these steps of the compromise would be a joint campaign staffed and funded by both organizations. This campaign would work to implement programs that would increase adoption rates, space, and quality of life in shelters Mathers 5 as well as provide proper spaces and training for euthanasia for animals that are beyond the capabilities to help. Some examples of the programs that would be used are trap- neuter-release programs and socialization, training and promotional programs piloted by RandAgiamo, an Italian project that found success in using these programs to increase adoptions of adult dogs by 27.5% in a shelter in Italy (Levy et al.; Menchetti et al.). The campaign would also ensure that the shelters have the proper spaces for the euthanasia of animals when necessary and advocate that euthanasia only be used as a last-resort method of handling animals that have severe behavioral or health issues. In doing this, the campaign would reduce issues that correlate with increased staff turnover rates and help the shelters retain staff (Rogelberg et al.). Overall, this campaign would decrease euthanasia in the shelters it helps as well as increase the quality of life of the animals in the shelter. Euthanasia in animal shelters is, and probably will continue to be, a heavily debated topic. But by allowing PETA and the NKAC to work together to help other animal shelter reduce euthanasia and intake rate, animal shelters can focus more on the animals they have and on educating the public to further help the animals themselves. Mathers 6 Works Cited No Kill Advocacy Center, www.nokilladvocacycenter.org/about.html. No No Kill Advocacy Center, 25 Apr. 2014, Merriam-Webster.com, Merriam-Webster, www.merriam- webster.com/dictionary/euthanasia. PETA, www.peta.org/issues/companion-animal-issues/overpopulation/euthanasia/. Levy, J.k., et al. of High-Impact Targeted Trap-Neuter-Return and Adoption of Community Cats on Cat Intake to a The Veterinary Journal, vol. 201, no. 3, 2014, pp. doi:10.1016/j.tvjl.2014.05.001. Longcore, Travis, et al. Assessment of Claims Regarding Management of Feral Cats by Trap- Conservation Biology, vol. 23, no. 4, 2009, pp. doi:10.1111/j.1523- 1739.2009.01174.x. Menchetti, Laura, et al. a Pilot Project Increasing Adoptability of Shelter Dogs in the Umbria Region Animals, vol. 5, no. 3, 2015, pp. doi:10.3390/ani5030383. Newkirk, Ingrid. We PETA, 21 Jan. 2014, www.peta.org/blog/euthanize/. Rogelberg, Steven G., et al. of Euthanasia Rates, Euthanasia Practices, and Human Resource Practices on Employee Turnover in Animal Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association, vol. 230, no. 5, 2007, pp. doi:10.2460/javma.230.5.713. Turner, Patricia, et al. Shelters and Animal Welfare: Raising the The Canadian Veterinary Journal, Canadian Veterinary Medical Association, Aug. 2012, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3398531/. Mathers 7 Is Position on PETA, www.peta.org/about-peta/faq/what-is-petas- position-on-euthanasia/.