Project 1 Intermediate Draft The Syrian American Medical Society and The Zakat Foundation The Syrian American Medical Society (SAMS) and The Zakat foundation both have missions to provide immediate relief and support to those in impoverished communities. SAMS has been especially dedicated in providing humanitarian aid to Syrian refugees ever since it was established. As the situation deteriorates organizations such as these two have been attempting to establish a group plan in order to help as many Syrians as possible. However, there has been substantial dispute on what to focus on to help Syria. Some of the major issues include the lack of solidarity between nations and the lack of awareness of the situation. These two organizations have different goals that hinder their potential to maximize their efforts and increase the number of people they can help. While SAMS is more focused on fostering on increased medical aid and expanding support for Syrian immigrants in multiple host countries, The Zakat Foundation is more focused on accumulating funds in order to invest in development projects that ensure individual and community Foundation). These two organizations may be small, but they are deeply involved in this conflict and they both are dedicated to helping the Syrian people. If both of these organizations can form a strategic partnership they will be able to increase awareness and receive even more international support in directly assisting people in Syria and they can work on establishing institutions such as hospitals to rebuild Syria so no more would have to leave behind everything. According to Karen Abuzayd, the United special advisor to the UN, 220,000 Syrians have been killed, 6.5 million are internally displaced and at least 9 million more inside Syria are in 2015). Despite the millions that have already escaped Syria there are even more that are in desperate need of assistance and they are caught right in the middle of the conflict. And with tougher immigration policies being enforced in countries such as the U.S who want to limit the number of Syrian refugees coming into the country, goal of encouraging other nations to take in even more Syrian refugees is becoming less attainable. But, SAMS also advocates for protection of health workers, civilians, and civilian American Medical Society) They want to raise awareness of increasing attacks on the heroes who are risking their lives to provide aid to the people, especially health care facilities. And by raising awareness they hope that the public will come forth to help in ending the siege of the Syrian people. A big part of SAMS is the medical missions that they organize. They have medical professionals travel to different regions like Syria to provide healthcare to Syrians. And with this increased medical help more Syrians have better access to health care even in their desperate conditions. The Zakat Foundation is focused on rebuilding Syria by supporting developmental projects that will be able to help Syrians sustain themselves and provide access to:education, food, water, and healthcare. This organization uses called Zakat and Sadaqa donations which in arabic means This group is an islam based group and their principles are strongly based on the islamic principle of alms giving so they often use these terms. They say they differentiate themselves from other groups by Zakat and Sadaqa donations to develop long-term, sustainable (Zakat Foundation) Their aim is to start rebuilding Syria so that when the crisis will pass the people will be able to sustain themselves and the millions of refugees can return and live peacefully if they wish. And since there are many people still trapped in Syria this group wants to focus on providing emergency relief to people of all different backgrounds, not just islamic backgrounds. They also help orphan children by allowing people to sponsor them through their website. They look to children as the future for Syria and are trying to get them more access to education. Just like SAMS this group depends on donations. This is a small group, but has done so much for Syrians already and depends on funding to develop its future projects such as building schools, orphanages and even hospitals. To do this they need to raise more awareness of the situation and this is where SAMS and the Zakat Foundation can come together to accomplish their goals. Between these two organizations they both have a lot of similarities and goals, but they are feeling the massive pressure from this crisis and in order to help more people a strategic partnership would help them in supporting the millions still trapped in Syria instead of trying to immigrate them all out. Because of stricter immigration policies being enforced around the world millions of Syrians are becoming internally displaced (Ferris, Kirisci, Shaikh 45). goal to immigrate more Syrians is no longer feasible, but by coordinating with The Zakat Foundation they may be able to accomplish their goal of protecting health care workers and rebuilding health care institutions to provide better access to emergency medical assistance. But in doing this the Zakat foundation would have to give up some of their social services to minimize costs such as their yearly distribution of meat to people fasting during Ramadan. By minimizing some of their services they will be able to focus on leading the developmental projects for Syria. And these two both advocate for increased awareness of the Syrian conflict because if more people were to know what is happening they will be more inclined to show support and not just from the people, but from the international community as well. Once these two form a partnership they will be better suited to provide the care they need. And again these two greatly depend on donations to fund their efforts. However, aid is simply not enough for Syrians to return to their normal lives; only a temporary solution. to The Lancet Journal handouts were never a sustainable solution...self-reliance would therefore be key to provision of a semblance of human security in the Abisaab, Hamill, Leaning 942) While SAMS has done great work so far their efforts have only been a temporary solution. And since they are dedicated to helping the Syrian people, joining The Zakat Foundation would seem feasible because both would be working to develop Syria and to protect volunteers who are working there. This compromise is viable because these charities are very dedicated in helping the Syrian people and providing relief. They have so much common ground between them that they would be able to easily cooperate with one another. This will be extremely costly and will require the combined aid of many different organizations and international funding, but these two organizations could lead the project. Of course for this to completely work as fast as possible some costs would have to be minimized. And in addition to all of this there needs to be increased military support which is currently unclear. According to Brian Jenkins of The Rand Corporation bitter legacy of Iraq and Afghanistan has discouraged Western military 2). However, there has been cooperation between the rebels of Syria and the international community. There has been increased military aid such as training and armament Saudi Arabia and Qatar currently provide funds for rebel arms 11). And with the increased public awareness combined between these two organizations the UN will certainly respond to increased public support to this situation and provide the necessary assistance. The Syrian conflict is definitely volatile and with changing perspective and restrictive immigration reforms it is going to be extremely difficult for these people to escape the horror of war. SAMS and The Zakat Foundation can absolutely work together to redevelop parts of Syria for the millions internally displaced. While they both have different goals they can both agree that the people need to develop forms of infrastructure in order to make their own jobs of providing aid much easier. The advantages of these two forming a partnership are extraordinary. By working together these two will be able to increase public awareness of the situation which will draw more support internationally to intervene in the crisis, and thereby begin public works projects to help the trapped Syrians rebuild their lives instead of leaving behind their country. Word Count:1387 Works Cited Balsari, Satchit, Josyann Abisaab, Kathleen Hamill, and Jennifer Leaning. Syrian Refugee Crisis: When Aid Is Not  Lancet 385.9972 (2015): 942-43. Web. Jenkins, Brian Michael. Dynamics of Civil War . Santa Monica, California?: RAND Corporation, 2014. Rand. Web. AbuZayd, K., Sullivan, D. J., Akram, S. M. and Roy, S. (2015), The Syrian Humanitarian Crisis: What Is to Be Done?. Middle East Policy, 22: doi:10.1111/mepo.12125 18, 2013 September. CRISIS : MASSIVE DISPLACEMENT , D IRE (n.d.): n. pag. Brookings, 18 Sept. 2013. Web. America, Zakat Foundation of. Zakat Foundation of  Design, LLC . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Society . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.