Toland 1 Sierra Toland ENC 1102 Mr. Spencer January 29 th , 2017 Legalizing Homelessness Throughout the years, homelessness has been a problem, but in major cities in the United States the population of homeless people continues to increase. With the increase in homelessness comes more bans, that are criminalizing towards homeless, that prohibit them from sleeping or in public as well as other activities that homeless people do like panhandling and food sharing. To fight back against these bans an organization called not has made it their mission to help to a greater understanding of the connection between homelessness and involvement in the criminal justice (No Safe Space 7). Although the Sleeping Bans fight to criminalize the homeless for sleeping in public areas because they do not want people to stay on the street, Homes Not Handcuffs says that instead of making homelessness cities should focus on helping these people, if they work together to make it so people have more places to sleep and better programs that will improve their living situations, they will be able to make a compromise. Homelessness was first recognized as a serious social problem in the 1980s, and since then it has only gotten worse, but the federal government has done very little in efforts to help the homeless population. One main thing that congress has done is the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act of 1987, which authorized a variety of services like emergency shelter, job training, primary health care, education, and permanent shelter. But, because of things like Toland 2 budget cuts and the magnitude of the homeless problem, this act has not helped as much as it could have (Liese). And because federal legislation has not really helped, state and city governments are forced to handle the problems on their own, and they do this by certain conduct commonly associated with homelessness, such as begging, sleeping or camping in public, and (Liese). So the problem of homelessness cannot be fixed because these ordinances are being placed on the people, so instead of getting help they get in trouble and go to jail, which hurts their chances of finding a stable home when they get out. But, they make these ordinances because in major cities there are many tourists and merchants and when they have homeless people asking them for money or camping out everywhere it may make them feel less comfortable, which may prevent them from revisiting the city. And on top of that Mike Journee, spokesman for the mayor of Boise, said in an interview that are confrontations or bad sanitary situations where multiple families are living in the same (Johnson). These reasons have caused the criminalization of these necessary human activities to increase. In the article titled, Not Handcuffs: Ending the Criminalization of Homelessness in U.S. written by the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty, they discuss how the Law Center did a study dealing with 187 cities to find out how many cities have codes that criminally or civilly punish the life-sustaining behaviors of homeless In the study they discovered that 33% of cities prohibit camping in public city-wide, while 50% of cities prohibit camping in particular public places, 18% of cities prohibit sleeping in public city-wide and 27% of cities prohibit sleeping in particular places, and 47% of the 187 cities examined prohibit sitting or lying down in public. And they discovered that these sleeping bans have significantly increased since 2006. This has made life for the homeless even more Toland 3 difficult than it already is, and that is why Housing Not Handcuff has made it their priority to help them carry out every day activities. In their article, Housing Not Handcuffs discusses how criminalizing homelessness is an policy that does not work to end (No Safe Space 36). They talk about how arresting these people who have no shelter gives them a criminal record that hurts them in the long run. With a criminal record finding and keeping employment could be difficult, even if it is the crime of sleeping in public. As well as employment, having a criminal background could prevent them from receiving subsidized housing vouchers, like section 8, therefore making it even harder to find temporary to permanent housing. And other rights that these people should still be receiving like SSI and voting get taken from those with criminal backgrounds. They gave examples of things to help with this epidemic of criminalizing homelessness, which included defunding and repealing the criminalization of homelessness, stating that homeless should have the freedom to perform life-sustaining activities without harassment from law enforcement. They also said that plans for discharge from jails and hospitals should be planned so that these people who do not have a shelter can figure out where to go to sleep, as well as prohibiting housing discrimination and enforcing anti-discrimination laws, stating that although discrimination occurs for things like criminal, eviction, or credit history is common it also happens for poor people of color, as well as prohibiting source of income discrimination, because when someone is paying their rent with a legitimate income like child support, federal income supports, or section 8, they are still discriminated against. It is quite evident that criminalizing homelessness does not solve the underlying issue, instead it only makes it worse. So, there must be a compromise on how to go about this issue so that the problem can be controlled and hopefully fixed, before it gets too out of hand. In an Toland 4 article titled, of it is discussed how criminalizing homelessness is a misuse of public resources, saying that homelessness is a social problem and using police officers to solve a social problem contributes to the tension between police officers and neighborhoods, so it would be better if they would focus on other things. To compromise, hospitals and jails should fund a program that helps create plans for people prior to release so they have somewhere to go, and if the prohibition of discrimination for people trying to find housing would disappear it would eliminate many cases where people just could not find affordable housing. If these things happened, Housing Not Handcuffs would be happy, but also so would the people enforcing these sleeping bans because it would decrease the need to provide funding to jail these people for sleeping in public areas, police officers could focus on more important issues, and the amount of people sleeping and camping in these public areas would be lower because they would have better access to housing. As previously stated, locally mandated sleeping bans and Housing Not Handcuffs, both have the common goal of getting homeless people off the streets and into housing. So if these criminalizing bans are lifted and the focus is shifted on eliminating discrimination when trying to obtain housing and instead homeless people were helped both parties could benefit. If the solution of lifting the bans, housing plans were implemented, and the discrimination of for poor people trying to find housing worked out in the end, the homelessness epidemic would be eliminated. Homelessness needs to be taken care of so it is very important that both parties work together to fight back. Toland 5 Work Cited Housing Not Handcuffs: Ending the Criminalization of Homelessness in U.S.  National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Johnson, Carrie. DOJ Says Unconstitutional To Ban The Homeless From Sleeping  NPR. NPR, 14 Aug. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Liese, Andrew J. We Can Do Better: Anti-Homeless Ordinances as Violations of State Substantive Due Process  We Can Do Better: Anti-Homeless Ordinances as Violations of State Substantive Due Process  by Liese, Andrew J. - Vanderbilt Law Review, Vol. 59, Issue 4, May 2006 Online Research Library: Questia. Vanderbilt Law Review, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty -  National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty - Criminalization. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. No Safe  National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.