Journey to Mars Humans have been fascinated with the above since the earliest century. The fascination of living on other planets has been a dream since the earliest Star Wars movies. With technological advances and our own planet Earth slowly dying, Elon organization SpaceX and the Future of Space Colonization group are two organizations that are dedicated to further scientific research on the red planet Mars. But, both organizations have completely different ideas on what to do while there. SpaceX is determined to start colonizing and terraforming the planet mars in the next coming years, and while The future of Space Colonization group, believes that to be unethical and that we ruin another planet like we did here on planet Earth. Elon SpaceX and the environmentalist group need to come together and give up a few of their plans to help better the further research and the hand of mankind in the galaxy. SpaceX should hold off the colonization plans but instead just start sending humans to Mars. This will please the future of space colonization group because they can get a feel of what SpaceX will accomplish on mars and start terraforming immediately, while SpaceX still gets to their goal of sending Humans to another planet. This will please both parties and will still further scientific research. SpaceX is an independent organization made and run by billionaire, Elon Musk. They are doing what the government is not doing. SpaceX is trying to ensure the survival of mankind in the long run and continue that the scientific research of the cosmos is not stopped. Our own government stopped caring about space exploration but Elon Musk did not. 2024: The year in which SpaceX could begin crewed flights to Mars (Wall). 2024 is crazy close and Elon Musk is planning to mount missions to mars every 26 months after the initial first mission. The proposed Interplanetary Transport System (ITS) can send a minimum of 1,000 people every trip BUT they want at least 1 Million people on Mars by the next 50 to 100 years (Wall)! Only problem is the people sent to the planet Mars cannot return back to Earth. It is a one-way ticket; they will die on Mars. At least the tickets are a reasonable price, only $100,000. SpaceX is just starting with the red planet Mars, but has plans to start terraforming many other planets in the future for humans. They want to make sure the human race does not die out. Mankind was born on Earth, but was never meant to die here. The future of space colonization group is all about We They believe colonization of Mars or matter of fact any planets are unethical and we ruin another planet. The arrogance of mankind is put worth on oneself rather than life itself. They think terraforming could ruin hidden life already based on Mars. We would never learn anything about other lifeforms if we just completely terraform the planet to fit human needs and nothing else. Elon Musk may be a billionaire but it will cost over $10 billion to start colonization of Mars (Wall). Even though this group wants to further research of science, they believe its unethical. Who will own mars? What country is going to claim Mars? In addition, a 1967 treaty, popularly known as the Outer Space Treaty, signed by major world powers including the United States, Russia, and China, states that, Outer space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, is not subject to national appropriation by claim of sovereignty, by means of use or occupation, or by any other (UNOOSA). Obviously, this bind private companies like SpaceX, but if, for example, the United States violates this treaty, Russia and China would be likely to as well, potentially leading to armed conflict on the moon. (Williams 4-8). This is another fear expressed by this environmentalist group. Mars is valuable and countries are greedy. The past wars of Earth will be the future wars on Mars. Although it may seem that Elon SpaceX and the environmentalist at The future of space colonization group share many of the same characteristics and goals, they still have a lot of opposing views on how we should deal with Mars. Mars has all the resources to support basic human life. For instance, SpaceX is still being held as an effective private organization with the support of the public and U.S.A Government because of past successes of Elon Musk. Even though they are behind schedule and have had many rocket test failures. Both organizations need to come together and combine their goals for the better of humanity. They both want the best for mankind and science. Colonization of the planet Mars is going to be really expensive. Upwards of $10 billion. If SpaceX just holds off the colonization aspect of their mission goals but instead focuses on the scientific research aspect instead, both stakeholders will be in support of this compromise. SpaceX should also start focusing on making another International Space Station (ISS) but near Mars instead of the current one used by NASA, near the moon. This would be much cheaper than terraforming and sending upwards of million people to another planet. The technology is already there to build another space station. The economic and financial values on mars are tremendous (Diamandis). There are also asteroids near mars which can be mined for valuable resources like iron and many other elements (McKay 89). Instead of starting to ruin another planet, the new ISS near mars could honestly be a base for astronauts. That compromise will be beneficial to both stakeholders for now. SpaceX will complete their mission of sending people to mars (just instead of living on the planet, they stay in the new space station) and the environmentalist group gets no terraforming of the planet but still gets the scientific research they strive for. They should just hold off on colonization for a while until at least they realize what exactly is on mars and if there is life being ruined if we start terraforming the ground for humans. In conclusion, the compromise will only work if both stakeholders agree on losing some aspects of their mission statement. I stand with SpaceX and the environmentalist at The future of space colonization groups want what is best for planets. Although they believe in two opposing viewpoints, safe to say they agree on space exploration for scientific research is a must after our own government stop funding NASA and the space program to start funding other programs. All they want is to further science and reach in the universe; once finding common ground the two stakeholders can relate on; they can come to an agreement on what to do about the planet Mars. Annotated Bibliography McKay, Christopher, and Margarita Marinova. The Physics, Biology, and Environmental Ethics of Making Mars  Astrobiology 1.1 (2001): 89-109. WorldCat Web. 4 Nov 2014. This source provides a solid scientific background on the concepts of terraforming other planets, in particular Mars. It provides insight in how we could potentially use existing materials and elements on Mars to craft a planet that can naturally support human life. There are astroids full of valuable resources surrounding the planet. In addition to this, the paper provides some essential discussion of the ethics associated with terraforming as well as a list of questions for further research if we are going to colonize Mars. Williams, Lynda. Dreams of Space Peace Review: A Journal of Social Justice 22:4-8. WorldCat. Web. 23 Sept. 2014. In this article, Williams considers the political and environmental consequences, as well as the technological difficulties, associated with colonizing other planets. She thinks that instead having other brightest minds work towards colonization of other planets because our planet is dying, they should focus on earth and climate change and how to stop it. Countries will most likely start fighting for land other resources which will lead to war most likely. Diamandis, Peter. Our Next Giant  TEDGlobal 2005. July 2005. TED. Web. 5 Nov. 2014. In this TED talk Peter Diamandis, a space activist and founder of the X Prize foundation, discusses reasons for colonizing other planets. He claims that it is a moral imperative. He cites a variety of motivators for succeeding in this goal including curiosity, fear, and wealth. He explains how private companies are better prepared to take the risks necessary to succeed in colonization rather than big companies and organizations like Boeing, and even our government. Wall, Mike. Mars Colony Plan: By the Space.com. Space. 29 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This source gives in-depth look on the finical numbers on every single mission SpaceX is planning to do. UNOOSA. Outer Space Unoosa.org. United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs. 27 Jan. 1967. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 In 1967, a lot of countries signed The outer space treaty. It was signed by major world powers including the United States, Russia, and China, and many more. The treaty states that, Outer space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, is not subject to national appropriation by claim of sovereignty, by means of use or occupation, or by any other Meaning that no country can claim anything outside of earth. This will be a problem during the colonization of planets in the future, especially mars in the coming years. Many countries will want to start building borders and start fighting for more land and resources on mars.