Daffner 1 Marcus Daffner Composition II Professor Spring 2017 In recent years there have been countless news stories of the government, businesses, and individuals being or having sensitive information about these entities being leaked to news networks and then the public. Stakeholders like the United States Justice Department does not take kindly to actions of those whom hack and or leak sensitive information. Stakeholders like WikiLeaks whose ultimate goal is to create a more transparent world will go many lengths to reveal the dark secrets of organizations that are up to no good. The issue between the two stakeholders is that information leaked by WikiLeaks is normally obtained illegally. For example in February of 2010, WikiLeaks began publishing thousands of classified documents and files collected from the US State Department by Chelsea Manning (Anderson). According to Dale Anderson information released revealed the embarrassing opinions some US officials had of diplomats and These documents greatly damaged the US reputation, Since this incident, the US government has been looking for a way to prosecute WikiLeaks and Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks. While the United States Justice Department believes that they are protecting the American people by attempting to prosecute WikiLeaks. WikiLeaks is under prosecution for acquiring sensitive documents and releasing damaging information, along with protesting for more transparency and justice due to the secrets being withheld from the people. I believe that a reasonable compromise can be made between the two stakeholders with the guidance of a non-biased mediator. Daffner 2 According to Sara Criscitelli the US Justice Department is largest and most influential law-enforcement entity in the U.S. criminal justice system, the federal Justice Department serves as a link between the court system and the executive branch of the federal government (Criscitelli). Established in the year 1870, the US Justice Department has grown from small offices and few staff members to recently in 2003, having a budget that exceeds 22 billion and a staff that approximately reached 106,000 people (Criscitelli). The US Justice Department has many resources at the tips of because the organization itself has many offices, sections, and agencies underneath it including the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) (Criscitelli). The US Justice Department has difficulty prosecuting WikiLeaks for a few reasons. According to Anderson, One is Assange was supposedly not directly involved in the illegal activity, it is harder to determine whether any charges can be brought against him personally, or against WikiLeaks as an organization, for publishing the (DiLascio). According to Tracey DiLascio, WikiLeaks was officially launched in 2007 by Julian Assange, The website creates an easy way for whistleblowers to upload information anonymously. mission for WikiLeaks is to promote transparency and accountability by governments around the world by publishing documents that demonstrate questionable, unethical, and even illegal behavior in important matters such as war, economics, corruption, diplomacy, and (Dilascio). According to website they have published over 10 million documents, have over 100 connections to major media organizations, and gives sources the negotiating power, impact, and safety that otherwise would not be possible Daffner 3 (WikiLeaks). WikiLeaks claims to have over 100 staff members across the globe, is funded by Julian Assange, publications sales, and donations from the general public, and has a global legal team. WikiLeaks has for a long time taken extreme measure to make sure that it could not be taken out easily. First of all, it is difficult to prosecute Julian Assange because he is considered a journalist so the work he publishes is protected by the first amendment in the United States (Dilascio). According to Dilascio, website has several websites that duplicate the content of Wikileaks official website, servers in two separate countries to make it a matter of international law if it were to be shut down or attacked. After looking into both standings and interests I believe that both WikiLeaks and the US Justice Department could reach a fair compromise. I believe that the Attorney General and Julian Assange should meet in the Embassy of Ecuador in London, Assange currently cannot leave the embassy because he has taken political asylum there, if Assange leaves he will be extradited to the US by the UK or Sweden( Justice For Assange). I believe that if both parties met and were assigned some non-biased mediator, a lawyer or politician of some sort, they could work out a way for both parties to continue coexisting peacefully. I believe that WikiLeaks should have to pay for the personal damages done to some lives. When WikiLeaks release tons and tons of documents some personal information could be compromised on the internet, henceforth no more personal information should be released. The mediators should be able to come up with an appropriate amount of reparation due to those who ( did not deserve) to have their own personal information compromised. Julian Assange has been under house arrest for 2246 days and counting, the US Daffner 4 Justice department is still unsure on how it will actually prosecute WikiLeaks or Julian Assange because technically in the US the first amendment protects his right to publish what he pleases. His time has been served. If a compromise can be close to my proposed idea, than I believe that the two stakeholders can go their separate ways and coexist peacefully. Daffner 5 Works Cited Anderson, Dale. Chelsea  Press Biographical Encyclopedia (2016): Starters . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Criscitelli, Sara. U.S. Justice  Press Encyclopedia (2016): Starters . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. DiLascio, Tracey M. Wikileaks  Press Encyclopedia (2016): Starters . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Front  Department of Justice . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Justice for  Years in Embassy - Justice for Assange . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Submit Documents to  . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.