Dubas 1 Kayla Dubas Professor Missler Composition 1102 29 January 2017 Physician-Assisted Suicide Physician-assisted suicide is a very controversial topic due to the patients and healthcare professionals having different views. Patients believe that they should have an option to end their suffering. Dignity in dying is an example of an organization goal is to give patients a greater choice and allow them to have control over their end-of-life decisions. On the other hand, healthcare providers believe that they should have the choice to refuse this treatment and continue treating the patient even if it is just making them comfortable. Care not killing is an example of an organization goal is to promote care rather than aid in committing suicide. Even though both stakeholders have different views, a commonality that a person could reach is their passion behind having a choice. A compromise that could be made that would benefit both sides is giving the health care providers the choice of refusing to administer the drugs to end a life while still allowing for the patient to have the choice to end their life if they meet certain criteria. The criteria will need to specify that there is nothing else the doctors can do, they must be in sound mind, must be authorized by at least two valid doctors, and the patient must prove their doing it for the right reasons. If these are put into place, both the patient and healthcare providers will be satisfied. Physician-assisted suicide is when a doctor administers a lethal drug to a terminally ill patient. When it comes to patients, there are many pros and cons to legalizing this treatment. It Dubas 2 gives people the ability to control their faith, stop being a burden to others, save money, and die on their own terms. But some may also change their mind, abuse these privileges, and claim that this treatment is border line murder. Dignity in dying is a nonprofit organization that supports this treatment. They that assisted dying for terminally ill, mentally competent adults should be (Join the campaign). This group believes that if a terminally ill patient has 6 months or less to live, they should be given the choice of physician-assisted suicide. Patients should have the right to control what happens to their bodies and have a say in the care they receive. Most people do not want to die a slow and painful death where they are constantly spending money on treatments that will not work. Patients want the option to end their suffering and avoid having their loved ones suffer from the inability to say goodbye and the bills they will need to pay. With physician-assisted suicide, it allows for patients to die a peaceful death on their own terms. Most people will choose to have family around them during this treatment but ultimately it is their decision. This allows for families to avoid the and missed opportunities of saying goodbye to a loved one. This choice would allow for people to make important life decisions which state should not have a right to with (Schafer 524). The organization Dying in Dignity will continue to work on pushing states to legalize physician- assisted suicide to help patients have a say in their healthcare. On the contrary, most healthcare providers are against physician-assisted suicide. With this being said, there are also pros and cons to banning this treatment. Some pros are there will be more jobs due to more people being put into hospice and other palliative care facilities, forces patients to die naturally, and pushes doctors to try new, innovative treatments. Some cons to not allowing this treatment is the healthcare providers form a bond with their patients and are forced to watch them be in pain and they will feel helpless because there nothing else they can do. Care Dubas 3 not Killing is an organization that supports palliative and hospice care rather than this form of treatment. They believe that passing any laws to allow physician-assisted suicide place pressure on vulnerable people to end their lives for fear of being a financial, emotional or care burden upon (Care Not Killing - Promoting care, Opposing euthanasia). For a person who is already going through so many struggles, they believe that giving them the choice to end it all would result in people feeling forced to act without thinking. No one wants to feel like a burden so giving a person that is terminally ill an out would only result in people choosing to end their life due to fearing what other people would think. This organization also believes in the healthcare system and thinks that this treatment would take away palliative care and hospice options. These care options have been being used for decades and have provided many with jobs and safe, comfortable places to die. This treatment would force doctors to go against the Hippocratic oath they took, which states that they are to take part in the intentional killing of a (Parpa 161). Most healthcare providers believe that physician-assisted suicide is morally wrong and goes against all the work they have put in to be able to care for others in need. Physician-assisted suicide is a very controversial topic, but there are some solutions that could be made to better benefit both the healthcare providers and the patients. The best solution is to legalize physician-assisted suicide with some criteria that needs to be met. The healthcare provider will have the choice to administer the drug and the patient will have the choice to end their life if they meet the certain criteria. The criteria will need to specify that there is nothing else the doctors can do, they must be in sound mind, must be authorized by at least two valid doctors, and the patient must prove their doing it for the right reasons. Both patients and healthcare professionals stakeholders agree that they should each have a choice when it comes to Dubas 4 physician-assisted suicide so this is the best solution. The healthcare professionals will be able to refuse to help a person end their life if they wish to. This allows for the doctors to feel morally acceptable while still being in control. Also, doctors will have the opportunity to explain to their patients their options before allowing them to continue down this path of treatment. It is not guaranteed that every patient will qualify for this treatment so it still leaves hospice and palliative care facilities as backup options. Patients will be happy to have doctors obey their wishes and provide them with the ability to do what they wish to with their body. If they want to end their life, they should have the choice but also be aware of their other options. Some states have taken the initiative and legalized this treatment. In Oregon, they legalized physician- assisted suicide in 1994. In an anonymous survey, 85% of people said that physician-assisted suicide be morally acceptable under some (Fenn 236). With this being said, even though we all agree that this treatment is the best option, when it comes to certain that are met, it is morally acceptable. This solution will benefit both stakeholders in positive ways. Physician-assisted suicide is a controversial topic where a solution can be reached to benefit both the healthcare professionals and the patients. Both Dignity in Dying and Care Not Killing want to feel in control and want the ability to make their own choices, so the solution must harp on this commonality. Allowing people to make their own decisions allows for people to feel more morally right about making tough decisions. Dubas 5 Works Cited Care Not Killing - Promoting care, Opposing  Care Not Killing. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.carenotkilling.org.uk/>. Fenn, Darien S., and Linda Ganzini. Attitudes of Oregon psychologists toward physician- assisted suicide and the Oregon Death With Dignity  Professional Psychology: Research and Practice 30.3 (1999): 235-44. Web. Join the  Dignity in Dying. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.dignityindying.org.uk/>. Parpa, Efi et al. Attitudes of health care professionals, relatives of advanced cancer patients and public towards euthanasia and physician assisted  Health policy (Amsterdam, Netherlands). U.S. National Library of Medicine, n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Schafer, Arthur. Physician assisted suicide: The great Canadian euthanasia  International Journal of Law and Psychiatry 36.5-6 (2013): 522-31. Web.