Reynolds 1 Phoenix Reynolds Sarah Basil ENC 1102 28 January 2017 FDA vs CASAA: ENDS regulations It has been clear for some time now the dangers that tobacco products; yet they remain popular. For over a decade now, individuals across the world have been using a new form of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT); electronic cigarettes or ENDS (electronic nicotine delivery many have been successful in their journey. Overtime, the devices have grown more effective, efficient, and overall more user friendly; allowing more individuals to quit their smoking habits. The years 2011 to 2014 really show the astronomical growth of the industry, and it only continues to grow today. As with any product similar in nature, regulations are due to come. From 2014 to 2016, the vapor industry knew what was being planned by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), but they had no idea just how strict the regulations could have been. The FDA is responsible for regulations of food, drugs, medical equipment and products, veterinarian products, and many other products. The federal agency is to test and determine the safety of these products. In May of 2016, the FDA finally published their final deeming regulations for tobacco products; and electronic cigarettes were no exception. The definition of tobacco product was altered to include electronic cigarettes, and the regulations proved to be a reminder that the industry was certainly on the radar. As of August 8 th , 2016, the industry has been under fire. Since the publication of the tobacco deeming regulations, the vaping industry has grown together and has taken steps necessary to find some sort of compromise with Reynolds 2 the FDA. One huge stakeholder in this fight is the Consumer Advocates for Smoke-Free Alternatives Association (CASAA). They are an organization geared toward consumers looking to help the industry in its time of need. Middle ground can be found between the vaping industry, represented by CASAA, and the FDA; therefore, the industry can continue to provide regulated, safe nicotine replacement therapy devices to the community while the FDA can maintain those regulations. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is the federal agency, founded in 1906, in charge of the public health by ensuring the safety, efficacy, and security of human and veterinary drugs, biological products, and medical devices; and by ensuring the safety of our food supply, cosmetics, and products that emit per their website We Electronic cigarettes are a replacement method, or NRT, which subsequently falls under their category. The FDA has approved many other NRT methods such as drugs like Chantix, Nicorette gum/patches, and even smokeless tobacco products. Each of those products has been put under strict FDA guidelines and has fallen under previous regulations; ENDS had not undergone any regulations or been through FDA approval; nor had they fallen under a label. With the deeming regulations proposed in May of 2016, definitions were updated and concluded that: products unregulated by FDA are widely available and come in many forms, (e-liquids) for implementation of this final rule, currently unregulated tobacco products and future products meeting the definition of Tobacco 10). With the updated definitions of what a is, the FDA legally can regulate any product they put under that label however they please. As of now, in August 2018, there will be little to no vaping market left for those who do use the products, only the Reynolds 3 products that have been FDA approved or grandfathered in. However, because the FDA controls the regulation, and the regulations are strictly stated in the document, the FDA can change them if they find a middle ground. The Consumer Advocates for Smoke-Free Alternatives Association (CASAA) was founded in 2009 and is a non-profit 501(c)(4) organization with an all-volunteer board and a grassroots membership of more than two hundred thousand per their website The organization is a consumer driven advocacy group who educate individuals and raise awareness to tobacco harm reduction products, mostly ENDS; and help enforce responsible legislation. Their goal is to keep ENDS products as well as other harm reduction methods around, affordable, and effective. Since the publication of the FDA deeming regulation, they have supported multiple movements including a lawsuit filed against the FDA by the Right to be Smoke-Free Coalition (R2B). Although CASAA is not directly involved in the lawsuit pushing the H.R. 2058 and Cole-Bishop Amendment drafts, along with the Smoke-Free Alternatives Trade Association (SFATA), SEVIA USA, and Not Blowing Smoke (NBS) have pledged support of this (R2B Lawsuit). With its 200,000+ members, CASAA alone has pushed state legislature to fight for the drafts in court, and everything done by CASAA is free of charge to members. Upon becoming a member of the website, advocates can opt to receive e-mails for any CASAA calls to action or general updates, and they can also receive contact information of their local representatives. CASAA provides advocates with a template explaining H.R 2058 and the Cole-Bishop Amendment in and e-mail form to send to their representatives; and they strongly encourage members to include their personal quitting testimonies. The propositions shown in the lawsuit suggest very possible middle ground for the FDA; and do so in an understandable way, explaining their side. Reynolds 4 Both the FDA and CASAA are around to assist individuals with everyday life. The FDA, being a federal agency, goes through strict guidelines and restrictions in their work. Their job is to approve products for usage in society, and they undergo rigorous testing to do so. CASAA is geared towards helping individuals become smoke free, and eventually, nicotine free. The purpose of ENDS devices is to aid consumers in their goal of quitting tobacco products. They are a smokeless alternative to cigarettes, cigars, tobacco pipes, etc.; and are an alternative to other NRT methods that may not work for some people. stance, along with many other tobacco harm reduction enthusiasts is that the FDA has approved certain NRT methods that can cause more harm than good. Chantix is an example brought up on multiple occasions, which can cause suicidal or homicidal thoughts, which it has on various occasions. Their question is why those products are approved, yet they are attempting to outright ban ENDS devices in the United States by little testing done. However, their common ground lies in the fact that both organizations want there to be options. The FDA has approved many options for nicotine replacement and has put out smokeless tobacco products; and CASAA wants electronic cigarettes to remain an option. The vaping industry wanted regulation, so that the population would be less hesitant to try the devices out; but the FDA took the regulations to a higher level than anyone thought they would; and many hope for a compromise. After the regulations, effective August 8 th , 2016, ENDS devices fell under that label of and they define a tobacco as tobacco product (including those products in test markets) that was not commercially marketed in the United States as of February 15, Tobacco 72) This means that no new products could enter the market without pre-sales or without undergoing FDA approval; or they fell under the grandfather date. Two years after the effective date of August 8 th , 2016, any product that has Reynolds 5 not been approved or grandfathered in becomes illegal. Additionally, stated in the regulations, vape shop employees cannot modify and device intended to be sold; meaning that anyone who has no idea what they are doing cannot be assisted physically. This alone has caused injuries seen in the news. The compromise presented are the H.R. 2058 and Cole-Bishop Amendment drafts. The lawsuit filed focuses on nine counts of violation determined by R2B; the first being the grandfather date, which was proposed to be changed to 2015, allowing more effective devices to remain on the market. The only ones out in 2007 were the devices that were not very useful. Other propositions include removing the free sample ban, modifying the pre-market approval process, along with five other violations found. The lawsuit does not propose to remove regulation all together, but to modify it so the industry can remain relevant and have time to catch up with other regulation. The United Kingdom has done similar regulations, but they have not banned vaping, which some UK citizens believed that would condemn millions of current smokers to ill health and death as they will have lost the only way that works for them to give The UK has however limited the amount of sales of devices and amount of liquid to be sold at one time; which is more reasonable than a blanket ban on vaping. This way, CASAA could continue to aid consumers in their smoke-free journey, and the FDA could regulate the process making it a safer process. Conclusively, ENDS devices have been used by many consumers, and organizations such as CASAA help individuals understand the benefits to smoke-free alternatives. The FDA oversees regulation of many products in the United States for usage by the public. In May 2016, the FDA filed new tobacco deeming regulations classifying ENDS devices as tobacco products and undergoing strict regulation. Currently, the vaping industry and CASAA are pushing for fairer regulations to keep the devices on the market, affordable, and safe. The lawsuit in process Reynolds 6 is proposing middle ground so that FDA can continue to regulate the products with other NRTs and CASAA and the vaping industry can continue to be successful. Even if the propositions presented are not exactly what the FDA agrees on, a middle ground can be met upon further discussion shown by other countries such as the United Kingdom who did not ban vaping, but is restricting and regulating it. Reynolds 7 Works Cited About  CASAA. N.p., 14 Nov. 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Farrimond, Hannah. E-cigarette Regulation and Policy: UK  Wiley Online Library. Society for the Study of Addiction (SSA), 14 Mar. 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. FDA Takes Significant Steps to Protect Americans from Dangers of Tobacco through New  FDA Takes Significant Steps to Protect Americans from Dangers of Tobacco through New Regulation. Food and Drug Administration, May 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017 Right to Be Smoke-Free Coalition Files Lawsuit on Behalf of Vapor  CASAA. Consumer Advocates for Smoke Free Alternatives Association, Et Al, 21 June 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. What We  What We Do. Food and Drug Administration, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. .