Jenkins 1 Skye Jenkins ENC 1102 January 29 th , 2017 Living Non-GMO and The National Academy of Sciences Living Non-GMO and The National Academy of Sciences are two completely different organizations with far different views about genetically modified organisms. Genetically modified organisms are where genes from one food are extracted and moved into another completely unrelated organism, thus being genetically modified. When they came out in 1994 it was because we were starting to have more and more people and less and less food. The high demand for food forced farmers into genetically modifying their food in order to have enough for everyone. GMOs have become a heavily debated topic in the last few years with people trying to decide if we need them or not. Although the two organizations have different views on genetically modified organisms, they can still work together to find a common ground. This common ground could be that the organizations work together to fund farmers so that making both foods, genetically modified and one hundred percent organic, is possible. The National Academy of Sciences is an organization whose mission is to learn and teach more science in America. When Abraham Lincoln signed for this organization in 1863, they had no idea that this organization would one day be writing on GMOs, or have any idea what these modified were. Now that we are in the 21 st century and the population of the world is 7 billion, there is no way farmers would be able to produce enough foods for all 7 billion of us. We must genetically modify our food in order to have enough. In one article, the NAS discusses this issue, not much focusing on the health, but the need. particular, GM technology, coupled with the important developments in other areas, should be Jenkins 2 used to increase the production of main food staples, improve the efficiency of production, reduce the environmental impact of agriculture, and provide access to food for small-scale (The need for GM technology in agriculture). The NAS is trying to say that we need genetically modified organisms to up the production of food with the amount of the people in the world. Another article titled Humans Need GMOs? - A View from a Global Trade starts off with the total acreage planted is no longer increasing, unless new world production technology is adopted, such an increase in demand that is unmatched by an increase in supply in the world food market will raise food prices and lead to shortages, especially in underdeveloped (Chung Chen et. all 157). This is following them saying the raise in population will also be a raise in food, therefore, the need for GMOs increases. The main goal of this article from the National Chung-Hsing University in Taiwan was to inform people that GMOs are in fact necessary and that they are not harmful to us. In the article about GMOs being necessary, they find that they actually benefit some crops by allowing them to be grown at higher rates. The authors do discuss how there are some health risks in more run down countries and therefore they are afraid to trade with countries who use GM technology on their crops. Living Non-GMO is an organization whose sole purpose is to, quite obviously, live non- GMO. They pretty much work with companies to make sure that there are non-GMO food options for those living with non-GMO diet restrictions, or just want to live non-GMO for the heck of it. They started the project in 2010 and have since verified thousands of brands for non- GMO products, actually pretty cool what they are doing. This is their main goal, getting companies to partner with them to make non-GMO foods. They have a blog where different people can go on and write about living non-GMO. In one article, posted quite recently, they Jenkins 3 discuss different ways to eat healthier in 2017. The author, Annie Valpone, editor-in-chief of thehealthyapple.com, discusses that the biggest part in eating clean is cutting out GMOs. She states that bodies need pure, unaltered ingredients to nourish our cells in our bodies on a daily basis GMO foods may not be beneficial to our health as they could cause unknown (Valpone). She continues by saying she eats healthy by only eating non-GMO products verified by Living Non-GMO. Being a celebrity chef, nutritionist and writer specialized in clean eating (sugar, dairy, GMO-free), she does have a valid point that GMOs are to our bodies as our bodies are not- and should not be- naturally adapted to GM technology. Another article, titled Illusory Consensus behind GMO Health analyzes the difference between GMO deniers, like those of Living Non-GMO, and those who believe GMOs do no harm. Sheldon Krimsky says in this article that is more than a casual association between GM foods and health (Krimsky 893). This particular quote is following a study which Krimsky evaluated. In this study, the researcher finds that GM technology effects animals as well as humans, through their findings they found that GM technology can really hurt animal life. Some of the things include infertility, premature aging, liver and kidney issues, and not all of them. Although this article speaks specifically on the different findings of if GM technology is healthy or unhealthy, there is a lot of information included in it. Krimsky found that some risk assessments, researchers say GMOs are healthy and others say there are no risks. This is the only article I have found saying that GM technology hurts animals in many different ways. There was a time when two opposing viewpoints came together to make a point as one. In an article titled with opposing political views come together over stolen campaign they discuss this topic. The author of the article, Kelley Eckerman, a news reporter for Jenkins 4 KMBC News 9, said that the democrats Hillary Clinton campaign sign was stolen. Her neighbor, Angelo Mino, a republican, helped her out. Eckerman reports that Clinton sign was stolen this week, she said she was surprised when Mino came to her rescue with a new (Eckerman). They had opposing views, yet helped each other out in the long run. As you can see, these two organizations have opposite views on genetically modified organisms. I believe a great solution to their opposing views would be coming together to fund farmers so that we as consumers can have non-GMOs and GMOs per their own decisions. The issue as much of labeling issues as some people think GMOs are unsafe to be consumed. The law on labeling GMOs was already passed in august of 2016 by former president, Barack Obama. The issue is, hard for farmers to produce non-GMO foods as well as GMO foods. So, If the National Academy of Sciences and Living Non-GMO came together to provide funds for this movement, they would get the best of both worlds. Jenkins 5 Works Cited Chi-Chung, Chen, and Tseng Wei-Chun. Do Humans Need Gmos?--A View From A Global Trade  Journal Of American Academy Of Business, Cambridge 8.1 (2006): 147- 155.Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Eating Clean in  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. Living Non-GMO, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Eckerman, Kelly. Neighbors with Opposing Political Views Come Together over Stolen Campaign KMBC. KMBC, 22 Oct. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Krimsky, S. An Illusory Consensus behind GMO Health  Science, Technology & Human Values 40.6 (2015): 883-914. Web. THE NEED FOR GM TECHNOLOGY IN  Transgenic Plants and World Agriculture. Washington, D.C.: National Academy, 2000. N. pag. Print.