Polston 1 Will Polston Andrew De Carion ENC 1102 25 January 2017 Hall of Fame or Hall of Shame? Mainstream media and scandals have kept some of the best players in the history out of the Hall of Fame. The individuals responsible for electing players to the Hall have access to these mediums, and it negatively effects the past reputation (Quick, White Lambert & Josey, 73). From Bonds to Ramirez, prestigious names with colossal impacts are being forgotten and left poorly represented as outcasts by the baseball community. Though the potential of these players cheating is present, many would argue that these players did so much for the game regardless of the performance enhancers that it is radical to not enshrine them into the Hall of Fame. With both groups having common ground in baseball and the Hall of Fame, a compromise between the Baseball Writers Association of America and these expected steroid users is needed in order to eliminate bias from the ballot and correctly elect the players deserving of the Hall of Fame induction. The Baseball Writers Association of America, otherwise known as the BBWAA, is the organization against steroid use in baseball. The organization was founded in 1908 and contains over 700 members. Per their Constitution, the Baseball Writers Association of America is a group of individuals whose objectives include ensure proper facilities for reporting baseball games and to provide competent regulation of press boxes of the American League of Professional Baseball Clubs and the National League of Professional Baseball Clubs, hereinafter designated as the Major along with some other objectives. (Baseball Writers Association of America) This organization is responsible for operations regarding baseball, Polston 2 including the distribution of yearly awards around the league and voting retired players into the Hall of Fame. When it comes to who is granted the privilege to have their name enshrined for the name of baseball, these appointed individuals have the final say. With that being said, they must cast their ballots for the Hall of Fame quite meticulously. This group is responsible for determining what players will have their name associated with being one of the best in the sport. They are given no requirements for the players, no scoring sheet or any other guide that could assist them in choosing the best candidates. The players who are inducted are chosen based solely off opinion. The organization aspires to select the most prestigious names with the largest impacts on the game and the players around them, as well as who is the best representative for the sport. On the other hand, these suspected steroid users are for the use of performance enhancers in the sport. This group of former and current players seek to benefit their team overall by boosting their own performance with a form of drugs that increases their muscle mass. By using these performance enhancers, the strength of the player is elevated with the right workout plan, increasing the number of homeruns hit by a player as well as increasing the number of runs scored by their respected teams. Some popular players in this group include Jose Canseco, Barry Bonds, Mark McGwire, Curt Schillings, Manny Ramirez, Alex Rodriguez, and Rafael Palmeiro. These players are considered to be some of the top tier players in the history of the game, but an asterisk is next to their name in the history books for the use of performance enhancing drugs, otherwise known as PEDs. Many players admit using steroids such as Jose Canseco, who had a career total of 462 homeruns, along with 1407 RBIs, and Barry Bonds who holds ten different MLB hitting records, most notable is his 762 career homeruns and most homeruns in a single season with 73. Other players have denied accusations regarding the use of steroids including Polston 3 Manny Ramirez, though being caught on two separate occasions in 2009 and 2011 (Marchand ESPN), Curt Schillings and Alex Rodriguez. Whether they deny the fact, or have come to their senses and admitted guilt, all these players have a commonality, and that is the fact that they are not in the Hall of Fame. If one looks at the big picture, these two groups do share a common goal. Both the Baseball Writers Association of America and the steroid using baseball players want what is best for the game of baseball. Players will use the performance enhancers in order to increase their team performance, individual performance, as well as draw in more money for the sports revenue. The Baseball Writers Association of America wants to elect the most deserving athletes into the hall of fame, as well as induct the players that represent the purity and genuine skills in Major League Baseball. The BBWAA believes that if a player is willing to use steroids to enhance their game that a player is undeserving of a spot in the Hall of Fame. Also, they believe it is unfair for the players who did not use steroids that do not get voted in because they let in other athletes who used steroids to improve their game. The steroid using athletes believe that they are worthy of enshrinement into the Hall, due to their record-breaking statistics, outstanding performance, as well as the number of fans they drew into stadiums every night, in hopes of seeing another monstrous showing from these sluggers. Either way one looks at it, both groups involved want what is best for baseball, for it both weights heavy influence on their lives, as it is how both groups are employed. To cooperatively build on their common ground, the two groups must put together a compromise that eliminates all steroid scandal bias involved in the voting. If players could be inducted on a statistical standpoint, as opposed to the voting aspect that is currently implemented, much of the bias would be eliminated. Many could argue that this compromise is Polston 4 in favor of the steroid users, but even though many have been caught taking performance enhancers, there has been no change in the number of homeruns hit within the commonly known the time-period in baseball from the late 80s to the early 2000s where many players were suspected of doping, and present day baseball (De Vany 489). If no substantial evidence can be shown that steroids greatly influence how one plays, then this would be a fair compromise. The Baseball Writers Association of America could be the committee to pick the standards required for Hall of Fame. This would require a standard for each baseball statistic. For example, not everyone in the league is a power slugger that averages forty homeruns a season, so a different statistical standard would need to be set for statistics such as steals, hits, or individual awards such as MVPs, Cy Young awards, Gold Gloves, and All-Star appearances. A player worthy of the Hall of Fame will have met, or broken at least two of the standards set by the BBWAA. With this method, some of the best players in the league such as Barry Bonds and Jose Canseco could get the induction they deserve, as well as some other great players that potentially did not make the cut, steroid users or clean players. This compromise keeps both parties involved in baseball, with BBWAA creating the standards as well as the steroid users getting their spot in the Hall of Fame. Given that this compromise is implemented, the mainstream media of steroid use will no longer be relevant. Sure, you will still have people saying that certain people were users of PEDs, but if they hit these requirements, they will still be enshrined. In addition, the penalties for doping will still be in effect in modern day baseball, such as suspensions for being caught after a drug test. This compromise will not only discourage current day use, but also allow for those big name steroid era players to be inducted as well. Soon enough, all of these conflicts between the Polston 5 feuding sides will be settled with this compromise, keeping responsibilities, as well as rewarding those deserving of praise. Polston 6 Works Cited De Vany, Arthur. Steroids And Home  Economic Inquiry 49.2 (2011): 489. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Marchand, Andrew. The Steroids  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 5 Dec. 2012. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Official Site of the Baseball Assn. of  BBWAA.com: Official Site of the Baseball Assn. of America. Baseball Writers Association of America, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Quick, Brian L., Natalie J. White Lambert, and Christopher S. Josey. A Two-Study Investigation Into How Television News Frames The Steroid Scandal In Major League Baseball And Support For Bonds, Mcgwire, And Pending Induction Into The Baseball Hall Of  Communication Research 43.1 (2016): 73. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Weber, Wolfgang S. Preserving Integrity Through Proper Drug Testing: Time For The Major League Baseball Players Association To Let Go Of Its Collective Bargaining  University Of Colorado Law Review 85.(2014): 267. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.