Blum 1 Taylor-Paige Blum Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Public vs. Virtual High School Obtaining a high school education in society is essential to finding any kind of job, whether one decides to continue onto higher education or not. Luckily, due to living in the age of technology there are many different ways one can go about getting their high school diploma. The most common option is through the public school system. The Florida Department of Education states that Florida students deserve to graduate high school with knowledge and skills they need to succeed in college, careers and (fldoe.org). Another way students can complete their high school requirements is through online courses provided by Florida Virtual School. FLVS is an online school in which in-state and out-of-state students can enroll in either part-time or full time classes for a convenient and unique learning experience. Although both programs have had success in the past, there are some problems with both which can easily be resolved by merging the two systems. The Florida public high schools must come together with the Florida Virtual School program to initiate a 2 online-course per year graduation requirement for high school students in order to boost success and completion rates across the state. The common goal between the two stake holders in this situation would be their ambition to see their students succeed. Because graduation is such a vital certification in society, it is important that all students aim for not only graduating, but doing well in school so they stand Blum 2 out against the rest of their class. Graduation rates have been rising since its last decline in the 2005-2006 school year, as reported by the Florida Department of Education High School Cohort 2015-16 Graduation Rate). This is a good sign for the future of education; however, there are other systems that when working together could improve the rates even more than they already are while also improving the overall education. FLVS has proven their success through test scores in comparison to Florida and the rest of the country. On the 2012 Advanced Placement exam, 62% of FLVS students received qualifying scores which is 2% higher than the national average and 14% higher than the state average (Manresa 36). Additionally, on the End of Course Exams, 74% of the part-time FLVS students and 63% of the full-time students scored between a level 3 and 5, whereas the state passing rate was only 59% (Manresa 37). These scores from the FLVS students, each with at least a 10% higher score over the state average, show that the online course are helping them succeed. Given these success rates, it is possible for the two schools to come together to improve the learning experience overall. There have been times in the past where the public school system has tried to work with FLVS, but FLVS is beginning to see a decline in students for a number of reasons. The state of Florida instituted the Digital Learning Now Act in 2001 stating students must take at least one course in an online environment in order to graduate (Manresa 35). Therefore students would take just one course with FLVS, which is free for all in-state students as long as they comply with the criteria require by state statute, in order to simply fulfill the requirements of the Digital Learning Now Act. Thus, they are not taking advantage of all the resources FLVS has to offer. The most evident reason for the loss of students is that the public schools are telling their students not to take FLVS courses because the school board is losing money (Manresa 37). Blum 3 Instead the schools are creating their own online courses to fulfill the Digital Learning Now Act. This could be hazardous to the learning as the online courses are not as highly qualified or interesting as those with FLVS. By simply just helping the students get by with the minimum requirements, the schools could actually be hindering their learning. On the other hand, the government is also beginning to cut back on the funds for FLVS due to the decline of students (Manresa 37). As a result, teaching staff is being cut and some teachers are even working without pay. Overall, by coming to a compromise on the curriculum for the students, both parties could overcome their differences to create a better learning experience for the students. As a compromise that satisfies the differences between the two stakeholders as well as their common goal, the public schools must require their high school students to take 2 courses per year from FLVS in order to graduate. To make up for the loss of money from both parties, FLVS could charge a small registration fee, such as $50, at the beginning of the school year where half would go back to the school board and half towards FLVS. Not only will this compromise fulfill the requirements of the Digital Learning Now Act, it will also get students acclimated to a different type of learning which in turn could boost their success. Textbooks have been said to to stimulate and they are only responsible for conveying fast ambiguous (Oral 319). After the text book has done its job of giving the facts, often teachers do not know how to continue the lesson with discussion and analysis. However, FLVS courses are crafted to be personalized, interesting, and able to be completed at pace given every student is different and unique (Findley 41). Because FLVS offers course in over 150 different subjects, students could choose to take online courses in areas where they feel textbooks or classroom curriculum is lacking in analysis and interpretation. As stated before, FVLS has been proven to be very successful, more so for their part-time students. Therefore by Blum 4 requiring students to not just take one course, but by having a consistent 2 courses per year, the students should be expected to see tremendous improvement in their performance. Public high school education and virtual education have both been very flourishing in the past decade in their main goal of student success. However with the establishment of the Digital Learning Now Act, it called for the students to have to make a decision on how they fulfill this requirement: either by taking FLVS courses which ends up hurting their school financially or taking the online courses provided by their school which are not as engaging or efficient. However, by creating enforcing a 2 online-course per year curriculum with a small registration fee, the schools and FLVS will both be satisfied financially while also providing the students with a well rounded education both hands-on and online. Blum 5 Works Cited Findley, Mike. Florida Virtual School Paves The Way In Distance  Distance Learning 2 (2009): 41. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. High School Cohort 2015-16 Graduation Fldoe.org. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Florida Virtual School K-12 Online Fully Flvs.net. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Manresa, Mario. Florida Virtual  Distance Learning 11.1 (2014): 33-39. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Oral, Sevket Benhur. What Is Wrong With Using Textbooks In  Educational Philosophy & Theory 45.3 (2013): 318-333. Education Source. Web. 26 Jan. 2017