Nannapaneni 1 Rohitha Nannapaneni ENC 1102 Composition 1102 Professor Noah Pearlstone 29 January 2017 Eating Disorders According to the American Psychological Association (APA), their mission is to apply psychological knowledge to benefit lives (American Psychological Association). Dance/USA is a national organization dedicated to serving a broad cross-section of professional dance (Dance/USA). Both of these organizations are known for promoting good health. However, it has been proven that dancers have a high risk of developing eating disorders. APA thinks that dancers and dance companies are not educated about eating disorders as much as they should be. Dancers are encouraged by nutritionists to lose more and more weight which the APA deems unhealthy. What these two groups need to do is send professionals who can alert and educate dancers about eating disorders and the consequences and promote good nutrition at the same time. The APA is the leading scientific and professional organization representing psychology in the United States. According to the APA, certain traits like anxiety and depression are linked to different types of eating disorders (American Psychological Association). It was even proven in a study that mood disorders appeared more frequently in patients that were seeking help for eating disorders (Godart). The results showed that mood disorders were more frequent with a global prevalence of 80% for each eating disorder group. It also showed that the majority of the mood disorders that occurred with eating disorders were depressive disorders (Godart). Nannapaneni 2 Dance/USA believes that dance is essential to a healthy society and hopes to lead the professional dance industry. While they do promote good nutrition, they still require dancers to be thinner (Dance/USA). This concept and notion of having to be thinner may cause unwanted anxiety which in turn can lead to eating disorders. This strive for thinness comes from dissatisfaction with their bodies (Arcelus). Eating disorders are believed to be common in dancers. A study was done showing that dancers, in general, had a three times higher risk of developing eating disorders than anyone else in the population (Arcelus). At face value, these organizations may be at opposite ends of the issue. However, there is a common ground between the two. Both stakeholders want best for subjects, in this case, dancers. They want the dancers to be as healthy as possible. The main discussion is held between people who want dancers to be physically and mentally healthy. Since their common goal is to teach the significance of eating disorders, the compromise between APA and Dance/USA would be to send professionals who can alert and educate dancers about eating disorders and the consequences and promote good nutrition at the same time. Often health issues are already taught to dancers, but not that much. Although these two organizations have different approaches to promoting good health, they still have the same goal in mind: to educate dancers about eating disorders and consequences. Dance/USA would have to change the rhetoric when it comes to their guidelines. Instead of saying the dancers should be thinner, they can say they require their dancers to fit since it relieves most dancers of that pressure and strive. Nannapaneni 3 Works Cited American Psychological Association. About APA. 2017. 29 January 2017. <http://www.apa.org/>. Arcelus, Jon, Gemma L. Witcomb, and Alex Mitchell. Prevalence Of Eating Disorders Amongst Dancers: A Systemic Review And  European Eating Disorders Review 22.2 (2014): 92-101. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dance/USA. Mission Statement. 2013. 29 January 2017. <https://www.danceusa.org/>. Dance/USA. Dance/USA Taskforce on Dancer Health. 2010. 29 January 2017. >. Godart, N., et al. Mood Disorders In Eating Disorder Patients: Prevalence And Chronology Of  Journal Of Affective Disorders 185.(2015): 115-122. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.