Patricia Perez Hernandez ENC1102.025S17 1/29/2017 The US Department of Education and the Parent Teacher Association are dedicated to the well-being of students; they both struggle to make sure students are getting the most out of their education. Fighting challenges against learning, and reaching for success, these organizations focus everyday on giving students the best learning experience possible. Even though both organizations strike for the success of students, they are both doing it completely different. The US Department of Education perspective and goal is to equally teach students and prepare them through tests for life challenges. On the other hand, the Parent Teacher Association focuses on ways to engage families into kids learning experience, and make the students feels supported in order to promote motivation. Due to their differences, they are both lacking on meeting needs, and the only way for them to accomplish their goal would be to join forces, and knowledge. Allowing each organization to learn from each other and take each point of view into consideration for the purpose of reaching an agreement on what is best for students. By the union of organizations such as the US Department of Education and the Teacher Parent Association, school systems can be changed to promote a higher learning experience for the benefit of students. Students, teachers, and schools as a whole, need monitoring, someone to be watching over them making sure they are on the right track. The US Department of (ED) mission is to student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal (US Department of Education). They focus on distributing and monitoring funds for education. They collect data and conduct research through tests. Students throughout the school year are tested with different types of tests, that focus on different subjects. These tests are very important for the department of education to stay updated with how the students are doing. The problem with these tests, is the fact that they are causing students stress and anxiety. This is where the article by Lelac Almagor comes in, in it she states testing all the students all at once, at the end of the year, in a culminating district-wide trial-by-fire. Instead, treat academic testing like the rotating hearing test or scoliosis checkup. Sample two or three students at random and without preparation, every week throughout the year. Sit them at a computer. Let them click through the test with little (Almagor, 9). As an outsider, the author of the article realized that the school system is using something good and unintentionally turning it into something bad. Tests have become something that brings negativity to students. At times, it even comes to the point that students are going to school to pass tests and get a diploma instead of to learn and be enriched with information. The school system does not know this because obviously, they students. But if they had a way of realizing and knowing specifically what students needed and how they felt they would change their department. Just like a mentor, students need a support system to motivate and encourage them to be the best they can be. The Parent Teacher (PTA) mission is to every potential a reality by engaging and empowering families and communities to advocate for all (PTA). This association values collaboration, commitment, diversity, respect, and accountability. They focus on improving the school system by offering support, giving kids time and attention when it comes to school is crucial. A parent attending a parent teacher conference, a teacher helping a student one on one, parents and teacher being able to contact each other and keep updated about how the student is doing both at home and school, is very important. This kind of attention is essential coming from the people the students look up to. If they feel like school matters, they will understand how important it is to get a good education, and they will only understand this when everyone around them is giving school importance and attention. The article Families to Support Transition to High School: Evidence from the is based on a research that proves just how important family support is to the success of students. The article states, families are unaware of the nexus of on-time, daily attendance, report card grades, and course credits required for promotion from grade 9 to grade 10 and the path to on-time graduation from high (Iver, Martha Abele Mac, et al, 28). Parents do not have the opportunity to be a part of education as they should. The support of families in the life makes a difference and is therefore crucial in student success. The association focuses on ways to bring out students potential and help them be successful. The article focuses on how and why the presence of family is so important for the success in school. It seems like there is not conflict in between these organizations considering they are both focused on the well-being of students and their success in schools. The problem lies on the way they are facing these challenges. The department of education has no knowledge as to how students feel about tests. If they realized tests could be given out with a different perspective, with less importance, if grades did not depend on these tests, students would not feel the need to cheat, stress, and be overwhelmed by them. Parents and teachers have no opportunity to be a bigger part of the education experience as they should. Teachers should be able to have more one on one time with their students, be able to attack their academic weaknesses and empower their strengths. Parents should be a part of the school, just like students, teachers, and administrators. They should know how their kids are doing, how they can help, things they can be a part of. These organizations should combine knowledge and ideas which would change the school system and promote students learning. Both associations have different ideas of how to help kids. One focuses on general aspects of education such as funds, data, tests, etc. The other one focuses on more specific aspects of student learning such a family support, one on one learning, keeping up with grades, etc. They are both looking out for students and want what is best for them, and since they are doing it differently and separately, neither one is getting the best results. The article by Terri and Patricia describes a new school system in which the system becomes a community where everyone learns and helps each other. This community takes a lot of commitment and dedication to make it work but it proves that it is possible to change the system and make it a better place for students to succeed. The article states learning communities meet the need for creating a collaborative learning culture for teachers to support systemic change with characteristics such as: shared mission, vision, values and goals; collaborative teams focused on student learning; collective inquiry into best practice and current reality; action orientation and experimentation; commitment to continuous improvement; and results (Christiansen, and Robey, 7-13). Changing the school system is possible and it would benefit the education society as a whole. Based on the sources presented, we can conclude that the unification of the US Department of Education and the Parent Teacher Association in order to change the school system and improve learning would be possible. Although both organizations are focused on the education of students the different approaches are not working. Now if these different approaches were to be unified, changing the school system, it would allow students to receive a better learning experience. The collaboration of these organizations would have several advantages such as: a more unified school community, the reduction of anxiety on students due to tests, the use of tests to help students, a stronger support system for students, etc. The combination of the US Department of Education and the Parent Teacher Association would greatly, and positively alter the school system, promoting a higher learning experience for students. Works Cited Department of https://www.ed.gov Accessed January 2017 Almagor, Lelac. The Good in Standardized  Boston Review 39.5 (2014): 6-9. Humanities Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Teacher http://www.pta.org Accessed January 2017 Iver, Martha Abele Mac, et al. Engaging Families to Support Transition to High School: Evidence from The  High School Journal 1 (2015): 27. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Christiansen, Terri, and Robey, Patricia A. Promoting Systemic Change Through the Integration of Professional Learning Community Practices with Glasser Quality  International Journal of Choice Theory & Reality Therapy 35.1 (2015): 7- 13. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.