Orie1 Shamon Orie Professor Sarah Basil ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Long term effects of steroid use on Bodybuilders Living in a world filled with people that have all types of shapes and sizes you often see people who almost look unreal. While carrying out regular everyday activities you may stumble across people who are in good shape and this makes you want to work out more. Other times you find yourself looking at someone and thinking this person is too muscular to the point it makes you uncomfortable. These people have a sport designed just for them known as bodybuilding. Bodybuilding is sport that consist of individuals working out intensely to transform their bodies to have the most muscle possible. athletes take a form of steroids known as anabolic- androgen steroids or just anabolic steroids to increase their muscle mass and (Mayo Clinic Staff 1). The use of steroids is a common practice that body builders use to help them grow muscle faster and to enhance their physical attributes. While some individuals view steroids as a positive way to enhance body muscles, others view steroids as a detrimental factor to bodybuilders health. Alpha Pharma is a health care company that view using steroids as a positive way of life. Alpha commitment is improving the quality of life for every individual (Alpha-Pharma 1). Alpha Pharma feel that if steroids make an individual feel better about their selves than they Orie2 should be entitled to use them. athletes take a form of steroids known as anabolic- androgen steroids or just anabolic steroids to increase their muscle mass and (Mayo Clinic Staff 1). Many body builders use steroids to grow their muscles to massive sizes and to enhance their physical abilities that allows their body to improve at rapid rates. Steroids improves a physical strength, energy levels increase, recovery time increases, and reduces body fat in the human body (Effects of Steroids 1). Body builders love steroids because it gives them an extra boost when it comes to working out and improving muscles. Steroids somewhat gives a person superhuman strength. Body builders can lift extremely heavy weights and can lift weights frequently due to fast recovery times. As far as physical appearance, steroids are a go to option because it greatly reduces body fat on a human body. When body builders compete, low body fat percentages plus lifting large amounts of weights results in super human appearances. Steroids are simply a body builders cheat sheet when competing in bodybuilding tournaments and makes it easier for body builders to gain muscle fast. Arnold Schwarzenegger won Mr. Olympia numerous times, which is a national body building competition. Arnold Schwarzenegger did use steroids but only two months per year. Fact is your body can never look like Arnolds without drugs no matter how hard you train (Mehdi 1). Famous body builders like Arnold Schwarzenegger, need steroids to win national competitions because without steroids there would be no other natural to get their bodies like national champion levels. Arnold did use steroids but he used them at moderate levels and managed his side effects. Body builders feel that steroids are essential to the sport and steroid companies like Alpha Pharma back them feel the same. Orie3 The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), is a foundation that fights against athletes using drugs in sports to enhance their performance. (WADA 1). WADA, along with many others feel that the usage of steroids in sports gives unfair advantages to users and that it damages their health. Side effects of steroids consist of hair loss, shrinking of testicles, depression or suicidal tendencies, bad breath, high blood pressure and many more side effects (Anderson 1). Body builders using steroids can undergo many side effects that can interfere with their wellbeing as a person and negatively their health. These side effects can be minor but once an individual starts using steroids frequently their body craves the drug more often and causes them to become addicted. Body builders easily fall victim of becoming addicted to steroids because they like the result steroids have on the visual appearance on their body. After a body builder tries to lower their steroid intake their body reacts through a process known as steroid withdrawal. of steroid withdrawal are known to emulate and kick start many other medical complications as well. Weakness, loss of appetite, fatigue, nausea, weight loss, vomiting, diarrhea (further resulting in liquid and electrolyte complications), as well as abdominal pain are some of the most common effects that steroid withdrawal is often associated (Effects of Steroids 1). A body builder has an ongoing battle with steroids and it almost takes over who they are. one thing to compete against other bodybuilders and another case dealing with all the baggage along with using steroids. Not only does steroids have short term side effects it also negatively effects an individual long term as well. Using steroids for a long period can lead to liver, heart, kidney disease and completely take over a mindset. There have also been serious cases where prominent bodybuilders who were active steroid users who completely lost their selves. Gordon Kimbrough, was a well-known builder who life changed forever in 1993. Steroids can change even the gentlest personalities. San Francisco bodybuilder, Gordon Kimbrough was a perfect Orie4 example. Family members described him as shy but once he started using steroids he turned into a completely different person. In 1993, Gordon snapped and murdered his wife. When police arrived to the scene they saw him trying to kill himself (Jensen 3). Steroid use can have serious effects on a person and can change their life forever. Although steroids have some positive effects on an individual, bodybuilders should avoid steroids to ensure they live a healthy life. Major companies and individuals have different views on athletes using steroids. Steroids have both positive and negative effects on their users. There can be a compromise on whether body builders should be allowed to use steroids or not. Body builders should be able to use steroids but there should be restrictions on how much body builders can use. Every body builder should be assigned to their own personal doctor and this doctor would monitor how much steroids the body builder intakes. When body builders undergo side effects the doctors would be there to help them cope through the difficulties and give them the proper medication needed. If body builders exceed their limit of steroid intake they should be fined or punish in some way. Through monitored steroid intake, this will limit the horrific tragedies that steroid usage can lead to. In conclusion, body building is a sport that involves intense training that leads to massive full body muscle growth. Many body builders use steroids to help grow their muscles at fast rates, increase recovery time, and to reduce body fat. These positives that result from body building attract many body builders but there are many negative side effects to body building. Steroids can lead to major health issues and causes individuals minds to be damaged for the rest of their lives. Though, steroids have more negative effects long term on an individual there can be a compromise where a body builder would be limited on how much steroid intake they could practice. Orie5 Works Cited 10 Bodybuilders Who Went Too  CraveOnline. 16 Jan. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Anabolic Steroids - Abuse, Side Effects and  Drugs.com. Drugs.com. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Effects of  Effects of Steroids - Positive and Negative Side Effects. Web. 29Jan.2017 Performance-enhancing Drugs: Know the  Mayo Clinic. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Alpha-Pharma. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. World Anti-Doping  World Anti- Doping Agency. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Http://stronglifts.com To Guys Who Think That Arnold Got Big with  STRONGLIFTS. 04 June 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.