Matthew Lillia Intermediate Draft ENC 1102 01/29/2017 One of the biggest debated in the media today is the debate on gun control. The fuel that has heated this debate up is the amount of fatal mass shootings in America in the past 15 years. Many people believe that the laid back approach on gun laws are not working and the proof is in the mass shooting tragedies. The pro-gun supporters firm belief in the second amendment, which states that all American citizens have the right to defend themselves. They believe that any gun laws are trampling on the second amendment and it should be up to the citizen on how the defend themselves. The reason this debate has been forefront in the media is the recent increase in mass shootings in the US. There have been 47 major mass shootings in the us since 1984 (Los Angeles Times). The recent increase in mass shootings have also accounted for the debate to be very active in recent news. One of those shootings was the Fort Lauderdale Airport shooting, the shooter in this case was Esteban Santiago a veteran who struggled from mental illness(Eliott McLauglin). Many incidents involve shooters with mental illnesses, mental illness plays a huge role in the gun control debate and in possible solutions to the problem. Terrorism also plays a big role in the debate and the possible solution. The recent mass shootings need to force a change to enact stricter gun laws in the US, at the same time we can not completely shut out the second amendment. I believe a great compromise would be to enact background checks on all gun owners. One of the biggest and most active groups on the pro gun control laws is the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. The CSGV lobbies for stricter gun laws in Washington, they have lobbied for strict background checks, Banning of assault weapons, and cracking down an flea market gun sales. They blame the mass shootings mental illnesses and believe that something needs to be done to keep guns out of potentially dangerous hands. The mission statement of the CSGv is Coalition to Stop Gun Violence seeks to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy The CSGV is the most donated to gun violence organizations and has over 100 campaigns against gun violence(The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence). After the Fort Lauderdale shooting the CSGV made this statement, the facts are still emerging, policy makers across the nation should remember that there are legislative options to provide preventative tools to law enforcement and concerned family members. California and Washington state have recently enacted laws that allow courts to temporarily remove firearms from individuals displaying signs of Coalation to Stop Gun Violence). The Coalition actively involved themselves in political matters, they were a huge supporter of former President Obama as Obama was a very big supporter of stricter gun laws in the US. He publicly supported background checks and believe something needed to be done to prevent these mass shootings. The Coalition endorsed Hillary Clinton for President and publicly bashed now President Donald Trump. The Coalition continues to fight for stricter gun laws and prevent mass shootings The CSGV biggest opposition and one of the biggest supporters to the pro gun debate is the National Rifle Association. The NRA was founded in 1871 and has fought to defend the second amendment ever since. They fight for the gun owners rights and they blame the mass shootings in terrorism not the guns or their owners. They have opposed all anti gun laws and say they all trample on the Americans peoples rights to arm and protect themselves. heart of The NRA mission is preserving the core of our American values and traditions in our steadfast effort to Teach NRA Foundation). In 1990 the NRA created the NRA Foundation which promotes safety classes and for the NRA to protect the law abiding citizens Second Amendment (the NRA Foundation). The main purpose is the promote gun safety and to prevent accidents with firearms. The NRA had much response to the mass shootings but when it does it blames the attacks mostly on radical terrorism. They believe that we need to fight the foreign terrorist threat overseas before we focus on the gun problems in America. The NRA also blames former President Obama for some of the gun problems. W. Cox, executive director of Institute for Legislative Action made this comment after the recent Fort Lauderdale shooting, political  for failing to prevent the worst mass shooting in U.S. (Anna Merod). They have publicly bashed Obama and Secretary Hillary Clinton in the Presidential election. The NRA were big supporters of President Trump who is very pro gun and is strong believer of the Second Amendment. The NRA is one of the biggest Lobbyist groups in Washington and has immense power in swaying incoming laws in the Senate and House of Representatives. Obviously these stakeholders have much in common and are very much at odds. The common ground they do have is they both acknowledge these mass shootings are a problem and something needs to be done to to solve these deadly problem. Like I stated earlier the best solution is to enact background checks and all citizens trying to purchase a firearm. This solution is the best for everyone and will decrease the number of mass shootings. Daniel Webster, who is a leading expert in gun violence had this to say laws prohibiting high-risk groups perpetrators of domestic violence, violent misdemeanants and the severely mentally ill from possessing firearms have been shown to reduce (Greg Sargent). He also states of my studies found that a number of state laws prohibiting individuals under a domestic violence restraining order from owning guns produced an overall 19 percent reduction in intimate partner The article also goes on and explains that enacting background checks would decrease the number of guns circulating on the black market. Which would not only decrease mass shootings in America but would greatly decrease all gun violence throughout the county. Many people believe gun owners themselves would oppose a law requiring background checks but that is simply not the case. Daniel Webster who is director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Policy and Research did a survey of gun owners about weather they were for or against background checks and the result of the study showed that 85% of gun owners believed that there should be mandatory background checks when you go to purchase a weapon (Sarah Richards). The 85% is two percent higher than the non gun owners that were also surveyed about background checks. The results of this survey are not shocking, most Americans have nothing to worry about when it comes to background checks, most gun owners are law abiding citizens and should have the right to own a gun. The people that should be nervous about background checks are the ones that we are trying to keep away from guns, and most of the gun owners around the country agree with me. With little opposition from either side it is obvious that background checks is by far the best solution to the gun control debate. The facts show that background checks is the only solution that both the CSGV and the NRA would agree on. The CSGV has been fighting to enact background checks for years and 85% of all gun owners say they want the government to enact background checks. This solution is not just liked by both sides it is a solution that will work to stop gun violence in America. Research shows that background checks would significantly lessen gun violence by taking guns out of the hands of very at risk people. They would also greatly lessen the number of illegal guns circulating on the black market lessening gun violence throughout the US. The facts show that Background checks are the only way to keep Americans safe from the threat of gun violence. Work Cited Deadliest U.S. Mass Shootings,  Angeles Times . Los Angeles Times, 12 June 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Sargent, Greg. Opinion Why Expanding Background Checks Would, in Fact, Reduce Gun  Washington Post . WP Company, 03 Apr. 2013. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Richards / Published Fall 2015, Sarah. Why Background Checks for Gun Purchases Have Gun-Owner  Hub . N.p., 11 Sept. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.  to Stop Gun Violence . The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Foundation, NRA. NRA  NRA Foundation . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Merod, Anna. How the NRA Has Responded to Mass Shootings Over the  NBCNews.com. NBCUniversal News Group, 15 June 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McLaughlin, Elliot C. Video Shows Moment Airport Gunman Opened  . Cable News Network,8 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.