Victoria Shephard Project 1: Legalization or Recreational Marijuana Marijuana is a naturally growing plant that can be used as a stimulant to alter the way that the person who ingests the plant feels. The debate as to whether or not Marijuana should be legalized for recreational use has become very publicized and heated. It seems as if half of the country believes that Marijuana is bad for society and will have nothing but negative effects for the whole country if legalized, while the other half of the country believes that legalizing Marijuana would solve a large sum of our problems. There are valid arguments on both side of the argument that should be taken into account when making decisions about this topic. Whether or not marijuana use makes changes to the brain, I believe that the recreational use of marijuana should be legalized with certain restrictions. Even though we live in the twenty-first century and we have many studies that tell us that marijuana affects the brain very differently than most other addictive substances, there are many who believe that marijuana has the same affects as hardcore drugs like molly and cocaine. Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana, or CALM, is an organization that avidly discourages the legalization of marijuana in California. They say that other states that legalized it have had an Victoria Shephard increase of traffic fatalities, homelessness, and teen usage. They also believe that the brain is affected greatly by the use of marijuana, no matter what the age. It is simply not safe for marijuana to be used, and the legalization of it will only make it worse for everyone. Private prisons are a stakeholder that really do not want marijuana to be legalized. All private prisons make their money off of having prisoners, and if marijuana position was to be legal, everybody in their prison that was there for that reason would have to be released, and everyone that would have been arrested would not be. Because of that, they would lose a great deal of income and that is something that no business wants to happen to them. Some people on the other hand, believe that the legalization of marijuana will do nothing but good for our country. They also believe that there are very little pressing negatives to using marijuana. If anything, they believe that many of our countries problems will be solved with the legalization of marijuana such as a decrease in crime, less people in prison that need to be paid for, and more sick people getting the help that they need with the use of medical marijuana. Police would be freed up to spend their time on bigger crimes, like stealing and murder than on non-violent drug arrests. Big Tobacco is a stakeholder that would benefit greatly from having marijuana legalized. With the legalization, they would be able Victoria Shephard to commercialize the production of the plant and make money off of it like they currently do with tobacco. With the commercialization of tobacco, the government would also be able to tax all of the sales of marijuana, and that would bring more income to our country as a whole. Hospitals would also benefit because they could spend less money on pharmaceutical drugs that have the same effects as medical marijuana. Both sides of the argument just want what is best for the country. They both want to have financial security and want to make use that everyone is as safe as possible. Violence related to drugs is a big concern to everyone involve. If there is a way to bring down the amount of violence with a compromise, everyone would definitely be happier. Both sides of the arguments also want to make use that they can make money off of marijuana. Right now, Big Tobacco is making no money off of the plant, and they can make it into a lucrative business if it were legal. On the other hand, private prisons are benefitting off of the plant being illegal and they want it to stay that way. Another similarity between the two stakeholders is that they profit off of things that are culturally considered wrong. Crime and addictive substances are considered to be inherently bad, but they both profit off of people doing those things anyway. Marijuana is also considered to be bad in our current culture. But because private prisons profit off of the Victoria Shephard being illegal and Big tobacco profit off of those things being legal, it makes sense that they would be opposing forces. It seems as if the only way to get these two stakeholders to come together and make a decision would be to make a compromise that bother of them would like. One compromise that would appease the private prisons would be to limit the use of marijuana until the age of twenty-five. Research shows that Marijuana negatively affects the developing brain, and the brain continues to develop until the age of twenty-five. Alcohol is a drug that affects the brain no matter how old the consumer is, and it is legal at the age of twenty-one. Everyone under that age is not allowed to be in possession of alcohol, and anyone under the age of twenty- five should not be able to have marijuana with them. In fact, we should give marijuana similar rules as alcohol, such as the age limit and making it illegal to drive under the influence. This way, we can keep the people who would be most affected by the use of marijuana safe and give everyone else the freedom to choose. Each state could also choose whether or not they want marijuana to be legal, that way some private prisons would still be able to incarcerate people based of their possession. A compromise that would greatly benefit both stakeholders would be to only allow big companies and no individual sellers to Victoria Shephard grow and sell the plant. That way, Big Tobacco would keep most of the profit and private prisons would be able to take in all of those who would chose to continue and sell marijuana individually. Victoria Shephard Bibliography: Legalizing Marijuana Appropriate Involvement of  QuantumMark. N.p., 27 Aug. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Big Money Fights to Block Marijuana  Represent.Us. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Taramlachapelle, and Https://www.facebook.com/rani.molla. Pot of  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 20 Apr. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.