Rodriguez1 Yoel Rodriguez ENC 1102 DAVIS Spring 2017 The Fight Between Religious Liberty and LGBT Rights Millions of LGBT Americans face discrimination daily. And one of the main reasons this occurs is because other Americans use religion to justify their discriminatory practices. Two stakeholders who would arise from this situation would be the millions of LGBT Americans and the Family Research Council. These two stakeholders have very opposing viewpoints. LGBT Americans feel that other individuals should not be able to discriminate against them on any basis and that they should be legally protected. But the Family Research Council expresses that individuals should have the right to refuse service to LGBT Americans if it is against their religious beliefs. Common ground between the stakeholders would be that members of both groups practice Christianity. The only compromise between the two stakeholders would be a federal law that would prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity and protect other religious freedom. While this would be a challenging compromise, it would solve a major social problem of the United States. The conservative viewpoint on LGBT rights is very strong. The viewpoint that religious rights should be prioritized over LGBT rights has been around for several decades. And millions of individuals still have that viewpoint. The Family Research Council embodies this conservative viewpoint to this day. The Family Research Council is an organization that promotes a conservative Judeo-Christian worldview and thinks individuals should have the liberty to Rodriguez2 discriminate against LGBT Americans if it is against their beliefs. The Family Research Council states on their website that they the vigorous efforts of homosexual activists to demand that homosexuality be accepted as equivalent to heterosexuality in law, in the media, and in (1). So, this stakeholder opposes LGBT rights completely. They also have arguments similar scholars who have published peer-reviewed articles in Academic Journals. For example, Travis Gasper expresses that freedom arguments are already being used to (395). Gasper was referring to arguments made by conservative officials in the government. Gasper also argues that accommodating LGBT Americans would the sincerely held religious (395) of other individuals. Other scholars such as Nancy Knauer point out that legislatures and Congress have begun to consider religious marriage (749). All these conservative scholars also express that religious liberty must be protected even more as it faces opposition. LGBT Americans feel very strongly about laws concerning religious liberty. Because when these laws are enacted, discrimination towards LGBT individuals increases. LGBT Americans include those who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender. Many scholars feel the same way that most LGBT Americans do. Scholar Brian Levy suggests that inequality increases hate crimes because they provide discursive opportunities for (159). This means that if laws are enacted to allow religious freedom to justify denying services to LGBT individuals, hate crimes would rise. Some scholars also go to the extent to say there is a standing cultural war against GLBT (Swan 159). This encompasses the feelings of millions of LGBT Americans. So overall, these stakeholders are opposed to legislation that would allow for discrimination towards them based on religion. Rodriguez3 These two stakeholders have been at odds for decades. The Family Research Council and LGBT Americans have yet to come to a compromise. The Family Research Council refuses to recognize that LGBT people have the same rights as every other citizen and that is why no progress has been made on their side. When it comes to LGBT Americans, they refuse to have any compromise that would put them at risk for discrimination. The compromise that I suggest would be to for the government to compose a law that protects LGBT individuals from discrimination but also guarantees religious liberty. A scholar that agrees with me is Mathew Nosanchuk. His compromise is civil rights legislation through (440). Solutions like this are not simple and it would require open minds from both stakeholders. LGBT rights is a sensitive issue for some while religious liberty is important to other individuals. However, with both stakeholders willing to compromise, this decades old subculture war will come to an end. Rodriguez4 Works Cited Swan, Wallace. Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, And Transgender Civil Rights : A Public Policy Agenda For Uniting A Divided America. Boca Raton: CRC Press, 2015. Discovery eBooks. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Nosanchuk, Mathew S. The Endurance Test: Executive Power And The Civil Rights Of Lgbt  Albany Government Law Review 5.(2012): 440. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Levy, Brian L., and Denise L. Levy. When Love Meets Hate: The Relationship Between State Policies On Gay And Lesbian Rights And Hate Crime  Social Science Research 61.(2017): 142-159. ScienceDirect. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Sumerau, J. Edward. Some Of Us Are Good, God-Fearing : Justifying Religious Participation In An LGBT Christian  Journal Of Contemporary Ethnography 46.1 (2017): 3. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Knauer, Nancy J. Religious Exemptions, Marriage Equality, And The Establisment Of  UMKC Law Review 84.(2016): 749. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Gasper, Travis. A Religious Right To Discriminate: Hobby Lobby And As A Threat To The Lgbt  Texas A&M Law Review 3.(2015): 395. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Rodriguez5 Family Research Council. Family Research  Family Research Council. Family Research Council, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.