Wylie 1 Andrew Wylie Professor Gottlieb Comp. II 1 February 2017 Are Both Genders Equal? Currently, there is much debate to the question, Both Genders Two distinct groups on opposite ends of the spectrum offer their viewpoints and opinions on several pressing topics revolving around this essential question and will ultimately reach a fair compromise. Topics such as, the wage gap, sexual assault, representation in the work force, and rape culture are all relevant topics nowadays. The two stakeholders involved in this issue are Rights Activists and the organization, Feminist.org. It is evident that common ground must be found on this complicated question. Initially, the Rights Movement (MRM), is a response to feminism. This movement claims that feminism has gone too far and has, in a way, harmed rights. Feminists have a problem with this movement because they claim that the oppressors cannot be oppressed. rights activists and organizations such as Mensactivism.org look to point out and address the discrimination that they feel men face daily. They also look to highlight the important issues that feminists fail to mention, or so they claim. One such issue is the fact that men commit suicide three times more than women. This is in a way because women are diagnosed with more mental disorders each year. So why exactly do men commit suicide much more often than women? According to Forbes, this may happen because men are told from an early age things like, have to be cannot show your true and you always be the provider for your family, because, a guy Gender Inequality of Suicide: Why Are Men at Such High Wylie 2 Rights Activists advocate that too many men have heard these types of things before. It is quite unfair on the part. This idea that if you are not big, strong, or capable of growing a beard you are somehow less than a man, is r. Men are being told that they must live up to this definition of while they might not be capable of doing so. This is one reason some men take drastic measures in ending their own life. Women are more likely to be treated for their disorder because they are while some guys might fear coming forward due to public embarrassment. Rights Activists want to dispel this ugly reality. Another issue that rights look to fight is the battle of child custody. According to a source on child custody, receive about 75% of all child custody awards, while men only earn around Custody The remaining 15% is divided through a negotiated joint custody deal. However, the main concern is with women earning three-fourths of all awards. Also, 40% of all noncustodial fathers have no access or visitation rights with their Rights Activists claim this is ridiculous when, per a website on the absence of fathers, poverty is at a staggering 44% for mother-only families. This website enforces that a father is needed in the family unit, now more than ever Consequences of However, as Rights Activists point out, we also see that this was a problem back in the as well. In an academic journal titled, Divorce Bargain: The Rights Movement and Family the article indicates states had an obligation to honor the paternal relationship just as much as the maternal relationship The journal also referenced, relationship between father and child is a This was during a time where fathers were still being discriminated against through the court system. Poverty, though, is not the only negative effect of a fatherless home. Drug and alcohol abuse, as well as criminal Wylie 3 activity, also rise exponentially. Keeping a father figure in the family picture helps immensely with child development. This is yet another aspect that feminists seem not to touch on and Rights Activists look to bring to light. On the other end of the issue, there is an organization called Feminist.org. This is a feminist organization that looks at contributing factors such as race, age, and class when dissecting feminism. Feminism is, policy, practice, or advocacy of political, economic, and social equality for The main goal of feminism is to dismantle the patriarchy (government that is run mainly by men and allows only men to advance or succeed). Now, although feminists claim that feminism is for any and every person, male or female, Rights Activists have a problem with the very definition of feminism. In the definition, it stresses that it is fighting for and fails to mention main argument is that feminism, in no way, fights for men. Although, Feminist.org does have several stances on sensitive, yet important issues. One of the key rights that feminists (and specifically Feminist.org) feel they are missing is pay for equal According to multiple sources, women are paid only 78 cents to every dollar. Put simply, women who work the exact same job and hours, get paid less than their male counterparts. Obviously, this something anyone should stand for. In fact, it is illegal to have discriminating wages as a company. In 1963, John F. Kennedy passed the Equal Pay Act of 1963. This law prevented any pay discrimination based on sex. However, there is more information to consider. Unsurprisingly, there is a significant amount of debate on this issue. According to Feminist.org, a study was conducted just last year by the US Census Bureau, showing women still make only 79 cents for every dollar a man makes Finds US Gender Wage Gap Wylie 4 Based on these statistics, women lose out on approximately $10,672 every year. The amount of money lost gets even bigger for women of color. With credible sources like the US Census Bureau and the Department of Labor supporting the wage gap, it is hard to argue against it. Although, the main question Rights Activists claims the wage gap argument is: women earned less than men for the same exact job and hours worked, why companies exclusively hire Businesses are all about making a profit and women working for lower wages would give them that profit. Companies do not just hire women though, which is why there is still much to debate on this issue. Another popular stance from Feminist.org is that women are not represented well enough in the work force. Their reason is that women are held back or not able to move up in a position due to patriarchy. Women do hold more lower level jobs and claim it is because of blatant discrimination. According to the Department of Labor, there is a larger percentage of men in jobs such as physicians and surgeons, personal financial advisors, and post-secondary teachers by Gender Shares of Based on these statistics, we can see that men are not discriminated in their pursuit of these jobs. Although, according to a study done by Cornell University, women have a 2:1 advantage over men in STEM fields (science, technology, engineering, and math). The study also argues that women are in lower level fields due to personal choice rather than discrimination Preferred 2:1 Over Men for STEM Faculty They claim women are typically more interested in fields such as nursing, teaching, and accounting, rather than engineering and medicine. Yet another issue that Feminist.org looks to fix is sexual assault. This is one area where men clearly have an advantage. Women are raped, sexually assaulted, and sexually abused far more than men. According to a source on sexual assault, the United States, every 98 seconds Wylie 5 someone is sexually assaulted What makes this statistic even scarier is 8 minutes, that victim is a Yet, with how common these horrible acts are, only 6 out of every 1,000 perpetrators will end up serving time for their crimes. Also, every one in ten victims is a man, while every one in six victims is a woman. To make things worse, as a society we tend to blame the victim in a very passive aggressive way, asking questions like, was she or she drinking that In no way, should the victim be blamed for an assault and/or rape. In an academic journal titled, Stress Disorder After Sexual Abuse in Adolescent it states that post-traumatic stress disorder is a common effect of sexual abuse in young girls (531-536). This comes as no surprise because of how important development is in young children. Sexual assault, though, is more devastating than any other gender-related problem since it affects both genders. Evidently, both genders have many disadvantages. Women face the wage gap and unequal representation in high level fields, while men face the inability to share their emotions and the discriminatory court system. However, the biggest hindrance to both genders is sexual assault. Sexual assault is ridiculously common and should be taken much more seriously. A compromise that both organizations need to pursue is implementing classes in schools across the nation warning of the signs of sexual assault, the effects, and what we can do about it. According to The Atlantic, some schools have been doing this and it is working great Kids About Sexual Different organizations such as the, for Talking About have been exposed to public schools only after epidemics of sexual assault had broken out. The article states that people cannot afford to wait until something like that happens for us to do something about it. Out of every 100 cases of assault, only about 10-18 cases are Wylie 6 ever reported. The article also argues that if kids were taught how to identify and talk about sexual assault from a young age, it would be much easier later on to talk about. At the end of the day, both of these organizations realize that this is not a competition to see who is the biggest victim. Both Rights Activists and Feminist.org want the genders to be equal. Each gender has their problems and issues that they must learn to deal with, however, out of all the issues between the two, sexual assault is by far the worst, according to both groups. Without seriously addressing this issue of sexual assault, progression will continue to be delayed. Wylie 7 Works Cited Walton, Alice. Gender Inequality of Suicide: Are Men at Such High Forbes, 25 Sep. 2012. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Custody childcustodycoach.com. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 McLanahan, S. & Osbourne, C. Center for National Center for Fathering the Consequences of Fatherlessness Comments. (2007). Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Dinner, Deborah. Divorce Bargain: The Rights Movement and Family Virginia Law Review. Vol. 102, no. 1, 2016, pp. 79-152 Finds US Gender Wage Gap Feminist Majority Foundation Blog. 7 Oct. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Longley, Robert. Says Pay Gap Between Men and Women Growing About.com. 17 May 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017 by Gender Shares of Department of Labor. (2011). Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Boscia, Ted. preferred 2:1 over men for STEM faculty Cornell Chronicle. 13 April 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Statistics RAINN. (2016). Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Ashby, Bethany & Kaul, Paritosh. Stress Disorder After Sexual Abuse in Adolescent Journal of Pediatric and Adolescence Gynecology. Vol. 29, no. 6, 2016, pp. 531-536 Buni, Catherine. Kids About Sexual  The Atlantic. 1 May 2014. Web. 27 Jan. 2017