Student 1 Brandy Carr Professor Ryan ENC 1102 27 January 2017 Food Labels to Benefit Everyone The use of genetically modified organisms (commonly referred to as GMOs) in market is a growing concern, mostly because there is insufficient evidence to prove whether or not there are negative long term effects on a health. As seen here, with two opposing views, emphasis is laid upon the authorization process . . . as a means of ensuring that the deliberate release of GMOs will not have adverse effects upon either human health or the environment. Yet . . . with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage Liability deliberate releases of GMOs . . . fall within the list of activities which may give rise to (Bodiguel, Luc and Cardwell, Michael). However, by use of genetically modified seeds farmers can up their productivity, increase the yield in crops such as corn, and conserve natural resources in the process (Monsanto). Over the past couple years there has been the issue of how to label genetically modified foods. Should they be clearly labeled or can they contain a scannable label, which is called a QR code and can be scanned by a machine or smart phone. As of now, there is a bill that has passed the House of Representatives which prevents both state and local authorities from regulating foods that have been genetically modified. In turn, this allows companies to use misleading labels, but this does not benefit the side of the topic that is against GMOs and wants clear, readily accessible labels (Spear). Because the labeling of foods containing GMOs is contentious, the compromise of having both whole foods clearly labeled, and processed foods to use scannable labels can be implemented by both Student 2 sides wanting to better enrich the wellbeing of America, through increasing efficiency of the producers, enabling the consumers to better choose what they ingest. On one side of this topic there are those that are against the use of GMOs in any foods, in particular, Genetically Modified Organisms Inside, which is an organization dedicated to getting people involved and knowledgeable to what they are eating and promoting a healthier life style. believe that everyone has a right to know in their food and to choose foods that are proven safe for themselves, their families, and the environment This stakeholder would prefer if all foods were labeled clearly and all information readily available. Many common food crops that are consumed today were developed by biotechnological techniques such as radiation (causes genetic mutation, which was then assessed if the mutated genes contained beneficial traits like disease resistant) or chemical breeding (Ahmed, Farid E.). If all foods that have been genetically modified do not have to be labeled, this causes an issue for GMO Inside. recent International Food Information Council poll shows that public comfort levels with genetic engineering are declining, and support for labeling is (Nelson, Gerald C.). GMO Insides main goal is to get America informed and aware of what they are eating. The use of scannable labels would be time consuming and virtually impossible for people with no internet access or smart phones to know if they are consuming genetically modified organisms or not. Americans should have the right to readily and easily know what is in their food, and that some of these big name biotech companies that are opposed to this labeling are putting products on the market that are not adequately tested, turning America into the test subjects (GMOInside). On the other side of the labeled or not issue is Monsanto, and other companies that use GMOs in their products. Monsanto is a biotech company that sells bioengineered seeds and other Student 3 farming products, and are all for the use of GMOs. They believe there are no prominent adverse health, or environmental risks associated with the use of GMOs, and their main research is improving plant breeding such as pest resistant soy beans or creating vegetables that have been genetically modified to deliver better nutrition. They also believe these products not only enhance the number or crops harvested by use of their genetically modified seeds, but the overall quality of the crops (Monsanto). Since there is so much debate over this issue, being able to use a scannable label on products would benefit this side because it would hinder the population to readily and easily know what is in a food and in turn not worrying as much about it. Over the years people have increasingly thought of GMOs as something negative but according to the Food and Drug Association as of now there is no research to prove that food produced using biotechnology (or genetically modified) is mysterious or unsafe (Weirich, Paul). If it is decided that all genetically modified foods should be labeled clearly it could harm this business since there are so many organizations that are against the use of GMOs and informing the public that not much is known about their effects on health and environment. In turn the public can easily read whether or not a product contains these and choose the latter, which will negatively affect the businesses that use them. There are both negatives and positives in regards to the use of GMOs. On one hand they can potentially be engineered to withstand droughts, survive pests, frost and plague, but on the other hand it could create new allergies or even produce uncontrollable mutations (Pringle, Peter). In a sense both stakeholders share a common goal of getting food labeled, but they greatly disagree on how this should be done. In the past solutions to this issue involved making it mandatory that all foods be clearly labeled or that it should be up to the companies how they want to label their products. Both of those solutions are one sided and do not benefit both equally Student 4 and at the same time. There is still much that is unknown about the use of GMOs, and there should be further research on the long term health effects. It should also be taken into consideration the affects that labeling will have on both consumers and producers, consumer perceptions and purchasing intentions toward GMOs will help communicators, politicians, researchers, food producers, and food companies understand how consumers might react to GMO labeled foods and how to develop effective communication about GMOs (Pounds, Kacie A proposed compromise that whole foods should be labeled clearly and processed food do not will benefit both sides of the issue. This compromise benefits the first stakeholder because they will be able to clearly see if many of essential food items contain GMOs, and they can find comfort in knowing what they are consuming. The compromise will benefit the second stake holder because they will not be mandated to label all products thus the negative perception of the use of genetically modified organisms will not affect business. In conjunction both sides will have to give a little too, the newly proposed compromise will essentially split the labeling issue in half giving each side a little of what they want and a little of what they do not want. Along with this compromise there should be more research conducted about long term health and environmental effects on the use of GMOs. (WC: 1211) Student 5 Works Cited Ahmed, Farid E. Testing of Genetically Modified Organisms in Foods. New York: Food Products Press, 2004 Bodiguel, Luc and Cardwell, Michael. The regulation of genetically modified organisms: comparative approaches. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2010. GMO Inside. http://gmoinside.org. Accessed 16 Dec. 2016. Monsanto. www. Monsanto.com. Accessed 16 Dec. 2016. Nelson, Gerald C. Genetically modified organisms in agriculture: economics and politics. San Diego, Calif.: Academic Press, c2001. Pringle, Peter. Food, inc.: Mendel to Monsanto--the promises and perils of the biotech harvest. New York: Simon & Schuster, c2003. Pounds, Kacie L. Food Fight in Florida: Assessing Florida Residents Perceptions, Purchasing Intentions, and Labeling Perceptions of GMOs. Gainesville, FL: University of Florida, 2014. Spear, Stefanie. House Passes DARK Act, Banning States from Requiring GMO Labels on food. 24 July 2015. Web. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017 Weirich, Paul. Labeling genetically modified food: the philosophical and legal debate. Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press, 2007.