Ethan Best 1/28/17 Healthcare in America: a compromise Healthcare in America has been a controversial and polarizing issue for decades. The most recent healthcare reform, the Affordable Care Act (ACA), has only added to the controversy. The Democrats, who put the ACA in place claim the system is saving lives, and covering more people than ever before. According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS, abstract), twenty million people are now insured under the ACA, including up to six million previously uninsured young adults. However, Republicans claim the ACA hinders the rights of healthcare professionals, and allows coverage for abortions, which they are adamantly against. Now that the Republicans have control of both the executive and legislative, it looks like they will repeal the ACA. However, I believe a compromise that replaces the ACA (if done correctly) would be the best option for both parties. The Democratic party, one of the stakeholders in the healthcare conversation have multiple goals for healthcare. Their main goal, according to their official website, is to preserve the ACA, and fight any attempts to repeal it (democrats.org, healthcare). The Democrats believe should have basic security in and they want to improve the ACA in the future. Democrats are against the privatization of healthcare, and support free contraceptives for all women. They support both federal and private investment into research and development, including stem-cell research. The Republican party, the other big stakeholder in the healthcare conversation is less concerned about blanket coverage, and more concerned about the rights of healthcare professionals, as well as defunding abortion clinics and planned parenthood (GOP.org, platform). Their justification for this is to protect healthcare professionals from choosing between their faith and their career. Republicans believe consumer choice is one of the more important aspects in healthcare, so they want to preserve the free market to allow competition between insurance companies. According to their official website, Republicans support both private and federal investment into research on treatment for a multitude of different afflictions. They also support stem-cell research, if it harm the embryo. There is an incredible amount of common ground between these two parties. Both parties want healthcare to cost less and coverage to increase, as well as private and federal funding into research and development. Both also want women to have access to contraceptives (though Republicans are opposed to some over-the-counter contraceptives). The differences between these groups necessarily their goals, but how to achieve these goals. For example, the Democrats believe that nationalization is the answer to rising healthcare costs, while Republicans believe privatization is the answer. This fundamental clashing of ideals is the main reason compromise on healthcare has never occurred. The main goal of my compromise is to repeal and replace the ACA to better protect healthcare professionals, and ensure blanket coverage of all Americans. This compromise would keep the 20 million people on the ACA insured through a government system much like the ACA. The difference is this new system will heavily promote competition between insurers with incentives. These incentives could include tax deductions and subsidies for insuring people despite pre-existing conditions, offering affordable plans, etc. This type of system would satisfy both Democrats and Republicans because no one would be denied coverage, and free market competition would continue. As for protecting the rights of healthcare individuals, funding of planned parenthood through this new system would become a state issue. States will be able to decide individually whether planned parenthood would be funded. One factor that would add to the success of this compromise is the fact that it is a compromise. The system would not be labeled as liberal or conservative, and both parties would take credit or responsibility for it. Since there would be no room for either party to criticize each other, they would only focus on improving the system. However, for this compromise to even occur, there would need to be specific things in place. For this compromise to occur, the Republicans would need control of both the executive and legislative branches, since the Democrats would never willingly repeal the ACA. This would imply there is a Republican president, and a Republican majority in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. However, in order for the Democrats to stop the Republicans from creating and passing their own plan, the Democrats would need at least 41 senators to avoid a super-majority (Oleszek, abstract). With at least 41 senators, the Democrats could filibuster any act the Republicans try to pass, forcing them to negotiate. However, with all of these pieces in place, a compromise would be very possible, if both parties would be willing to try it. Although healthcare in America is a very polarizing issue, a compromise between the two major parties could be the best option. With specific requirements in place, the parties would be forced to negotiate for a compromise. Replacing the ACA with a new system that promotes competition between insurance companies, while maintaining universal coverage would theoretically satisfy both parties. Many of the smaller issues, such as the funding of planned parenthood, would be up to the individual states to decide. Overall, this compromise would satisfy both parties, and hopefully the American people. Works Cited 1. 20 Million People Have Gained Health Insurance Coverage Because of the Affordable Care Act, New Estimates  HHS.gov. HHS, 03 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 2.  GOP. GOP, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 3.  Democrats.org. DNC, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 4. Lucia, Kevin Lucia, and David Cusano Cusano. Implementing the Affordable Care Act: Promoting Competition in the Individual  (2016): n. pag. Web. 5. Oleszek, Walter J. Super-Majority  SpringerReference (n.d.): n. pag. Congressional Research Service, 12 Apr. 2010. Web.