H o w a r d 1 Savanna Howard ENC 1102 Madeline Gottlieb 1/25/17 What to Do with Zoos Animals have been kept in zoos and people have been there to view and interact with them for thousands of years. One stakeholder is groups of animal rights activists. On the other hand there are zoo employees and the public. A potential compromise would be stricter animal captivity restrictions. Displaying animals in cages at zoos creates jobs and opportunities for education but may also cause concern for animal rights, but harsher animal restrictions could make a better future for both stakeholders. Animals are not the only ones in the zoo. There are many individuals who are employed by zoos and many families and children who use the zoo as a fun place of education. If zoos begin to close because of animal rights, many people will lose their much loved jobs. One stakeholder in this battle is The American Association of Zookeepers. The mission is to provide a: of continuing education for the animal care professional and to support zoo and aquarium personnel in their roles as animal care givers, scientific and much more (AAZK). Also if zoos begin to close, kids will not be able to learn about these wild creatures up close in a safe environment. The AAZK also strives to zoos and aquariums as cultural establishments dedicated to the enrichment of human and natural and child education (AAZK). Active learning opportunities may be by, amongst other things, the provision of animal demonstrations, volunteer or animal handler talks, touch tables, direct contact by visitors with animals, and multimedia factual for children in the surrounding community(Neil 177). This is beneficial to many generations at one time while creating long lasting memories. H o w a r d 2 Animal activists believe that millions of animals have greater rights then they are receiving. The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) are pushing transformational change in the U.S. and around the world by large-scale cruelties such as puppy mills, animal fighting, factory farming, seal slaughter, horse cruelty, captive hunts and the wildlife (HSUS). Some argue that zoos are the greatest perpetrators. It is harmful to the animals to be living in small enclosures without friends and mates. Recently field-workers have specifically documented excursions of up to 40 miles a day, with home ranges covering hundreds of miles, even the most spacious zoo facilities appear woefully inadequate by (Maple 64). Scientists also concluded that factors usually outweigh spatial (Maple 64). Many other interventions can affect psychological wellbeing in the zoo, including furniture, verticality, and variable feeding schedules, interactive technology, and social (Maple 65). They cannot hunt for their own food and are intern fed food packed with enhancers to make animals calmer and easier to show. There will be debate over the optimal standards for elephants and other non-human (Maple 64). One problem with animal rights and animal welfare groups is their unwillingness to utilize scientific findings. Therefore, is not surprising that some animal welfare organizations have formed partnerships with institutes and universities to produce data-based, refereed (Maple 63). This can allow them to get more people behind them and make a greater impact. Both stakeholders in the world wide issue of animals in zoos, have strong points and are right to believe in a change for a better future. One possible compromise would be to enforce greater restrictions of which animals can be displayed in zoos. More disabled animals can be taken care of in zoos as they cannot live in the wild. mankind has been exposed to serious temptations such as; degradation and endangerment of natural habitats. This ultimately H o w a r d 3 has a very negative effect on human society as well. The destruction of these animals natural habitats, unnecessary hunting, and uncontrolled use of insecticides, are only of the causes leading to mass injuries, sickness and dying of wildlife and, consequently, to impoverishment of biological (Serbia). They are experimenting with zoos in Serbia and the treatment of disabled animals. They will have many locations seeking out injured wildlife. Theses hurt animals will be brought to the Palic Zoo to be treated and cared for. The habitats are being destroyed by humans and we need to do something to help them. The American Association of Zookeepers support need for the preservation of our natural resources and the species that depend on those (AAZK). Many zoos around the world becoming increasingly concerned with the conservation and wellbeing of animal groups as well as (Shepherdson 168). Keeping endangered animals in zoos for safe reproduction to increase population is also a great compromise. Research has shown that and eminently practical changes to the way zoo animals are kept can have highly beneficial effects on their behavior and (Shepherdson 167). Endangered species are a huge risk all over the world and of the putative aims of captive breeding is to preserve in captivity population of animals as representatives of their wild ancestors, for posterity, research and (Shepherdson 168). No more high functioning animals will be brought to zoos to die. It is not ethical for humans or the animals. Showing animals in crates at zoos allows for more jobs and educational resources for the community. This may come at the expense of animal rights recognized by the Humane Society of the Unites States. A compromise that is in favor of both sides would be greater restrictions for what animals are brought in. Instead animals who simply are not able to live in the wild can be H o w a r d 4 taken care of while students can gain even more knowledge. Endangered species could also be bread in a safe environment and later released into the world. H o w a r d 5 Sources Cited About  The Humane Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. About  American Association of Zoo Keepers. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Jan. 2017. <https://www.aazk.org/about-us/>. Ballantyne, Roy, et al. Conservation learning in wildlife tourism settings: Lessons from research in zoos and  Environmental Education Research 13.3 (2007): 367-383. = Symposium Nature Conservation in Serbia, 1, (Serbia), [1-3 Oct and Organization Of Care For Sick, Injured, Abandoned And Confiscated Wild Animals /  (Serbia) / Protection Of Nature 1-2 (2008): 237. AGRIS. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Maple, Terry L. Toward a science of welfare for animals in the  Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science 10.1 (2007): 63-70. Shepherdson, D. The role of environmental enrichment in the captive breeding and reintroduction of endangered  Creative Conservation. Springer Netherlands, 1994. 167-177.