1 Boccalon Paula Boccalon Ms. Gottlieb ENC 1102.014 29 January 2017 Project 1: Infectious Diseases Research Infectious diseases research is a controversial issue that has risen throughout the years. While many advocate for doctors to find a solution for these infections, many profess the need for this research to be stopped. Some organizations, such as ASTMH (American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene), aim to have a world free of tropical diseases. On the other hand, religious groups like Christian Science do not believe in medicine or medicine research as it impedes what God has planned for them. Although both groups have drastically different ideas concerning infectious diseases research, because of autonomy the decision to advocate for research is ultimately up to those in each organization. One of the stakeholders that is presented here is the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. This organization has strategically placed offices throughout the world where tropical diseases are in abundance, as a way of: the worldwide burden of tropical infectious diseases and improving global (ASTMH). Their vision is to create a world free of infectious diseases by accounting and documenting all fatalities that have occurred as a cause of these illnesses. A case that was reported in the article was fatal severe acute respiratory syndrome case reported during the (Global Health Degrees). Ultimately these deaths could have been prevented if a cure had been found before the outbreak happened. Something that many fail to take into account is that because of this loss of lives, there are things that occur-- like a domino effect, jobs are lost and the economy decreases in that area. As the 800 lives were lost in the 2002 outbreak there was a to $50 billion ... economic (Global Health Degrees). The article further points out another catastrophe where, due to the 2 Boccalon unwillingness of the global community to gather and create a cure to stop the ebola pandemic, of lives unnecessarily (Global Health Degrees). One can witness the impact that ignorance has brought. While it is a risk that many are willing to take, in order to stop the lives being lost, it is not something that can be achieved by a small group of doctors. This organization has realized that in order to make great achievements, it has to be a holistic contribution from every doctor and member in that community. The second stakeholder that has been mentioned are those pertaining to the religion Christian Science. In this religion, they practice the belief that gift of the grace of God given unto by the effectual working of His (Christian Science VI). In other words, they believe that God has done things for a reason and the greater good, therefore going and adapting these actions in a sin against the will of God. When those that are part of this religion are asked about medical research, or more specifically infectious diseases research, they claim that medicine is work of man-- thus heal but make things worst (Christian Science). Mary Baker Eddy, one of the founders of Christian Science in the 19th century, demonstrated the way that healing occurs such that following teachings and understanding the spiritual laws he practiced, [the are committed to spiritual healing that includes both physical cures of disease and dysfunction as well as the reformation and restoration of (Eddy 11). It is further explained that those who wholeheartedly follow the teachings and are devoted to their beliefs will live a life full of prosperity and well-being. One can see that both stakeholders stand at completely different sides of the spectrum regarding infectious diseases research, yet due to autonomy the decision to advocate for research in ultimately up to those in each organization. A compromise that could be made between the two stakeholders-- American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene and Christian Science-- 3 Boccalon is to allow the research for infectious diseases and have those that do get infected make the decision to get the treatment or not. Having the cure for diseases, like Ebola, syphilis, Cysticercosis, and Dengue Fever, will help reduce death rates and allow for doctors to control these diseases such that they become pandemics. Ultimately this will stop it from affecting a densely populated area. Yet as medical autonomy is defined by right of competent adults to make informed decisions about their own medical (BMA). The choice to receive the treatment offered for the illnesses is up to the person that is infected, or in the case where it is a minor that is infected, the parent. Those that are part of the Christian Science religion if they are in a situation where they do get infected, then it is their decision to make. Allowing the research to be made can benefit both sides in the long run, it is the person infected to make the decision to get treatment but that does not have to impede and stop that do want from getting it. Infectious diseases research is a controversial topic that risen throughout years, having two stakeholders such as a religious group and an organization that belief in completely different things makes it difficult to find a common ground for both. Due to the sense of autonomy each and every person is free to make their own decision, therefore having the medicine available to those that need it and let them make the decision to receive it does not impede any belief or vision between the two. 4 Boccalon Works Cited: 2. Autonomy or Self Determination The  BMA. N.p., 15 Nov. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Michael G. Head. Research Investments in Global Health: A Systematic Analysis of UK Infectious Disease Research Funding and Global Health Metrics, 1997  E. Bio Medicine 3.C (2016):180-190. Web. Olesen, Ole F. Increasing European Support for Neglected Infectious Disease  Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal (2017). Web. P. H. R. Interpretation. Practice of Medicine. Christian University of Pennsylvania Law Review and American Law Register, vol. 65, no. 3, 1917, pp. Science and Health - Chapter VI Science, Theology,  Christian Science. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Undergraduate Global Health Degrees: The Time Is  The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. N.p., 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. 5 Boccalon yphilis, Cysticercosis, and Dengue Fever, will help reduce death rates and allow for doctors to control these diseases such that they become pandemics. Ultimately this will stop it from affecting a densely populated area. Yet as medical autonomy is defined by right of competent adults to make informed decisions about their own medical (BMA). The choice to receive the treatment offered for the illnesses is up to the person that is infected, or in the case where it is a minor that is infected, the parent. Those that are part of the Christian Science religion if they are in a situation where they do get infected, then it is their decision to make. Allowing the research to be made can