Leonardo Casaes ENC 2 Research Paper 1 An Alternative to Stem Cell Research With the ability to grow brand new cells that can potentially benefit the lives of millions, and many doctors claiming it to be the forefront of medical technology, the growth of the stem cell research field is inevitable and The National Stem Cell Foundation only wants to accelerate research. But considering its large opposition, Eagle Forum, deep rooted beliefs against stem cell research, an alternative to human embryos that can be found in animals should be considered to allow research to continue to its full potential. A stem cell is a cell that has the potential to turn into a differentiated cell type and has the capability to repair or replace other cells in the body. Human embryonic stem cells have the largest potential, as they can turn into a cell in the human body, and must be obtained from a blastocyst at early stages of development (per Wpadmin at healthresearchfunding.org.). The National Stem Cell Foundation is an organization working to progress the field of stem cells to create scientific breakthroughs for people in need (www.nationalstemcellfoundation.org). The rewards of stem cell research can be traced back to 1968 when the first bone marrow transplant involving two twins was a success ( per Murragan at http://www.explorestemcells.co.uk) since then stem cell researching has led to decades of successful bone marrow transplant and now suggest that it could have an immense, beneficial effect for treating Diabetes, Spinal injuries and Heart disease if more federal funding is provided. (According to the University of Michigan). It could even lead to finding new effective treatments to cancer through informing scientist on cellular mechanics (per the University of Michigan). Scientists the only ones supporting stems cells significant place in the future, global stem cells market size expected to reach USD 170.15 billion by according to a report by Grand View Research, Inc. With a massive surge of money expected to flood this area of research be very difficult to prevent the field from growing. Stem cell research also has a large public support with a study taken in 2014 by Wpadmin, showing of Americans support embryonic stem cell 64% of Americans support federal funding of human embryonic research to treat chronic Despite overwhelming public support and evidence suggesting towards stem cells prominence in the future, The National Stem Cell Foundation still faces a large opposition. Eagle Forums is just one of the many faces of heavy resistance that stem cell research battles with today. While they may not represent all the opposition, I believe they represent the faction that have a belief system based on a religious foundation and are apart of the pro-life movement. The Eagle Forum is a group originally founded by Phyllis Schlafly, they are a pro- family and according to Bibby, on Eagleforum.org., they urged Bush to veto any legislation that allows for expanded federal taxpayer funding for stem cell research that destroys human The Eagle Forum believes human embryos deserve full protection under the law and disagree with the National Stem Cell Foundations stance on what counts as human life, as starts at But, the Eagle foundation does encourage adult stem cell research claiming on their website (http://eagleforum.org) cells derived from cord blood and pluripotent stem cells, are flourishing, currently having treated over 70 diseases and syndromes on human this claim has been refuted by the University of Michigan Stem Cell research on Cell stating, claim that adult stem cells have been used to cure more than 70 diseases has been widely . Eagle Forums and other conservative groups stance on when the human life begins is one that has remained stagnant and one looks to remain intact for years to come as the to idea can be traced backed as far as 1967 when the Right to Life League was founded. But why does it matter so much that organizations like Eagle Forum are against stem cell research? their strong political influence that allows them to be such a threat to Stem cell research. Lipka and Gramlich on pewreasearch.org claim 37% of Americans believe abortions should be illegal and 44% believe it is morally wrong. Additionally, evidence indicates that a large majority of republicans think abortions should be legal and most Democrats believe in legal abortions. This large partisan divide on abortion forces politicians on either side to pick a stance to please the party majority. With the Eagle Forums ideology on fetal rights aligning with many conservative voters, pro-life organizations have a tight grip around republican politicians. Politicians that can directly impact federal funding towards human embryonic stem cell research. A direct example of this would be Eagle Forums support towards executive order preventing federal funding for human embryonic stem cell research (example given by Bibby). As long as The National Stem Cell Association is using federal funds for human embryonic stem cells, Eagle forum will do everything in its power (including political power) to curtail research. With both sides positions, firmly against one another, and each sides power, obvious an alternative is needed. why proposing to amend the NIH (National Institutes of Health) guidelines for Human Stem Cell Research to include embryonic animal stem research. (According to the article Next Steps on Research Using Animal Embryos Containing Human ) NIH guidelines introducing human pluripotent cells into nonhuman primate blastocysts and the breeding of animals into which human pluripotent cells may have contributed to the germ Amending the guidelines allows for promising research with embryotic stem cells. This idea new and stems from previous experiments where animal models had human cells, for example laboratory mice are routinely injected with human tumor cells to help with a treatment for cancer. NIH is hoping to use Animal stem cells for disease modeling, drug testing, and even organ transplants (per nih.gov) This could replace humans embryotic stem cell research completely as no longer needed to access embryotic stem cells. Not only does it alleviate the need for human embryos but it removes the religious opposition because it no longer interferes with a fetus right to life. If The National Stem Cell Association accept this substitute and the NIH approve it, Eagle forum gets to protect fetus rights and stem cell research can receive enhanced federal funding previously blocked by conservative voters. This expanded funding benefits research and treatments for people in need of it. While animal stem cell research opens some ethical questions and will gain resistance from animal rights organizations like PETA (People for Ethical Treatments of Animals) it could offer more freedom than human testing and neither political party aligns with it (According to Funk and Lee on www.pewinternet.org both parties are divided on it with percentages within 40-50% for and against it) so individuals have less political opposition. no questioning stem cells research importance in the future of the medical community, and the religious values of a large faction of the U.S. population changing anytime soon. Animal stem cell research could be the balance needed for both worlds to co-exist and prosper. This alternative may be the key to saving millions of lives and shaping our future for the better. Work Cited Bibby, Suzanne. Eagle Forum Urges President to Veto Embryonic Stem Cell  Eagle Forum Urges President to Veto Embryonic Stem Cell Bill. Eagle Forums, 12 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Funk, Cary, and Lee Rainie. Chapter 7: Opinion About the Use of Animals in  Pew Research Center: Internet, Science & Tech. N.p., 01 July 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.pewinternet.org/2015/07/01/chapter-7-opinion-about-the-use-of-animals-in- research/>. Lipka, Michael, and John Gramlich. 5 Facts about  Pew Research Center. N.p., 26 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/01/26/5- facts-about-abortion/>. Murragan, Ian. History of Stem Cell  History of Stem Cell Research. N.p., 6 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Wpadmin. 14 Noteworthy Embryonic Stem Cell Research Facts and  HRFnd. Healthsearchfunding, 12 Dec. 2014. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Http://rtllsc.org. The Right to Life League of Southern California, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://rtllsc.org/life/About%20Us/index.php>.  National Stem Cell Foundation. N.p.. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Next Steps on Research Using Animal Embryos Containing Human  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 4 Aug. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://osp.od.nih.gov/under-the-poliscope/2016/08/next-steps-research-using-animal- embryos-containing-human-cells>. Stem Cells Market Size To Reach $170.1 Billion By  Market Research Reports & Consulting. N.p., Sept. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Stem Cell  University of Michigan Stem Cell Research Frequently Asked Questions. University of Michigan, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.stemcellresearch.umich.edu/overview/faq.html#section2>.