Freed- Williams 1 Katie Freed- Williams Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 29 January 2016 Sexual Education in Public Schools 2014, a total 249,078 babies were born to women aged 15-19 years of (about teen pregnancy). This statistic was taken straight from the Center for Disease Control website and puts America in first place for highest rate of teen pregnancy within the developed nations. This number is also why The Advocates for Youth organization and Ascend feel so strongly about their stance on sexual education in public schools. Both organizations work towards decreasing that number by encouraging two different sexual education curriculums. The Advocates for Youth believe that comprehensive sexual education for students of all sexual orientations is the most efficient way to inform children on the dangers associated with having unprotected sex. Ascend encourages schools to promote an abstinence only sexual education curriculum. Although the two sides have opposing views on the issue at hand, both organizations have a common goal of protecting youth from the risks of irresponsible sexual activity. This common ground can present a solid compromise in regards to sexual education in public schools. The curriculum should be accurate and extensive to include all areas of sexual health, but only provided to students with signed permission from their parental guardian. The Advocates for Youth is a program dedicated to providing youth with comprehensive sexual education. Their motto states that every student deserves Freed- Williams 2 respect when discussing confidential information, has a right to accurate information on sexual health, and a responsibility to protect themselves with the help of the other two The organization is in the process of presenting the Real Education for Healthy Youth Act to congress (Pass the Real). Programs funded under this bill will provide training to teachers on how to educate students among a variety of ages on prevention of sexually transmitted diseases and unplanned pregnancies, inclusive to all sexual orientations. Most importantly, the curriculum will also include lessons on how to handle these situations and demonstrations on how to effectively use contraception, as well as guidance on appropriately communicating in a healthy relationship. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is a strong supporter of such comprehensive sexual education among all youth. As a matter of fact, the K-12 sexuality education curriculum proposed by Advocates for Youth covers all essential sixteen topics recommended by the CDC (Protective Factors). Ascend, formerly known as the National Abstinence Education Association, shares a common goal of preventing youth from risky sexual behavior. The organization also supports education on sexually transmitted diseases and unplanned pregnancy. However, unlike Advocates for Youth, Ascend believes that teaching abstinence as the only form of prevention will be most effective in decreasing these cases. Their proposed sexual curriculum is called the Sexual Risk Avoidance Education. The SRA curricula provides medically accurate information on sexual health, as well as education on contraception. However, the program places responsibility on the guardian to demonstrate how to use contraception and inform students of where to access such protection, leaving abstinence as the only encouraged form of protection (Contraception and SRA education). The New York Times published an article on a study of middle school students and the impact of abstinence only education. The results were Freed- Williams 3 groundbreaking. Dr. John B. Jermmott III, a professor from the University of Pennsylvania who led the study, found that abstinence only education turned out to be effective in delaying sexual initiation (Lewin). However, there was no evidence to prove that comprehensive education was any less effective. Although the organizations both support education on the risks of unprotected sex, a comprehensive sexual education curriculum informs students on where to receive and how to effectively use contraception. This is unlike the abstinence only approach that Ascend encourages. The Ascend program feels that it is a place to share such information with their child. An appropriate solution would be to provide education on basic sexual health to every student, but offer more information, such as contraception demonstrations, to those students who can provide written and signed approval from their parental guardian. Schools will be required to hold an assembly for parents to discuss what will be covered in the basic course, as well as the lessons that require permission. The National Conference of State Legislatures encourage such parental involvement in the process. They reported that eight states and the District of Columbia require school districts to allow parental involvement in sexual education programs and four states already require parental consent before a child can receive (State Policies). However, the common ground between the two organizations has not been met yet because every state differs in the way they approach sexual education in public schools. This compromise works best because it will be implemented through the federal government, so all schools will have to offer the same sexual education curriculum to receive funding from the government. The compromise is very promising because each organization has to give up a little to achieve their main goal of protecting youth from the dangers of unprotected sex. Freed- Williams 4 Advocates of Youth must accept that not all parents are open to comprehensive sexual education for their children. Ascend has to understand that not all students want to wait until marriage and these students have a right to know how to protect themselves. Raising awareness to parents is also another benefit to proposed compromised and getting them involved can be a simple solution to this ongoing problem. Freed- Williams 5 Works Cited About Teen  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Center for Disease Control, 26 Apr. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Contraception and SRA  Ascend. National Abstinence Education Association, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lewin, Tamar. Quick Response to Study of Abstinence  The New York Times. The New York Times, 02 Feb. 2010. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pass the Real Education for Healthy Youth  Amplify A Project of Advocates for Youth. Advocates for Youth, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Protective  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control, 01 Sept. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. State Policies on Sex Education in  National Conference of State Legislatures, 16 Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Transgenderism and SRA  Ascend. National Abstinence Education Association, 2016.Web. 29 Jan. 2017.