Patel, 1 Sasha Patel Taylor Poston ENC 1102-029 29 January 2017 Intermediate Draft Project 1: Worldwide Deforestation Imagine 48 football fields being lost every minute, well how fast deforestation is happening across the globe currently. Deforestation is simply defined as the logging of trees, but the meaning is much deeper, and the effects are worldwide. Forests play a vital role in climate change, since trees absorb free- floating carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and replace it with fresh oxygen, also known as the process of photosynthesis. Forests are crucial, especially for the abundance of species that inhabit them. Many of the forests around the world are being deforested because of slash and burn or clear cutting for agriculture, ranching, and logging for timber. The farmers and logging companies gain profit from the removal of these trees, but environmentalists and animal conservationists are against their detrimental actions. The harmful impacts of deforestation, such as climate change, loss of biodiversity, and health concerns have caused the government to ban logging in some areas, yet many of the local farmers and logging companies still depend on the cutting down of tree for their monetary gain. All the stakeholders share a common ground where they care about the well-being of the planet, since mother Earth is our only home. Many scholars agree that deforestation is detrimental to the climate and biodiversity. Many environmentalists believe that is a serious problem attempted solutions have been ineffective (Dauvergne, Many animal conservationist organizations Patel, 2 like the World Wildlife Fund, or WWF try to prevent deforestation by working with companies to stop illegal logging, promote responsible forestry, create protected and privatized land, promote sustainable bioenergy from scrap woof, oil, starch crops, and even algae to help people reduce their dependence on forest wood and charcoal, which in turn reduces the greenhouse gas emissions as well. The goals of environmentalists and animals conservationists is to restrict or limit the amount of deforestation that is occurring. The WWF works to stop deforestation because of the harmful impacts such as reduced animal and plant biodiversity, increased greenhouse gases which cause climate change, disruption of water cycles, increased soil erosion, and disrupted livelihoods for locals that depend on hunting and gathering herbal medicines, such as the locals in Southeast Asia or Africa. According to WWF many wildlife species have been affected such as tree kangaroos, amur leopards, Asian elephants, bonobos, chimpanzees, pandas, gorillas, orangutans, and rhinos, not including the loss of the smaller species. Many wildlife depends on one another. For instance, on researcher in the Amazon rainforest noticed how deforestation caused a disappearance of army ants, and that led to the decrease of insectivorous birds that were dependent on the ants (Turner, 204). The multitude of impacts has not only affected the animal and plant biodiversity, but has also impacted the local humans that live near the forests. Deforestation has also affected us to a greater degree, as our planet is being consumed by greenhouse gases that are causing the climate to change and increasing the global temperatures. Although despite all the harmful impacts caused by deforestation, there are some stakeholders that benefit from the logging of trees. Large scale farmers and logging industries depend on cutting down trees. In 2001, there was a survey conducted in Peru about how the locals depended on many of the resources that were based on wood. Researchers found out that, Patel, 3 of households in the city of San have many economic activities, such as agriculture to handcrafting. The percentage of locals that earn their money from agroforestry and forest product extraction is the largest compared to the other job types (73%), (Coomes, This study showed how many locals were dependent on logging in the Amazon and Peruvian rainforests, because it was their only way to earn income. If deforestation was banned then the locals would be left with no jobs and would increase the poverty rates in those particular areas. Based on a study done by the Philippine council for Agriculture, Forestry, and Natural Resources Research and Development, many farmers were surveyed and they said they viewed and burn farming and shifting as non-destructive. The local farmers strongly believed that their actions helped promote plant diversity and that their actions were for the biodiversity. Without the farmers, food production for the local communities would stop. Many farmers even profit from selling their local grown crops (such as large scale oil palm plantations and soybean production farms) outside of the country to other countries via past pace transportation. Trade and foreign sales help boost the local economies, strengthen foreign relationships, and are beneficial to many countries. Logging companies are essential, generations need them to cut down timber and use it to build homes, make paper and paper based products, and use it in furniture. So many of the stakeholders believe that logging trees is a beneficial act, since they get profit from it. The goals of the farmers and timber companies are to continue logging at a profitable rate. The stakeholders have tried finding a common ground but many times problems arise when despite the laws the government sets are broken. In many areas, national laws are set to help control the manufacture and trade of lumber products, from the stages of harvesting to the stages of processing sales. These laws are broken when companies take wood from restricted Patel, 4 zones, harvest more than what is allowed, or even sell the wood for cheaper prices. Illegal logging occurs around the world, especially in the Congo Basin, Indonesia, and forests of the Russian Far East The Philippine government, who is also the landowner in the country- granted legal permission to harvest logs to a limited number of wealthy concessionaries (Suarez, 90% of the Philippines was once fully forested, but now there is only less than 20% of the original landmass left (Suarez, 91). Scientists mentioned that if deforestation continued at the current rates, then there would be no forests left in a decade. Problems even arise from local greeners, tree-huggers and animal- as they are constantly protesting and disrupting the local communities and intervening in government affairs. The common ground between the multiple stakeholders can be found if the government started setting, enforcing, and maintain strong laws to maintain what the timber companies do. Although there are still multiple laws that the government has, many times the laws are broken and not strictly enforced, due to the corruption of the government. Another way that the stakeholders can compromise is letting the farmers farm, but restricting the amount of land they can farm on, while making them replant the trees that they removed after the land is no longer suitable for farming. Instead of farmers slashing and burning their own trees, they should farm on the freshly cut lands, that loggers took the trees from. The other way around can work as well, the farmers should save the trees instead of burning them and should sell them to the timber companies. A compromise that the animal conservationists or WWF must come to is that they must only protect endangered and threatened species instead of trying to protect all species. Although protecting the entire community of animals is not likely, they should take the threatened species into animal sanctuaries or preservations if the deforestation has gotten out of Patel, 5 hand. Although the biggest compromise is to set strictly enforced boundaries and only permit deforestation in certain areas, so that not all wildlife is affected, and loggers still get their share of the wood and farmers get their land. In summarization, many stakeholders are at play when it comes to deforestation. The previous compromises are all good, but not strictly enforced and some are ran by corrupted individuals. Although the stakeholders have completely different views on deforestation, there can be a compromise. The animals conservationists and environmentalists want to ban deforestation, while the logging companies and farmers want to continue deforestation. Bibliography Coomes, Oliver T., and Graeme J. Burt. Peasant charcoal production in the Peruvian Amazon: rainforest use and economic  Forest Ecology and Management 140.1 (2001): 39-50. Dauvergne, Peter. The politics of deforestation in  Pacific Affairs (1993): 497-518.  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Suarez, Raul K., and Percy E. Sajise. Deforestation, swidden agriculture and Philippine  Philippine Science Letters 3.1 (2010): 91-99. Turner, I. M. Species loss in fragments of tropical rain forest: a review of the  Journal of applied Ecology (1996): 200-209.