Anderson 1 Rebekah Anderson Mr. Bob Botkin ENC 1102.063 22 January 2017 Homeschooling vs Public Schooling In society, the education system has expanded its abilities by introducing different ways in which students can get educated according to a style that best fits their needs. Two main styles of school include homeschooling and public schooling. Despite being completely different, both styles can help students thrive in their studies. With regards to schooling, one must consider the perspectives on homeschooling and the perspectives on public schooling. Despite their pros and cons, both these methods are successful in their own ways. Since both methods of schooling are so different, there has not been a way to find common ground. However, it is possible since both schooling methods have the common goal of providing a good education. Homeschooling, an alternate version of the traditional type of schooling, has evolved into a branch of its own. Recently, homeschooling has become a popular choice of learning. A Phi Delta Kappa-Gallup group ran a poll regarding perspectives on homeschooling. It states, 1986, only 16% of Americans believed home schooling to be a  (Lines 1996). In more recent years, a Wall Street Journal-NBC News poll ran the same poll. It stated, of Americans would actually prefer home education to in-school (Houston 921). Many families have decided that the best educational fit for their children is through homeschooling. This version of education is considered safer than traditional schooling because children are prevented from obstacles such as bullying, peer pressure, drugs, and alcohol. An article about school violence in schools states the situation in some schools Anderson 2 and neighborhoods is more serious than in others, creating a safe, disciplined learning environment is a challenge for all school (Lunenberg 1). Homeschooling provides a safer environment when compared to traditional schooling because the children do not have to socialize with troubled kids and participate in a negative environment. Many families believe that they can better protect their kids from having a low self-esteem due to bullies as well as protect them from more prominent matters like school shootings. School shootings are a serious matter and many families try to protect their children by keeping them at home. Homeschooling also provides the benefit of children receiving more on time with their instructors. Traditional schools are set in a classroom environment with more than fifteen kids. Individuals who are too shy or need more attention are put at a disadvantage because they will not be able to learn the material as easily as others. Also, some children prefer to be in a closed environment because they feel the need to constantly compete with others in a classroom. This is a benefit for people who choose to homeschool because the children tend to have better self- esteems. In a study on students who are homeschooled in Australia, researchers recorded the perspectives of the students. The article stated, have generally reported positively about their home education experience. Self-esteem appeared to be healthy among these students with a number of them crediting their own healthy self-image directly to their home education (Jackson 63). Students do not feel as pressured to be perfect when they are homeschooled because they are not competing against others to be at the top of the class. However, an issue with homeschooling is that students are not able to interact with others. Social interaction is necessary for the development of an individual. The article, and the Question of states that school has been made responsible for an expanding Anderson 3 range of socializing activities that previously were considered the proper roles of other social institutions, such as the (Medlin 108). Students who are homeschooled are not surrounded around people daily therefore they do not get to practice necessary social skills that children in traditional schools get to practice. Daily interaction with others helps build friendships and social skills which help children prepare for a real-world setting. Despite its disadvantages, homeschooling is still a successful version of schooling that has changed the lives of many individuals and has been proven to be successful in helping students excel in their studies. On the other hand, many families also put their children into traditional schooling. Traditional schooling has always been the main version of schooling and has been successful for a very long time. It is an easy option because this type of schooling is free so anyone can go to public school. This is beneficial for families with low incomes because they have an equal chance in becoming successful. Homeschooling can be expensive because the books for different subjects and utensils need to be bought whereas in traditional schooling, books and utensils are free for students to use. Another benefit to traditional schooling is that the children are involved in a classroom environment. Some students may need other students challenging them in a classroom in order to be successful. An individual who is not challenged may be less motivated to put his/her full effort into homework and studies. Being surrounded with other individuals everyday can help provoke success because of the constant competition. Also, being in a single student setting can make the children feel lonely since they are always by themselves. Feeling lonely can disrupt ability to stay motivated in his/her work which can cause individuals to not be as successful when compared to those who interact with others. A disadvantage to Anderson 4 traditional schooling is the set schedule students have. This type of schooling is not at own pace. There are set due dates for assignments and certain lectures that must be taught at a certain day. This is considered a downfall to traditional schooling because it can be very stressful for a student. Students can feel overwhelmed with the due dates and some may not have time to complete all the assignments that are due. This will cause them to fall behind in their classes and ultimately, be unsuccessful in their studies. Despite its disadvantages, traditional schooling is still the popular choice of schooling and has provided beneficial education that students have been able to use to shape their futures. Both homeschooling and traditional schooling are popular choices that families utilize to provide their kids with a good education. Although they are very different from each other, both methods share the common goal of providing an education that individuals can use to become successful. Because they share this common goal, a compromise can be found that satisfies the conditions of each stakeholder. One way a common ground can be achieved is by educating people who are homeschooled common signs of depression, ways to say no to peer pressure, how to deal with bullies, and how to cope with difficult situations. This can bring a compromise between the two stakeholders because kids in traditional schooling are educated about these topics and are able to better deal with these kinds of situations. By educating homeschooled students about these topics, they can better understand and deal with these situations even if they have not physically experienced them. This allows parents to protect their children and have them be aware of these issues at the same time. Also, they can be better prepared for the real- world like students in traditional schools are. Another way a common ground can be found is by Anderson 5 having smaller sized classrooms in traditional schools. Creating smaller classrooms can relieve some of the stress that students face when feeling like they are in a constant competition between the other students. They will feel more confident in their work which in turn will boost the self-esteems. A smaller classroom can also encourage students who are shy to ask questions and speak up. They can also get more attention and time with the instructor which will help them better learn the material. In the final analysis of these two stakeholders, one can understand that they both share a common goal of helping individuals become successful in the future by providing them with a good education. Their different methods of schooling have evolved each style into the successful programs that they have become. A common goal has been found that can bring the two opposing sides closer together. Although very different from one another, both programs have proven to be successful and have changed the lives of many different families. Anderson 6 Works Cited Houston, Robert G., and Eugenia F. Toma. Schooling: An Alternative School Southern Economic Journal, vol. 69, no. 4, 2003, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/1061658. Medlin, Richard G. Schooling and the Question of Peabody Journal of Education, vol. 75, no. 1/2, 2000, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/1493091. Jackson, Glenda. Home Education Transitions With Formal Schooling: Student  Issues In Educational Research 17.1 (2007): 62-84. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lunenburg, Fred C.1. School Violence In  FOCUS On Colleges, Universities & Schools 6.1 (2011): 1-6. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.