Ian Fournier Bennington English Composition II 1/29/17 Should College Athletes Get Paid? College athletes have not been receiving any payment while they play for their colleges, the reason why is that the NCAA which is the National Collegiate Athletic Association has made rules and regulations stating that no college athlete can receive any payment while they are in college. The college athletes cannot receive any endorsements or receive money from giving out autographs or giving out other memorabilia for money. One of the main reasons that the college athletes do not get paid while they are in college is that the NCAA is allowing the college athletes are getting some or all of their schooling paid for while they are intending college, some of the college athletes can also receive housing like dorms for free. The NCAA should allow the colleges to give out a yearly stipend to each college athlete, each college can decide what amount of money the stipend is and once the college athletes use up all the stipend then that college athlete has to wait to the following year to receive another stipend. This will help with a compromise between college athletes and the NCAA. The college athletes believe they should get paid because they put their bodies on the line every time they play the sport that they are at college and getting the scholarship for. The college athletes see that the colleges and the NCAA profit when they play the sport. Some college sports do not get the same amount of profit towards the college as some sports. Nigel Hayes is a college athletes who plays basketball at the University of Wisconsin, who is protesting about how college athletes should get paid. He held up a sign during one of College Gameday shows, when the show was at the University of Wisconsin. The sign said athlete anything Nigel Hayes believes he is getting ripped off by the regulations and rules stated by the NCAA about athletes not getting any money while playing. (Ziller, 2016). Many current and former professional athletes who played in college wished they got paid while they were in college. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar who play in the NBA, and he was also a college athlete who played at the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA). He said when he was in college he spent hours every day practicing, learning plays, and traveling around the country to play games, and he said despite all the millions of dollars the team generated for the college, both in cash and with recruiting students to attend the university he was always too broke to do much but study, practice, and play (Abdul-Jabber, 2014). The college athletes want to play for their college and try to get to the next level of that specific sport they play or getting a degree while they play for the school, but the college athlete also wants to get recognized for playing with some compensation pertaining to money. The NCAA has been restricting college athletes from getting paid for a long time. The NCAA has been using the amateurism rules, the amateurism rules is insurance that the college athletes hold priority in their education and that all college athletes are competing equitably (NCAA, 2007). All college athletes and international college athletes have to follow the NCAA amateurism requirements to remain eligible to play the sport they want to play. Some points that the amateurism requirements do not allow is salary for participating in athletics, contracts with professional teams, and prize money that is above actual and necessary expenses (NCAA, 2007). The NCAA does not want to pay college athletes because the college athletes are paid with free schooling and housing while they are playing for the college. Paying college athletes could lead to eroding the system because if colleges start to pay college athletes then the incoming high school athletes who trying to find a college to play at would pick a college that would pay them more money whether then going to college for the education, the academic quality, and tradition (Yankah, 2015). The NCAA and the colleges want to do what is right for the college athletes by making sure they focus on their education whether then getting paid for playing during college because once the college athlete gets the degree or is good enough to make it to professional sports then can get recognition and the payment that the college athletes would want. There is some common ground between college athletes and the NCAA about if college athletes should get paid. Both the college athletes and NCAA want the millions of dollars that is received from television contracts, selling memorabilia, like jerseys of the athletes, and tickets sells for the sports. The NCAA and colleges get majority of the money that is from the large television deals, memorabilia sold, and from ticket sells. The college athletes want a piece of the money because they are providing the entertainment that yields all the revenue. The NCAA and colleges should use the money they get from the television deals, the memorabilia sold, and tickets sales to find a way to appease the college athlete, because it is not fair to college athletes who get any revenue from selling memorabilia or autographs, when the NCAA and the colleges receive millions of dollars when it comes to the television deals, selling memorabilia, and ticket sells. The compromise between the college athletes and the NCAA and colleges is that the NCAA should allow the colleges to give a yearly stipend to each college athlete that is affiliated with the NCAA like the sports baseball, football, basketball, and soccer. The stipend will only apply to the college athletes that are playing the sport, the college athletes that graduate or are not on the team anymore are not eligible for the stipend. Once the college athlete uses all of the stipend then the athlete will have no more until the next year. The stipend will be same amount for each college athlete, so the football player will be getting the same amount of money for the stipend as the track and field athlete. It is up to the NCAA and the college will figure an amount to use for the stipend each year. With some star college athletes complain about going to bed hungry because they could not afford to buy extra food, now with the yearly stipend if they use their money right will be able to use the stipend for buying extra food when hungry, laundry, school fees (Isidore, 2015). This will be a great compromise for college athletes and the NCAA because it allows college athletes the payment they would want form the colleges and it is good for the NCAA because they get to choose the amount that the stipend will be. References Abdul-Jabber, K. (2014, November 13). Jacobin. Retrieved from www.jacobinmag.com: https://www.jacobinmag.com/2014/11/college-athletes-of-the-world-unite/ Isidore, C. (2015, September 4). CNN. Retrieved from money.cnn.com: http://money.cnn.com/2015/09/04/news/companies/extra-cash-college-athletes/ NCAA. (2007, October). Retrieved from www.ncaa.org: http://www.ncaa.org/amateurism Yankah, E. N. (2015, October 14). The New Yorker. Retrieved from www.newyorker.com: http://www.newyorker.com/news/sporting-scene/why-ncaa-athletes-shouldnt-be-paid Ziller, T. (2016, October 17). SBNation. Retrieved from www,sbnation.com: http://www.sbnation.com/college-basketball/2016/10/17/13297796/nigel-hayes-protest-ncaa- paid-athletes