Claire Embry Professor Spencer Bennington Composition 2 29 January 2017 The Diamond Industry and Corruption Diamonds are said to be first discovered 25,000 years ago. 25,000 years of beauty, but also 25,000 years of conflict over these precious jewels. The Diamond industry throughout its existence has caused many feuds between the diamond producers and the people who work in the industry. Monopolization of the industry has held barriers between the African mining people and their human rights. By holding an annual conference between diamond corporations such as De Beers, and nonprofits trying to clean up the industry such as Greener each side of the diamond industry can voice their opinions on concerning subjects without making harsh laws that can hurt one side of the spectrum and not the other. The Company of De Beers, established in 1888 through Cecil Rhodes held a monopoly over the diamond industry from establishment to over a hundred years later. At the time of founding this powerhouse corporation controlled around ninety percent of the diamonds. While their period of monopolization the conditions of their mines were far from fair. Wars/outbreaks over the famously named were existent, especially highlighted in the nineteen nineties during the Chaos and civil wars in Sierra Leone. From then the corporation have lived off the motto A diamond is The corporation released a report to society in 2015 stating concept of Building Forever describes our commitment to making a positive and lasting contribution to the (De Beers group 2015). Their progressive focus on the purity of their production shows promise for the Diamonds industry rights for the people. There are several organizations that live off the purpose to help the victims of the diamond industry and abolish blood diamonds for good. The greener diamond is a group in particular that was formed due to the fact that its founder discovered her engagement ring was most likely a blood diamond. From this shocking realization she formed this organization living off three basic goals, back to those who have suffered from the earth-mined diamond trade, Inspire a generation independent of the current unethical industry of conflict diamonds, and Educate jewelry consumers about the role they play in purchasing conflict greener diamond 2015). Many of the big corporations claim that the use of blood diamonds is non apparent in this day and age anymore; Statements from the academic articles such as Dirty explains the heightened magnitude and continued danger/the sheer amount of blood diamonds that are still smuggled through out the countries (Dirty Diamonds, Baker). 2010 to 2014 it was estimated that over 48 million carats of diamonds mined under horrific conditions made it to the international diamond Mieke Anderson). This statistic alone proves that this problem many people believe is gone is far from it. Further stated in the engineering and mining journal matters: a look at the world diamond-mining industry, and some of the ethical issues that continue to dog by Walker, Simon, the earlier proposed solution of the Kimberly Process Certification Scheme is failing on many aspects. This scheme put in place in 2003 intended to regulate the diamond industry and stop illegal blood diamond from being smuggled out of these major mining countries such as Sierra Leone. The problem with this Scheme is the lack of reinforcement and regulation (Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd). Many believe with the rise of conflict between the big corporations, and the foundations trying to clean up the industry that the whole diamond industry will blow up and be stopped all together. This is not what either of these sides wants. They both want the industry to be strong and thrive. To achieve this there should be an annual conference where the big corporations, such as De Beers and ALROSA, and foundations such as The Greener Diamond, come together and express issues. By expressing these issues and solving problems together instead of in the courtroom it will allow for smoother compromise and no harsh laws set against either stakeholder. A solution as proposed above would be the most ideal situation. The industry little by little will be cleaned up, corporations wont loose an awful amount of money, and the people of these mining countries will at least be at peace. While De Beers has ruled for so long, it is promising seeing the industry move from a less monopolized situation into a human rights based system. These jewels will no longer been seen as a symbol of death, destruction and violence, but as clean, peaceful natural beauties. Works Cited Anderson, Anna-Mieke. Impact. Greener Diamond. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Informa, Overveiw Issue Areas More. BUILDING FOREVER (n.d.): n. pag. De Beers Report to Society. Westerham, Mar. 2015. Web. Walker, Simon. Clarity  Clarity Matters. Enginnerring Mining Journal, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Why the Blood Diamond Trade  Time. Time, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.