Buckler 1 Joseph Buckler Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Videogames and Violence in Youth Since the videogames have been a part of lives. Adolescents have had an interest in videogames since they were created, so no surprise that many children grow up with some sort of videogame. In the recent decade, videogames have become more violent, yet the appeal of children continues to grow. Many people and organizations such as Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence (MAVAV) fear that videogames are becoming the fastest growing addiction and the most reckless endangerment of children today Other organizations, however, view videogames as having a positive impact on society, like Games for Change. Games for Change utilizes videogames as a humanitarian and educational tool. Both MAVAV and Games for Change view videogames in very different lights, but there are options to satisfy both groups. By further regulating the sale and accessibility of violent videogames to youth and using videogame violence as a tool for safety education, both groups can be appeased. Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence (MAVAV) has been around since December of 2002 with the goal of awareness of the hidden dangers associated with According to MAVAV, videogames have a variety of dangers, ranging from addiction to being socially isolative and leading to violence. They claim that in every nine gamers are already addicted [to MAVAV also claims that Buckler 2 videogames are leading to an increasing amount of youth violence all over the world. These are not baseless accusations, however. According to Robert Lull and Brad Bushman, videogame players will report greater anger than nonviolent videogame and videogame players will report greater presence than 2D videogame (Lull, Robert B et al). With this in mind, Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence aims to show the negative impact that videogames can have on our society and culture. They view videogames as the worst and most worrisome epidemic, and even compare its results to that of drug and alcohol addictions. MAVAV also asserts that the videogame industry makes its money off of promoting hatred, racism, and sexism, and even promotes gang activity with the inclusion of gangs and guilds (MAVAV). Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence is very anti- videogame and they want all videogames to be banned. On the other side of the videogame disagreement is Games for Change (GFC). GFC views videogames as being a catalyst for making a positive social impact. GFC was founded in 2004 to encourage the use of videogames in humanitarian and educational efforts. They to leverage entertainment and engagement for social good (Games for Games for Changes sees videogames as being an educational tool, versus MAVAV that sees it as a tool of societal destruction, and encourages people to use them as one. for Change convenes multiple stakeholders, highlights best practices, incubates games, and helps create and direct investment into new projects (Games for Games for Change holds multiple events around the world, ranging from gaming challenges to public arcades. Events like these positive social change and learning to new audiences and unexpected contexts (Games for Games for Changes promotes the use of videogames to positively impact society and help educate people. Unlike Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence, Games for Buckler 3 Change views videogames as a positive tool. There is also evidence against MAVAV that states way players treat each other in the game world and, so long as they treat other human players with respect, there is no clear harm of playing (Schulzke, MAVAV and Games for Change could reach a middle ground, however. In order to keep both groups content about videogames, a compromise must be made between them. Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence would like to see videogames banned all together, however Games for Change would like to see videogames promoted as a tool for social change and education. Instead, the violent videogames that MAVAV targets should be restricted to prevent children from playing and used for educational purposes to help prevent violent attacks and prepare people for what to do in case some sort of violent attack occurs. Although restricting videogames in the past has been called unconstitutional by violating free speech protections through the sales of games to minors (Ferguson, Christopher J.), setting up certain guidelines in selling to children would be doable. Instead of flat out banning sales to minors, the regulations that are already in place, such as needing an ID or a parent to buy a rated-R game need to be enforced more strictly. However, according to Marcus Schulzke, is not to say that impermissible to regulate the sale of some games to He also states that illegal sale of violent games to minors should not count as an argument against their existence any more than the sale of alcohol to minors should lead us to accept Violent videogames, such as the Grand Theft Auto series, could also be used to teach safety to minors. GTA series is singled out as one of the worst offenders [of videogame but ethnographic studies have shown that one can play these with relatively little violence (Ferguson, Christopher Unfortunately school shootings are becoming more common, but if children in the school were better prepared for what to do in the Buckler 4 case of an attack (through videogames), less children would be harmed in these pointless attacks. As Dylan Arena states, good video games, although not explicitly educational in focus, provide powerful experiences that are rich fodder for subsequent Videogames are often used as educational tools, so they could easily be aimed towards teaching safety to children in dangerous settings. The debate over whether or not videogames help to create violent children has been a long standing issue, and is still relevant in society. Videogames are more popular than ever and will continue to gain popularity, and many violent attacks today are similar in action to popular games, such as Grand Theft Auto. Many people, such as Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence, promote the banning of videogames as a means to make the world a safer place for children. There are also organizations like Games for Change that promote videogames as a tool for education and positivity in society. Although these two groups differ in opinion, they could come together and prevent violent games from reaching children for entertainment and instead use them as educational tools to help them stay safe in potentially life threatening situations. With this compromise, the fears of MAVAV would be consoled and the educational tool that Games for Change promotes would continue to be used. Videogames are a part of our society, and no changing that, but the way videogames are used could be changed for the better of society and futures. Buckler 5 Works Cited Arena, Dylan. Games as Tillers of Theory Into Practice, vol. 54, no. 2, 2015, pp. doi:10.1080/00405841.2015.1010843. Ferguson, Christopher J. Video Games and the Supreme Court: Lessons for the Scientific Community in the Wake of Brown v. Entertainment Merchants American Psychologist, vol. 68, no. 2, 18 Feb. 2013, doi:10.1037/a0030597. for Games for Change, www.gamesforchange.org/. Lull, Robert B., and Brad J. Bushman. in Violence: Presence Mediates the Effect of 3D Violent Video Gameplay on Angry Psychology of Popular Media Culture, vol. 5, no. 2, 22 Dec. 2016, doi:10.1037/ppm0000062. Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and MAVAV Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence, www.mavav.org/. Schulzke, Marcus. the Morality of Violent Video Ethics and Information Technology, vol. 12, no. 2, 2010, pp. doi:10.1007/s10676-010-9222-x.