Lee 1 Yejin Lee Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 26 January 2017 Legalizing Marijuana in the United States Although the distribution, prescription, possession or sale of marijuana violates the federal law, marijuana has been the most commonly used illegal drug in the United States (Keehbauch and Rensberry 1; Pearson et al. 1). Since the legalization of marijuana in California in 1996, currently 24 states and the District of Columbia have legalized marijuana for medicinal purposes and 4 states and the District of Columbia have legalized the use of recreational marijuana (Schmidt et al. 1). NORML, National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, is the organization that supports the legalization of marijuana use and removal of all criminal penalties for marijuana use, which has been the most representative and influential organization for legalizing marijuana since its foundation However, there also have been public opinions that are against the legalization of marijuana due to the risk of public health and social impacts. SAM, Smart Approaches to Marijuana is one of the organizations that object to the legalization, commercialization and normalization of marijuana use. The difference with the other anti- marijuana organizations is that it is also opposed to demonizing marijuana. It is at a slightly moderate opposing stance that pursues to approach marijuana use and its policies based on health- first scientific understandings of marijuana. Even though NORML and SAM have conflicts on legalization, commercialization and normalization of marijuana use, they both pursue the safety and public health as their priorities for legalizing marijuana & Furthermore, Lee 2 NORML advocates the legal and responsible use of medical marijuana and SAM approaches the legalization of marijuana as science-based drug policy that has potential medical effects & Based on these common grounds, NORML and SAM should both set a compromise for the legalization of medical marijuana use based on scientific understandings to build a healthier and safer community. NORML, which stands for National Organization of the Reform of Marijuana Laws, is a non-profit organization that advocates the decriminalization and legalization of marijuana production It was founded in 1970 and had achievements in decriminalizing marijuana offenses and alleviating marijuana penalties. Decriminalization of marijuana in NORML is defined as removing all the criminal penalties that are caused by the possession, cultivation, non-profit transfer due to responsible personal use of marijuana It also defines the legalization of marijuana as designing and developing the marijuana market under the control of law enforcement to prevent the spread of corrupted black market and to assure the distribution and consumption of safe and high-quality marijuana It mostly emphasizes the responsible medical or recreational use of marijuana only by adults and pursues the high-quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and affordable Mission These days, NORML advocates the legalization of responsible marijuana use based on some principles which are: adults only, no driving, set and setting, resist abuse, respect rights of others of Responsible Cannabis To realize its goals involving these principles, it lobbies the Congress, legislatures, and law enforcements to reform the current legislation including federal law and state law that are against the legalization of marijuana use - Its mission statements and principles proved that it considers the public health and safety as its priority above all. Even though they consistently set their priority Lee 3 as safe and healthy use of marijuana for public health, there are still opposing voices that worry about the side effects and abuse of marijuana use. SAM, which stands for Smart Approaches to Marijuana, is one of the representative organizations that are opposed to the legalization, commercialization, normalization and decriminalization of marijuana use & It is a coalition of organizations and individuals that are against marijuana commercialization and normalization & They introduce themselves as bipartisan, medical workers, teachers, legislators, law enforcement officers who agonize between incarceration and legalization & However, unlike the most anti-marijuana organizations which are focused on the social effect of marijuana legalization, SAM prioritized the public health as their basis for anti-marijuana legalization. Due to this priority, they approach the issue of legalizing marijuana with objective and scientific perspectives. Based on their scientific understandings about marijuana, they educate the legislators, law enforcement officers and the public to warn the harms and commercialization of marijuana use & They also emphasize the importance of scientific drug policy to protect public health and do research about the potential characteristics of marijuana. Furthermore, they acknowledge that the overflowing incarcerations become one of main social problems while insisting that incarceration would not be the right way to treat drug abuse and addiction and to look for alternatives. To legalize the marijuana in a way that can both assure the freedom and public health safety, NORML and SAM should make a compromise that can legalize the medical marijuana use. The medical effect of marijuana has been experimented and concluded in academic journal articles. Gruber, the direct of MIND (Medical Investigations of Neurodevelopmental Disorders), conducted an experiment with patients who had have bipolar disorder and borderline Lee 4 personality disorder and used marijuana before to check how marijuana affects the mood, pain, PTSD, fibromyalgia and the other diseases (Boerner 29). She found out that the use of medical marijuana had positive impacts on the executive functioning, performance, impulsivity (Boerner 29). Furthermore, she also found out that the patients who used marijuana without fully formed prefrontal cortex had worse executive functioning and performance (Boerner 29). She insists that patient not only show alleviations in pain and seizure, but also think and sleep better (Boerner 29). Furthermore, there are also potential possibilities that the medical marijuana has an impact on different, but related health problems like opioid addiction and overdose since the doctors prescribed less for opioid painkillers in the states of legalized marijuana for medical purposes (Boerner 29). Due to these medical effects of marijuana, the legalization of medical marijuana should be passed and implemented after proving the safety and medical effects of medical marijuana under the strict law system to prevent the illegal drug abuse and its addiction. Furthermore, the medical professionals should be well trained about the positive and negative effects of prescribing medical marijuana. In addition, since commercializing marijuana under the pharmaceutical companies have lots of risks of illegal drug market and drug abuse, the cultivation, distribution and the sale of medical marijuana should be controlled and be overseen by the federal government. Therefore, NORML and SAM should cooperate to have a safer marijuana legalization in the United States. NORML has influenced the legalization of medical and recreational use of marijuana while SAM was mostly focused on researching and spreading the scientific understandings of marijuana to the public. By combining the strong will of legalizing the responsible and safe use of marijuana with the scientific understanding and education of marijuana use, the United States can meet the will of marijuana legalization while Lee 5 protecting the public health. Furthermore, nations can expect new effective treatments for disorders and addictions by passing medical marijuana laws. However, this legalization of medical marijuana use should be done under the strict law system, the administration and supervision of federal government towards the cultivation and distribution or medical marijuana, with well- trained medical workers. By arranging these safety regulations for public health under the control supervision of government, the legalization of medical marijuana can result social and medical benefits safely while alleviating the conflicts between the stakeholders. Word Count = 1230 Lee 6 Works Cited Boerner, Heather. Cannabis: From Legal Illegal to (Sometimes) Legal Physician Leadership Journal, vol. 3, no. 6, 2016, pp. 29-30. - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML. http://norml.org/faq. Accessed 26 January 2017. Keehbauch, Jennifer, and Rensberry, Matthew. Effectiveness, Adverse Effects, and Safety of Medical  American Family Physician, vol. 92, no. 10, 2015, pp. 861-63. & Smart Approaches to Marijuana SAM. https://learnaboutsam.org/who-we- are/mission-vision/. Accessed 26 January 2017. Mission Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML. http://norml.org/about/intro/item/norml-mission-statement-2. Accessed 26 January 2017. Pearson, Matthew R., Liese, Bruce S., and Dvorak, Robert D. College Student Marijuana Involvement: Perceptions, Use, and Consequences across 11 College  Addictive Behaviors, vol. 66, 2017, pp. 83-89. of Responsible Cannabis Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML. http://norml.org/principles. Accessed 26 January 2017. Schmidt, Laura A., Jacobs, Laurie M., and Spetz, Joanne. Young More Permissive Views about Marijuana: Local Impact of State Laws or National  American Journal of Public Health, vol. 106, no. 8, 2016, pp. 1498-1503.