Skylar Vandebogart Professor Hernandez Composition II January 29, 2017 Bug Out Bags For Foster Kids According to D. E. Stewart, human trafficking is defined as act of recruiting, harbouring, transporting, providing or obtaining a person for compelled labour or commercial sex acts through the use of force, fraud or Human trafficking is an issue that affects many places that affects many demographics. It can also mean more than the standard idea of It is slavery that takes place in many industries. There is a large amount of physical and mental illness caused by human trafficking. Victims of human trafficking usually go into the foster care system if they are minors. They usually have a whole lot of personal belongings to take once they are found and rescued. I propose the two organizations, Together We Rise and Miracle Out Reach, come together to create a sort of out to give to these kids as soon as they are placed into custody of the state. These bags would provide personal hygiene items and comfort objects. There should also be an education talk of some sort to inform current foster kids about staying safe on the streets and the risks involved in getting involved with the wrong groups. Children of foster care are considered They in a stable environment. Kids are susceptible to kidnapping, and many people refer to these kids as if they made the choice to be kidnapped or enslaved. Many people know this is a current problem. (Speckman) In Fort Myers, there was a girl who got in trouble for having sex in the boys bathroom at South Fort Myers High School. Not many people knew she was a victim of human trafficking. There were videos that went around. I saw them at my high school. She was conditioned to believe sex is how you please people. This is a problem that is larger than most people believe. More than 60% of kids rescued from human trafficking were taken from foster care or group homes. (Speckman) When kids first enter foster care, they are often given only trash bags to pack up their belongings in. Together We Rise is an organization created to aid foster kids in the transition from one family to the next by giving them duffle bags to put their belongings in and give supplies for college to encourage success. They also have a program that supplies these kids with new bikes. The primary focus is to supply kids with duffle bags. These bags include blankets, hygiene kits, and comfort objects. There is a to give to older kids. They are a non-profit organization and use a lot of volunteers. They do not have any geographical limitations. All needed is a request on their website. There is even an option to decorate these bags to give more comfort to these kids. This organization would provide the duffle bag expertise. This organization was founded when the founder found out his cousin was living out of a car. Being under 21, he could not do anything legally to help his cousin. The organization was created to aid kids even if you be a foster parent. (Together We Rise) Miracles Out Reach is located in Tampa, Florida. It is designed to provide victims of abuse, homelessness, and human trafficking with stable housing. They also provide psychotherapy to aid in building self esteem, realistic goal setting, and essential life skills. Housing provides these victims with healthy, fresh cooked meals, clothing and personal hygiene essentials. This organization is particularly focused on children. take our work in this area very seriously and work daily to house and re- acclimate these victims one child at a This is their primary goal. They are a non profit organization dedicated to aiding children between the ages of twelve and seventeen. They provide a safe home to victims. They have many programs focused on helping people succeed in life. A few programs are Mommy and Me, GED, and Job Readiness. They are dedicated to helping victims, even after they have aged out of the foster care system. (Miracles Out Reach) These groups are not against each other, per se, but would both greatly benefit children in need. A out is a bag that has all the essentials needed to get out in case of an emergency. Generally, they are used for natural disasters or apocalyptic beliefs. This particular out would be for the first interaction when victims of child human trafficking are placed into custody of the state. The bag would be a duffle style bag with necessities needed for the long journey of legal matters and foster care systems ahead of them. The bags would consist of hygienic items, such as tooth brush, wash cloth, towel, a change of clothes, soap, and female hygienic necessities, as well as comfort objects, such as blankets, colouring books, stuffed animals, and/or books. Some bags will be slightly different depending on age, gender and necessity. Each organization would pool their donations and set up a web page to help purchase the duffle bags, similar to the web page for Together We Rise. Miracle Out Reach would provide psychological help to these kids, like they already do, but also to the kids Together We Rise helps. They would also team up to create a program that talks to schools in order to help them understand the risks of running away and living on the streets. These kids need to be educated prior to being abducted about the threat of human trafficking. Talking to these kids before hand will give them a better idea on how to stay safe. To be completely honest, most of the foster kids feel that they have anybody who cares about them, nor do they feel they can rely each other or adults. They feel betrayed and are statistically prone to riskier behaviors, such as substance abuse and running away. These duffle bags could help make foster kids, especially victims, feel like they are important and help them succeed in their goals in life. These out are intended to be given to the victims as soon as they are rescued. They are the first thing these kids are going get and will probably be the thing they hold on to their entire life. Foster kids need to know there are people out there who do care and are trying to fix the system and the world to keep them safe. For now, the best we can do, and the best I can do is donate money and gather supplies, and try to educate more kids to prevent them from being victims as much as possible. Bibliography Stewart, D. E. Mental Health And Human  Epidemiology And Psychiatric Sciences 25.4 (2016): 342- 344. PsycINFO. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Speckman, Jessica Forgione1. Trafficking And The Child Welfare System Link: An  Journal Of The American Academy Of Matrimonial Lawyers 28.2 (2016): 391-425. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Krebs, Betsy, and Paul Pitcoff. Beyond The Foster Care System : The Future For Teens. New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 2006. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Non-Profit Organization for Foster Kids Together We  Non-Profit Organization for Foster Kids Together We Rise. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.togetherwerise.org/>. Miracles Outreach Community Development  Miracles Outreach Community Development Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.