Jameson Karnes Dr. Oana Cimpaen English Composition 2 January 29, 2017 Project 1 Finding Common Ground Gun control has evolved into one of the most controversial topics in American history. Gun violence has become too prominent an issue for anyone to ignore regardless of the side they have taken on gun control, everyone believes that gun violence needs to be reduced. The two most prominent stakeholders on either side of the issue of gun control are the National Rifle Association (NRA) and The Brady Campaign. The NRA believes that gun control is too drastic of a measure to take and The Brady Campaign believes that gun control is the answer to reducing the violence. The ultimate goal is to continue an training, education, and marksmanship the Brady mission is to a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by 2025. Though these two stakeholders seem to have opposite beliefs, their ultimate goal is the same: reducing gun violence in America and increasing gun safety. A compromise to satisfy both of the stakeholders and achieve their goal should be reached. I would propose that since all firsthand sales already require background checks, that psychological evaluations be added as well to ensure that no one with a potential illness be sold a gun, Also. In secondhand sales such as those at pawn shops and gun shows, a background check should be added to the purchasing process to help increase the safety of the firearm sales process. However, there are no policies or checks that can be implemented that will reduce the number of sales from guns purchased off the market. The likelihood that someone with a criminal record getting their hands on a gun will be reduced, meaning that both stakeholders get a step closer to their goal, the NRA takes a step towards gun safety and The Brady Campaign gets closer to cutting the number of gun-related deaths in half. The National Rifle Association (NRA) was founded in 1871by Colonel William C. Church and General George Wingate. The original goal of the organization was to and encourage the rifle shooting on a scientific Since the founding, the organization has grown to become the most powerful stakeholder on gun control, with millions of members across the country. During World War 2, the organization provided services and land to the training of American troops. In 1975, the NRA began to advocate against gun control because of repeated attacks against the Second Amendment. The NRA began to develop a program for law enforcement training as well as civilian training. They have trained over 13,000 police officers and train over 1,000,000 gun owners a year making them the leading organization for firearm safety. In 1990, they became more than just an educational organization, they established the NRA Foundation which is a organization to be able to raise millions to fund gun safety and Today the NRA Foundation is recognized as the defender of Second Amendment and has grown to have nearly five million members. The NRA Foundations now argues that gun control would actually increase the number of deaths from shootings and attacks. In an article written by Jack Hunter, published in The American Conservative, the author argues how gun control would leave the country worse off. He often argues that advocates for gun control only mention tragedies that were not stopped, they always fail to mention the potential tragedies that were stopped because of civilians who were concealed-carrying. Potential tragedies such as the high school shooting in Pearl, Mississippi, which was stopped by a vice principal who got his gun from his truck and apprehended the shooter, or the 2012 church shooting in Aurora, Colorado that was stopped by a concealed- carrying congregation member. The NRA Foundation and The American Conservative arguing against gun safety rather they are just arguing the means in which to achieve this. The Brady Campaign was founded in 1974 by Mark Borinsky under the original name of the National Council to Control Handguns. The organization is non-profit and advocates for gun control and against gun violence. In 2001, they changed their name to the Brady Campaign which it has stayed to this day. Their namesake was James Brady who was permanently disabled as a result of the Ronald Reagan assassination attempt in 1981. The Campaign grows after each major shooting or court case ruling. The passing of stand-your-ground laws, the Heller and McDonald cases, the Sandy Hook shooting, and the Aurora, Colorado theater shooting all brought in a massive influx of supporters for the Brady Campaign. Most notably, after the Sandy Hook shooting, over 100,000 new supporters joined the Campaign. Their ultimate goal is to the number of U.S. gun deaths in half by They argue certain guns need to be banned, some member even go as far to say that all guns need to be banned. Author Phoebe Maltz Bovy published an article in New Republic called Time to Ban Guns. Yes, All of In this article she advocates and supports views expressed by the Brady Campaign. The author addresses issues such as why people stand against the Second Amendment and gun rights. She, like the Brady Campaign, argues that if people stand up and start vocalizing their distaste towards guns that the legislature will have no choice but to start passing laws that appease them. She argues that needed to stop gun violence is a vocal ban guns For any gun owner or gun right advocate, this solution is far too radical. I propose a compromise because both stakeholders have beliefs that are too radical for the moderate citizen of the U.S. The compromise I propose is one that would develop a program where background checks would be implemented at gun shows and pawn shops where guns are purchased secondhand. According to a Time Magazine article, A Case Against Gun Control, author Jacob Davidson writes that system that required background checks for all gun sales, period, would be a good idea in The people and stakeholders need to come together to develop a program that benefits all parties involved and reach a compromise to create a system everyone agrees is a step towards gun safety and the reduction of gun violence. This compromise would be agreeable to both parties because no gun rights are being infringed upon, which satisfies the NRA Foundation, and there are new safety policies being implemented trying to reduce the number of guns being sold unchecked, which would satisfy the Brady Campaign. Other countries have implemented systems such as this and it has reduced the number of secondhand gun sales. The most notable example was when Canada implemented a handgun registry in 1993. The problem with the program was that it was poorly devised leading it to be costly and inefficient. This is why both stakeholders need to come together to create the program, to ensure that the program is efficient and fair and waste time, money, or effort. The program would be the first of its kind and that is why both parties need to be present because if one side does all the planning, then it would write regulations and rules only they believe are necessary. This compromise would also satisfy the people that sit in the middle of both issues, being moderate on the issue of gun control, because nothing drastic is being done. Most people in the country, myself included, do not want something radical to be done, just gradual changes to help develop a safer America without infringing upon the rights of the citizens. Works Cited Naomi Tepper 12 Gun Control Articles to Support Your Argumentative Essay www.kibin.com Naomi Tepper August 15, 2016 https://www.kibin.com/essay-writing-blog/12-gun-control-articles-for-argumentative-essay/ Phoebe Maltz Bovy Time to Ban Guns. Yes, All of Them. New Republic December 10, 2015 https://newrepublic.com/article/125498/its-time-ban-guns-yes-them Jack Hunter How Gun Control Kills The American Conservative December 27, 2012 http://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/how-gun-control-kills/ Jacob Davidson A Case Against Gun Control Time Magazine December 1, 2015 http://time.com/4100408/a-criminologists-case-against-gun-control/ Brady Campaign Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence 2016 http://www.bradycampaign.org/about-brady National Rifle Association NRA Foundation 2017 https://home.nra.org/about-the-nra/ Wikipedia January 24, 2017