Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 27 January Homelessness in America Homelessness is a tragic epidemic that has spread across the United States of America, along with the rest of the world. Homelessness affects all forms of people and in turn, their families, friends, governments, and communities. The presence of homelessness can be a large societal burden, but the most significant impact falls on the individual with no means to provide for themselves. This issue is one that has tugged at the heartstrings of many Americans who have little to no knowledge of how to go about solving the problem. Organizations have been springing up across the nation for that very reason. One of which, and perhaps the largest, is the National Alliance to End Homelessness (NAEH). Existing, however, is not enough to grab the eyes of the public. In order to further their expanse, and draw in contributors and volunteers, the NAEH has designed their public appearance, in this case their website, in such a way that gets the public thinking. One important way they accomplish this is through the visuals they use. The NAEH applies an approach referred to as visual rhetoric. When Gerdes, Hopton, and Rea discuss this literary tool in they explain that are coded and laden with (331). The National Alliance to End Homelessness is an organization working towards the end of homelessness using complex and motivating elements in their graphics. The first image is pulled from the homepage. The image serves as a title graphic for their article detailing the statistics of homelessness in America in the year 2016. The image Student 2 uses the text, highly contrasted against a faded image, which reads State of Homelessness in Below the large letters are smaller numbers signifying the year 2016 on either side of a minimalist graphic of the American Flag. The texts and image are presented atop a silhouette of the United States. The background is a gradient blue field, matching the rest of the website. The silhouette of the United States catches the eye because the map is not only familiar but also relatable, as all Americans belong somewhere on the image. The silhouette, however, is filled with a black and white image rather than state lines. The image is faded but seems to be depicting treetops, possibly a park, in a city. The use of the blue field is aesthetically pleasing because the color is coordinated with the rest of their website. The blue could have been selected because the color gives a sense of seriousness as the tone is muted and not too vibrant or dark. The black and white image shown suggests something much deeper. Black and white images are often used in reference to the past, before photography and television had color capability. This may suggest that in the issue of homelessness, there is a large population still living in the past, the people without homes left behind in the developing ages of advanced technology and luxuries. Aside from careful visual coordination, the image reaches out to the viewer in a rhetorical manner. Logos, as described by Lane, Lee, McKee, McIntyre, and Pantelides in Rhetorical published in Rhetoric (really) Matters, is the appeal to logic (23). In this graphic, Logos is applied by recognizing the issue at hand. In order to solve the problem, they must first analyze the gravity of the current situation. In this case, 2016 being the most recent statistics available, they provide themselves as well as the viewer with a realistic sense of the issue, which makes moving forward a feasible intent. The rhetorical appeal Kairos is often used in to or impending (Lane, Lee, McKee, McIntyre, Pantelides 26). The Student 3 creator implements Kairos by including the year in the title. By signifying that the statistics to be provided are only the ones from the most recent year, the creator is implying that this is a developing problem and will not remain stagnant in the absence of improvement. The second image is also used as a graphic title to an article about the results of the United States Conference of Hunger and Homelessness Survey. The image is of a silhouette of the United States drawn in marker on a piece of cardboard. On the drawing, there are red dots drawn, supposedly signaling cities in America. The most interesting element of this photo are the hands holding the cardboard. The hands appear to be a hands. The hands are unwashed and dirty. The creator also used the image drawn on a piece of cardboard because many homeless people are seen on roadsides and other places carrying cardboard signs, sometimes asking for money and other times simply wishing the public a beautiful day. In this instance, the man seems to be spreading awareness of homelessness with his cardboard map. The colors applied in this image are all very neutral. The pale brown of the cardboard, paired with the dirty shade of the hands, along with the solid black outline of the United States are nothing exciting. The vivid red, however, used to mark specific areas of the map is what stands out. Just like the first image, the creator of the second also applies rhetorical elements. Pathos. to the experience of or sensitivity toward is used by portraying the image on a cardboard sign, in hopes that the image would invoke the same type of emotional response a person feels when there is a person on a street corner with a sign, rather than a faceless image on a website (Lane, Lee, McKee, McIntyre, Pantelides 22). The image also administers Logos by its inclusion of the map. By highlighting specific areas in the country where homelessness is more prominent than other places, the creator of the image is telling the viewer that NAEH knows Student 4 exactly where their help is most needed, further strengthening their goal from a mere aspiration to a feasible goal they are able to work towards. The NAEH has an important motivation: ridding the nation of homelessness. Along with providing anybody who visits their webpage with practical approaches to joining their efforts their efforts, they grasp the attention by carefully and strategically designing the images they publish on their webpage. The NAEH applies multiple rhetorical methods in their images, most apparent in these two images are Logos, Pathos, and Kairos. The use of these elements transform the images from simple graphics to effective visual tools used to reach the viewer in a subconscious manner. The images complement the factual information provided by the NAEH in a way that may be unattainable through words alone. Student 5 Works Cited Lane, Emily, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pentelides. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rheto ric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-52. E-text. Gerdes, Julie, Sarah Beth Hopton, and Joshua M. Rea. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 331-337. E-text. National Alliance to End Homelessness. National Alliance to End Homelessness. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. State of Homelessness in America National Alliance to End Homelessness. National Alliance to End Homelessness. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. States Conference of Hunger and Homelessness National Alliance to End Homelessness. National Alliance to End Homelessness. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figures Figure 1: Figure 2: http://www.endhomelessness.org/page/-/uploads/feature/hhsurveyphoto.png