Quinones 1 Alesia Quinones Professor Phillips ENC 1102-025 January 28, 2017 Intermediate Draft Since the terrorist attack that took place on September 11, 2001 airport security was heightened across the nation. Although the increase in security was for the benefit of safety it also came with a risk to many. Per many individuals, airport security has become very invasive, and has crossed lines causing a moral issue. With the increase in airport security came invasive pat downs and body searches, along with body scanners and searches. An organization called the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC), believes that airport security has become too intrusive and its policies should change, in turn it has followed suits against airport security. On the other hand, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) put the rules in place for safety and believe the intrusion of privacy is for the protection of everyone. With disagreements about the need for pat downs and body searches in airport security, both sides should come to the compromise that still ensures the safety of civilians and TSA agents while remaining un-invasive, such as new equipment that will lessen the number of people who feel at airport security. The Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) a public interest research center in Washington, DC. EPIC was established in 1994 to focus public attention on emerging privacy and civil liberties issues and to protect privacy, freedom of expression, and democratic values in the information (EPIC staff and Board of directors pg. 1). With effort, they file suits on behave of the American people for civil liberties and justification for the American Quinones 2 people. EPIC is a nonprofit organization that fights for the rights and privacy for the people. Back in 2001 when the tragic terrorist attack happened to the American people, the government ordered that TSA have a stronger airport security. When doing so they introduced a body scanner that x-rayed an image of your body that allowed TSA agents to see what was underneath your clothing including genitalia. This caused an uproar in the media and from the people. EPIC filed a lawsuit against TSA to stop the use of body scanners in U.S. airports. EPIC has been fighting for years against TSA for the privacy of the people. However, now TSA has started with random searches of passengers during security and pat downs that have become very invasive toward civilians. On December 16, 2016 CNN commenter Angela Rye was traveling to New York when she had to endure a vaginal pat down at airport security. According to Huffington Post, the pat-down began, Rye had asked TSA management if she could just go through the backscatter machine again. She was told that would not be possible. She was also told that if she refused the pat-down, she would be escorted from the (Hatch Pg. 1). With lawsuits against TSA part of it is TSA not allowing passengers the right to opt out of these screenings and pat-downs. Angela situations was a good example of what the EPIC organization is fighting for and why they are fighting against TSA. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) was founded after September 11. 2001 to prevent terrorist attacks like those that took place on September 11 from happening again. TSA was created to keep order and to strengthen security at airports. TSA provides a high passed security screening combating similar terrorist attacks such as those that happened on September. 2001. With focus being the safety and security of civilians, they combat lawsuits against them by stating that the scans and body searches are for civilian safety. Quinones 3 While it is easy for civilians to not agree with TSA security for being too invasive, other countries such as Israel airport security methods that are more aggressive than ours. Not only do they practice intense psychological video idea being to identify the behavior associated with a potential threat before it has a chance to be carried they employ technology that allows them to better screen passengers without having to use the full body scanners we love to (Conforti pg. 1). For TSA, knowing that their security is not as strict or as harmful as some in other countries. The question poses that to have safety and prevention of future terrorist attacks should civilians give up a bit if their privacy and freedom for it? To move forward so that both EPIC and TSA are satisfied a solution is needing to take place that both organizations agree on, such as body scanners that are more advanced and less invasive. Also, civilians should be informed of their right to opt out of additional searches and TSA agents should allow civilians to opt out. More advanced technology should be provided for TSA security for there to be less body searches needed. With the advancement of technology less civilians will feel as though their privacy and freedom is being compromised while going through TSA security and there will still be heightened security which will benefit TSA. Citizens should also be informed of their right to opt out additional security screenings however TSA, does not allow citizens to do so. With allowing citizens to opt out of random additional security screening that are unnecessary to the safety of civilians, should be allowed and enforced. It benefits both sides in that it still allows there to still be advance security while not subjecting civilians into feeling violated and allows civilians to still maintain their freedom. While citizens should know that they must give up a little freedom while going through airport Quinones 4 security for TSA agents to provide optimal security for everyone and preventing similar terrorist attacks such as the one that took place on September 11, 2001. TSA security should not however become excessive and making people feel violated and having lack of freedom. With these compromises, it will allow the security to be at its very best and all civilians to be happy and safe. EPIC and TSA are two organizations that disagree on one main thing that is how far should security go before it is too invasive for civilians. On completely opposite sides, EPIC has filed lawsuits against TSA for the belief that the security at airports has become too invasive and give citizens a lack of privacy, violating their right of freedom. While on the other side focus is of the safety of all civilians and the prevention of terrorist attacks on the U.S. So, the questions pose, how far can security go before it is considered a violation to citizens? Well per EPIC, security is already too invasive and to TSA security needs to be where it is and it is not for civilians. Along with EPIC many agree that they have felt violated in airport security and feel as though there should be a change to the system. A change that can take place that will not benefit only one side but will benefit both would be to get more advanced body scanners at airports that would cause less need for body searches and pat downs. Also, for civilians to opt out of random searches TSA agents preform. With both of these compromises both TSA and EPIC will be satisfied due to the fact that security will be heightened with the advanced body scanners. EPIC will be satisfied as well, due to less civilians feeling as though they are being violated or having their privacy invaded. Coming to this compromise will allow all Americans to feel safe and having their freedom intact while preventing terrorism in the U.S. Quinones 5 Quinones 6 Works Cited Center, Electronic Privacy Information. EPIC - Whole Body Imaging Technology and Body Scanners  X-Ray and Millimeter Wave  EPIC - Whole Body Imaging Technology and Body Scanners  X-Ray and Millimeter Wave Screening). Electronic Privacy Information Center, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hatch, Jenavieve. Angela Rye Was Subjected To Humiliating TSA Pat-  Huffington Post. Huffington Post, 19 Dec. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Administrator Explains TSA Transformation at Seton Hall  Transportation Security Administration. Transportation Security Administration, 01 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Conforti, Kaeli. How Do Other Countries Stack up to the U.S. in Airport  Budget Travel. Budget Travel, 27 Sept. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.