Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Breaking Down Genetic Modification of the People, by the People, and for the People The Genetic Literacy Project is a group that has dedicated their work towards informing the public on the facts of genetic modification and claims to science from Financial Transparency, They update their website with scientific articles and current events on the advances in biotechnology, and other aspects of the field of genetic modification. In their menu there is also an entire section dedicated to human genetic modification, and all the articles tied to the specifics of advances in modification of people. The main theme of the articles is world meaning the research is meant to be applied to real world issues that could be resolved with genetics Financial Transparency, These issues include disease control, disorders, and stem cell research for organ replacement or prosthetics. Generally the issues dealt with are health related, and people would be considered healthier with those issues resolved, or at least their daily life will improve significantly. One of the images from their website (Figure 1) is an infographic concerning immortality (Jaquith, Futurism). Usually this subject would be considered idealistic or referred to as surreal. What was done in the infographic was very different from the usual used in scientific articles, and it brings this idea around from its surreal position to the actual field of genetics and science that is currently involved in extending life. Aside from the title and text used in the Student 2 graphic, the actual image is one that peaks interest. At first glance it appears to be just a simple human skeleton; but once it is seen closer the skeleton is notably made of different parts as it has a border similar to how an X-ray would look, one mechanical arm, and a bunch of miniature machine in the legs. Also the brain and heart are highlighted in more vivid colors close to fuchsia, while the rest of the picture is shades of blue and purple. The highlighting of these two organs in such a color is symbolic of the relation between the heart and the mind. This could refer to the contrast made by the website between science and ideology, or it could also refer to the emotion and morals involved in manipulating the human body in such a way. Like an arrow pointing to the pros and cons of using science to extend life in such a manner. Along the top of the image there is a heart monitor image where the lines appear in the shape of a heart, which one could tie to vitality and life, relating to the topic of immortality at hand. The heart could also tie back once again to the ethics of life extension, and the things to be considered when these aspects of science are to be used. In addition to the larger and more prominent features of the image, there are several smaller depictions to go with each text box discussing a different means of research towards immortality. The first depicts a brain within a cloud to represent putting the mind online (or in the cloud). Another shows a pill for medication, one a heart on top of a gear for life people replacing parts with technology, one a person with an arrow pointing to another person to represent transplants and cloning, another shows a molecule for rebuilding humans, one a small device for nanotechnology, and the last shows a cell to discuss how to remove aging from the cell. Starting with pathos all the features of this image (Jaquith, Futurism) hold some rhetorical appeal or another. The coloration of the heart and brain and the top piece of the image with the monitor display the emotional portion of its appeal. The discussion over all could also Student 3 be seen as pathos as it appeals to human curiosity, especially so in regards to a topic like immortality. When identifying ethos in the image it is found at the bottom with the list of sources as well as the fact that the contributor to the piece is an entire company. The fact that some of the sources are and also adds to its credibility. The appeal to logos in the graphic comes from the research behind the piece, which is discussed in the text. The text goes on to explain the logic behind how each different method leads to life extension, even giving specifics. For example, it explains how the drug metformin has been positively correlated with longer lifespans, or how organs have been grown using stem cells, which could easily replace any ill afflicted organs in a compatible transplant receiver. The use of kairos is more implicit in this image and is used in the sense of how close research is to finding ways of drastically extending life, especially when there are already drugs like metformin around that seem to do just that. These appeals are used in the image with an intriguing method of catching interest in an audience to inform them of what current advances are making possible in the field of genetic modification. The other image from the website is used much differently than the first. This second image is a Venn diagram with four categories that explain certain topics that do not belong in the same discussion as science according to the illustrator (Jago). The image draws the line in the sand quite harshly and separates itself from anything not strictly physical science, and attacks all other The explicit reason given for the use of this image is that it shows there will always be differences of opinion, as stated by Genetic Literacy Project below the image. Even if GLP does not directly align their beliefs with what is shown in the image the group holds a standard that people will believe what they choose, regardless of fact, or appropriateness. So the diagram calls the categories different forms of bullocks; and those categories include religious, quackery, pseudoscientific, and paranormal. The diagram uses a few bright colors and Student 4 neat organization to appear aesthetically pleasing. This contrasts the content of the diagram as the text is very controversial, some would refer to it as harsh and abrasive. The content calls out many other beliefs as bullocks, especially Scientology which falls in the middle of all four categories. The rhetorical appeal of kairos is a good place to begin analyzing, as the piece as a whole seems to be extremely modern in thought with science having precedence above all else. The logos would follow some very simple logic of only visible and factual evidence, another very modern thought process. For the ethos of this piece, the credibility would go to the Genetic Literacy Project for posting it, but it was posted mostly as an opinion piece and not a strictly factual article. The pathos of these piece is a bit harder to find, as the image is pretty critical, but it is there. The emotion found is the appeal to the more modern atheistic point of view, which some find enraging, while others find the harsh truthful thought and opinion in it quite refreshing. The general purpose of providing information and updates is the task that Genetic Literacy project has set out to do. In these image they have science from and provided current opinions in the field. (WC 1188) Student 5 Works Cited Not Genetic Literacy Project, Genetic Literacy Project, www.geneticliteracyproject.org/. Financial Transparency, Genetic Literacy Project, Genetic Literacy Project, 2016, www.geneticliteracyproject.org/mission-financials-governorship/. Jaquith, Todd, and Futurism. Can modern biotechnology help you live Genetic Literacy Project, Genetic Literacy Project, 6 Sept. 2016, www.geneticliteracyproject.org/2016/09/06/infographic-can-modern-biotechnology-help- live-forever/. Jago, Crispian. measuring stick: The Venn Diagram of pseudoscientific Genetic Literacy Project, The Reason Stick, 27 May 2015, www.geneticliteracyproject.org/2015/05/27/irrational-measuring-stick-the-venn-diagram- of-nonsense/. Student 6 Figure 1 https://www.geneticliteracyproject.org/2016/09/06/infographic-can-modern-biotechnology- help-live-forever/ Student 7 Figure 2 https://www.geneticliteracyproject.org/2015/05/27/irrational-measuring-stick-the-venn- diagram-of-nonsense/