Gartrell-1 Dylan Gartrell ENC 1101.099 B. Botkin 30 January 2016 The Affordable Care Act and its Impact on Health Care There are many issues that are currently pressing our society. One of the many political issues we are faced with is The Affordable Care Act and how it impacted the healthcare system. The Affordable Care Act is a healthcare reform law that was brought to fruition in March of 2010 under the Obama administration. It is more commonly referred to as and its primary function is to provide healthcare to those that are placed below the national poverty line as well as to expand and strengthen the Medicaid program. It is widely assumed that The Affordable Care Act was, and still is directly responsible for the rise in healthcare premiums and prescription drug prices in the years following is enactment. This paper investigates how The Affordable Care Act has had an impact on drug and healthcare premium prices throughout the United States. Many saw the Affordable Care Act as having a great positive impact on the American people. One of the key reasons why it was perceived this way is that it provided healthcare to over 12.7 million Americans who were previously uninsured. Further, the Affordable Care Act removed coverage discrimination based on preexisting health issues. When you look at what the Affordable Care Act provided, it is easy to think that it was a well-rounded bill that had a tremendously positive impact on the healthcare system, though some do not agree with that. Others claim that the Affordable Care Act was solely responsible for the recent increase in prescription drug prices. And while there is validity to this claim, it is not independently Gartrell-2 responsible. Other factors such as a lack of competition had a staggering impact on the prices of prescription drugs. When one manufacturer has a monopoly on a certain drug, free to raise the price to whatever they desire, and many are forced to pay, knowing there is no alternative. And in effort to combat this, regulators are putting a focus on generic drug approvals as a potential solution to the rising cost of prescription according to xtalks, an online journal site (xtalks). Though not everything we see come from the Affordable Care Act is positive. In fact, this act has had multiple detriments to the healthcare system. The most notable one is that it caused a significant increase in insurance premiums across the United States. Many proponents of the abolition of the Affordable Care Act claim that it has seen to the staggering increase in the prices of many prescription drugs. An example of this is seen with Daraprim, a drug used to treat and prevent malaria and other diseases. Heather Long, a writer for CNN reported that Martin Shkreli, the CEO of Turning Pharmaceuticals increased the price of Daraprim 5000% after obtaining manufacturing rights to the drug. Both parties are capable of compromise. And there are many ways to achieve a common ground between the two stakeholders in the Affordable care Act. Achieving compromise within healthcare does not require complete abolition of the Affordable Care Act, as compromise can be reached through an adjustment of policy rules. One thing that the ACA did was remove private healthcare and required all insured Americans to apply under the new policy. Reinstating private healthcare would be one of the many compromises necessary to bring both stakeholders into agreement. Reinstating private healthcare would help reduce premiums while still allowing for those that fall under the poverty line to receive healthcare. One compromise that both stakeholders can come to agree upon is that those who enroll in the healthcare plan would be Gartrell-3 eligible for tax credits based on income. This would help subsidize the higher insurance premiums that the middle class pays for health insurance, all the while keeping rates low and affordable for those who fall below the poverty line. The Affordable Care Act was and still is a powerful piece of legislation. It completely redesigned the healthcare System and had either positive or negative effects depending on which side of the policy you resided on. Moving on it will be crucial to see how the two sides of the argument react to determine the future viability of the plan. It is clear that neither side has a clear and flawless argument though it is important to recognize and consider the merit of both sides of the argument. Gartrell-4 Obamacare, Facts. ObamaCare Enrollment  Obamacare Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. FDA Fights Back Against Price  FDA Fights Back Against Price Gouging: Agency To Prioritize Generic Drug Approval. Xtalks, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Long, Heather. What Happened to AIDS Drug That Spiked  CNNMoney. Cable News Network, 25 Aug. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Beier, David. A Compromise On The Affordable Care  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 08 Dec. 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Gartrell-5 uninsured (