Kyle Clark Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 30 January 2017 In the United States today, one of the most heated topics discussed in the political world is the increase in the number of firearm-related crime. Most American citizens can think of an example of this, from the Columbine incident, to the Dark Knight movie premier shooting in Colorado, or any of the number of school shootings that have occurred over the past decade alone. While this is not a new area of discussion and worry amongst Americans and the United States government, tackling the issue of gun control has sparked heated debates from two seemingly opposite sides; those that are advocates for having stricter laws on the types of firearms an average citizen may own, and those that believe in protecting the second amendment right to bear arms and aim to find other methods of creating a safer environment. The National Rifle Association (NRA) has been a long time advocate for the second amendment, and maintaining purity that United States citizens may own a wide variety of firearms, from pistols to tactical rifles. They are certainly an organization on the side of finding methods of protecting the American people through means other than having stricter gun laws. One of the opposing organizations if New Yorkers Against Gun Violence (NYAGV). NYAGV remains steadfast in their belief that gun ownership laws need to be more strict, allowing only for certain types of firearms to be owned by citizens, and with much more red tape in obtaining those firearms. While both sides seem to be hopelessly at odds, it is possible that a rewarding compromise can be found, where the United States can become a safer place to reside, while refraining from putting a restriction of the Bill of Rights that Americans have fought so hard to protect. The NRA has always had a mission to preserve the rights of Americans to own a myriad of firearms, with few restrictions, so long as that person has a record of being a law-abiding citizen. The organization was originally formed in 1871 by Colonel William Church and General George Wingate of the Union army. Their primary mission in forming the organization was to, promote and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific  Generally speaking, they sought to educate people on the proper use of a firearm, including safety precautions that need to be taken while handling a firearm. Today, the NRA fights in the political arena to maintain the original purpose of the second amendment, remaining fiercely loyal to the idea that American citizens should have access to any firearm they desire (within reason), as per their second amendment right. They hold a strong belief that the key to safety in the United States lies with a ability to defend themselves, and hold training programs across the United States to continue educating the public about guns. The NRA may be on to something in this line of thinking, as a number of studies have shown that simply increasing the number of strict gun control laws does not have a positive effect in reducing the number of firearm- related incidents, and in some cases may actually pose a negative effect. One such study was conducted by John C. Moorhouse and Brent Wanner, where they studied a plethora of data collected at state-levels, reflecting the results of having strict gun control laws. Their study concluded that, control is ineffective in reducing crime rates are consistent with the vast majority of other studies that use state (Morhouse, 121). This supports the idea of the NRA seeking other methods to decrease gun violence n the United States, that may be more effective that simply implementing stricter laws. A much different perspective comes from NYAGV. This mission statement reads, reduce gun violence through legislative advocacy and education designed to encourage action, influence public opinion and lead to policy They, too, area large player in the political arena, attempting to influence public opinion and lawmakers that the best way to reduce firearm crime is to implement stronger laws throughout the United States. They have a point of view that seems to make much sense, stating that, guns from states with weak laws continue to flood New York NYAGV suggests that if these states with laws were to strengthen them, their communities would achieve a higher level of safety, as would communities throughout the United States. There is evidence to support the idea that this would work. Studies done on firearm policies have served as grounds for this argument that show what positive result might be reaped from sowing versions of their laws into United States law. Daniel W. Webster conducted one such study, where in conclusion he stated, NFA coincided with an elimination of mass killings with substantial reduction in the exposure to semiautomatic long guns capable of accepting large-capacity magazines (LCMs) for ammunition is likely to have been What this suggests is that NYAGV has solid evidence to support the idea that stronger laws can work to greatly reduce gun crime, and possibly even eliminate mass shootings within the United States. There is a clear divide in the ways that these organizations wish to approach the issue of gun violence in America. While it might appear that these organizations could never work together, there is a plausible solution that would help them achieve their common goal of making the United States a safer place and decreasing the number of firearm-related incidents, including mass shootings. What would be of great benefit to the United States is not the implementation of stricter gun control laws on the firearms themselves, but on the qualifications set up to be eligible to obtain a firearm. If the organizations could come together to create such a law that required more in-depth background checks for anyone that wishes to obtain a firearm, that would be an excellent place to begin. As a further qualifier, it would be highly beneficial to require anyone desiring to purchase a firearm to go through safety training before they may legally obtain a firearm. A good way to look at this is to think of a different example: if one were to desire the ability and means to purchase and fly an aircraft, it is required that they have a license. In order to obtain that license, a certain number of hours must be flown with a certified instructor, and competency must be demonstrated through testing so that individual could earn his/her license to fly. If similar qualifications were required to be met by those wishing to own a firearm, it would educate aspiring gun owners to use a firearm more safely. Stephen Machin conducted research on the correlation between crime rates and education level, suggesting quite clearly that education tends to divert people from becoming criminal offenders. Their conclusion to their research states, results confirm that improving education amongst offenders and potential offenders should be viewed as a key policy lever that can be used in the drive to combat It is not difficult to believe that providing education on firearm use and safety, putting to use this theory of education being a deterrent to crime. The NRA is already equipped to provide such training. The NYAGV organization might implement training of their own, showing the dangers of firearm misuse, including the education of mass shootings and how they impact society negatively, in a way using psychology to deter anyone from wanting to cause people fatal harm. Of course, there will always be people that choose to misuse a firearm, but educating people on how to use a gun for self defense and the protection of society would help to not only deter criminals (knowing that many are trained to carry firearms for defense purposes), but it would allow for society to quickly react in the event of a violent criminal attempting to attack others. In short, the NRA and NYAGV have much different views on how to achieve a shared purpose. It is not farfetched to believe that their differences can be used can be used as an advantage for both sides to achieve that goal. Certainly, increasing the strictness of laws that are already in place is a good idea. The continued education of would-be gun owners is absolutely a necessity to maintain a safe environment as well. Should there be a way in which these two organizations can look at their differences as an asset, rather than grounds for a heated debate, an effective compromise can certainly be found. It is likely that such a compromise would not only have a more profound effect on the issue of gun violence in the United States, but also have a much better reaction from the public, which seems to also take one side of the issue or another. Taking ideas and arguments from both sides, fusing them to blaze a better trail, and creating harmony where there is currently friction would greatly benefit the organizations, the United States government, and the citizens of this country. WORKS CITED Moorhouse, John C., and Brent Wanner. Does Gun Control Reduce Crime or Does Crime Increase Gun  Cato Journal 26.1 (2006): 103-24. HeinOnline. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. MPH, Daniel W. Webster ScD. Lessons From National Firearms  The JAMA Network. N.p., 19 July 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.  New Yorkers Against Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. NRA  NRA Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Machin, Stephen, Olivier Marie. The Crime Reducing Effect of  The Economic Journal 121.552 (2011): 463-84. Web.