Pena Castro 1 Daniela Pena Castro Composition II Sunday, 29 January 2017 The Paradigm of Food on the 21st Century Organizations such as the Food Standards Agency (FSA), which main objective is to protect and regulate adequate hygiene, and safety food for the consumers; may seem in odds at first sight with Organizations such as The Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), whose main goal is to reduce food wasting and support sustainability projects. However, both of this Organizations are highly interested on the adequate consume of food for the people, not only on the quality but also the quantity; making sure that the food that is being eaten by the people is not only safe but enough for an adequate development and life. For this reason, a compromise between this apparently contrary organizations will result in a common benefit for all the individuals involved. Developing strategies in which the FSA regulates and promotes on a governmental level the appropriate disposal of the unopened, unwanted or closely expired food into charity programs and organizations around the world dealing with reducing malnutrition and world Hunger. Will secure the safeness of the food that is being distributed, increase the amount of money that these organizations will receive, increase the amount of people that could be reached, increase the amount of entities willing to participate in proper disposal programs; and therefore achieve both main goals: reduce malnutrition, food wasting and world hunger while regulating the safeness and hygiene of the food distributed. On 2012 the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) reveled an alarming report, showing that almost 40% of the food produced in the United States gets thrown away Pena Castro 2 (NRDC,2012). This organization is a non-profit organization dedicated to protect and the people, its plants and animals, and the natural systems on which all life since 1970. To do this, the organization supports itself out of donations and scientific activists that support and fund its programs. In terms of food wasting awareness, they are determined to work for a food system that is more efficient, meaning less wasting and redirecting of supplies. To achieve their goals, they have work with different entities participating throughout the supply chain; including communities, business, policy makers, and the food industry in general (NRDC,2012). Currently, they work in the cities inspiring and teaching consumers with strategies to waste less food at home and redirect surplus food to people in need. On the other hand, the FSA is the institution that represents England, Wales, and Northern Ireland in the European Union on food safety and standards issues (FSA, 2014). Their biggest interest is to develop an effective European food law and improve food safety within the European Union. For this reasons, for the FSA the food wasting rates may not seem as a priority, or even a concept to consider when food laws are being discussed or when regulation are being enforced. However, as the representatives for the EU in food related issues, research studies as the one made by the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in 2011 should call their attention. In fact, analyzing the results of this research study made by the FAO, it was found that per capita food waste at consumer level in Europe and North-America is 95-115 kg/year. (FAO, 2011). Which means that the safety food regulations proposed and enforced by the FSA until this point, are not being effective enough. Due to the latest statistics about mal nutrition and food wasting, such as the one presented by the Action Against Hunger Organization in 2016, which revealed that more than 34 million kids worldwide suffer from severe malnutrition, and that 1 out of every 8 people in the world Pena Castro 3 receive enough food to eat (Action against hunger, 2014). Organizations such as Feeding America, World Hunger, the NRDC, and FAO are working together to develop programs and ideas, to reduce food wasting, malnutrition and promote sustainability programs. However, entities such as the FSA are not yet included in this programs, for this reason an agreement and specially a compromise needs to be done between to only the FSA and the NRDC, but between all the organizations dealing with food wasting and food regulations. To achieve an agreement between this two Organizations that seem to be at odds between them, an International Organization must be involved; the good news is that the same international organization is already involved with each of the parts but separately. This organization is the previously mentioned Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations or FAO. This international organization will facilitate not only increment on the amount of resources that each organization receives separately, but also the amount of governmental vigilance of the projects that are proposed. For example, If the NRDC and the FSA start working together under the approval of the FAO, things like a food regulation that promotes the commercialization of safe non-perfect looking products could be developed. Because a lot of times the food wasting chain starts even before the product is completely developed. In the case of fruits and vegetables, the food regulations developed by the FSA would protect the safeness of the product, while the educational programs and connections of the NRDC would let to a bigger impact in which businesses, communities and the food industry in general would gain consciousness about the safeness of non-perfect looking products and the reasons why those should be commercialized and consumed. While the funds are shared between the FSA, the NRDC and mainly the FAO. Pena Castro 4 Another example of the things that could be achieved with a possible compromise between the FSA and the NRDC supervised by the FAO, will be the creation of a food policy that benefits entities and businesses that prove to donate their unused or uncooked meat while they maintain the cold chain necessary to keep safe the product for the final consumer. With this type of policy, problems as the one presented in the peer reviewed research paper published in 2016 by the Chronicle, Fish recalled from shops following botulism scare and experts warnings; Food Standards Agency say there is concern over safeguards to control killer bug and eating contaminated products could have serious health (Chronicle, 2016), will be avoided. Mainly the compromise between these three agencies will consist on a teamwork between the FSA and the NRDC, supervised by the FAO. The FSA will be uncharged of keeping the safety regulations and the governmental presence that not only the FAO but the countries in general require. While the NRDC will be uncharged of connecting the community and the industry to the projects that are developed. This includes empower all the teaching and involving activities in which the business, the community and the people in general get connected with what is usually considered as such as world hunger. Meanwhile, the FAO will be uncharged of the economic development of both Organizations. In fact, being supervised by the United Nations in one of the committees, as FAO, gives these organizations the opportunity to connect and talk directly with the biggest influences in politic, economic and social changes. Therefore, NRDC donations will increment as well as their contacts and their area of influence, while the FSA will be able to increase the actual success of its regulations and laws. In conclusion, the partnership between the FSA and the NRDC, will become a win- win situation for everyone, not only the entities, but the people in need, the rates of malnutrition, the Pena Castro 5 safeness of the food that is being consumed, and the number of people that will know and respect the food regulations. To increment the benefits of this partnership, the compromise should be observed and regulated by the FAO, to secure multiple connections and regulations, and therefore the biggest possible success. Pena Castro 6 Works Cited https://foodforward.org/2015/10/food-waste-in-america/?gclid=COKwpbjg29ECFUgkhgod- JIGnw http://www.fao.org/platform-food-loss-waste/food-waste/definition/en/ Berkenkamp, JoAnne.  NRDC. N.p., 21 Aug. 2012. Web. 25 Jan. 2017https://www.nrdc.org/issues/food-waste Fish recalled from shops following botulism scare and experts warnings; Food Standards Agency say there is concern over safeguards to control killer bug and eating contaminated products could have serious health  The Chronicle (Newscastle upon Tyne, England) 2016: General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.