Anderson 1 Taliyah Anderson Hannah Lay ENC 1102 25 January 2017 Should the United States intervene in Syria? It is called the worst humanitarian crisis of all time. The war that has displaced twelve million people, the most ever seen. Syria is in an urgent state of emergency because of the extremist Islamic Terrorist organization entitled the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). ISIS has terrorized the innocent people of Syria and continues to spread fear throughout the world. United States included. The United States has previously intervened in the middle east causing many of the locals to form groups against them, one of the more famous groups being ISIS. Once the United States ended soldiers being on the ground in middle east, it left room for ISIS to take power and they have been relentless ever since. They continue to attack places not only in the middle east but in Europe as well. In November of 2015, attackers killed 130 people, while injuring another 368 in Paris, France. These attackers have been linked back to ISIS. Because of occurences such as this, many countries in Europe have tried denying Syrian refugees because of the fear ISIS would be among the innocent people. Even the United States is fearful of this as the recent executive order which came very recently. On January 27, the order banned seven predominantly Muslim countries of entry into the United States. The order was entitled the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United While this may Anderson 2 keep terrorists out, it will also keep the Syrian refugees out as well. As a stakeholder, the United States government faces ridicule for putting its national security over the needs of a humanitarian crisis. But is it wrong to care about your citizens safety over the safety of another country thousands of miles away? As another stakeholder, Syrian refugees face prejudice for terrorists using them as a trojan horse. But do they really pose a risk or is it an act of prejudice to not let them in? These questions are all reasonable but common ground is present. America has the resources to help those in need. Syria needs help. America should be a safe haven for those fleeing persecution but only after a vastly difficult vetting background check to ensure national security. The United States government invests billions of dollars into its defense. In 2015 alone, the United States invested $595.8 billion into the Military (Nationalpriorities.org). This is after the war in Iraq and the middle east was considered over and troops were sent home. This spending is meant for maintaining its defense in all five branches of the armed forces and should not be confused with war-time spending. Former President Barack Obama in his 2016 State of the Union Address was quoted saying United more on military than the next eight nations Therefore, it is natural and very much expected for the United States to prioritize its national security over the safety of the Syrian refugees. This being especially true after the executive order issued on January 27. The main reason why the refugees are not being helped by the U.S. is because of the possibility ISIS fighters can use this as an opportunity to come to America and kill innocents. Therefore to eliminate this possibility indefinitely, the United States and other countries alike refuse any refugees. Especially after the Anderson 3 France attacks of 2015, many countries are weary of refugees because of the possibility of danger they are exposing their citizens to. It is understood globally, United States included, that the problem of the Syrian refugee crisis needs to be addressed but no one wants to help. No one has a perfect answer. No one know what exactly to do because this has not ever happened before. The United States, just like the other countries of the world are left with the impossible choice of helping people who desperately need help or putting their citizens first. With the recent inauguration of Donald J. Trump as the new President, his slogan of will certainly be what his administration will follow when it comes to the Syrian refugee crisis. Syria is ridden with war. It has been for six years. It all started with two sides. Those who stood with the President Bashar al-Assad and the others who wanted him out of power, better known as the rebels. As this conflict quickly escalated into a bloody civil war that lasted 3 years, it later progressed into something unpredictable. In 2014, ISIS began to take power in Iraq and soon enough continued their reign of terror in Syria. ISIS persecutes anyone at all who does not agree with what they are doing, including their extreme views. This includes majority of the previous population of Syria which is why 11 million have decided to flee. ISIS makes productions of their executions to instill fear to the population and make an example out of many of the innocents they kill. This continues to even include U.S. citizens and British citizens alike. The countries who neighbor Syria and Europe have accepted tens of thousands have refugees yet there are still millions who need help. Germany alone accepted more than 476,000 applicants claiming asylum. This only is the number of applicants in the year of 2015 alone and does not contain the undocumented migrants who are estimated at over one million. These people are Anderson 4 desperately looking for a safe haven and have nowhere to go. Their neighbors can only take so many refugees before it is too much. Germany, Hungary, Sweden, Italy, and others cannot continue to take in these people by the masses anymore while the United States stands by idly. The U.S. has the space and resources to help these individuals. They have a responsibility as a member of the world and the UN to address this problem and think about the ethics behind taking these refugees. Syria desperately needs help. America can give it. But, national security should be a priority. Therefore, a compromise should be that Syrian refugees are welcomed into the country only after a heavy vetting into personal background and prior acquaintances. The amazing thing is, the system already exists yet the United States has not implemented it. The system is explained by The Obama White House Archives as this: The U.N. Refugee Agency collects identifying information including birth dates, home address and because they are from the middle east, an extra precaution is added. They also perform biometrics scans to make sure no one is committing fraud when it comes to their identity. With this strong system in place, than 1% of global refugee actually moves on to the next step. Their file is then handed off to the Resettlement Support Center (RSC). After making it through this stage, they go through a heavy background check through the various U.S. security agencies like the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Department of Homeland Security. This specific process may occur several times. Next, comes the face-to-face interviews with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services officers and another round of biometrics. The process continues to drone onto five more grueling steps. The process of vetting a refugee is the highest security level check Anderson 5 any traveler to the United States is subject to and it is no joke. The possibility of a terrorist making it through this long process is slim to none so the United States government should implement it to give those who pass all these obstacles a chance at a better life and an escape from the persecution they would otherwise face back in Syria. The Syrian Refugee Crisis is real. It is not something that is something you might want to fix. It is something that can no longer be ignored by the United States and cannot be contained into the European borders. Yes, national security should always be prioritized. But when there is a system in place to properly check to make sure the refugees are actually coming for the right reasons. The fear for terrorism is slimmed down significantly when less than 1% of the global refugee population makes it to the second step. When such a system exists, there should be no debate as to whether the refugees should be accepted. With the proposed compromise, both stakeholders have want they want. Syrian refugees are helped. The United States is protected from terrorism. Anderson 6 Works Cited Infographic: The Screening Process for Refugee Entry into the United  Archives and Records Administration . National Archives and Records Administration, 20 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Military Spending in the United  Priorities Project . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Migrant Crisis: Migration to Europe Explained in Seven  News . BBC, 04 Mar. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Obama: US Spends More on Military than next 8 Nations  . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Qui, Linda. False Talk about Vetting  . Politifact, 13 June 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.