Novak !1 Erica Novak Instructor Bob Botkin Composition 2 063 29 January 2017 A Compromise for Pit Bulls Dogs are represented as best friend, but should that dog have a specific face? The media has raised the question on whether or not Pit Bulls are mans best friend or mans best weapon. Many people know about the stigma behind Pit Bulls, yet numerous dog owners will swear against it. This debate has been around since the 19th century, but recently stakeholders have found some common ground. Pro Pit Bull organizations such as the National Pit Bull Foundation and Anti Pit Bull organizations like DogsBite have differing views, but they find common ground when it comes to the safety of dogs and their owners. The DogsBite main purpose is to educate people on the dangerous of dogs, and they have taken a clear stance on Pit Bulls. An article featured on their website written by Kory A. Nelson states [Pit Are not like other this references laws on breed discrimination as an explanation to why Pit Bulls should be banned. Not only do Pit Bulls show no warning before attack, but they also require day to day special attention and training. (Nelson 13) Not only does America face the Pit Bull issue, but other countries such as England have set up regulations against these dogs. The Dangerous Dog Act was introduced in 1991 and was meant to restrict breeding, selling, and public exposure of breeds such as Pit Bull Terriers and other types of dogs. Although this Act was very severe in punishments and Novak !2 restrictions, it was created in the attempt to keep owners and the public safe. Overall, the anti-Pit Bull stakeholders believe that the dangers of a Pit Bull in a house outweigh the benefits. On the other hand, pro-Pit Bull organizations such as the National Pit Bull Foundation believe that proper education leads to happy and healthy owners and dogs. A featured article written by Sara Enos and titled Problem with People, not Pit defends the loyalty and good nature of these dogs. They touch on the well known argument that a dogs behavior is based on upbringing and owner, but they also dive into other roles Pit Bulls can play. Enos discusses alternative jobs for these notorious canines, Pit Bulls are trained as seizure watch dogs, diabetic alert dogs, nursing home therapy dogs, and even emotional support These jobs require a stable temperament and would not allow for a potentially dangerous animal to be around people in need. Another paper for the National Pit Bull Foundation shows that not only can Pit Bulls be productive for society now, but historically during World War One they represented American courage and were thought of a good natured watch dogs. (Twining 1) All in all, the pro-Pit Bull argument has made tremendous efforts to prove that the stigma behind this breed is untrue. One compromise that these two sides have reached in recent years has been a Bill in Maryland. Arin Greenwood gives the details about this bill in her Huffington Post article stating that bill, HB 73, holds owners liable for their injuries, regardless of the breed. HB 73 also removes liability for landlords, unless the landlord knew or should have known that the dog was actually This is a great example of a compromise for DogsBite, a known anti- pit bull organization, and The National Pit Bull Foundation, an inherently pro-pit bull organization, because dog owners are still liable for their dogs actions, but Pit Bulls are not Novak !3 immediately to blame for attacks. For Maryland this is a big step towards breed equality and a solution to the Pit Bull issue plaguing not only the United States, but the globe as well. Although there has been a compromise on record when dealing with dog attacks and liability, many more compromises can be made when it comes to the adoption and ownership of these animals. The National Pit Bull Foundation and DogsBite both have concerns when it comes to the labeling of Pit Bulls. One possible compromise would be to have rescues and adoption agencies make clear the differences between Pit Bulls and other breeds such as American Bulldogs, and American Staffordshire Bull Terriers that commonly get mistaken for Pit Bull Terriers. Not only is clarification needed for potential owners, but education on Pit Bull needs and special requirements should be implemented in shelters and rescues. This counseling would satisfy both stakeholders by making sure the people get ahold of these canines. One more risk to address would be family life. Another issue satisfying conclusion would be to have family dog training specific to Pit Bulls. This could lessen the risk of domestic attacks, and will teach the whole family how to responsibly own a Pit Bull. Fortunately for both the anti and the pro sides of this argument there are many possible solutions to their debate. Pit Bulls do not represent the face of a best friend, but there are ways to lessen the stigma surrounding these dogs and satisfying organizations such as DogsBite and the National Pit Bull Foundation. Small social compromises in rescues and adoption agencies have potential to make large strides for a resolution to this age old debate on whether an owner and the public are safe with Pit Bulls around. If not through social change, legal change, such as the bill in Maryland, can bridge the gap between the two sides on this issue. Novak !4 Works Cited Enos, Sara K. The American Pit Bull Foundation Responds to Problem With Pit  Time. Time, 24 June 2014. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Greenwood, Arin. Maryland Does Right By Pit Bulls, Says They Inherently Dangerous  Post. Post, 8 Apr. 2014. Web. 27 Jan. 17. Nelson, Kory A. One  Municipal Lawyer vol.46 no. 6 July/August 2005: 12-15. Print. Swann, Kristen E., Student author. Irrationality Unleashed: The Pitfalls Of Breed-  UMKC Law Review 78.3 (2010): 839-868. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Twining, Hillary. the Stigma of Outlaw Breeds: A Case Study of Pit Bull Society and Animals Journal of Human-Animal Studies. Vol. 8 No. 1 Tuffs Center for Animals and Public Policy. 2000. Print. Jan 27.