Student 1 Student name ENC 1102 27 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Renewable energy is a hot topic in many parts of society today. It is an important topic now because fossil fuels need to be replaced soon, as the earth is running out. Many companies and organizations have been founded to research and develop ways to find and use renewable energy. Images are an important tool for gaining support for any movement and there is a lot of visual propaganda online that supports renewable energy. One organization that uses images to support their cause is ACORE. ACORE stands for Council on Renewable and is a major proponent for renewable energy in the United States. One image I found that uses visual rhetoric, is an advertisement for a conference, hosted by ACORE, in Washington D.C. Another is an announcement for a forum that will be held in New York City. These images are related by the fact that they are both informing and persuading the intended audience to come and join ACORE and become a part of the organization by catering to the rhetoric appeals. ACORE goal is to make technological advances in renewable energy and the renewable energy market. The organization has been around since 2001 and has helped gather many diverse parties together, to work on solving renewable energy problems and the markets that surround renewable energy, such as politics and economics. They focus on three major areas to produce results in renewable energy innovation; Policy, Markets, and Finance. (History) The primary way ACORE uses to spread information is through conferences and forums. Annually, ACORE has conferences in New York, San Francisco and Washington. Their focus on policy leads them Student 2 to Washington D.C. where they hold the ACORE National Renewable Energy Policy Forum. Here, they are able to draft and propose new policies that energy storage, distributed generation, grid modernization and energy market (About Us) For their focus on markets ACORE has developed partnerships with the government to host a global meeting known as WIREC. (History) Their final focus is on financial and economic issues relating to renewable energy. In 2004 the Renewable Energy Finance Forum was started and is held in New York City. At REFF the forum will the latest financing developments for renewable energy in the wake of the historic tax credit extensions, as development pipelines are restored and the industry is able to evaluate opportunities further out on the (Event Overview) On the ACORE homepage there are many graphics and images that use visual rhetoric to support their mission and sell their organization to the audience. The audience that these images are designed for would be any company or organization that would like to be a part of the many conferences and forums that ACORE holds all over the country. It is important that these advertisements be visually appealing and still give the information necessary to guild those interested to the correct web address. One graphic in the group of scrolling notices near the top of homepage is an advertisement for the REFF forum this year. Another image that comes up on the side bar of every page is the notice for the Policy forum in Washington D.C. Because this certain advertisement is placed on every page this shows its importance to the organization and how they want as many potential viewers to see it. One important aspect of visual rhetoric is the rhetoric appeals. (Lane et al.) If the image or graphic can appeal to all the different aspects and appeals then it will be much more effective at supporting your cause or mission statement. It is paramount that an image that advertises an organization or event be easy to read while sticking out so it is noticed. Student 3 The REFF notice uses simple yet effective text to display the event title and date it is held. This is in front of a picture of the New York City skyline. The button is also promptly displayed near the bottom of the graphic. The main visual cue for this advertisement is the text. It gives the necessary information about the conference and to start the registration process if one wishes to. For any type of advertisement online that leads to a designated area it is key that the graphic guides the viewer to the button. The composition of this image also stands out as the white contrasts with the dark sky of nighttime New York City. The main rhetoric appeals in this image are ethos and kairos. Ethos is seen in this advertisement in the logo of the conference. This logo can be traced back to the ACORE website, which is a credible source. Kairos is seen by how the date is displayed. Since it is an annual event, it only happens once a year. The advertisement draws you to the button, prompting the audience to register before time runs out. The main rhetoric appeals found in the picture for the Policy Forum are logos, pathos and kairos. Logos is seen in the embedded text on the image. The message comes across as renewable energy is the smart and logical thing to do. Pathos is seen in the quote on the image. The quote shows that if you are not the one making the decisions, you are still going to receive the consequences of them. The viewer should want to help make the decisions that with help them the most. Kairos is seen in the date placed near the top of the image. If the audience does not sign up soon, there will not be space available and since it is also an annual event, if the viewer does not sign up now, they might have to wait till next year. These graphics both advertise two of the multiple conferences that are held by ACORE. These images help get the organizations message out and get people together to assist ACORE in their mission. Both use visual cues and design elements to persuade the intended audience to join Student 4 them in their pursuit. ACORE is a massive organization and has an important message to spread. Renewable energy is the future and do you want to be a part of the future? Student 5 Works Cited American Council On Renewable ACORE American Council On Renewable Energy, ACORE, www.acore.org/. ACORE National Renewable Energy Policy Forum, ACORE, www.acorepolicyforum.org/about-us/. Renewable Energy Finance Forum-Wall Street, ACORE, www.reffwallstreet.com/about/. Emily Lane, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-40.E-text. History, ACORE, 2016, www.acore.org/about/history. January 28, 2017