Medina 1 Tomas Medina Bennington Composition 2 26 January, 2017 Intermediate draft There is an ongoing struggle in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo between armed rebel groups and the people they oppress and enslave. One such way that these terrorists support themselves is through the export of minerals obtained through their enslaved miners. These conflict minerals eventually find their way into the supply chains of major electronics manufacturers, the four biggest culprits being tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold, also called the 3TG metals. Ever since this issue became noticeable, organizations such as the Enough Project have raised awareness and advocacy against this conflict. In 2010, the United States passed the Frank-Dodd act which requires corporations to disclose the source of materials that use 3TG minerals (Schuele, 457). This push for transparency has prompted companies to address the presence of conflict minerals in their supply chains (Lezhnev and Hellmuth). Some companies, such as HTC have opted to remove central Africa from their supply chains entirely (HTC). However, the Enough Project insists that this hampers economy (Lezhnev and Hellmuth, 3). Since both are against conflict minerals, HTC and the Enough Project can work together toward establishing cleaner trade in the DRC if HTC joins the Public Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade. HTC is a Taiwanese-based manufacturer of smartphones (HTC). In a 2012 report by the Enough project which ranked 24 companies based on their efforts toward eliminating conflict minerals, HTC placed second to last, just ahead of Nintendo which scored 0 (Leshnev and Hellmuth). Since then, HTC Medina 2 has made considerable progress in addressing the situation, subscribing to the EICC code of conduct and conducting regular audits on their suppliers. However, they have stopped sourcing 3TG metals from central Africa entirely since [of conflict remains (HTC). There is some merit to this excuse, but companies such as Intel have been able to safely trade with miners through tracing techniques such as the and system that can help support more conflict free mines, of which there are now over two-hundred (Intel). The Enough project was founded in 2006 as an organization to promote peace and bring an end to atrocities in Africa (Enough). As stated previously, they reported the efforts of 24 major electronics companies on their progress in responsible sourcing on conflict minerals. This was a follow up to a 2010 report performed to bring attention to the issue of conflict minerals (Lezhnev and Hellmuth). Criteria for these rankings included tracing, auditing and certification of smelters. Among the forerunners to this ranking were Intel and Hewlet-Packard, while the most improved was SanDisk; jumping from 4 percent progress in 2010 to 48 percent in 2012 (p.2). The first of the five main gaps the report addresses in eliminating conflict electronics is the assurance that is not Congo (p.3). While taking a hands-off approach does indeed cut off financing from militia groups, this also leaves behind mining communities in Congo. Enough proposes that order to accomplish both goals, more firms should join the Public-Private Alliance, or PPA, invest in projects to source clean minerals that help communities in eastern Congo where it is safe to do so, and support livelihood projects to help mining The Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade (PPA) is a and multi- stakeholder initiative to support supply chain solutions to conflict minerals challenges through and coordination support to organizations working within the region to develop verifiable conflict-free supply chains; due diligence programs and practices; responsible sourcing from the region; transparency; and in-region civil society Medina 3 and governmental Besides activist groups like Enough, the PPA also consists of electronics companies including Intel and HP, as well as automotive industries and jewelry firms. Some of their projects for developing clean and responsible mineral trade in Africa include data collection at numerous gold trading hubs and a telephone hotline for reporting fraudulent or smuggled minerals (PPA). Virtually every major organization is against conflict mineral trading and supporting African warlords. But cutting off the Congo altogether, as HTC has done, will only set the country two steps back. Granted, conflict minerals are by their very nature nearly impossible for manufacturers to trace. That is, unless the manufacturers in question work alongside the Congolese people and other like- minded corporations and organizations to establish regulatory inspection and collection of all minerals exported from the region. It is not an easy process, and bring an end to conflict everywhere in the DRC, but at the present time, it would seem sensible to adopt a solution that would both weaken armed groups and help support the families of third-world miners. Medina 4 Work Cited About  Enough. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://enoughproject.org/about>. Conflict Free Minerals and  Intel. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/corporate-responsibility/conflict-free -minerals.html>. Corporate  HTC. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <https://www.htc.com/us/about/corporate-responsibility/> Leshnev, Sasha, and Alex Hellmuth. Taking Conflict Out of Consumer  Enough Project (2012): n. pag. Aug. 2012. Web. 25 Jan. 2016. Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals  PublicPrivate Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://www.resolv.org/site-ppa/>. Schuele, Christopher K. Healing The Colonial Scars: Advocating For A Hybrid Approach To Conflict Minerals Reporting Regulations In The European  Wisconsin International Law Journal 33.(2016): 755. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.