Quadros 1 Nicole Quadros Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Abortion Compromise Abortion is a big controversial topic in the United States. Many people have been arguing if abortion should be legal or not for a long time. There are people who are against abortion, pro- life, and there are people who are for abortion, pro-choice. Those who are for abortion believe that women should have the final decision on what should happen to their body, that in the end it is their choice. Those who are against abortion believe that killing a fetus at any stage in pregnancy is considered murder. The two main organizations of abortion are, the National Abortion Federation who are for abortion and the National Right to Life organization who are against abortion. Although these two organizations are at odds with regards to what happens to the baby (i.e. fetus), they both however, care about the wellbeing. As a start to reaching common ground where both parties could reach a potential compromise is that in some rare and extenuating instances abortions should be permitted after checking the pro and cons thoroughly. These rare and extenuating circumstances could be women or teenagers who were raped, mothers who could possibly die if they gave birth, or children who may have a birth defect with no known cure that could endanger them in the future. The National Abortion mission is to ensure safe, legal, and accessible abortion care, which promotes health and justice for women. (About NAF) The National Abortion Federation says that, is a valid personal decision within the continuum of Quadros 2 health care a decision that ultimately belongs to each woman. It is more important than ever to honor, through words as well as through actions, the right of women to access their full reproductive health options with the autonomy and dignity they They give women several options, including adoption, abortion and parenthood. With each they give them information on how to go through with it and talk with the mother to find the best decision for her. National Right to Life is an organization that is against abortion. Their mission is to protect and defend the most fundamental right of humankind, the right to life of every innocent human being from the beginning of life to natural death. (National Right to Life Mission Statement) National Right to Life says, promoting respect for the worth and dignity of every individual human being, born or unborn, including unborn children from the beginning; those newly born; persons with disabilities; older people; and other vulnerable people, especially those who cannot defend Their goal is to inform others about abortion facts and to give women other options other than abortion. National Right to Life and National Abortion Federation are very different, but they do have some similarities. A common goal is they both want the mother to make the right decision. They both are looking out for her wellbeing and both are trying to educate women about abortion from their viewpoint. Since both organizations care about the wellbeing, a good compromise would be to only allow abortions for certain extenuating circumstances like the ones listed above in the first paragraph. Women who may have children with threatening birth defects should have the option to make the decision themselves if they want to abort or not. The National Right to Life would have to go make certain adjustments to their legislation clauses to allow some leeway Quadros 3 through which abortion in these rare circumstances will be allowed after thorough review of the case by the appropriate parties. The National Abortion Federation must also agree to see the viewpoint that not all abortions women perform are justified. An innocent baby cannot be punished for a lack of responsibility in matters of sex or where drug addiction is the cause of promiscuity. In such cases, adoption should be considered and not abortion. Both these organizations must come together and achieve this compromise. This could possibly lead to the birth of a new organization that is reasonable, just and values human life within the confines of the circumstance being evaluated. This will give the baby who has no voice and the mother equal rights and will strike a balance that is favorable to both Organizations. For this compromise to go through, both organizations must set aside their long instilled prejudices and see life from a practical standpoint, although not losing the moral implications in the process. This will create a constructive dialogue and with time a compromise could be achieved. What is also more important is for leaders of both organizations to be mature, responsible, open minded, have good moral ethics to reach a consensus that is suitable for both mother and unborn child. Quadros 4 Works Cited NAF National Abortion National Abortion Federation, National Abortion Federation , prochoice.org/about-naf/. of the Issue - Abortion - ProConorg Headlines, ProCon.org, 3 June 2016, abortion.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=006514. Right to Life Mission National Right to Life, National Right to Life, www.nrlc.org/about/mission/.