Hill 1 Hunter Hill Professor Karen Hanson ENC-1102 January 27, 2017 The Debate Nuclear Weapons have changed history. Their introduction to this world created a new way to wage and stop war. Individuals across the world have weighed in on their thoughts about this issue. Some have made it clear that they adamantly will not stop until these weapons are gone. Others see the weapons as beneficial to themselves as others. The United Nations, while already having laws in place for disarming the weapons, currently is debating total disarmament Governments, such as the United States, argue that the weapons can be beneficial and should not be disarmed at all. Their adversary is individual companies run by citizens who wish to see these weapons be abolished. The arguments are very polarized and a middle or fair solution must be made to appease both sides. To incorporate the viewpoints of both organizations, partial disarmament of nuclear weapons is the ideal solution. The United States has made stance very velar on the existence of nuclear weapons, specifically the Department of National Nuclear Security Administrations. The NNSA is resolute in standpoint that nuclear weapons are beneficial. A few ideas brought forward are the ideas of the United States own protection, and deterring war The U.S argues that in a world where many governments have nuclear weapons they be Hill 2 guaranteed the others will disarm their weapons leaving them at a disadvantage(Murdock, 3). On top of that, the U.S has advantages over other countries because they own nuclear weapons. By abolishing them the U.S would have wasted trillions on weapons they can no longer use, additionally they would be giving up their tactical advantage in warfare. The U.S also sees no reason to disarm when the weapons deter war. If only nine countries control nuclear weapons they can control many world WMD). These countries with weapons can use them as a sort of intimidation. Other countries would fear facing another country that has nuclear weapons when they do not. The weapons are also dockdivided among countries who have different agendas forcing them to be used as intimidation against each other, such as the case of the Cold War. The Weapons threat of use scared both the United States and Russia. Both countries refused full scale war for as long as the other had their nuclear arsenal pointed at them. This fear is seen as being beneficial by the pro nuclear side, because the weapons prevented conflicts from escalating into full scale war. The United States sees this as too much to give up. Due to the massive amounts of benefits including being a war deterrent, and their ability to provide advantages in war including protection, the United States believes it should have free reign over use of nuclear weapons. The International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons stands as the opponent to nuclear weapons believing in complete for nuclear The ICANW completely fear the use of nuclear weapons and the destruction of the world because of them. The ICANW explains several reasons for their belief that nuclear weapons should be abolished. They argue for reasons of humanitarianism, security, environmental, and economic. To begin the humanitarian reason is they are almost unable to be defended against leading to the death of million, including the radiation that would cause extreme suffering to humans after use. The Hill 3 security reason is the ability for nukes to be launched anywhere and the fact that they essentially are not able to be defended against. The environmental argument rest on the fact that nuclear energy is wholly bad for the environment. Any use of the weapons would cause damage that may be permanent to the environment. The last reason of economic is due to the massive cost of nuclear WMD). Of the nine nuclear countries all have poured in massive amounts of money into the weapons that could be out towards other things the countries need. The ICANW see nuclear weapons as only problems that if used eventually cause more problems. The weapons are dangerous from not only their use but also their existence. With the many issues that nuclear weapons pose including, humanitarian, security, environmental, and economic the ICANW believes in the complete abolishment of the weapons. The argument over the nuclear weapons is largely argued and both sides are insistent on their solution. To solve the stalemate at hand a compromise must be reached that both parties can agree on. The United States stands for complete free reign of the use of nuclear weapons, while the ICANW represents the approach of complete abolishment. A fair middle ground of the two would be further disarming of weapons, without abolishing the weapons, allowing the U.S to keep some weapons. This solution was something personally created after reading the words of Ban- Ki Moon (Moon). In the article he goes over reasons why to disarm but includes a few reasons why they are beneficial. When looking at the reasons both sides resonated and it became clear that both sides made clear points and neither was wholly correct. With neither side being wholly correct it was obvious a side be chose for both were partially correct. With this the compromise I developed was the partial disarmament of the weapons, leaning towards disarming a majority. By disarming most of the weapons both sides are satisfied to an extent. The United States retains some weapons keeping advantages, while the ICANW is happy with most of the weapons being Hill 4 gone. In the end this is the best solution because it provides happiness to both sides. The opinions were so polarized making a compromise completely satisfying each side is impossible. However, disarming most of the weapons allows for a compromise between the two sides without one side being unhappy. To conclude the nuclear weapon debate is an age old one since their creation. Many arguments have been fought on both sides and there been many changes to the laws in place. With the argument at a forefront of the UN the best solution is this compromise because it has the best chance of appeasing both sides and ending the argument. Nuclear Weapons are a highly controversial topic that have been debated about since the idea of their creation. On both sides of the argument stand highly polarized groups that are unwavering unless they are satisfied in some way. The United States stands for the pro nuclear ideals, while the ICANW stands as the opponent to the weapons. Appeasing both sides may be incredibly difficult however disarming most of the weapons is the ideal solution. With this solution both sides can be happy that they being denied of what they want. The nuclear weapon argument can be ended with compromise and only compromise. With the argument soon being voted on in the UN it seems the world must wait and hope as this argument finally reaches a resolution. Hill 5 Works Cited Arguments for nuclear  ICAN. ICANW, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://www.icanw.org/why-a-ban/arguments-for-a-ban/>. National Nuclear Security Administration. U.S Department of Energy, 12 Mar. 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 Moon, Ban-Ki. Day of Peace, 21 United Nations. United Nations, 21 Sept. 2009. Web. 24 Jun. 2017 Murdock, Clark M. The Department of Defense and the Nuclear Mission of the 21st Century . Center for Strategic and International Studies, Mar. 2008. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. murdock-nuclearmission.pdf>. Nuclear  United Nations. United Nations, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <https://www.un.org/disarmament/wmd/nuclear/>. Nuclear  WMD Awareness. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.wmdawareness.org.uk/the-facts/nuclear-weapons/>.