Edouard 1 Carlie Edouard Mr. Fennell ENC 1102 039 January 27, 2017 Animal Agriculture or no? The debate of whether or not meat should be produced has been around for years now. Although the solution may seem simple, the majority of Americans have failed to come to a consensus regarding this topic. The supply and demand of meat have not suffered due to the fact that many Americans are disconnected from the reality of what they buy and how it got to the shelves of the store and what it took to produce it. This is so because the meat, dairy, and egg industries make it their mission to ensure that the majority of Americans are unaware of the repercussions of the products they produce and that the consumers are oblivious to the production process. Their goal is to have mindless individuals who do not think about the products they are buying and the impact of the product on their health and the environment. That way, they could easily persuade them with their strategic advertisement and in theory, get them to do or buy anything they want. Ultimately, they are trying to make a profit, therefore the health of their consumers and protection of the environment is secondary by default. Thanks to them, the act of consuming and consuming the secretions of another species has become so normalized that the majority of the environmental groups, who are not ignorant of the fact that meat, dairy, and egg production negatively affect the planet, fail to mention or even Edouard 2 attempt to tell their followers to stop and/or reduce their support of the meat, dairy, and eggs industry. Many of the Animal rights groups and many vegans have withdrawn their support for such industries. They refuse to be brainless robots who refuse care about what they purchase. They have come to the realization that they have the power to make a difference on the planet by choosing to discontinue their endorsement of industries that refuse to care about the future if this planet. Their goal is for everyone else to cease the continuation of being used as a mind control slave to these industries and for them to become aware of the harm that the meat, dairy, and egg industries impose upon the environment. Such include air pollution, water depletion, climate change, and water pollution Long Shadow: Environmental Issues and ). They also wish that consumers would try to not buy and consume meat, dairy, and eggs in order to decrease the demand for such products, and in turn, the supply will follow the trend of the demand. Tyson, however, announced that they are committed to being stewards of the environment and conserving the natural resources Tyson Foods 2015 Sustainability Report: ). They pronounced that they are being more transparent about how much resources they are utilizing and their greenhouse gas emissions Tyson Foods 2015 Sustainability Report: People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) proclaimed that animal agriculture is a huge waste of land, water, and energy Meat and the ). The animals require much natural resources but unlike plants, you do not reap what you sow. One would put some much energy into raising the animal for food production, but in return for all the Edouard 3 resources used to produce it, you only receive about one-third of what it cost to produce it. Not everyone likes every part of most meat. So therefore, one can only sell certain parts of something they spend much time growing and fattening, suggestion is that everyone adapt a plant-based diet to fight these truths. Some common ground is that everyone wants the planet to thrive and for it to be healthy. A good compromise for both parties is for meat, dairy, and egg industries to focus their time, money, and energy on finding a way to produce meat without having to raise livestock. There is ongoing research on ways to make meat with just a small sample of animal tissue. This would be ideal for the environment because land, water, and energy will not be wasted on raising animals for food. The major compromise for the animal rights and vegans is that this solution still includes people eating meat, dairy, and eggs and supporting their industries. In addition, the animals will be needed for the sample, which in their eyes is still not ideal because the animals are still being exploited. At least they will not be killed. Edouard 4 Works Cited Long Shadow: Environmental Issues and  Long Shadow: Environmental Issues and Options. FAO Agriculture and Consumer Protection, 2006. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Tyson Foods 2015 Sustainability Report:  YouTube. YouTube, 31 Mar. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Meat and the  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.