Allan 1 Ashley Allan Casey Clague ENC 1102:076 29 January 2017 The number of people in the United States that are living below the poverty line are estimated by the U.S. Census Bureau to be around 43.1 million, which is 13.5% of all Americans (Proctor et al., 2016, p. 12). With this enormous amount of people that can barely support themselves or cannot at all, crucial to find a solution. Democrats are known to be the more liberal political party, and many would like to see a large increase in the minimum wage to $15 so that these people can get themselves out of poverty. Republicans are known as more of a conservative party, and they disagree with increasing the minimum wage by more than double what it is now because, while it would benefit people who do have these jobs, there would also be a large number of people being fired or laid-off due to labor costs and this would outweigh the benefits of a higher minimum wage. With two substantially different opinions on this important subject, it obviously has been a large debate that has been going on for several years. To try and satisfy both parties, a possible compromise is to nearly average out the minimum wage ideas from both sides and introduce a new federal minimum wage of about $10. The majority of Democratic party has often supported more liberal proposals, such as stricter gun control, freedom of choice for women to choose abortion, and raising the federal minimum wage. Ideas such as these are what makes this party known as being more progressive than Republicans. In the minimum wage debate, many Democrats have taken the for Allan 2 stance because they believe that all workers deserve to be paid enough to be able to support themselves and their families without working multiple jobs. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, in 2015 there were 14.5 million people under the age of 18, 24.4 million people from ages 18-64, and 4.2 million people over the age 64 living in poverty, with over 30% of these people employed (Proctor et al., 2016, p. 14-16). With such large numbers for each of the given age groups, especially for all of the people 64 and under, quite obvious that there is still a large problem with how many Americans are barely able to support themselves or their families. The more liberal Democrats also believe that a large change in wage will not badly affect employers, but instead it would boost the economy significantly. Two researchers from the National Institute of Economic and Social Research and Centre for Macroeconomics, UK, Rebecca Riley and Chiara Rosazza Bondibene, argue that higher minimum wages will increase a productivity and efficiency by using a study done on new National Minimum Wage system (NMW). They say that because there are higher labor costs now than before NMW, employers take more precaution to better training to improve the worker efficiency in the quickest time possible. They also predicted that workers receiving a higher wage would exude more effort into their work than people doing the same work for less money (Riley and Bondibene, 2016). So while some companies may have less employees as the minimum wage increases, the productivity of companies will be higher than before, and turnover rates will be lower for employers because the workers will be less inclined to leave their job if they are being paid decent living wages. Unfortunately there would be some employees that would not benefit from this raise in minimum wage when they are one of the workers that is fired or laid-off due to Allan 3 a increased labor costs, so the liberal goal of raising the minimum wage to $15 may not be completely feasible. With viewpoints that are mostly opposite of the the Republican party tends to have more conservative ideas. Republicans are usually either against raising the minimum wage or completely get rid of it and switch to market wages, which is the individual highest choice of wage for the employees. A majority of these conservative Republicans prefer keeping the minimum wage at $7.25 because they believe that it would have a severely negative affect on the job market. Simulations done by Jonathan Meer and Jeremy West, researchers who published a working paper in the National Bureau of Economic Researchers, are done to show the effect of raising minimum wage for low-wage workers over a matter of years. The researchers then concluded, permanent increase in minimum wage, according to this model, would yield an employment elasticity of -0.29 (s.e. = (Meer and West, 2013, p. 17). A theoretical approach to this subject is helpful and shows that there would be a negative effect to raising the minimum wage, and the simulations all explain that the decrease in jobs would take several years. Dr. John Gaski also analyzes the minimum wage debate, but rather than from the standard political viewpoint he discusses the negative effects from the increase in minimum wage from an ethical viewpoint. Gaski explains how it would hurt the workers who find themselves unemployed due to the labor costs not being able to cover all of the expenses for a higher minimum wage as well as keeping the same number of employees (Gaski, 2004, 212). While keeping people away from unemployment is an ideal thought, keeping the 30% of workers in poverty by not raising the minimum wage still the best situation. Allan 4 fairly simple to tell that the Democratic and Republican parties tend to have opposite opinions on most issues, and been that way for about 200 years, since soon after the formation of the United States government. They have an extremely long history of disagreeing on major controversial issues, such as slavery, civil rights, religion, and abortion. One thing that all political parties, and Americans in general, should be able to agree on is that the unemployment rates need to continue to decrease, but the poverty rate also needs to continue decreasing but at a much faster rate. Having other fellow Americans suffer is something that all people should be able to agree that a problem that needs to be fixed. While raising the minimum wage to $15 would be beneficial to many low-wage workers, by getting them out of poverty and letting them be able to be a household supporter, it would negatively affect the employment rates. On the other hand, keeping the minimum wage at $7.25 would keep over 40 million people in poverty. A possible solution is to average out the wage amount from each party, which would bring a new minimum wage to around $10. Charles Lane, and editorial writer for The Washington Post dealing with economical and fiscal policies, inputs his knowledge of the minimum wage debate from both sides and discusses the pros and cons for each of them, similar to those given previously by each party, as well as the goals from the Democrats and the Republicans. He then supports the compromise of meeting at an average minimum wage between the two parties at $10.10. He explains how the inflation rate has been constantly growing for the past few decades, but the minimum wage has only gone up three times, so the two been even for several years (Lane, 2014). This proposal would still raise the minimum wage, but not so much that the unemployment rates would go back up as significantly as it would with the raise to $15. For this compromise to take place, a new bill Allan 5 would have to be proposed, meaning that a 2/3 majority vote from both Democratic and Republican politicians in the House, then the Senate, and approval from the president would be necessary for the bill to pass. While this solution brings the average minimum wage proposal from each party, it still does not completely satisfy either of them either. The Democrats would not be receiving the higher wage that they have been fighting for, and the Republicans would see a raise in the minimum wage which would creates some job loss. This compromise would be the best for all of the workers, especially those in poverty, which is what should make the politicians from both of these parties satisfied in the end. Though poverty in the United States has been decreasing recently, 13.5% of Americans are still in poverty. To fix this, many people from the liberal Democratic party have suggested that the minimum wage should be raised to $15. The conservative Republicans have denied this proposal because they believe this raise will raise unemployment rates again, so they would rather remain at $7.25. A plausible compromise would be to meet in the middle of these two amounts and try to pass a bill for a $10 federal minimum wage. Though this compromise obviously $15 or $7.25, the average of these would still have a great affect on the people impacted by poverty while only slightly affecting unemployment. Allan 6 Works Cited Gaski, J. F. (2004). Raising the Minimum Wage Is Unethical and Immoral. Business & Society Review (00453609), 109(2), 209-224. doi:10.1111/j.0045-3609.2004.00192.x Lane, C. (2014). A on the Minimum Wage? National Affairs, 20. http://www.nationalaffairs.com/publications/detail/a-grand-bargain-on-the-minimum- wage Meer, J. and West, J. (2013). Effects of the Minimum Wage on Employment Dynamics. National Bureau of Economic Research, 19262. http://www.nber.org/papers/w19262.pdf Proctor, B.D., Semega, J.L., and Kollar, M.A. (2016). Income and Poverty in the United States: 2015. United States Census Bureau, P60-256(RV). https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library/publications/2016/demo/p60-256.pdf Riley, R., & Bondibene, C.R. (2016). Raising the standard: Minimum wages and firm productivity. Labour economics, 44, 27-50 http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S09275371163034 87?np=y