Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 28 January 2017 An Illegal Existence A constant and growing problem that every city within the United States is facing is homelessness, and how to properly deal with the homeless. Many cities often reduce to criminalizing the homeless instead of helping them create a more stable life, because it is the simplest solution. Such inhumane criminalization can occur in the form of placed so that sitting or sleeping can not occur in places that could potentially attract homeless people, arresting anyone sleeping in a public space, or fining and even arresting people seen feeding the homeless. The National Coalition for the Homeless is an organization established to help homeless people regain a steady lifestyle, combat and question the criminalizing laws set in place by both state and local governments, and potentially end homelessness all together. One of the strategies used by the organization is publishing media in the forms of photographs and digital art with facts about the criminalization occurring to homeless. The published media uses rhetorical strategies to convince the general public that homeless people should not be punished for their circumstances, and that the public should push lawmakers to create more humane ways in coping with homelessness. A black and white poster was released by The National Coalition for the Homeless online that outlines the harsh law regarding the homeless in Hawaii. The poster depicts a man sleeping without any comfortable pillows or blankets underneath a palm tree. While pathos is an Student 2 appeal used here in the photograph of the man without any typical comforts used for sleeping, the strategy is more prevalent in the large bold words claiming and out in Honolulu. Go to sleep. Go to The simple sentence structure and meaning placed behind it makes the reader feel as if the act of sleeping in public is so common that even they or their friend could be jailed for such an innocent act. Another rhetorical appeal used is kairos. Because the situation of homelessness is occurring constantly, it is an urgent matter to get the homeless housed and safe, though not in jail. Furthermore, the poster has an array of other small text describing the solution to homeless sleeping outside is not jail, but public housing, which would need to be constructed as soon as possible. Logos is used within the poster since the city of Honolulu is specifically mentioned, leaving no questions about whether or not the situation is an issue, because it is occurring in the capital of Hawaii, so other capitals must also have some restrictive laws toward the homeless. The final rhetorical strategy used is ethos, since the media based information is published by a national organization. Not only is the organization national, but their contact details and monetary situations are all accessible by the public, alluding to the fact that they are reputable and reliable sources of information about the homeless population within the United States. The overall message of the poster is that sleeping should not be considered a crime, since it is a normal human act, and instead of punishing those sleeping in the open, government funded public housing should be constructed to get the homeless people on their feet until they can sustain themselves individually. Another media related image used by The National Coalition for the Homeless that illustrates the criminalization occurring is a simple pop art, Andy Warhol style soup can with people deserve food engraved on it. This image uses logos because Student 3 people know that logically everyone deserves food, regardless of their living situation or income. Pathos also strikes an emotional reaction with the viewer, because although homeless deserve food, they do not receive it as often as they should. The recognizable soup can also pulls on the emotions of the viewers, as most Americans have enjoyed a can of soup that has quenched their hunger, so they are sympathetic to the homeless that are hungry. Kairos is used within the image because having hunger is a time sensitive matter, and if the hunger is not solved then death is inevitable. Once again the credibility from the national organization comes into play for the rhetorical appeal of ethos, since it is a national organization devoted to the wellfare of homeless Americans. The most important part of the image, however, is the words NO MORE: The Criminalization of Efforts to Feed People in since it illustrates the harsh situation of criminalization that is not only occurring to the homeless, but also those that are trying to help them to become fully functioning and self sustaining citizens. Both images from The National Coalition for the Homeless use images and rhetorical appeals within the images to convince viewers that criminalization against the homeless is a growing problem within the United States. In the first image, sleeping outside will cause the person to be jailed, and in the second image, feeding the homeless is also a punishable offense. The visual rhetoric, defined by Jenna Pack Sheffield as of communication that uses images to create meaning or to make an (Sheffield) within both images illustrates that there are problems with the regulation of the homeless as criminals, and they should instead be helped instead of harmed. The stakeholder organization advocates for public housing to be built, as indicated by the first image, and for the act of feeding the homeless to be de-criminalized by state, local, and federal governments. Both images share not only the same Student 4 subject matter, but also the same rhetorical appeals and limited color scheme. Both images are primarily black, white, and grey, colors often associated with gloom, while the second picture has a pop of recognizable soup red. Not only is The National Coalition for the Homeless raising awareness about the criminalization occurring, but they are also attempting to combat said criminalization and homelessness altogether by educating the public via informatory images. The images used by the organization are mainly for the general public to coerce lawmakers into creating more humane laws for the homeless that do not involve jailing them for their existence. (WC: 1,014) Student 5 Works Cited Coalition for the Homeless. 22 Jan 2017. http://nationalhomeless.org/issues/civil-rights/ Report: The Criminalization of Food-Sharing National Coalition for the Homeless. 22 Jan 2017. http://nationalhomeless.org/new-report-criminalization-food-sharing-practices/ Sheffield, Jenna Pack. Breaking Down an  Commons . Creating Commons Attribution, n.d. Web. http://writingcommons.org/breaking-down-an-image. 22 Jan. 2017.