Gabriel Hineman Comp II 1/25/17 Spencer Bennington Locked, Loaded and Out of Sight Firearms have been in existence since the end of the 13 th Century. As centuries have elapsed the human race has become more technologically advanced, and that includes the weaponry for personal protection. A debate continues to broil regarding concealed carry laws which permit citizens to legally carry a pistol in public so long as it remains hidden underneath clothing. The National Rifle Association (NRA) and the Violence Policy Center (VPC) are two stakeholders who stand in firm opposition with one another in regard to these laws in the United States. Currently, concealed carry permits are legal or easier to obtain, in 42 of the 50 states. To find a compromise that may satisfy both stakeholders while allowing concealed carry permits to be more easily obtained in the remaining eight states and/or to make states recognize concealed carry permits from other states the NRA and VPC will have to come to an agreement that they both deem suitable enough. While these two organizations see eye to eye on most issues, they both desire to educate the public about gun safety and the dangers of gun violence. This is a similarity that can be exploited to facilitate reaching a beneficial compromise both factions can rally behind. When the NRA came into being in 1871 its primary goal was to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific To get their movement off the ground they developed a shooting site for the members to practice at in land they were granted in New York. Immediately political opposition surfaced to halt the promotion of marksmanship in the area and they were forced to relocate. In spite of this political resistance a new era of gun lovers began to appear. In 1903 they chose to support and facilitate the promotion of shooting sports, mainly among youth. To this day, the youth clubs and competitions are still one of the cornerstones of the NRA. The NRA placed some of their focus on creating a magazine designed to be a conduit of information surrounding any new firearm bills or other items of interest to those in the gun sector. To combat the numerous attacks on gun ownership rights, provided by the Second Amendment of the Constitution, they created the Legislative Affairs Division in 1934. At this time, the NRA did not personally partake in lobbying rather they chose to mail out legislative facts directly to the people that could take action on their own if they felt so inclined. The primary focus of the NRA remained on training, education and marksmanship. Additionally, they dabbled in reaching out to the hunting community and published a magazine, The American Hunter, for avid and regular game hunters alike. Many would argue that the NRA continues to be the leader in firearms educations for civilians. They conduct seminars, such as to Be a to help educate men and women alike to develop personal safety plans (NRA). To ensure financial support for firearm related activities for future generations they created the NRA Foundation to ensure projects and programs will continue benefitting the general public. Today the NRA is most known for being the principal defender of Second Amendment rights. This focus does not lie in opposition to the driving focus possessed since their infancy, which is to provide gun owners with the highest education possible in regards to firearm safety. They have many different vehicles to educate and disseminate information to the public such as TV commercials, personal mailings, and Newspaper ads. The NRA is arguably the strongest, most vocal and well-funded pro-gun supporter making them a lethal opponent for those who fight for strict gun control laws. On the other side of the spectrum sits the Violence Policy Center. Their main goal is the prevention of gun deaths and potential injury among gun owners and bystanders alike. Through research, education of the masses, advocacy for better or more strict gun control laws, and collaboration with other organizations for more gun control they pursue this end. The VPC informs the public of the potential impact of gun violence on everyday lives and how it can affect their very psyche. Additionally, they strive to put a spotlight on the duplicitous workings of the firearms industry and gun lobby in relation to their opponents lobbying activities as well how they operate in a profit driven market. They also provide expertise to policymakers with the goal of helping to save lives. There is an interesting quote that they include on their webpage about stopping gun violence. a quote taken directly from the NRA acknowledging that VPC is most rabble rouser in (VPC). This statement lends credibility that the NRA perceives VPC as a formidable opponent as they forge ahead to fight against leaner gun control laws. It is the belief of the VPC that all can be instrumental in making an impact towards creating a safer world, one void of unnecessary gun violence and injury. They encourage and promote multiple means for others to be involved and fight the giant of gun proponents. It can be as simple as donating money to help fund their organized fight for the safety and well-being against gun violence, joining an organization against gun violence, contacting government representatives to urge them to write and/or vote for certain gun laws that limit their availability to the citizenry (such as an assault weapon ban,) or choose to educate others about the issue and impact of gun violence in communities. The stance on gun control makes them the ideal candidate of opposition to the NRA. Thus getting both parties to merge on a point of agreement could pave the way for compromise that might diffuse the war of words that continue to divide a good part of America in regards to gun ownership. In the area of other states accepting concealed weapons permits otherwise known as state reciprocity is the area in which a compromise seems to be the best option. Since the Violence Policy Center is sorely against creating a law that will allow people who have permits already to get their hands on them, and the National Rifle Association is all for guns, a compromise that only would affect people that already have their permits would be the best course of action. This law would call for state reciprocity for the concealed carry permit so that state A will accept state permits all the way down to Z and vice versa. It would also call for police to attend all NRA or other organizations events that involves the sale and/or distribution of guns, all concealed carry permit holders from now on would also be required to go to an event that talks about the dangers of gun ownership and how it can affect the lives of those around them(Lucas). For this to become a reality both of these organizations would have to send representatives to meet and talk over the logistics, making sure they are both in agreement with the terms that have been presented. If they agree then they would have to lobby and talk to people in the legislature to try and get the law passed. Works Cited: NRA  NRA Home. NRA, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Lucas, Fred. Virginia Concealed Carry Compromise Will Require State Police at Gun TheBlaze. TheBlaze, 29 Jan. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Violence Policy  Violence Policy Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Trumble, Sarah. A Gun Law That Hurts  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Http://crimeresearch.org/author/johnrlott/. Massive Errors in the Violence Policy Concealed Carry  Crime Prevention Research Center. N.p., 16 Feb. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.