Songting Han(Martin) ENC1102 Jarad Fennell January 26 2017 How to Manipulate Beijing Old Buildings for Better Society? Nowadays, more and more new buildings are under construction due to the increasingly rapid development of globalization and urbanization. Yet, many nations have been faced with the problem of whether or not old buildings should be demolished. Some groups like Beijing municipal authorities think the old buildings should be tore down to be replaced by new ones. However, others like the Heritage Preservation in China ASIA Network believe those old buildings are part of history and should be protected. Beijing, as the capital of China, has a lot of historical buildings like Forbidden City, Quadrangle(SiHeYuan) and Hutong. Their historical significance is known to everyone, and their destruction due to urbanization is a cultural loss. Each stakeholder holds different attitudes and beliefs on this issue. In order to help and propitiate the dissension they have, compromises are needed to implement as a result. In my opinion, compromise would be to maintain parts of the old buildings that have significant historical values for people and tear down parts of dilapidated buildings to make it more inhabitable. According to the journal article Guidelines for the Maintenance and Protection of Old Beijing author illustrates the technical guidelines specifically on how to maintain and protect the old buildings image.In the guildlines, he claims that some social preserving organizations like the Construction Cultural Heritage formulated and calibrated the rules in relation to old city features and styles protection, and the author shows in the first list Guildlines saying that these organizations are in particular focused on renovations of Beijing streets, hutongs, courtyard houses other than the cultural heritage old buildings. As it expected, the author then literally listed other rest of pivotal components in the guidelines. Another journal article, Authenticity: Alternative Preservation Strategies for Siheyuan in exemplified the studies on the evolution of urban form, in both physical and social manifestations , he shows how Beijing changed from a planned imperial city into a modern metropolis in the early twentieth century. One thing that the author specifies about in the article is, for the sake of a modernized Beijing, municipal government need to combine Western ideology and technologies with the Chinese indigenous developments. He states that the desire to emulate the past and the preservation of class of Hutong and Dazhalan epitomizes an invaluable lost and that should remind people the need to design for the community.Finally, he proposed that the use of and digital.simulation tools can be seen as a wonderful solution that is capable of maintaining a dynamic Beijing, with regards to community building environment and pragmatic considerations. In the article Cultural Heritage Preservation in Modern China: Problems, Perspectives, and the author Safford demonstrates that Beijing has impressively modernized since 2008 Olympics, they replaced crumbling infrastructure and architecture, street lights, subways, and skyscrapers. Yet, experts say degradation of historic.China ensues on , and the phenomenon for growing numbers of citizens moving from rural areas to burgeoning cities increase pressures to re-purpose spaces occupied by old structures. This article is closely related to my topic because it presents current problems relating to historic preservation, and some perspectives for the future. Safford in the article reveals that many sites were destroyed, giving away to fast development, but Chinese people love their culture and tradition and now they are beginning to feel nostalgia for the past. Safford then illustrates many artists began to voice their concerns over our historical culture. And Heritage Preservation in China ASIA Network began to show interest in the conservation of old buildings and old courtyard houses. Given the tragic destructiveness and violence of recent past, Safford claims that can only hope that in rising from poverty, weakness, and humiliation, the Chinese do not destroy so much of their heritage that they lose their According to the article threatened by illegal The illegal buildings are unsafely constructed which put historic hutong in a great jeopardy. Facing with the continued historic disappearing, residents and historians are exigently calling on authorities to get capital culture protected.Hutong are commonly referred as narrow alleys that were traditionally linked with siheyuan courtyard residences.courtyard residences. It was reported by the amateur historian Zhang Wei that Beijing had 1300 hutong in 2000 and then suffered a great decrease---half of them have disappeared due to rapid development in urbanization and rampant illegal construction. In August, the Beijing Municipal government demanded the demolition of illegal structures in major throughout the city, including in hutong. According to regulations, people can report illegal buildings to urban management officers and buildings found to be illegal will be demolished by force. However, it was not an easy task for the plan being implemented, for example, residents who live in old Dongsi hutong area are greatly disturbed by the construction of the illegal buildings, as China Daily reporter said. In order to make more money and rent more apartments, some people build more floors to their houses, especially in buildings near main streets, making the alleys in the area looks extremely narrowed and changing the original functions of old buildings. Lastly,the Historic Buildings poorly It shows that badly preserved and protected buildings are historic buildings, though almost all of them are still functioned as a place for living, working and studying, as cultural heritage administration said. Such situation has been criticized by scholars and experts for misuse of the heritage sites in recent years. The former inhabitants of these places are mainly famous historic figures, ranging from imperial family members and ministers to ancestor of the Chinese revolution.The author also claims that such serious issue has resulted a meeting conducted in the Municipal Administration of Cultural it turns out that least 60 percent of the 322 most important historic buildings in downtown Beijing were in constant danger of fire. (para worse, of old houses were not equipped with fire extinguishes nor had the electrical wiring been renovated which might cause serious problems.( Para 4 the official. However, the author then argues that due to the skyrocketing house price in urban Beijing, the expenditure for heritage for supporting relocation of residents from old areas and heritage protection would be rather expensive, which presumably much to 90 percent amount from their budget, said its director Kong Fanzhi. To better preserve historical buildings like Siheyuan and Hutong, the government should offer more compensation to residents willing to move away. If residents do not want to move out, the government then would have to fix it by moving residents out of hutong using public rent programs relocation policy so that they can keep historical structures. Of course, there are limits as to the amount of money spent by governments.However,to tackle the financial burdens, the government could invite investors to renovate and maintain the ancient buildings to help cover the costs in return of cut of future revenue from the buildings they would invest in. In conclusion, it is imperative that both of sides need to attach great importance to the housing environment and the historic significance for our country, as it is source for living and tourist attraction. I also highly suggest each side should think carefully before making a move, and a deep awareness of the long-term outcome should be highly promoted as well. It was time that they need to make a compromise so as to fulfill their roles as members in our society. References Historic Buildings Poorly Xiuhua Agency. Web. January 28 , 2017 Jin Haixing.(2013) Threatened by Illegal Ebejing, China Daily.Web. January 28 , 2017 Ida D.K. TAM (2014). Reconsidering Authenticity: Alternative Preservation Strategies for Siheyuan in Beijing. Civil Engineering and Architecture, 2 , 130 - 141. DOI 10.13189/cea.2014.020304. Web. January 28 , 2017 Safford, L.B., (2014). Cultural Heritage Preservation in Modern China: Problems, Perspectives, and Potentials. ASIANetwork Exchange: A Journal for Asian Studies in the Liberal Arts. 21(1), DOI:10.16995/ane.69 Web. January 28 , 2017 Taylor & Francis Group(2016)Technical Guidelines for the Maintenance and Protection of Old Beijing Housing, Pages 254-263 DOI 10.1080/00094609.2016.1067552 Web. January 28 , 2017