THE DEBATE OVER SHARK FINNING 1 The debate over shark finning between consumers and conservationists Ashley Taepakdee University of South Florida THE DEBATE OVER SHARK FINNING 2 Shark finning is the act of cutting off a fin and disposing their body back into the ocean. Shark fins are considerably more valuable than the shark carcass and therefore most fisherman see it more economically viable to discard the body. The food and agriculture organization (FAO) calculated that an average volume of 16,815 tons of shark fins were imported annually from 2000 to 2011 worldwide, equaling up to an average of $339 million in imports (Dent 2015). With a high monetary return and being a controversial practice, shark finning has garnered many supporters and adversaries. Two of these opposing sides of the shark finning industry are the Chinese and marine and environmental conservationists. The Chinese have been consuming shark fin soup and shark fin product for decades and is ingrained in their culture. Conservationists believe the industry is depleting the oceans of sharks leading to detrimental effects on the marine ecosystem that could affect humans in the near future. Though seemingly at odds with one another, these stakeholders can both agree that the state of the oceans is of grave importance for human survival. Through education and legislation, the bridge can be gapped between these adversaries. Shark fin soup was roughly originated to an emperor in the Sung Dynasty (AD 986) in China (Shark truth). This emperor used the soup as a sign of status and wealth. He served it at banquets to show his generosity and shark fin soup became to be severed as a sign of respect. Now, in China, shark fin soup has become a part of the Big Four- or dishes that are served at most Chinese gatherings that represent certain cultural values (Shark Truth). Modern Chinese people use the soup as a sign of status and wealth. By serving this soup one is seen to be of higher class and that they did well financially. A Chinese folklore states that if a bride marries into a family with no shark fin soup, than she is marrying into a poor family (Shark Truth). Also, THE DEBATE OVER SHARK FINNING 3 this soup is seen as a form of generosity. Normally, parents and grandparents will serve the soup to give back to their family and friends. This coincides with the prominent belief of sharing your fortune that permeates Chinese society (Shark truth). Shark fin soup is not just food in China, it is an important part of the cultural identity of its people. If shark fin soup were to be banned or eradicated a piece of their culture and identity would go missing. Such as turkey is important on thanksgiving for Americans, shark fin soup is important to the Chinese at weddings and banquets. The soup is normally flavored with some kind of stock as the shark fin is mostly there for texture. With more Chinese citizens reaching the upper class, demands for shark fin soup have risen. These demands have led to a critical decrease in shark populations that conservationists are speaking out against. Marine and environmental conservationists want the practice of shark finning to be stopped. With the increase in shark finning in the recent years, sharks have been disappearing. Since shark finning is so financially viable to fishermen, more are choosing to fin sharks that get caught in their long lines, a practice that was normally never done. Not only that, but also the sharks are left to slowly drown or bleed out after their body is discarded from the boat. This leads to undue stress and suffering on the shark. This practice has led to the decrease in blue sharks off the coast of Hawaii, where long fishing is common (Shark Finning Prohibition Act). Blue sharks are normally abundant because their reproductive rate is very fast for a shark as they can have up to 40 offspring in one liter. This, however, is not common in the shark population. Most sharks take about seven years to reach the age of maturity and usually only have one to two offspring at a time. This slow reproductive rate and the increase in shark finning has led to the decimation of shark species. THE DEBATE OVER SHARK FINNING 4 The world is 70% ocean with 99% of the ocean not explored by humans (Green 2015). This means that people have no idea how great the impact of the decreasing shark populations is on the ocean. However, the effects are already starting to show. Sharks are apex predators, meaning they are at the top of the food chain and keep populations under control. An example of the effect of the decrease in sharks is that their prey, rays, become prolific and some bottom feeding rays may decrease the seagrass beds and the shellfish, who live in them, will decrease. This starts a chain reaction in the diverse food web of the ocean. In turn this will affect local fisheries and destroy the marine ecosystem (Green 2015). The oceans vitality depends on the shark populations, and both stakeholders can agree that the ocean is also essential for human survival. The Chinese and marine conservationists, can come to a compromise by curbing the demand for shark fins and regulating the shark fin industry to reach a sustainable amount of fishing. Also, both can agree the shark finning practice should be stopped. The best way to carry out these compromises is a multimodal attack. The most important part of the solution is education. Removing a staple of a identity is extremely difficult and can be seen as an affront to their way of life. Some would even call it discrimination against the Chinese. Therefore, the Chinese should be able to make the choice of eating shark fin soup on their own. Education is vital, because even the name of shark fin soup is misleading. The Chinese name of shark fin soup is Yu chi, translating into English as fish soup (Shark Truth). Most Chinese even know what they are actually eating and the means to which it was acquired. By educating the younger generations, they will be able to be knowledgeable of this unsustainable fishing and the possible repercussions it may cause for the future of humans and the ocean. It has already been seen that shark education has decreased demand for shark fin soup by 50-70% (Duggan THE DEBATE OVER SHARK FINNING 5 August 2014). A proposed method of action to spread this education, is to send a volunteer non- profit organization (which there is many) to travel to schools throughout eastern Asia speaking on this topic. Also, a better method would be to unite Chinese citizens against this practice and have them spread awareness and rally their fellow citizens to come together and educate their children on this practice. To help them, organizations can be put in place to help provide them with tools to further their message. So far the Chinese government has banned shark fin soup from national banquets, which has led to the decrease in shark fin consumption. With the backing of the Chinese government, these shark advocacy organizations and citizens will be able to get their message out faster. By spreading these ideals a new culture can arise and shift from the old views of the past. In order for shark finning to be decreased and/or stopped the backing of local, national, and international governments is essential. The next part of the solution would be to include the international community. The shark fin industry is not limited to China. Some prominent proponents of the shark fin industry are Singapore, Malaysia, Taiwan, Indonesia, Japan, Thailand, Spain, Canada, United States, Costa Rica, and India (Dent). In these countries, regulatory laws should be passed in order to stop shark finning. A major one would be to ban the practice altogether, only allowing fisherman to capture and kill sharks if they keep the whole shark for the market. This ban is currently in place in some parts of the United States and has proven to decrease the accounts of shark finning (Dent). Penalties for breaking these laws should be very heavy fines, benefiting the government and hurting the fisherman who carry out this practice. Another part of these regulations should be the documentation of all fisherman who choose to sell and capture shark meat and fins. They can do this, by making special permits that fisherman need to acquire before they can fish for sharks. This again will profit the local government. The hope is that the more fines a fisherman incurs, THE DEBATE OVER SHARK FINNING 6 the less likely he/she will be to shark fin in the future due to its financial burden. The difficulty of getting all these countries to come together is immense and will not be easy, however, with more widespread education and more people protesting the practice of shark finning, governments will see the efficacy in these regulatory laws. Lastly, fisherman should not be completely banned from shark catching and selling. However, it must be carefully monitored in order to make sure sharks are caught at a sustainable rate. Certain shark species can be allowed to fish more as long as their numbers are closely monitored to allow for reproduction. Just as in sustainable fisheries, shark fishing sustainability can be reached. Local governments can have fisherman report how many sharks they sell and capture and create a cap of how many sharks can be killed for meat. Shark fin soup will not be eradicated, but hopefully through the years the demand will decrease and the fisherman will find a more economical animal to fish. In moving forward, both the Chinese and conservationists can see that the ocean is in need of help. The decimation of the shark populations has thrown the oceans fragile ecosystem out of whack and threatens human fisheries and way of life. Through education and legal action can the shark finning practice be stopped and the amount of sharks being killed reduced. This is not a solution that is an easy fix, but will take years to implement. The first action should be the spread of education. With more people against the practice of shark finning the more governments will feel the need to put in place regulatory laws. Together, the international community can outlaw the practice of shark finning and establish a more sustainable way to acquire shark meat and fins. THE DEBATE OVER SHARK FINNING 7 References 1423211761776 Dent, F., 185034 FAO, R. e., & 1423211761777 Clarke, S. (2015). State of the global market for shark products. Duggan, J. (2014, August 07). Sales of shark fin in China drop by up to 70% Jennifer Duggan. Retrieved January 29, 2017, from https://www.theguardian.com/environment/chinas- choice/2014/aug/08/sales-of-shark-fin-china-drop-70 Green, C. (2015). AN INTERNATIONAL SOS (SAVE OUR SHARKS): HOW THE INTERNATIONAL LEGAL FRAMEWORK SHOULD BE USED TO SAVE OUR SHARKS. Pace International Law Review, 27(2), 701-728. Shark Finning Prohibition Act. [electronic : report (to accompany H.R. 3535) (including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office). (2000). [Washington, D.C. : U.S. G.P.O., Shark Truth. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from http://www.sharktruth.com/learn/history- of-shark-fin-soup/