Dos Passos 1 John D. Dos Passos III Kristopher Luce ENC 1101 1/21/2017 Government Surveillance and Questions of Rights to Privacy Society has gone through quite the technological and communicational rebirth in the last twenty years, culminating in mobile devices and personal computers ceasing to be amenities and becoming integral in western society. University students are required to have some sort of internet access, and cellphones are almost always required for the process of obtaining employment. With this increased reliance on internet devices has followed an increase in and on western, and even sometimes non-western, peoples by United States government agencies, like the National Security Agency or NSA. The constitution of the United States of America protects against search and however the lines are blurred and the extent is hard to judge when this is applied to the internet and internet access, so the United States government considers this a loophole, and disregards this constitutional right when it comes to NSA surveillance. This raises the question, or series of questions: Is government surveillance morally and ethically sound? Is it legally just? And does the government care about these repercussions if there are any? Barnett, Randy. THE NSA DATA SEIZURES ARE Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy, vol. 38, no. 1, 2015, pp. eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=a2db95b3-da84- 4d1b-af9a-1b1ca6b21a98@sessionmgr104&vid=1&hid=119. Dos Passos 2 This academic essay address concerns that actions taken by the NSA and other United States government agencies regarding government surveillance is unconstitutional because it violates the fourth amendment against or unlawful search and Barnett specifically highlights actions conducted under the U.S Foreign Intelligence and Surveillance Act and the USA Patriot Act, and how he believes said actions are against the constitution and are unjust. Randy E. Barnett, holder of a Juris Doctor degree from the School of Harvard Law, is the current Carmack Waterhouse Professor of Legal Theory at the Georgetown University Law Center. He became a professor after several years of experience as a prosecutor in Chicago, and holds a large number of publications in the area of Law and Legal Theory. This essay will be a great help for project three for which I plan to argue that current government surveillance is immoral, unjust, and even unlawful. I can also use this essay for project two as an example of a more recent opinion of government surveillance. Best, Samuel J., and Brian S. Krueger. Conflict and Public Perceptions of Government Surveillance on the Internet: An Experiment of Online Search of Information Technology & Politics, vol. 5, no. 2, 2008, pp. 212. Applied Science & Technology Source, doi:10.1080/19331680802294479. This journal piece is a study focusing on two experiments that were done using a national survey. To quote the abstract, which best describes itself as a assesses how the degree and target of conflict associated with political activities influences perceptions of online government The study also holds data suggesting a surprising number of people were aware of government surveillance, even back in 2008. Dos Passos 3 Samuel J. Best, Research Director of the Center for Survey Research and Analysis and Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Connecticut, has written and published many journal articles and books in the area of political science, as well as overseen and conducted numerus surveys as first a scholar and then a Director of Research. Dr. Brian S. Krueger, who holds a Ph.D. in political science from Notre Dame, works as a professor and chair of the Political Science Department at the University of Rhode Island and has written and helped write several articles and books in the fields of political science and government. This study will be invaluable to project two for it provides data on a number of opinions on government surveillance from back in 2008. The study also provides a good amount of statistical data that can be used in project three to help set up an argument against government surveillance. Brown, Jeremy. TILT, ZOOM: REGULATING THE USE OF VIDEO SURVEILLANCE OF PUBLIC Berkeley Technology Law Journal, vol. 23, no. 1, pp. Applied Science & Technology Source, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ac i&AN=34157376&site=eds-live. This journal article focuses on emerging privacy concerns surrounding government use of security cameras and other monitoring devices present in public areas, something that has only increased with the presence of more advanced technologies. The study also addresses the potential misuse of said technology by the United States Government and argues that states with individual jurisdictions are better poised to deal with these concerns than the federal government, and should do so by forming their own regulations using federal regulations as inspiration. Jeremy Brown, who graduated from the Berkeley School of Law, has experience as a Deputy Attorney General, Research Fellow and Clinical Instructor, and Legal Fellow; he has Dos Passos 4 also had his work published in peer-reviewed journals such as the Berkeley Technology Law Journal. This journal article also provides a unique opinion on government surveillance from 2000 to 2010 that will be a big help in project two. As well as containing several good points in argument over the current use of government surveillance that will help establish the basis for the argument in project three. Cole, David D. SNOWDEN: REGULATING TECHNOLOGY-AIDED SURVEILLANCE IN THE DIGITAL Capital University Law Review, vol. 44, no. 4, 2016, pp. eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=e702277d-9815- 4c92-a492-d28ffe4f8e03%40sessionmgr4010&vid=1&hid=4203. This academic article speaks of the vast presence of technological surveillance in a post- Snowden-reveal America and the current regulation of such surveillance, which is clearly lacking and the effect it might have on the American people. The article goes on to inform the reader of the known facts surrounding the issue, actually backing up a number of points that where brought up and used by Snowden, and the recent movie about him, providing a number of sources and evidence to back up his position. David D. Cole, who holds the prestigious degree of Juris Doctor from the Yale School of Law, is currently a professor of national security, criminal justice, and constitutional law at the Georgetown University Law Center. This is one of his many works to be published in a law journal, alongside a number of popular press and book publications. I intend to use this article to establish a well-backed basis of the number of ways of the United States government already periodically has been conducting on its citizens, and non-citizens alike, for years. Dos Passos 5 Effectively providing a sourced defense of the claims of Snowden, of which I can neither cite the person nor the movie, as neither are academically reliable sources.