Ferreira 1 Joey Ferreira Professor Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102: English Composition II 1 February 2017 Capital Punishment: Is It Moral? The death penalty has been a form of punishment for severe crimes for hundreds of years. The original purpose of this practice was to remove criminals from society who have committed capital crimes. However, there are two very opposing sides when debating whether or not if the death penalty is a moral and effective form of punishment. One side of the argument views capital punishment as a fair consequence for criminals who have committed horrible crimes. The stakeholders involved in this side of the argument may be state governments that support the death penalty, religious groups, lawyers and law groups involved in capital cases, and certain political groups and political parties. The opposing side against the death penalty sees capital punishment as inhumane and even a violation of human rights. This stakeholders include the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), taxpayers, and the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP). Both sides of this topic have stakeholders who possess very strong and compelling reasonings behind their beliefs that either justify or refute the killing of severe criminals. However, this controversial subject requires a plan that will leave both sides of the issue pleased. This plan will involve a changing in the process of convicting capital criminals so that the cost will be decreased and the rate of convicting guilty criminals will be more precise. Capital punishment is used to remove heinous criminals from society. There are 31 states in the United States that support the death penalty With and Without the Death Ferreira 2 Each of these states share the same opinion on how criminals that commit capital crimes should be punished. The most popular method of executing criminals is through a method called lethal injection. The state of Texas was the first state to use this execution method and is known for its high execution rates. This sternness with the law leads them to be tough when it comes to punishment ( is Texas #1 in http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/node/583). Some of the crimes that are punishable by execution include: murder, treason, terrorism, rape, and armed kidnapping (http://www.antideathpenalty.org/crimes.html). As you can see, these are some of the most horrendous crimes that can be committed. Texas and other states that practice capital punishment support the death penalty because they believe that death is the highest level of punishment deserved by such high level criminals. This belief is also supported by the expression eye for an (Matthew 5:38-42). Being a biblical saying, some aspects of certain religions, like Christianity, are supportive of capital punishment. When interpreting the quote, it is understood that each crime should be punished with a force that is equal to the severity of the crime Support of the Death As a Christian belief, this is also the basis behind most conservative politicians and their opinion on capital punishment. Conservative groups view the death penalty as a and see it as a fair punishment to those who commit capital crimes Conservatives and the Death The Conservative party also uses the constitutionality of capital punishment to support their position. The case of whether or not capital punishment is acceptable in respect to the constitution was brought to the supreme court. The case was resolved with the verdict that the death penalty was in fact accepted by the constitution Punishment in the United States, And Lawyers and law groups that are involved with capital cases are also stakeholders that support capital punishment. Capital Ferreira 3 cases are much more in depth and strenuous than regular cases. This being so, these types of cases also deal with a great deal of money Facts About the Death A portion of this money that is spent on these cases is used to pay the lawyers involved with the case. It is the way their living is made, which is why they support capital punishment, because without it, they would lose a large portion of their career. Those who oppose the death penalty view it as an indecent gesture towards human life or a faulty system that does not work properly. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) feel very strongly against this form of punishment. The NAACP sees the issue of innocent people being sentenced to death. The website states that there have been 156 people who were put to death from the year 1973-2016 who have later been found to be innocent. In this case the state is blatantly murdering innocent people. This organization sees a problem with race and the death penalty. It was said that out of the 63 people on death row in a year, 37 of them were non-white individuals. This statistic is exposing a flaw in the system of capital punishment that points towards racial intolerance Death Penalty Fact This flaw is also explained in the case of accused negotiating sentences. Through a process known as convicted criminals are able to plead guilty for a chance to avoid death row. The NAACP stated that 48% of white defendants were successful in pleading guilty and avoiding the death penalty and only 25% of black defendants were successful in the same process Death Penalty Fact This racial flaw in the capital system is unacceptable and makes the balance of justice lean unevenly. There is also an issue with the draining of resources that is involved with capital cases. One may think that it may cost more to sentence someone to life in prison when in fact, sentencing someone to death is much more expensive. The cost of capital punishment is around $1.26 million dollars while life in prison Ferreira 4 costs $740,000 ( Facts About the Death The money that pays for all of this comes from the taxpayers. This is an unfair cost to a group of people who have no say on whether or not the death penalty should even be practiced. The taxpayers also have to deal with the idea that they are basically paying the state to put someone to death. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP) is an organization that is determined to abolish the death penalty altogether. Having the same reasonings as the NAACP, the NCADP sees racial bias, cost of the cases, and the chance of executing innocent people are all sizeable problems with capital punishment the Death There is an issue of fairness with both the accused and the public who are responsible for paying for these cases. The two polarized sides to this argument are in dire need of a solution that will result in an agreeable system that will still allow justice to prevail. Something that all of these stakeholders have in common is the desire for criminals who have committed capital offenses to be sentenced to a punishment that is equal to the severity of their crime. These stakeholders also share the common knowledge of the cost of the death penalty. What is needed in this situation is an alteration of the capital punishment system that ensures that the accused is in fact guilty, and that also greatly diminishes the time and resources that are involved in capital cases. This is not a proposition to completely remove the death penalty from society, this is a proposition to fine- tune the process of conviction so that the price of the process is decreased and the chance of executing the innocent is non-existent. It was mentioned earlier that the price of the death penalty per case is around $1.26 million dollars ( Facts About the Death This is the cost of the multiple appeals that are involved with these cases. In the year 2000, there was a fund in Illinois that spent over $60 million dollars in eight years on about 20 death row cases on Capital By having the judicial system practice more reluctance Ferreira 5 toward using the death penalty, capital cases will be much shorter in time, less tax money spent on cases, and fewer people will have to die on the hands. This compromise will also still result in serious convicted criminals getting the punishment they deserve. Capital punishment can be considered as the most serious punishment that our country has to offer. This form of punishment is reserved only for those who have committed extreme and severe capital crimes. With the severity of the death penalty, there are two separate sides to the subject that either supports its purpose, or denies it as an effective system. The supporting side of capital punishment involves governments in states that support the death penalty, religious groups such as christians, lawyers and law groups involved in capital cases, and certain conservative political groups and political parties. The side that is opposed to the death penalty involves groups like the NAACP, the NCADP and the public taxpayers. The proposed compromise is one that tweaks the system involved with capital punishment so that the length of each case is shortened and does not last several years. This alteration will decrease the cost of each case and will lead to a decrease in the number of people sentenced to death. Ferreira 6 Works Cited States With and Without the Death  States With and Without the Death Penalty Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/states-and-without-death-penalty>. Why is Texas #1 in  Why is Texas #1 in Executions? Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/node/583>. Crimes Punishable by  Crimes Punishable by Death. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.antideathpenalty.org/crimes.html>. Matthew 5:38 You Have Heard That It Was Said, EYE FOR AN Online Parallel Bible: Weaving Word into the Web. N.p., 2004. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://bible.cc/matthew/5-38.htm>. Retribution (In Support of the Death  Retribution (In Support of the Death Penalty). N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://deathpenaltycurriculum.org/student/c/about/arguments/argument2a.htm>. Thomas C. Berg, Religious Conservatives and the Death Penalty, 9 Wm. & Mary Bill Rts. J. 31 (2000), http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/wmborj/vol9/iss1/4 Marcus, Paul, Capital Punishment in the United States, and  (2007). Faculty Publications. Paper 61. http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/facpubs/61 Costs of the Death  Costs of the Death Penalty Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/costs-death-penalty>. NAACP Death Penalty Fact  NAACP. N.p., 18 Jan. 2017. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Works Cited Continued Ferreira 7 About the Death  About the Death Penalty National Coalition to. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ncadp.org/pages/about>. Rob Warden, Reflections on Capital Punishment, 4 Nw. J. L. & Soc. 329 (2009). http://scholarlycommons.law.northwestern.edu/njlsp/vol4/iss2/2