Rosa 1 Sydney Rosa Enc 1102 Intermediate Draft January 28, 2017 How Victims of Human Trafficking Are Treated Human trafficking itself may not be a controversial topic, however, the way the women are treated is. Organizations, such as The L.O.V.E Ministry, and police departments across the states differ when it comes to how victims of human trafficking should be treated and taken care of. The L.O.V.E Ministry and organizations like it get these victims off the street and bring them to a secure and safe location. These organizations have a main goal to get these girls back up on their feet and to give them a better chance to survive once they are back on their own. However, the police departments who get the girls off the streets, turn around and throw the victims in jail. The cops do this as security for the girls. However, the girls 100% safe behind bars. Unlike the organizations, the cops teach the girls to be independent and the victims tend to think that the police care what happens to the girls when they get out. Therefore, in order to allow these girls to be safe in all accounts, it would be extremely beneficial to have the cops working with organizations such as The L.O.V.E Ministry, so that girls have to be mistreated in jail or prison. This way more girls can get back up onto their feet and once they are free have to go back to their pimps to work the streets. The L.O.V.E. Ministry was founded by a woman who felt human trafficking victims should have a better chance at the way life should be lived. Her mission for this organization is to women rescued from the bondage of human trafficking to reclaim their lives by Rosa 2 learning to re-enter society as strong, capable, whole women in a safe, Christ-centered Stacey Rosa, the woman who is founder and CEO of this non-profit organization, defines the word survivor as a person who endures adversity, moves through it, and perseveres; a person with resiliency who remains undefeated. Rosa has gotten in contact with many survivors over the past 3 years. Rosa claims police put the women in jail hoping for safety, however, the jail completely safe for Rosa has a close friend that was placed in jail for a long period of time. While there, she was recruited by a pimp, another woman, who was in the same facility as her. Once released from jail, her pimp took her in and began to traffic her. Overall, in that lifestyle, the woman was arrested for prostitution over 20 times. Rosa and other organizations like hers, would like to find a better solution for the victims. Their view is that pimps should do more time than the victims. However, reality is that victims end up staying in jail much longer. However, they understand that the police are just trying to keep the victims off the streets and away from their pimps. Ultimately, trying to ensure their safety. organization strives to not only provide safety for the victims, but to also give them the opportunity to grow and learn how to be self sufficient by replacing the power over them and allowing them to form a relationship with Jesus Christ. (S. Rosa, personal communication, January 26, 2017). Most police departments and corrections facilities educate their guards on how to treat and handle these women. John Meekins claims that, trafficking often thrives right under the noses of law enforcement and corrections officers, simply because these officers do not know enough to recognize the signs of human Due to their lack of knowledge in this subject, there are many sex traffickers who have found their own ways of reaching women who are already in jail or prison and recruiting them to the business of sex trafficking. Officers Rosa 3 think the women are safe under their protection, however they know the signs, and therefore they cannot do anything to prevent it from occurring (Meekins). Victims of human trafficking who are in the jails or prisons tend to view the officers as corrupt because the officers see them as the criminals instead of victims. Thus, the officers often ignore the women and neglect their need for safety. In the past, officers would focus on arresting the women who were selling sex, but that tended to put the girls in more danger. So nowadays, the cops tend to go after the sex buyers instead. It is hard for the cops to catch the pimps therefore they go after the buyers and sellers. In the past, officers would focus on arresting the women who were selling sex, but that tended to put the girls in more danger. So nowadays, the cops tend to go after the sex buyers instead. As a more efficient way for the cops to do their job is to catch the crime in action. Women cops will pretend to be prostitutes and wait for a man to try and buy her time and the men will either wait in the shadows for a man to go up to a real prostitute or he will pretend to be a buyer. This can be effective, however the women are still not safe. Having the cops on the street undercover is also dangerous for them. In order to keep the prostitutes off the street and the cops out of harms way, organizations, such as L.O.V.E Ministry, should work together with the police departments. Instead of locking the victims away in jail or prison and treating them like they are the criminals, the cops could deliver the women safely to the organizations safe house. This would give the victims of human trafficking a real fighting chance at having a normal life outside the prison walls and outside the control of their pimps. The safe house these girls would be kept in would be far enough away from society that no one would just upon The girl would be taught simple life rules that they either never learned or forget due to being on the streets for too long. L.O.V.E. Ministry is a Christ-based organization which is good for the girls. Giving them something to focus on and strive for will Rosa 4 help them to not feel the need to run back to their pimps. A lot of the time, after these victims are released from jail or prison, they feel the need to go back to their pimp because that is the only life they know how to life. But being in the safe house with trained counselors will allow them to learn how to be on their own and to grow as the person they were always meant to be. Police departments and corrections facilities should definitely work with organizations such as L.O.V.E. Ministry, not only for the girls sake but also for theirs. Sending the girls to safe houses run by these type of organizations would ultimately free up room at the jails and prisons in order to lock away more threatening criminals that should not be on the streets. Overall, working together is better for the community because it gets prostitutes off the streets and allows for worse people to be locked up. The victims will be counseled and taught how to be an independent person. Once finished with the rehabilitation programs at the safe houses, these women will be back in society living on their own. It will be hard, but with the worse took their places at the jails or the street, they will feel a bit safer. Rosa 5 Works Cited Meekins, John. Human Trafficking Thrives Because Officers Know What It  In Public Safety. N.p., 01 Dec. 2015. Web. 28 Jan.2017.<http://inpublicsafety.com/2014/08/human trafficking-thrives-because-officers-dont-know-what-it-is/>. Rosa, Stacey. Ladies of Victory & Encouragement L.O.V.E.  L.O.V.E. Ministry Helping Victims of Human Trafficking. Issac Rosa, 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://love-ministry.org/>. Rosa, Stacey. Personal communication. January 28, 2017. The Role of Corruption in Trafficking in Persons. Vienna: United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, 2011. UNODC. 2011. Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Wong, David, Pauli Poisuo, Alexander Pan, and Elorm Kojo Ntumy. 7 Things You Learn As A Cop Pretending To Be A  Cracked.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.cracked.com/personal-experiences-1950-7-things-you-learn-as-cop-doing prostitution-stings.html>.