Chancafe 1 Maria Chancafe Casey Clague ENC1102 - 076 29 January 2017 Physician Assisted Suicide Physician assisted suicide is one of the most controversial topics to be consulted in the medical field. This is due to the many different viewpoints on what physicians should do in terminally ill cases. The practice of physician assisted suicide began in 1998 when the United States witnessed the first legal case (Josefson). Even in this case, the act was only able to be done with the small margin that approved the Death with Dignity Act. This act is a fairly lengthy process in which a patient must first be above 18 years of age and a resident of a state that allows for the Death with Dignity Act. Then the patient must find a doctor in the practicing state, the patient must also have a terminal illness with less than 6 months to live. This is only the basic criteria for a patient being eligible for physician assisted suicide. Once a patient passes these initial criteria they must then make two oral requests to partake in the practice being 15 days apart. Then the patient must make a written request to their physician and another physician is then brought to consult on the case. Once these two physicians agree on the prognosis, with the possibility of a psychologist or psychiatrist being brought in on the case (Johnson). The process to get approved for the act of physician assisted suicide can take a long period of time depending on the individual patient themselves and the length can change from patient to patient. One major viewpoint that we see in the debate of physician assisted suicide is from the patient and their family. Typically, patients and their want to be able to have this right to decide what they do with their own bodies and to end their suffering on their own terms rather Chancafe 2 than losing control of their entire bodies. Not only do the patients receive comfort in having their own choice. Even though it is always hard for a family member or friend to lose someone close, families and friends can also receive comfort in knowing that the patient did not die in vain and they were able to make their own decision on when they were ready to die and save themselves from seeing the pain and torture the patient will face in the following months. Another viewpoint that we see a lot when it comes to the practicing and legality of physician assisted suicide is the viewpoint of the physician(s) themselves. It is never easy for a physician to lose a patient, especially a patient that they have been taking care of for an extensive amount of time, which is typically the case when coming to these terminally ill patients (Van Delden). Yet, these physicians still want what is best for their patients and to explore many options as possible. The Death with Dignity Act does not require all physicians to practice, a physician can choose whether or not they wish to practice and will then be credited if chose to do so. This choice is optional because not every physician believes in this practice. This is mainly due to the fact that the Hippocratic Oath states that a physician will not prescribe a lethal dosage (Hippocratic Oath). Lawmakers also make a very big impact in the legalization of physician assisted suicide across the country. As of today, the United States has four states that are permitted to practice physician assisted suicide, and one state that is allowed to practice only if a judge were to say it was allowed. Due to the slow growing approval rate it can be determined that lawmakers do not really see physician assisted suicide as a necessity to the medical field and that patients and the country would be better off without it. When a survey was taken to see whether or not people believe that physician assisted suicide was ethical, it was founded that at first it was unethical, Chancafe 3 but after being informed more people found that the practice should be considered ethical (Frileux, et. Al.). As explained in this paper, physician assisted suicide has many different viewpoints or stakeholders that contribute to the legalization of this practice across the United States. Patients can compromise with doctors by being able to understand that physicians have their own opinions and beliefs, even though it may oppose beliefs- it should still be respected. Doctors are around illness just about every day and can see the struggle that each terminally ill patient goes through. Even though that physician specifically does not agree with the practice of physician assisted suicide, they could still try to help those patients by allowing it for the act to be passed- yet choosing for themselves not to practice. Lawmakers can empathize with patients and their families, as well as doctors by seeing that even though death is hard on everyone involved, the struggle that one has to go through in a case that has no chance of surviving past 6 months. Patients, families and doctors can empathize with lawmakers by attempting to understand that they are trying to do what is best for the country as a whole. Chancafe 4 Frileux, S., Lelievre C., Sastre M. T. Munoz, Mullet E., and Sorum P.C. Is Physician Assisted Suicide or Euthanasia Journal of Medical Ethics, vol. 29, No. 6, 2003, pp. 330-336. This article examines in what situations physician assisted suicide and euthanasia are acceptable; finding that euthanasia was considered less acceptable than physician assisted suicide. This article was published by a well-respected medical journal that has served a purpose of exploring the ethics in medicine all around the world. The Hippocratic Oath and the Ethics of Medicine, 1948. The Hippocratic Oath is an oath that all incoming physicians that have graduated from medical school must take to show that they are dedicated to the life-long service of saving lives. Johnson, B. with Dignity Encyclopedia of Aging and Public Health, 2008, pp. 256- 257. This article explains the law and the process that goes into a patient being able to use the Death with Dignity Act in the state of Oregon. In this article it gives a step but step explanation of what a patient must do. The book that this article is in is known for explaining and having many different medical practices as well diseases that are attributed to the aging community. Josefson, Deborah. Sees First Legal Case of Physician Assisted BMJ: British Medical Journal, vol. 316, no. 7137, 1998, pp. 1037. Deborah Josefson is a certified physician in anatomic pathology, as well as in internal medicine; in this article she explains how the first women, age 85 and diagnosed with metabolic breast cancer, was the first person in the United States to undergo the process of physician Chancafe 5 assisted suicide legally. In her article she also examines other physicians who have practiced in physician assisted suicide. Van Delden, Johannes J. M. BMJ: British Medical Journal, vol. 316, no. 7143, 1998, pp. 1543. Web. Accessed at http://www.jstor.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/stable/pdf/25179261.pdf on October 1, 2016. Johannes JM Van Delden is a professor of medical ethics at Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care located at Utrecht University, in addition to being a professor he also has a PhD and a MD. This article talks about the ethics of physician assisted suicide in the 1990s and how the doctors feel morally and ethically about physician assisted suicide.