Daniel Cortez Professor Davis Comp II January 26, 2017 Net-Neutrality The internet has been considered one of the most open spaces for thoughts and ideas, of our generation. All the traffic, due to its wide use, has caused concerns regarding efficiency and stability. The internet as we use it now is guarded by what is called Net-Neutrality, the right that ISPs may not throttle or hinder our internet use no matter what sites we visit. This causes problems for the ISPs (Internet Service Providers) including one person consuming most of the bandwidth in a community and overall performance drop when many people are streaming their favorite shows online. If Net-Neutrality was taken away they could solve this problem and save companies money. Coming to a compromise between these two different points of view on how the internet should be utilized is my goal. non-discriminatory nature champions the rights of the consumer over anyone else. The openness of the internet allows anyone to access anything they wants in a matter of seconds, which places high demands on the ISPs. Right now the internet is like a highway, the more people that get on it the more congested it is. This is sometimes inefficient but makes it equal for everyone whether they are with a different company or not. Without Net-Neutrality, as stated in Journal of Economic Perspectives: Net Neutrality: A Fast Lane to Understanding the Trade- offs, there would be and of the internet. Imagine if there were two lanes on the highway one for normal commuters and one for because of their employers. These fast lanes would be for companies who have a contract with the ISPs to ensure their users have the best experience on the provider as possible. Slow lanes would be for non-demanding sources and companies that have not contracted with others. This provides favorites and partnerships that benefit companies, but consumers with non-favored providers could get punished. ISPs use have been pushing against Net-Neutrality for years in many different court cases. They argue that the way the internet is processed right now causes congestion and limitations. The FCC passed something known as the the Open Internet that effectively prevented them from blocking or slowing competitor websites and services. Verizon challenged this in court saying that it upon First Amendment and also accused the FCC of trying to limit their services in the future. This creates a problem for both the consumer and the provider as the First Amendment protects both of them. During the court case the judges conferred that First Amendment analysis of access regulations must therefore be updated to reflect these technological which is found in Stephanie Split Net Neutrality: Applying Traditional First Amendment Protections To The Modern Interweb. The First Amendment originally included the press and other forms of publication to stop censorship from government. The internet is a major source of information so people believe it falls under the same principles as the press. Consumer and activist groups, such as Article 19 and the ACLU (American Civil Liberties Union), continue to fight for the neutrality of the internet as they believe that it would otherwise violate their rights. eBay and other online retailers have taken a strong stance for Net-Neutrality and have partnered to help keep it. eBay has a website that displays why they believe Net- Neutrality needs to stay in place. One point they make is that providers should not be permitted to double  by charging consumers twice for high-speed Internet access and Fees would occur because of the exchange of money that the partnership contracts would produce. In response to this, Judge Thomas asserted that different services on the internet should be categorized the consumer the service being The four main types of internet are browsing/email, video streaming, VOIP (Voice over Internet Protocol), and Peer to Peer connections. If the consumer where to choose between these they would most likely choose to have the best speeds on video streaming and browsing. This would leave companies and local businesses in the slow lane because they rely on VOIP. In other countries, the government allows ISPs to create data caps, limiting the amount of internet consumer can. The more a consumer pays the more internet they can use. This is currently used by cellular providers and some internet providers. T-Mobile allows some services such as HBO Go and Netflix to not be counted to your overall internet data usage. Other networks soon copied this for music streaming apps such as Pandora, iHeartRadio, and Spotify. They do this by lowering the quality so that it will not strain its service of other users. This could be a possible solution to the problem of bandwidth usage that ISPs face. The problem is that most customers do not value data caps and look for a more subscription based options that allow them to have unlimited internet at the speed they wish to have. Both sides have two things in common making a profit and allowing the internet to run as efficiently as possible. Two stake holders that seem to be at odds the most are the ISPs and the online retailers. These though never have to conflict if they are excluded from being throttled or hindered. eBay specifically stated that if the net was regulated then it would the Internet as we know it and reduce the ability of Internet users to reach a global If online retailers were excluded the market would continue the way it is while allowing ISPs to help streamline video website data and create partnerships that encourage competition. Other stakeholders are both the ISPs and the consumer advocate groups. Both of these groups want to keep their First amendment rights while surfing and managing the internet. To solve this, we could allow ISPs to block ads from competitors. As the internet is now internet providers give each other money due to the ad revenue on websites. For example, when a Comcast customer goes on a website with an ad for Century Link, Century Link would get ad revenue from the website. Customers would be content with ISPs blocking competitor ads because it would not affect their internet speed or preferences in any matter. In conclusion, both sides want to come to find a medium that satisfies both of their needs. After many years of battling back and forth there are two solutions I have found with two different stakeholder situations. One being that ISPs should be able to throttle video websites but nothing else. This would allow the market to remain open and run efficiently for both consumer and provider. Another is allowing ISPs to block competitor ads would help both them and their consumers keep their First amendment rights stated in the United States Constitution. Keeping the internet open and free should be the goal of any internet user, but its efficiency and effectiveness lies in the provider. They deserve the same rights as the consumers do and should have the goal to make the internet run as efficiently as possible. Work Sited Greenstien Shane, Martin Peitz, and Tommaso Valletti. Net Neutrality: A Fast Lane to Understanding the  Journal of Economic Perspectives. Spring2016, Vol. 30 Issue 2, P127-150. 24p 30.2 (2016): 127-50. USF Library. USF, Spring 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=6692a58f-a0ee-44b5-a35f- e09d5aeaa6f0@sessionmgr120&vid=2&hid=120>. Kan, Stephanie. Split Net Neutrality: Applying Traditional First Amendment Protections To The Modern  Houston Law Review 53.4 (2016): 1149-1177. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Net  EBay Main Street. EBay, 26 June 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ebaymainstreet.com/issues/net-neutrality>.