Viviana M. Milla MILLA Professor Spencer Bennington ENC 1102 24 January 2017 1 A new educational system to achieve equal rights among women in the Middle East The controversy about women rights between the Arab and the Occidental countries exist since both societies have contact in the XIX century (Schwedler 55). Despite the technological progress promoted the modernization and amalgamation of different cultures, the gap between both opposite societies increased with the globalization process. As an initiative to find a common ground, both societies have created international regional organizations, in order to represent their interests at the global level. For instance, the Middle Eastern countries, created the Arab states league. This organization has 22 countries of North Africa and the Middle East. The Arab states league purpose is to arrive to a common agreement in controversial issues such as rights among the Muslim-Arab states. The actual aim of the Arab league is to promote rights according to values, thus equality between men and women must be encourage in terms of Islam (Arab States League 85). However, the Quran itself does not promote disparity between women and men rights, the different interpretations of the Holy book have lead to women disparity across the Arab nations. For instance, the role of prominent women is exalted in the Quran such as is the case of Eve, the women of Noah, Lot and Abraham, Zulaykha, etc. (Freyer Stowasser 13). The relevance of Islam in the public sphere can only be understand by knowing that politics and religion are severely intermingled in the Arab countries. Thus the importance of religion is not constrained to the private sphere, as it is in the occidental society. In addition, for the Arab society, women have a representative role for their identity, thus the adoption of occidental manners, will MILLA 2 implicate to renounce to who they are. By the other side, the occidental hemisphere constantly criticizes the oppressive and deplorable situation of women in the Arab world. All the occidental countries emphasize their perspective thought the United Nations Women (UNW) that is the emblem of the defense of women oppression. The UNW represents the promotion of women liberty and freedom according to the occidental perspective. Therefore, the UNW purpose is that the Arab women achieve an economic empowerment, leadership and political participation according to the global norms and standards (UNW 12). Thus, the UNW see the Arab values as restrictive and authoritarian that just ensure the empowerment of a misogynous and patriarchal society. Overall both organizations have total opposite perspectives about rights, however both coincide that women must feel completely developed in their environment. This aim can be achieved if both perspectives arrive to a common ground in which the Arab women continues to be an icon of the Middle East identity, but gain certain rights such as equal education and private property that do not go against the values promoted by the Quran. In order to achieve this purpose, the Arab league will have to assimilate an interpretation of the Quran that do not go against women rights. Thus, the women issue will be solved, because women will feel that their identity as Arab women is not longer in conflict with her female nature. Despite the Arab League and the United Nations Women apparently have contrasting perspectives about rights in the middle east, both share the common belief that women must be protected and developed in their society. The Arab states league thought a document call the Arab charter on Human rights provides protection for women during work and prohibits discrimination base on gender (Arab league 23). This document is not base on the traditional interpretation of the Quran that encourages disparity between both genres (Wadud 29). However, many Arab countries part of the league do not encourage the accomplishment of these rights, MILLA 3 because they still sovereign and independent about the interpretation of the Quran. In contrast, many Arab countries that are under the influences of globalization want to increase the participation of women in the labor and political force thought gender parity in education, such is the case of Turkey, Syria and Iran (Schwedler 363). Those countries have the vision that there is not a conflict between the Quran values and the development of women promoted by the occidental perspective, because the Quran, different from the traditional interpretation of it, encourage women development. Those countries assume that women participation in the public sphere is a core element to the development of the country. The United Nations Women (UNW) is the biggest proponent of worldwide rights to liberty and freedom. Therefore, the countries part of this organization comprehend that the issue about rights is very convoluted and complicated. Thus, they assume that there are certain Arab values that must be conserve and preserve as part of the Arab identity and the cultural diversity. For instance, to the UNW and UNESCO feminine Arabic clothing can not be a synonym of oppression and discrimination, instead a symbol of diversity and union (UNESCO 120). Therefore, the promotion of women rights in the Arab world can not be base on the sacrifice of their identity. The purpose of the UNW is to enhance the equality between women and men thought an educated Arab population. This common purpose between these two organizations is essential because will allow to arrive to a common ground in which the biggest winner will be the Arab women. As principal representatives of their perspectives about the women issue, the UNW and the Arab states league can arrive to an agreement that will enhance Women situation in the Arab world. However, if both representatives do not arrive to any common agreement, Arab rights will never find a solution. MILLA 4 The only way to generate an agreement and a solution between UNW and the Arab League is to create a common educational program to the Arab world that will explain how the implementation of women rights do not interfere with the Islamic concept of women. In order to achieve this goal, the Arab league must ensure that every country member of the league impose a mandatory educational program that explains to the Arab population, since they are children, that women rights such as labor and political equity are not against their sense of identity. This solution will be possible due to the relevant role of the state in the Arab population daily life. For instance, the schools in Syria promote the educational development of women giving them free access to it (World Bank 166). Despite the religiosity of the Syrian government, they do not find conflict between the women development and the Islamic rule. This happens because they take an interpretation of the Quran in which the wife of the Prophet Mohammad is take as an example of entrepreneurship and independence (Hafez 26). Unfortunately, this is the reality of just a few Arab countries. Thus, in order this solution can be achieved, before implementing this program, the Arab educational system will have to arrive to an official interpretation of the Quran in which the role of women is not relegated to the private sphere. This new educational system will require that both sides left out extremist perspectives about women rights. The Arab league countries will have to understand that a free interpretation of the Quran will just generate more discrimination and gender inequity between men and women. Thus a consensus on the Quran interpretation will not only lead to women equality but also to the social development of the Arab society. By the other side, the UNW will have to focus more in the gains achieve thought a common agreement with the Arab states than in the looses, such as the advocacy for sexual liberty in the Middle East. They will need to accept that the promotion of birth control and abortion as means of women liberty go against MILLA 5 the Arab values. Both organizations have to understand that by the sacrifice of certain extremist aspects, they can achieve their main goal of feminine political and labor participation and equity. Arab women freedom will always be controversial, because to find a satisfactory common ground is hard if both sides continue with extremist perspectives. Stakeholders like the United Nations Women (UNW) will always believe that the defense of rights is a primordial worldwide fact. The same happens with the Arab league countries that are certain that just the development of women in the political, educational and labor spheres will allow the advancement of the Arab society. However, these two stakeholders will not achieve exactly what they want with this educational program, they will achieve their common aim, the progress of the Arab women. With the implementation of this program not only these two stake holders will be benefited, because the Arab and the transnational companies will experience the improvement of the labor force by the addition of more capable women. Thus as a whole this educational program will generate an economic and social growth for the Arab countries. MILLA 6 Works Cited Freyer Stowasser, Barbara. Women in the traditions, and interpretation. Oxford University Press. 1994 Hafez, Nimat. Identity and the University Press of Florida, 2004 League of Arab States. The league of Arab States Human Rights Standards and Mechanism. Open Society Foundation, 2015, https://www.opensocietyfoundations.org/sites/default/files/league-arab-states-manual- 20151125.pdf. Accessed 21 January, 2017. Schweller, Jillian, Understanding the contemporary Middle East. Lynne Rienner Publishers, 2013. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The road not traveled: Education reform in the Middle East and North Africa. The World Bank press, 2008, Accessed 21 January, 2017. United Nations Women. Protection of Arab Women Peace and Security. United Nations Press, 2012 United Nations Educational. Scientific and Cultural Organization, Women Intangible Heritage and Development in the Arab World. United Nations Press. 2013 Wadud, Amina. and Women. Oxford University Press. 1999 MILLA 7