Anonymous 1 Anonymous Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 29 February 2017 Legalizing Marijuana Marijuana has always been a controversial topic for many years and still remains controversial today. Marijuana has found to be beneficial to the sickness and can be used to treat pains and relieve symptoms. But marijuana is addictive and can also be used as a gateway drug. Marijuana can be used as a type of medicine, but it comes with a cost. CALM, Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana, is an organization that brings awareness on how harmful and dangerous marijuana can be and is against any marijuana use. NORML, National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, is another organization that promotes the use of marijuana, both medical and recreational use. Although their reasons for legalizing marijuana are different, they both believe their choice of reasoning is saving lives and whatever they promote is to help the people. If they come up with a compromise that can keep marijuana from being a recreational drug but allow access to medical uses, then both parties are fulfilling their ultimate goal: to help the general public. NORML, based in Washington, DC, is a non-profit organization that was founded in 1970 by Keith Stroup. Since then, they have been advocates for the legalization of marijuana. NORML wants high quality marijuana that is safe and inexpensive to be available for all consumers, whether for medical and recreational purposes. They state that cannabis, or marijuana, is a valuable aid that treats relief such as neuropathic pain, nausea, spasticity, Anonymous 2 glaucoma, and movement (NORML). Although still in its research stage, marijuana may protect the body against malignant tumors. According to NORML, immediate legal access to medical marijuana under a supervision is given and supported by more than sixty health organizations in the U.S. In their fight against anti-marijuana propaganda, they inform the public that marijuana is much less dangerous than alcohol and tobacco; 50,000 people die each year from alcohol poisoning more than 400,000 deaths each year are attributed to tobacco (NORML). By informing the media and taking action in legal-settings, NORML is making a change in legalized marijuana. CALM, based in California and Ohio, is an all-volunteer committee that is made up of parents, business owners, medical professionals, crime and safety officials, young and old all working to defeat the legalization of (CALM). They strongly believe that marijuana should not be used, transported, or cultivated in any way and that the federal laws on marijuana should not be softened. In an article posted on website, it said that marijuana can cause permanent brain damage, health problems such as cancer, and mental illnesses that can lead to crime and violence. CALM also believes that marijuana is not a type of medicine because the FDA, the Food and Drug Administration, has yet to approve it and considers marijuana as an unsafe and ineffective drug. Marijuana can also potentially harm or even kill a fetus and cause DNA damage according to article. Marijuana is widely used by youth and adults and may cause addiction, making its users physiological dependent to the substance. To have physiological dependence is to become dependent upon a substance and that without the substance in this case marijuana the body may fail to function and cause unpleasant symptoms. Marijuana is also said to coordination, decision-making, and (DFAF), which the risk of traffic (CALM). Because of these many Anonymous 3 reasons and that there are more pros than cons, CALM believes that marijuana should be kept illegal. With two strongly-opposing organizations, each with their different opinions on marijuana, how can there be a compromise? NORML wants to see marijuana legalized whereas CALM wants marijuana to stay illegal. Both disagree with each other as a whole but agree on one ultimate thing: to help best for the people. One group believes that marijuana is dangerous but the other believes that marijuana can be used as treatment. There can be some negotiation with medical marijuana. Marijuana can still be illegal on the streets and be banned from recreational uses. Legalized medical marijuana does not mean it will be an drug. Medical marijuana can be obtained with a prescription or a license card. Right now it is really easy to purchase a medical marijuana recommendation in California and it only costs $39 to do so (NuggMD). On website, there is no need for an appointment and the questionnaire is only 30 seconds long. This is not enough information on the consumer and may give access to marijuana to the wrong person with the wrong reasons. NuggMD also calls the access an online A med card gives the consumer easy access to marijuana immediate deliveries the access to marijuana cultivation, and the protection from arrest for possession of medical marijuana for personal use. Cards must be difficult to get and the consumer must have a legitimate medical reason in order to use medical marijuana. Health systems and legal forces may have to work together to find background information on the consumer and use records and questionnaires to determine whether the consumer qualifies for a prescription. The process to get a card may be long, but for the best. Making stricter regulations can keep marijuana safe while it provides the access to marijuana to those who need it for medical reasons. Anonymous 4 CALM and NORML are two organizations that are at odds with each other. CALM wishes marijuana to be illegal and banned, whereas NORML wants marijuana to be used regularly by medical and recreational users. Neither one can win if the other group wins, but both can get their way if they negotiate and make a compromise. CALM and NORML is doing what they think best in order to help the general public, so by strictly making marijuana a medical drug with the access of a prescription or a card, they are helping each other out.This keeps marijuana out of the hands of the abusive recreational users but still allow patients and medical users the treatment they need. Word Count: 1006 Anonymous 5 Works Cited Working to Reform Marijuana  NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  CALM USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Get Your Medical Marijuana Card  420 Doctors. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Do You Buy Marijuana in California Now That  Online Medical Marijuana Handbook. N.p., 09 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Top Ten Reasons Not to Legalize   Home Drug Free America Foundation, Inc. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.