The topic about whether the minimum legal drinking age should be lowered from twenty one years old to eighteen years old has been debated for many years. Organizations who are in favor of lowering the legal drinking age to eighteen years old such as the National Youth Rights Association and Choose Responsibility are attempting to bring justice to this issue. However organizations such as The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism as well as the Alcohol Awareness Council are opposed to lowering the legal drinking age. They claim that lowering the legal drinking age will be medically unsafe for the young adults and make our public roadways much more dangerous. Both sides feel very strongly about this issue and are not likely to give in on their beliefs however if both organizations attempt to work together, they may be able to find a happy medium. A possible proposed compromise for this issue is reducing the drinking age to eighteen, but creating and enforcing harsher punishments for alcohol related crimes such as driving under the influence and public intoxication. If more severe punishments are put in place for committing these crimes, the percentage of alcohol related crimes would drop dramatically therefore satisfying both sides. To begin, the primary objective for The Alcohol Awareness Council and The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism is to inform the public about the use and abuse of alcohol, as well as to reduce the total number alcohol related problems. These organizations are solely thinking about what is best for the health and safety of the young adults involved. For example, they may argue that lowering the legal drinking age would be medically irresponsible. It has been discovered that the frontal lobe of your brain fully finish developing until your mid twenties. 1 Your frontal lobe is in charge of decision making, complex planning, logical thinking, personality development as well as risk management. When alcohol is introduced at an early age, it interferes with the early brain development. This interference in a young brain development can increase their risk for greater vulnerability to addiction, dangerous risk-taking behavior, poor decision making, depression, violence, as well as suicide. In addition, these safety and health organizations are thinking about the safety of others as well. Some may argue that lowering the legal drinking age will increase the number of drunk driving incidents therefore making our public roads unsafe and dangerous. Statistics show, there are over 159 million self- reported episodes of alcohol impaired driving each year. Over ten percent of the 159 million self-reported episodes were reported by 18-20 year olds. It is safe to assume that if the legal drinking age is lowered, the percentage of alcohol-impaired driving by 18-20 year olds will skyrocket. In contrast, the National Youth Rights Association and Choose Responsibility fights and defends the rights of young people in the United States in addition to properly educating them to make responsible and mature decisions about alcohol consumption in their own lives. In the United States of America you are deemed an adult at the age of eighteen. Once you turn eighteen years of age, you receive the same rights and responsibilities as any other adult. These rights include the ability to vote, serve on juries, purchase a handgun, purchase tobacco, be tried as an adult if they commit a crime, as well as serve your country and join the military. The National Youth Rights Association and Choose Responsibility argue that if young adults are deemed capable enough to serve on a jury and decide legal fate, mature enough to be tried as an adult if they commit a crime and responsible enough to be 2 able to purchase tobacco after being informed of the harms and risks, they clearly showed the ability to be competent enough to handle and understand their own alcohol consumption intake. The fact that in the United States the same eighteen year old who was deemed responsible enough to handle a firearm and carry out military orders, is not responsible enough to consume alcohol is laughable. The Alcohol Awareness Council and The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism wants to reach out to more and more people and inform them about the risks of alcohol, hoping to reduce the total number alcohol related problems. The National Youth Rights Association and Choose Responsibility wants the young adults to have equality and be treated likely every other adult. Although these organizations appear to be at odds with one another, both organizations are attempting to do what is best for the health, safety, and treatment of the young adults involved. There is no perfect solution for satisfying both sides, however if both stakeholders are willing to negotiate, a compromise can be reached. A possible compromise for this issue is creating and enforcing harsher punishments for alcohol related crimes such as driving under the influence and public intoxication. If more severe punishments are put in place for committing these crimes, the percentage of these crimes would drop dramatically. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and the Alcohol Awareness Council have to give in on their stance and allow the legal drinking age to lowered to 18 years old. However, the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and the Alcohol Awareness Council both would accomplish their goal as the public would be informed about the 3 dangers of alcohol and the severe punishments put in place would discourage more people from committing alcohol related crimes such as driving under the influence. Organizations such as Choose Responsibility and the National Youth Rights Association would achieve their goal as well by winning young adults the right to drink alcoholic beverages. However due to the severity of the punishments put in place for committing alcohol related crimes, young adults will be much more cautious if and when they decide to consume it. Works Cited Drinking  National Youth Rights Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. McCardell, John. Choose  Drinking Age - Choose Responsibility. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. AAC - Alcohol Awareness  Alcohol Abuse Education Alcohol Awareness Council - AAC. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. 4 Males, Minimum Purchase Age for Alcohol and Young-Driver Fatal Crashes: A Long-Term The Journal of Legal Studies 15 (January 1987) 207. Peter Asch and David T. Levy, the Minimum Drinking Age Affect Traffic Journal of Policy Analysis and Management 6.2 (1987): 189. 5