Morarji 1 Nabhanya K. Morarji Dr. Jarad Fennel English Composition II 27 January 2017 Project 1, Intermediate Draft In the words of Keith Bellows, ex editor-in-chief of National Geographic Traveller, are some parts of the world that, once visited, get into your heart and go. For me, India is such a India a country with a population of 1.252 billion people, and a history reaching back 5 millennia has come a long way since its independence from the British empire almost 70 years ago. now a land filled with diversity, beauty, wealth, culture and tradition. the birthplace of four of the major religions, and is also home to 1,652 languages and has 22 official languages. Furthermore, being the sixth largest economy in the world, India has been able to produce thousands of opportunities for employment for all its citizens. However, in spite of all the success that India can boast, there has been a fair amount of turmoil since the election of the 14 th Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, nearly 3 years ago. There has been an immense amount of debate regarding Modi, who has a vast number of supporters as well as critics. On 8 th November 2016, Modi singlehandedly announced the demonetization of 500 and 1,000 rupee notes, and introduced a new 2,000 rupee note. This led to an outrage among the population, since those are the notes most commonly used by the masses. Furthermore, the fact that he gave no warning about this matter left the people of India feeling betrayed since no one had the time to convert their notes, which led to a pause of cash flow in the country. Although demonetization was a medium used to control corruption in India, the execution of it left the country in chaos and confusion. Hence, a compromise Morarji 2 between two of the main stakeholders the government and the citizens needs to be examined. India was governed by the Congress for majority of the years since its independence. However, their rein was put an end when the opposing party, BJP, came to power because of Narendra Modi being elected as Prime Minister. The people were sick of the false promises of success, and hence choose to elect the opposing candidate who almost guaranteed economic success. After almost 3 years of not a lot of change, the people who voted for Narendra Modi started doubting him. Critics and experts stated claim that the abrupt decision of demonetization was a direct result of the criticism faced by Modi. In simpler words, Modi cracked under all the pressure, and announced the scheme of demonetization without any planning whatsoever as a way to show the population that something was being done for the country. However, due to the lack of consultation, organization, planning, as well as terribly poor execution, his decision backfired almost immediately when the people realized that he had put no thought to the process. Following the incident, he went on the deliver a speech directed to the population during which Modi got emotional while trying to defend his decision and explained to the public that it was a necessary step that the government had to take in order to keep corruption in check. He further tried to explain how it resulted in the government seizing an enormous amount of black money during the raids that were conducted, which made people realize that the raids were only conducted on the public and the general population while government officials and people of power were not affected. This infuriated the masses even more, since it became apparent that Modi had no intentions of conducting raids on government officials which brought Morarji 3 to light the horrifying amount of corruption present within the government itself. Since demonetization was first announced, feelings of resentment and dread have been felt all throughout India. The introduction of demonetization halted cash flow in the country. People did not have change, since notes skipped straight to 2,000 from 500. Businesses suffered, and farmers were dismal. People had to wait in queues at banks for hours on end just trying to convert their notes in order to have money they could actually spend. On 12 th November 2016, merely 4 days after demonetization was announced, reports came in of death while waiting in queues were released. Additionally, the Sensex registered the biggest single-day fall in 9 months. Working class citizens had to wait for weeks at a time to be able to stand in queue since they did not have time during working hours, following which banks would be closed for operation. The plight of the population further increased when the new 2,000 rupee notes were not made correctly in size to fit through an ATM machine, which resulted in the government having to remake the notes and left the people to change them again. By this point, people were frustrated and had lost all faith in the government, and even more so in Modi. To bridge the gap between the government of India and its people, a compromise needs to be made. In order for this to happen, finding a common platform for both beliefs and ideals is essential. In this case, the common platform is simple: keeping corruption in control. Although eradicating it would be ideal, it is realistically impossible. Therefore, a compromise beneficial to both stakeholders would be to slow down the process of demonetization. Instead of immediately invalidating 500 and 1,000 rupee notes due to succumbing to pressure and critique, Modi should have first introduced the idea to the public which would Morarji 4 have served his purpose of attempting to make a change, but have radically affected the population. Furthermore, if the need for demonetization was that urgent in order to seize black money, he could have first announced a newer version of the 1,000 rupee notes, given the public enough time to exchange the notes so the cash flow come to a sudden stop, following which he could have introduced the 2,000 rupee note, and then invalidated the 1,000 rupee notes. On the other hand, if experts were right about criticism being the cause of irrational demonetization, further criticizing Modi help the situation. To conclude, the success of demonetization depends on a compromise. Although it might not have been completely necessary, the fact remains that it has been implemented. The incident should serve as a reminder of the ugliness of corruption which is something the government as well as the people should consider before indulging in it time and time again. Furthermore, the incident sheds light on how the success or failure of a country lies in the relationship between the government and its people. Additionally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi sucks and is absolutely awful. And spooky, mysterious and cocky Hi everyone my name is Nabhanya and I am trying to get by this paper because I barely have time to finish it My name is Nab hanya (1,195 words) I love cats and dogs and I want to go back home I love my family I love my cat Nicholas even though that is not his name at all a good cat Morarji 5 Works Cited Fallout: Surviving in a Cash-Starved PC Quest 2016: General OneFile. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. All India Congress Committee demands joint parliamentary The Times of India 2016: General OneFile. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. How to respond to the side-effects of The Economic Times 2016: General OneFile Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Acharya, Advait, John E. Roemer, and Somanathan. Corruption And Political Competition In Research In Economics 69. Special issue on Political Economy (2015): 336-352. ScienceDirect. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Anti-Corruption Strategies: A Cross-Cultural Protoview 2015: Academic OneFile. Web. 23 Jan. 2017.