Anthony Gonnella Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 31 January 2017 Should steroid users be allowed into the MLB Hall of Fame There has been a question fans, players, and coaches in the sport of baseball have had for a very long time, and that question is, should suspected or convicted steroid users be allowed into the Hall of Fame? The two main stakeholders associated with this argumentative issue is the Writers association and the groupings of retired players suspected of using steroids. The Writers association and the groupings of retired players suspected of using steroids are at odds due to the fact that these players are not being allowed into the Hall of Fame. A way to resolve this issue is to find a new way for players to be put into the Hall of Fame without any potential bias. There are several valid arguments supporting both sides of this issue, as well as, arguments that support a logical compromise. The Writers association is largest and most powerful stakeholder concerning the side of the argument that does not want steroid users into the Hall of Fame. At the moment they possess all the power because they are the sole deciding factor on who gets into the Hall of Fame. Their opinions are the only ones that matter when deciding who gets in, the fans and coaches opinions are irrelevant in these situations. There are several examples demonstrating the bias towards steroid users and why they let them into the Hall of Fame. For example, according to Rosen, In 2013, the Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWA) admit any players into the National Baseball Hall of Fame for just the second time in 42 (Rosen 1). This was a heavy steroid user year and it showed in their voting. Another example of the voters showing this bias is shown here by Sheinin, When the first wave of purported and admitted steroids users began appearing on the Baseball Hall of Fame ballot a decade ago, voters rejected them overwhelmingly, no matter their (Sheinin 1). These two examples are perfect in representing why the current system is flawed and biased. On the other hand, although this is one extreme side to this issue there is also another extreme side to this argument. The groupings of retired players accused of using steroids are the largest stakeholder on the opposite side of the argument. They feel that regardless of any wrong doing they have done through steroids they should be forgiven and welcomed with open arms. Also, some of them continue to plead innocence and simply cannot understand why they are being punished when no concrete evidence has been produced. These players arguments can be somewhat understood, because in the baseball world as soon as you are accused of steroids you are virtually outcasted regardless if there was any hard evidence or not. There are several examples of claims supporting these groupings of players and why they should be let into the Hall of Fame. First of all, there have been studies about the effects of steroids on athletes, these studies show that although steroids can increase muscle recovery and increase muscle growth, they do not directly relate to athletic performance on the field. According to Peterson, Using the top statistics from both offensive and defensive categories and the detrending theory, we can accurately detect just how much an athletes performance is enhanced for a certain period of time compared to their whole (Peterson 1). The results from this study show that the performance of athletes when on steroids versus when they are not is not a drastic difference when you look at their career as a whole. Another example that supports the retired players side is that the fans want to see these players in the Hall of Fame. It is widely seen that these players numbers speak for themselves, these are some of the best players to ever play the game that are convicted of using these drugs. According to Quick, When the argument came about if these players should be allowed into the Hall of Fame, it was clear to see that the fans supported their entry regardless of allegations put on (Quick 73). These statements clearly support why these players should be let into the Hall of Fame, but not that simple. There are possible compromises that could benefit both sides and leave each satisfied. Based on the reasons and examples above there are two strong possible compromises, the second being stronger than the first example. The first example is for the fans to vote the players into the Hall of Fame since ultimately their opinion matters more than anyone when it comes to how popular or how successful the sport actually is. Without the fans there would be no players, no money, no professional game at all, basically it all comes down to the fans. On the other hand though, this compromise is flawed because the public perception of these players would play a huge role on who is voted in. Having this as the compromise would not eliminate the bias that currently exists. Therefore, the most viable compromise would be for the coaches currently in the league to vote for what players get in. These coaches work or have worked with these players day in and day out, they know the character of these players and they know if their numbers really back up what they meant to their team on the field. This would be the best option because it would eliminate bias, ensure the best players get in, while also keep the players out that truly do not deserve to be let in. Zeise writes a prime example of this, Jose Canseco is obviously a bit nutty these days, but he is exactly right in his assessment of the hypocrisy of baseball Hall of Fame voters and how broke that system (Zeise 1). This is exactly why a compromise needs to be proposed and this is the most logical one. There are two completely opposite sides to this argument, in which both have valid reasoning behind their arguments. Although both sides are at odds, there is a compromise that could work in the favor of both sides. By allowing the coaches to be the deciding factor as to who gets into the Hall of Fame, it eliminates bias, ensures the best players get in and makes sure the undeserving players do not. Although this problem seem to be resolved anytime soon, this compromise seems like the most effective and logical. Works Cited Peterson, Alexander M et al. Detrending Career Statistics in Professional Baseball: Accounting for the Steroids Era and Beyond, ArXiv, 28 Feb. 2010, arxiv.org/abs/ 1003.0134. Quick, Brian L. et al. Two-Study Investigation Into How Television News Frames the Steroid Scandal in Major League Baseball and Support for Bonds, McGwire, and Pending Induction Into the Baseball Hall of Communication Research, vol. 43, no. 1, 2 Jan. 2017, pp. doi:10.1177/0093650214558253. Rosen, Ben. Suspected Steroid Users Are Now Getting into the Baseball Hall of The Christian Science Publishing Society, 2017, General OneFile Sheinin, Dave. Key Changes That Could Finally Put PED Users into the Baseball Hall of The Washington Post, 17 Jan. 2017, Academic OneFile Zeise, Paul. Zeise: Snobby Baseball Writers Need Hall of Fame Voting Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 19 Jan. 2017, General OneFile