Mason Fish U22882548 ENC1102.053 Direct-to-Consumer Drug Advertising: the Compromise Mylan is an international pharmaceutical company which posts over $9 billion dollars in revenue annually. Although they are not one of largest pharmaceutical companies in the world in terms of revenue, their global presence especially in the realm of generic medication alternatives is especially tremendous. Mylan has been infamous in the recent past for the controversy related to the prices of the EpiPen, a life-saving medication which combats anaphylaxis and other symptoms of allergic reactions (McElrath, 2016). The World Health Organization (WHO) was founded in 1948 as a plan set up by the United Nations following World War II. Their goal as an organization is to work with governments and other health professionals to create a healthier future for the entire world (World Health Organization, 2009). In this way, they are concerned with diseases, aging processes, air and food safety, vaccines and medications, including medication advertising. In the United States, prescription drug companies spend an average of $5 billion dollars every year on direct-to-consumer drug advertising. This kind of advertising is one which is centered on reaching the patient directly, rather than health care professionals. As stated by the World Health Organization, the United States and New Zealand are the only two countries where this type of drug advertising is legal (Ventola, 2011). Their disdain for this practice is evident in the various bulletins posted within their website about the detrimental effects of it on patients, doctors and overall health. On the other hand, Mylan spent over $43 million dollars in advertising just for the EpiPen alone in 2015 (Ventola, 2011). They spend money on advertisements because their money is returned back to them and then some. Despite their opposing views on direct-to-consumer drug advertising, a decrease in advertising could be possible through incentives for drug companies to remove their ads. In this way, the WHO and drug companies such as Mylan can both be satisfied while also decreasing patient confusion and misinformation sometimes provided in drug ads. One advantage of drug advertising is economical. By promoting advertisements, more money is to be made for the companies which place the ads as well as the pharmaceutical companies themselves. It is shown that every dollar spent in drug advertisements yields between two to four dollars in profits (Ventola, 2011). This is the case for Mylan as well, and proves why these companies allocate so much into advertising. However, this benefit does not apply to the average consumer or patient. Another and more personable advantage of drug advertising involves the potential health and well-being increase of patients who are exposed to ads. Many doctors claim that prescription drug advertisements influenced their patients to initiate a meeting with them or another clinician. Although the drug which was seen on the television was not always actually prescribed, increased doctor visits alone can promote an health in leading them to other more appropriate medications which they do need (Ventola, 2011). Also, prescription drug ads have helped remove stigmas associated with diseases which were previously never talked about. One such example of this positive effect is with the case of Cymbalta, a commonly prescribed antidepressant drug. A study performed showed that individuals who watched an advertisement about the drug were more likely to empathize or offer help with a patient struggling with mental illness (Corrigan, Kosyluk, Fokuo, & Park, 2014). Despite such studies, the WHO believes that these ads should be illegal. There are several disadvantages to drug advertising as well. Whereas an overall economic benefit to companies was seen with direct-to-consumer drug advertisements, these can often increase costs of medications to patients. In the example of drugs for Schizophrenia, older drugs which show a similar safety profile and efficacy are now prescribed less than previously. This is because newer drugs such as Seroquel or Risperdal are now more commonly prescribed despite being more expensive because they are more commonly known through advertising (Ventola, 2011). If patients did not know of these newer drugs, they would agree to try the older drugs which work in a similar fashion and are much cheaper. Drug advertising has also been shown to decrease the potential health and well-being of patients. Because ads are not heavily regulated, manufacturers are only required to state the dangerous side effects (sometimes death!) of their medications with illegible print and a speaker whose words are too fast for human ears to decipher. In this way, patients can be misinformed leading to confusion or unnecessary fear. Along with this, doctor-patient relationships can be hindered in a situation where a patient views a drug on TV, thinks the drug is appropriate for them, requests the drug to be prescribed and is then denied when the drug is actually inappropriate for their condition. Also, this situation is dangerous because some doctors may fall victim to patient influence and prescribe a medication at a request which in reality is neither appropriate nor the best option for the patient (Wilkes, Bell, & Kravitz, 2000). For these reasons and others, the WHO is opposed to direct-to-consumer drug advertising. Although completely opposed on this topic, the WHO and Mylan do share some common ground. Both organizations need funds to do what they do, whether or not the WHO explicitly makes a profit as obvious as Mylan. Also, both organizations are concerned with the health of patients, albeit for different reasons. The WHO stands for international patient health with the goal of improving it and Mylan creates products which can help accomplish this goal. As stakeholders in the topic of direct-to-consumer drug advertising, both Mylan and the WHO have monetary and personal risks associated with rendering these ads completely illegal. This is why a compromise would be better suited to filling the needs of both companies while also putting in mind patient health and wellness. In order to avoid passing legislation which is often a lengthy and tedious process, I propose a system of incentives in order to influence drug companies to pull their advertisements off of the air. Along with these incentives would be an increase in education for patients to warn them about misinformation and inform them about cheaper drug alternatives. Since legislation would ultimately be required to completely get rid of drug advertisements, further education to patients could decrease some of the harmful effects of drug ads since not all drug companies would agree to remove their ads. First, with more education given to patients they would become more aware of the harmful effects of direct-to-consumer drug advertising (Kennedy-Tucker, 2014). Because of this, some companies may choose to withdraw their ads from the public or else face discrimination from patients who have now been enlightened. Second, drug companies would be encouraged to advertise their products in the form of paper or electronic literature provided to doctors. This could be shown on a screen within the office or other health care facility or handed to the patient directly. In this way, patients could still view the advertisements of drug companies but only in a controlled environment where questions and concerns could be directly addressed in the office. These advertisements would also be much cheaper or possibly free, but still yield patient views. Lastly, tax breaks would be given to the drug companies who choose to remove their ads from the public and instead advertise within the appropriate health care settings. Through the three step compromise, Mylan and other drug companies can move away from advertising damaging materials to uneducated patients while still making money. At the same time as this, our society can move further away from direct-to-consumer advertising and toward a healthier future as proposed by the World Health Organization. Works Cited Corrigan, P., & Kosyluk, K., & Fokuo, J., & Park, J. (October, 2014). How does direct to consumer advertising affect the stigma of mental illness? Community Mental Health, 50(7). Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24488184 Kennedy-Tucker, P. (2014). Direct-to-Consumer Advertising of Drugs and Health Care Seeking Behaviors. Welden University. McElrath, K. J. (August 30, 2016). Unbranded Advetising: Is Big Pharma Going Too Far? Drug Safety News. Retrieved from https://drugsafetynews.com/2016/08/30/unbranded- advertising-big-pharma-going-far/ Ventola, L. (October, 2011). Direct-to-Consumer Pharmaceutical Advertising Therapeutic or Toxic? Pharmacy and Therapeutics, 36(10). Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3278148/ Wilkes, M., & Bell, R., & Kravitz, R. (March, 2000). Direct-to-consumer prescription drug advertising: trends, impact, and implications. Health Affairs, 19(2). Retrieved from http://content.healthaffairs.org/content/19/2/110.short World Health Organization. (August, 2009). Direct-to-consumer drug advertising under fire. Bulletin of the World Health Organization, 87:2009(8). Retrieved from http://www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/87/8/09-040809/en/