Daveyah Daniels Daniels 1 Professor Madeline Gottlieb English 1102 30 January 2017 The Ethics of Life Support Within the health care community, the controversial topic of whether life support is ethical continues to arise. Patients who are on life support have experienced brain death and it is up to the patient, or their families if they would want to continue with the life support. There are circumstances in which the health professional is responsible for determining the livelihood of their patient. To be considered lawful, the family must not have been involved and were un present through this process (Oberle). The issue that many uphold is whether the health professional choosing to not undergo further treatment with the patient should be examined as assisted suicide. The Texas Ethics Committee upholds the right for health professionals to form the final decision when determining if there should be a continuation of care, while the United Sates law supports patients and their families having control over the ending of care. In Texas, the Ethics Committee grants the right for health professionals to decide on whether a patient will continue with life support, but neither the patient or family decides whether to end care (BSAHS). This committee is composed of 16-20 members that have been selected by the CEO (BSAHS). Their job in tales constructing reviews when notified on ethical or moral questions that may come up during a care (BSAHS). The ethics committee is not only utilized for health professionals. The patient, or family member can also request a consultation or review. The ethics committee in Texas came about in the 1970s and in 1999 the then governor George W. Bush gave the committees the power of law to make decisions on a care (Wray). This committee is not a representative of pro-life, therefore when deciding what is indeed ethical within the Texas hospitals, they construct their reviews on from a different standpoint. The Texas Advance Directives Act grants the hospital ethics committee paper work Daniels 2 that contains the right for them to make a final decision (Wray). An issue arises in October of 2016, when a patient by the name of David Chris Dunn, entered the Houston Methodist Hospital (Wray). His mother, Kelly, received an envelope by the medical team issuing that the hospital will end care for her son (Wray). The mother remained present for the meetings with the medical team, expressing her religious beliefs and her desire to continue life support for her son (Wray). However, the doctors had the final say and she refused to accept the envelop. Kelly had no other choice but to transfer her son to another hospital. The main concern of most patients and their families is the lack of influence that they have in the ethics committee final decisions. The United States law in regards to life support, principles hold that treatment may not be initiated without the approval of patients or their (Luce). Only under emergency circumstances does the health professional have the right to end care. These principles began with the Quinlan case that took place in New Jersey (Luce). The New Jersey supreme court declared that a patient had the ability to refuse withdrawal from treatment and if the patient is unable to exercise their right, their parents may act as a surrogate (Luce). Many supreme courts however, are reluctant to punish physicians. While physicians are aware of the United States laws, there is a sense of security in knowing the supreme court justice system will put them first. This is alarming for patients who have unwillingly been withdrawn from care by the hospital. There is a pattern within the legal system that continued treatment has been ordered when asked to resolve disputes between families that wish to continue treatment and physicians who resist (Luce). Even in these cases, the physicians are not punished. The laws concerning life support varies from state to state (Luce). With that, it creates a sure confusion for patients and their rights. Friction between the patient and physician can increase the potential for legal action. This is handled with a negotiation between the parties involved in the case (Luce). The patient must be aware of their Daniels 3 state laws on life support and proceed with caution. Ethics is what drives the United States law on life support, because the vital principles that justify the practice is whether there are briefed consents, or refusal on the matter (Luce). After much evaluation of the Texas Ethics Committee and the United States laws on life support, there is a clear compromise for both stakeholders. To better suit the patients and the physicians, hospice care is available for patients who are critically ill. focuses on caring, not (NHPCO). With hospice care, it allows for patients to be cared for by nurses without the constant pressure to end care from a traditional hospital. If money serves as an issue for a patient, or their family there are organizations such as Big Bend Hospice that began with volunteers from the community. Hospice creates a more comfortable environment for the patients versus traditional hospital settings. Individuals may choose to reside in the comfort of their own homes during their final days while the at home nurse cares for them. With some hospice care facilities, they train volunteers who visit the hospice care patients to give them the much-needed support. This may include musical therapy, pet therapy, or even simple conversation. To be considered a hospice patient, there are a series of tests health professionals must undergo. Nurses must determine the location and frequency of the pain, in addition to the symptoms the patient experiences (Laches 25). Once this is completed, to be eligible for a transfer to a hospice care facility the patient must have a note stating that the individual has 6 months or less to live. However, hospice care can exceed 6 months. The controversial argument concerning whether life support is ethical, often arises within the health care field. Patients undergoing life support, have experienced brain death and it is up to them, or their family if they wish to continue care. There are instances in which both the patient and their surrogate are unable to communicate with the health professional. Under this Daniels 4 circumstance, it is the health professional responsibility for determining the livelihood of their patient (Oberle). The issue that remains is whether the health professional choosing to not undergo further treatment with the patient should be examined as assisted suicide. The Texas Ethics Committee upholds the right for health professionals to form the final decision when determining if there should be a continuation of care, while the United Sates law supports patients and their families having control over the ending of care. Despite the differences in the beliefs, Hospice Care provides a means for the patient to be cared for rather than doctors working towards finding a cure for the critical illness. Works Cited Hospice  National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization. N.p., 12 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. This source summarizes the importance of Hospice Care and what it provides for patients and families. Hospice Care is known for implementing Daniels 5 compassionate care for those facing a life-limiting illness or injury. This health care field involves a more team-oriented approach that allows patients to receive the much needed emotional and spiritual support. Hospice Care is centered around ensuring that patients are being cared for rather than doctors find a cure for the patient as they approach the end of their life. The National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization belief is that an individual should have the right to die pain-free and with dignity, and their families will receive the necessary support to allow them to do so. The National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization is a well-known organization with in health care community. They are familiar with the rights and mission of Hospice Care and strive to continue providing care for their patients. Laches, Lisa A. The Relationships Among Pain, Dyspnea, Constipation and Quality of Life in Lung Cancer Patients Enrolled in a Hospice  N.p., n.d. Web. This academic journal summarizes the research conducted in regards to the assessment of pain and the protocols for health professionals. A terminally ill patient can be transmitted into a hospice care facility. To ensure the patient is eligible to be admitted into hospice care, the nurse must perform a physical examination on the individual. The most significant part of the examination is determining the location and frequency of the pain, in addition to the symptoms the patient has experienced. Lisa A. Aches, achieving her Masters of Science in the College of Nursing completed research on the relationships among pain, dyspnea. Constipation ad quality of life in lung cancer patients enrolled in a Hospice Program. Aches thesis has been reviewed by several of college of nursing professors to ensure its credibility. Daniels 6 Luce, John M., and Ann Alpers. American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care  Legal Aspects of Withholding and Withdrawing Life Support from Critically Ill Patients in the United States and Providing Palliative Care to Them: American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine: Vol 162, No 6. University of Florida, 1 Dec. 2000. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. This source covers the United States Laws on Life support. The law grants patients and their families the right to decide on the continuation of care. Only under emergency circumstances does the health professional have the right to determine the livelihood of the patient. Physicians are aware of these principles, but the laws concerning life support varies from state to state. This creates much confusion for patients who are affected by this. Most supreme courts do not punish physicians, which gives the patient a sense of fear when entering a traditional hospital. This article was written by John M. Luce and Ann Alpers. The goal of this article was to increase the understanding of the United States Laws versus individual state laws and how they conflict with one another. This source is credible, because it was produced by the University of Florida. Oberle, Kathleen, and Dorothy Hughes. and Perceptions of Ethical Problems in  Oberle - 2001 - Journal of Advanced Nursing - Wiley Online Library. N.p., 16 Mar. 2001. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This academic journals expresses the variations of the ethical principles amongst health professionals when it comes to the end of life decision making. There are instances where the patient is unable to tell their caregiver if they would prefer to end the life support. When that happens the doctor will step in and decide on the behalf on the patient if they should continue life support. When determining the ethics of life support, it is the matter of the individual moral values. His Daniels 7 academic journal is written by both Dr. Obele and Dr. Hughes. In their journal they include several research studies to ensure the credibility of their work. Wray, Dianna. In Texas, a Hospital Ethics Panel - Not the Patient or Family - Decides Whether to End  Houston Press. N.p., 02 Apr. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. This an article based on the story of David Chris Dunn and his mother Kelly. Kelly had been affected by the Texas Ethics Committee in regards to her son. The doctors had held a meeting and decided it was time to end medical care. Kelly had been present throughout the meetings with the team of doctors. Although she continued to voice her opinion to the doctors, under Texas State Laws, the doctors had the final say. This article was written by Dianna Wray. What makes this source credible is that it was published on HoustonPress. The story of David Chris Dunn and his mother Kelly was a true story that took place in Houston Methodist Hospital.