Jonathan Schrum Professor Karen Hanson ENC-1102-084 1/27/2017 The Issue of Overfishing The oceans are a significant source of food and revenue for hundreds and thousands of people from the coasts of Florida to the Bering Sea. Overfishing in these oceans leaves the possibility of destruction of the fragile eco-systems in our oceans. Many groups such as Green Peace believe that certain areas of the ocean should be made into marine reserves where fish and wildlife can populate and reproduce safely without interruption by commercial and recreational fisherman alike. The main basis behind this idea is that in these reserves fishermen may not keep their catch, or even fish there at all. Commercial fishing groups, such as the Florida Keys Commercial Fishing Association, undoubtedly are not in complete support of these ideas as they make their living and provide for their family out of fishing. They would rather have laws imposed that protect fisherman while also promoting conservation and resource (fkcfa.org, About Us). With this being said, even though both groups have differing opinions on how to conserve natural resources in the ocean, one can hope they can work to come to terms and find a compromise on the matter of overfishing and the issues that come with it. Green Peace is a global organization that seeks to protect natural resources and areas such as the artic, rain forests and oceans. In regards to protecting the oceans, Green Peace pushes for conservation of the ocean through the implementation of which are areas of water that commercial fishermen and often times the general public cannot operate in. This has multiple benefits to it including the chance for marine life to recover from destructive fishing methods, habitat re-nourishment and overall improved health of oceans and water ways. These benefits come with costs though. For example, commercial fishermen and fishing guides will not be able to access these waters and catch fish. If this happens, they must find fish in other areas that are not restricted but also might not be as productive. They will have to work exponentially harder and longer to bring home money and provide for loved ones. Green Peace provides a logical solution to overfishing and mistreatment of the oceans but there is room to compromise so multiple parties are satisfied. The Florida Keys Commercial Fishing Association supports commercial anglers not only in the Florida Keys, but the entirety of south Florida. South Florida and fishing go hand in hand as some of the most productive fishing grounds are found here. The mission of the FKCFA is to protect fishermen and the over-all fishing industry while also conserving resources and fish stocks. They also work with officials from the state to encourage fishing laws that will benefit the industry both in the short and long run. They make a point on their website to endorse the fact that all sea food from the keys and south Florida is the safest in the world, sustainable and harvested using environmentally safe (fkcfa.org, About Us). This group and countless groups just like it around the country work hard to survive in and also protect their industry, while also keeping the conservation of fish stocks, marine habitat and marine life a top priority. While these two groups do not necessarily see eye to eye on the issue of overfishing, their opinions are somewhat similar and could easily result in compromise between both parties. As stated before, Green Peace wants to implement marine reserves in certain areas along the coast of the US where fishing would be prohibited or limited to catch and release only. The FKCFA would like to keep fishing grounds open but also seek to conserve the natural resources such as fish stocks that support them financially. A simple compromise would include marine reserves being set up while still allowing some forms of fishing to occur inside the boundaries. For example, certain species could be considered off limits to the commercial anglers, or certain forms of fishing such as gill nets illegal. Obviously, details regarding a compromise would have to be worked out extensively through state officials and both organizations, but it would be well worth it as both groups would accomplish something in the long run instead of one group succeeding while the other fails. Compromise between these two groups would also lead to the possibility of more mutual agreements in the future which in turn would benefit both in the long run. All in all, both Green Peace and the FKCFA believe that the ocean, fish stocks and natural habitats need to be conserved so they will be able to live for generations to come. Their ideas on how to properly conserve the natural resources of the ocean differ in areas as Green Peace would rather see the complete stoppage of commercial fishing in their proposed marine reserves while FKCFA would rather not see marine reserves used at all. Certain compromises such as heavy regulation of commercial fishing in marine reserves would generally solve the issue between these two groups. Should compromise occur between said groups, it gives the opportunity to work together in the future towards the same goal of conservation while allowing for interests of both groups to still be considered. Works Cited Wear, Stephanie L. Missing the Boat: Critical Threats to Coral Reefs Are Neglected at Global  Marine Policy 74 (2016): 153-57. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hilborn, Ray. What Everyone Needs to N.p., 2012. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Starr, Richard M. Abundant Fish Stocks While Avoiding Overfished Species: Video and Fishing Surveys to Inform Management after Long-Term Fishery N.p., 21 Dec. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Krueck, Nils C. Reserve Targets To Sustain and Rebuild Unregulated N.p., 5 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.