Saito 1 Yuki Saito Krista Townsend Composition II January 29, 2017 Preventing Money Laundering in the Virtual Money Network People have been trading since ancient times and there has always been currency that represents value in every commodity exchanges. Since then, currency has been evolved from basic trading systems and materials of currency have been changed. However, in every process of switching to another currency system, there were always issues regarding to the currency. In the very early stages of currency, animals and grains were used to trade or buy other commodities. However, since that was eventually consumed, it caused trouble among people and hindered their flow of trading. To improve the efficiency of exchanges, small metal coins such as silver and gold were used as a method of trading. However, as the population increased, the amount of metals enough and the value increased significantly. Therefore, paper money was introduced to the world. The biggest change was that paper itself have a high value like gold, and it cannot be consumed like grains. Now, in 2000s, the currency is about to evolve from paper money to virtual money. In 2014, Virtual money was defined by The European Banking Authority as digital representation of value that is neither issued by a central bank or a public authority, nor necessarily attached to a flat currency, but is accepted by natural or legal persons as a means of payment and can be transferred, stored or traded (European Banking Authority) As there were problems when currency systems evolved, virtual money have caused social issues: cyber crimes especially money Saito 2 laundering through virtual money. The question is if we should start switching to virtual money or not. There are two stakeholder organizations involved in this social issue: Bitcoin organization and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). By examining new currency system and its pros and cons, Bitcoin and the FBI share responsibility for use of virtual money regarding to money laundering crimes that have been conducted since the currency appeared in 2008. Bitcoin, is a virtual currency, that was invented by Satoshi Nakamoto, an unknown programmer who vanished in 2014, according to his article of 2016 Mysterious Satoshi by Ian Steadman. The Bitcoin network is not owned by anyone and it is only controlled by its users around the world, because Nakamoto designed Bitcoin based on his philosophical reasons that currency be under any kind of central control (Steadman 1). The first stakeholder, Bitcoin organization, a NPO, has been promoting Bitcoin to more people as a method of transaction in the world, and it states three main advantages of using it; flexibility, high security and transparency. First, since Bitcoin is a virtual currency, there is no border and no need to exchange currency between countries. The economy integrated yet and people had to go through currency exchanges, however, bitcoin can make the transaction easier and ensure the risk aversion of currency exchanges. There is no bank holiday and no need to pay transaction fees either. Bitcoin users have full controls of their own money. Therefore, its users can send or receive their money anywhere in the world anytime. Second, Bitcoin has few risks of a leakage of personal information. Bitcoin transaction contain sensitive information. It can offer very secure protection of your account. Third, Bitcoin protocol is encoded and no individuals can manipulate Bitcoin. Since it is completely Saito 3 transparent and neutral, the users can completely trust the protocol. Therefore, these three main advantages can let people easily expand their business to new markets and stimulate the economy without any complicated transaction and the risk of a information leakage. Bitcoin organization thinks that Bitcoin can evolve our currency system for the first time after paper money was introduced. All of this can be achieved because of features. Hence, it follows that Bitcoin organization want FBI or any other organizations to get rid of its useful features to sweep out cyber crimes in Bitcoin. On the other hand, the second stakeholder, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) stated a problem caused by features. concern is that Bitcoin is becoming a giant money laundering machine for criminals. over 2 years, Silk Road, an extensive black market website, facilitated the sale of hundreds of millions of dollars worth of narcotics, stolen identities, and numerous other illegal goods and services. All transactions were conducted exclusively in Since Bitcoin is transparent and it has no risk of an information leakage, black markets use it as a method of money laundering, although Bitcoin has been made legally. The problem is that there is almost no way to regulate this currency because again the Bitcoin protocol cannot be controlled by any organizations but its individual users around the world. Bitcoin organization also states, to assign special rights to a local authority in the rules of the global Bitcoin network is not a practical Almost only way to prohibit Bitcoin is to severely restrict or ban Bitcoin completely as Argentina and Russia did, although it would also hinder a domestic economy from developing and innovating. FBI can still investigate money laundering in Bitcoin by using the same methods to trace conventional online payment services, however, it cannot prevent money laundering actions in advance Saito 4 because of high transparency. Regardless of these conflicts between them, Bitcoin organization and FBI can work together to solve the current money laundering issue by pairing up. Since Bitcoin organization wants to keep its transparency and secrecy of Bitcoin transactions, while FBI wants to sweep out money laundering in the network, it is important not to completely ban the transaction prohibit the users from exchanging to Bitcoin, or not to completely leave the Bitcoin market. A compromise would be for Bitcoin to not allow transactions to be held on websites that do not succumb to FBI regulations. In this situation, Bitcoin organization have to give up all the transparency and secrecy but a part of them, while FBI has to give up its full regulation of Bitcoin but it can prevent a certain amount of money laundering crimes in advance before transactions of illegal commodities. In addition, according to his 2015 article entitled Money Laundering in the Bitcoin by Kavid Signh, it is effective to obligate gatekeepers that exchange Bitcoins for real currency to scrutinize money launderers. Another compromise would be to obligate Bitcoin users to have a license to do Bitcoin transaction under a power of FBI. When a user gets caught by a investigation, the user will lose a license and will be banned to do Bitcoin transaction forever, which will also make money laundering risky for offenders and discourage them to do. In conclusion, two stakeholders, Bitcoin organization and the FBI, have to give up what they truly want to promote. Bitcoin organization has to give up a part of transparency and secrecy and the FBI has to give up its full access of investigation to Bitcoin transactions, since most importantly Bitcoin a global platform for financial and technological innovation to (Signh 63), and it can be a world-wide money laundering machine if it is not Saito 5 regulated at all. Bitcoin developed and it is a new global currency. Therefore, when it becomes a more popular and main currency in the whole world, new regulation system that will not let the money laundering rate increase but also let people use this new prominent world-wide currency. Saito 6 Works Cited European Banking Authority. Opinion on Virtual European Banking Authority. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Steadman, Ian. The Mysterious Satoshi  New Statesman 145.5313 (2016): 17. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bitcoin. Frequently Asked  FAQ - Bitcoin. Bitcoin, 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://bitcoin.org/en/faq#what-are-the-advantages-of-bitcoin>. Nigh, Brett, and C. Alden Pelker. Virtual Currency: Investigative Challenges and  FBI. FBI, 04 June 2013. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <https://leb.fbi.gov/2015/september/virtual-currency-investigative-challenges-and-op portunities> Singh, Kavid. New Wild West: Preventing Money Laundering Int He Bitcoin Network, The  Northwestern Journal Of Technology And Intellectual Property 1 (2015): HeinOnline. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.