D e m e l i e n 1 Everywhere you go there is a chance that you have seen an ad advocating the ban of cigarettes. It is widely known that smoking cigarettes can cause cancer, strokes and heart disease. Not only does smoking cigarettes harm the person smoking it, but it also harms the people who breathe in the smoke. However, if you do not want to be in that environment, then you should not be in there in the first place. These opposing viewpoints see that their perspective is right while the other is wrong, while in all actuality there is not really a standpoint that is correct or incorrect. What these opposing viewpoints may agree on is actually going through with the ban on smoking in public. With this ban, technically you are not telling the smoker to stop smoking they could do it in their homes and the nonsmoking population would not be susceptible to second hand smoke. As mentioned previously the mission to get rid of smoking has been around for ages. Even on the cigarette packages there is a surgeon general warning that cautions the user that the substance they are about to use pose as a hazard to their health. But of course the user disregards this fact. It has gotten to the point where there are organizations rising to get rid of the smoking that occurs especially public smoking. The reason for this is because not only is the user posing a threat to their health, but they are also putting others around them in danger of second hand smoke. It is also important to note that even though society recognizes that the dangers that tobacco poses on health, especially with all the statistics and laws implemented to prevent public smoking, it is still not enough to get the secondhand smoke kills point across. It is mostly because although people understand the dangers that tobacco poses on the health of the general population, it seems as though that people do not understand the gravity of how second hand smoke actually kills. One organization, the Americans for rights, for example, tries to help people see how grave the situation is. In an article published on their website titled D e m e l i e n 2 Secondhand Smoke, they mention how much secondhand smoke has decreased over the years, but still, 53,800 people die every year from second hand So, even though the number is much smaller than what is was before, it is still enough. What is also important to consider is that even if a person constantly around a person that smokes, even the littlest exposure is harmful, as it states that, U.S. Surgeon Report, How Tobacco Smoke Causes Disease, confirms that even occasional exposure to secondhand smoke is The tiniest bit of exposure to secondhand smoke not only increases the chance of dysfunction within your blood vessels it also inflames your blood vessel which may increase the chance of a heart attack or a stroke, as stated in the article. It is obvious where this organization stands on public smoking, with all the information given on the harmful effects of secondhand smoke. But what exactly is done to get rid of public smoking? The Americans for Rights (ANR) aids in on the creation of smoke free air ordinances. In another article posted by the ANR titles, the effect of smoke free air ordinances on smoking prevalence and cessation, it talks about the benefits of these ordinances placed. For instance, it was found that with the increase of prohibiting smoking, smokers who face these restrictions consume 11-15% less than average and the quitting rate is 84% higher than average. What was significant in this article was the amount of research that was done by different institutions that found with restrictions posed on public smoking, whether it be in hospitals or in the workplace there was a major decrease in the amount of tobacco consumption. Even though the restrictions on public smoking seem to be helping people there is still that other side of the coin. There are organizations such as the Smokers Association that feels that the restrictions take away the human rights of people. The association completely repulse the idea of prohibiting public smoking because they feel as though the science that back D e m e l i e n 3 up the danger of second hand smoke is completely garbage. This association also feel that science is used to justify prohibiting smoking, as stated in the constitution of the association, name reflects the original intent when it became clear that smoking repression, and the use of junk science to justify it, was going well beyond the petty prohibition to smoke in This association feel as though scientific researcher, political messages, advertisements, anything that sheds a bad light on smoking is all a front. The association see these campaigns as a way to control beliefs and values. What the anti-smoking campaigns try to do is use the values of what people hold close to their heart and manipulate it, to do what they want them to do. One of the articles of the constitution states, ownership of physical life. Any person is the owner of his/her own body, and has fundamental right to manage and control the own physical life and What this article means is that if the user of cigarettes wants to smoke, then no one really has the right to tell the user that they smoke. This association completely disagree with any organization that attempts to disregard the users right to smoke or try to manage the physical life. This association goes off the fact that a person has the right to do whatever they want to do to their body. Those who smoke cigarettes has the right to smoke cigarettes and should not get manipulate or have their rights disregarded all because other feel differently about smoking cigarettes. In the first article it talks about how the smoker can smoke wherever they want as long as it does not interfere with how others want to live. What is inferred from this first article it could be assumed that if a person that person chose to be in that environment. If the person did not want to exhibit secondhand smoke, then they would have not chosen to be in that kind of environment in the first place. D e m e l i e n 4 So, there are two sides of the coin. Obviously one side of the argument feel as though restrictions are needed when it comes to public smoking. The ARN obviously see with restriction not only does it aid the user decrease the amount of consumption but also aids in decreasing the threat of health issues to occur. However, you are disregarding the rights of the smoker. The smoker has the right to do whatever they want to do to their body physically, emotionally and mentally. Therefore, it is either you prohibit public smoking to reduce the amount of harm place on people or you respect the rights and values of people or propose a compromise. What these two different perspectives could agree on is actually going through with the ban of public smoking, but with a grandfather clause attached. Not only will the smoking not interfere with the non-smokers, but it also does not tell the smoker to stop smoking. The user could smoke in the comforts of their humble abode. Furthermore, this proposal does not technically take away the rights of the user. The user is able to freely do what they want to do with their body, whether it be good or bad. Also, the nonsmokers are benefiting from less smoke pollution in their air so there is less risk of any alteration when it comes to their health. In an editorial published by the AL editorial board, it states, way to move forward on this important issue would be to strengthen the anti-smoking proposal a little but not too much in order to appease both sides. A grandfather clause could be Since it is pretty difficult for these opposing sides to concur with each other it is best to implement a law, but not a strict one. By doing this you are able to appease both sides which may lead into a better future for the entire population. D e m e l i e n 5 Works Cited/ References AL.COM. on Public Smoking Ban Could Work Compromise on Public Smoking Ban Could Work, AL.COM, smoking-limits-public-establishments. ANR. Secondhand Smoke, www.no-smoke.org/getthefacts.php?id=13 Radut, Dr. Catalin Florian. CONSTITUTION OF SMOKERS CONSTITUTION OF SMOKERS ASSOCIATION, www.smokersassociation.org/the-constitution-of- smokers-association. Retired: AL.com and Press-Register Editorial Board. on Public Smoking Ban Could Work AL.com, 26 Jan. 2012, blog.al.com/press-register-