College athletics is the last stepping stone to becoming a professional athlete which is the goal for most, if not all college athletes. The dream of having millions of fans cheering for you as you play your sport. Some people even believe that college athletes should get paid. A question that is debated day in and day out. I side with the NCAA in saying that college athletes should not get paid to play their sport. The CAPA, College Athletes Players Association is an organization that is lead by former NCAA athletes for the rights of athletes playing under the NCAA. They have the view along with independent student athletes that a NCAA should get paid for playing their sport. In siding with the NCAA I am a student athlete myself here at USF and we get get paid in scholarship, meals, and housing. Its not like we get treated and average student. The only way someone should make money playing a sport is at the professional level. Hence the difference between us the amateurs and them the professionals. A professional athlete as by Websters Dictionary is a person participating for gain or livelihood in an activity or of endeavor often engaged in by amateurs < a professional golfer >. Golf is the best way to describe being a professional athlete, in a sense that amateur golfers can play in professional event at any age but not having the same as a professional. Playing for the love of the game. What ever happened to that? On the other hand is an amateur, what every college athlete no matter what sport they participate in. Also by Webster it is one who engages in a pursuit, study, science, or sport as a pastime rather than a profession. That right there should end the debate for the NCAA, we are sanctioned amateur athletes that are being given the chance to play a sport while getting to go to school at a reduced cost. More than $2.7 billion in athletic scholarships is distributed each year along with access to medical care, academic support services and training opportunities. The NCAA does make money off of the athletes and their success but it is the NCAA that gives them the chance to play at that high of a level and get national recognition and the chance to play their sport professionally. The goal for the NCAA is to provide a stepping stone and a place to make structured athletics. Each year it is impossible to count how many man hours the NCAA puts into their events and National Championships every year to create the best environment for the student athletes. I have been to two NCAA championships and it was one of the best environments in my golf career. They are are the reason I have a scholarship and am able to play the game I love. There is no need to start paying the athletes for playing their sport. The perks are already there to begin with when you make your college visit. Which again brings me back to my point, we are amateurs, keep the cash for the professionals who do it for a living. On the other hand there is the CAPA, the College Athletes Player Association and they for current and graduated NCAA athletes. Their goal is to ultimately allow players to collectively bargain for comprehensive reform in many areas such as, coverage for medical related injuries and increasing athletic scholarships and allowing players to receive compensation for commercial sponsorships. The CAPA wants to have athletes receive money for their play on a national level. They believe since the school and the players are playing on national television that generates millions and millions of dollars for the school should be given to the people that make it possible, the players. It is a good idea but how can you make that fair? Give it to a player on a football team that plays a couple games a year on television or a golfer who is a team all american, a top player in the country who make very much money for the school not get paid? That is the gray area. Its a debate that wont be solved anytime soon and the CAPA should focus their on other issues, not one that will never be changed around. But, there is a way to common ground. The NCAA could give more scholarship based on performance. Play well and get some national recognition and that athlete could get paid in books or more money the next year. For instance, golfers are allowed to accept up to $750 in gift cards or non cash goods. It gives us a chance in our other outside of school tournaments to make some to help with our living during college. We are not being paid like professional athletes and we are still maintaining our amateur status. Since they are on opposite sides of the spectrum, a yes or no answer this would be the only compensation to keep our athletes from breaking rules in making money and getting some from their play and national recognition. In the end the NCAA in my opinion will always reign in governing rules such as college athletes getting paid. At this level we play for the love of the game and making our school proud to call us their athletes who represent them to the best of our ability. Resources The Site of the  NCAA.org - The Site of the NCAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Sack, Allen. Real Scholarships Need To Make A  United States News. N.p., 1 Apr. 2013. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.