Mac Rothkopf Intermediate Draft ENC 1102 1/29/16 Rothkopf The noise surrounding the legalization of medical marijuana is discriminatory to say the least. The overall conversation, confliction, and controversy on this topic has been on a decrease year after year. Although having to overcome obstacles and much criticism, there are significant signs that this ideology is coming into place now and continuing to grow in the soon future. Two of the biggest stakeholders greatly invested in this topic, the Marijuana Policy Project (MPP) followed by the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies (MAPS) are very real and have been fighting from day one, but not specifically for the same clause. The Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies differentiates itself from the competition by, using medical marijuana simply for research purposes. Whereas The Marijuana Policy Project advocates for the recreational and medical use of this subject. Despite what is going on today as nearly half of The United States have decriminalizing or legalized it in anyway and in fact fighting each year to further bring down the wall. A compromise of these two different sides would be relatively easy as they fall under the same roof. Legalizing medical marijuana all over would be the only way to bring these two organization to an arrangement. To start off with, one interest thing in the Marijuana Policy Project mission statement, state laws to reduce or eliminate penalties for the medical or non-medical use of One thing these organizations share among many is the severity of eliminating the unfair punishment resulted from marijuana. People of all ages, are getting locked up in jail for a little bit of cannabis. Not only is this have a real impact on government spending by having to operate with so many people in their cells, but the fact at the sentences these people are getting. It is taking people out of work which can all and all come back to the global Mac Rothkopf Intermediate Draft ENC 1102 1/29/16 Rothkopf economy. The Marijuana Policy Project currently in the capital Washington, DC. and MPP Foundation envision a nation where marijuana is legally regulated similarly to alcohol, marijuana education is honest and realistic, and treatment for problem marijuana users is non- coercive and geared toward reducing Being as it may be called a we have the resources and it is scientifically proven to cure numerous illnesses such as glaucoma, anxiety, epileptic seizures, Chemotherapy (loss of appetite) and much more. On top of that researching with different subjects goes without saying, the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies has envisions for the future. Testing things, no other person or organization would dare to explore. 1999, MAPS was involved in legal struggles against the DEA to end this situation. On August 11, 2016, the DEA announced their intention to grant licenses to additional marijuana growers for research, thereby ending the DEA-imposed 48-year monopoly on federally legal This leeway will not only prevent numerous obstacles from coming this organizations way but also give them clearance to experiment and explore further. This organization does not rely on, or conflict on the fact of marijuana having to be legalized, as that is the other organizations ultimate goal. March 14, 2014, the U.S. Public Health Service approved our study of smoked whole plant (botanical) marijuana for symptoms of PTSD in U.S. veterans. MAPS worked for over 22 years to obtain marijuana for medical marijuana drug development research, and the approval is a historic shift in federal policy. On December 17, 2014, MAPS was awarded a $2 million grant from the state of Colorado to complete the study. The study has received full approval from the FDA, DEA, and Institutional Review Boards (IRBs). The study will begin in January 2017 at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland and at Scottsdale Research Institute in Mac Rothkopf Intermediate Draft ENC 1102 1/29/16 Rothkopf Phoenix, (MAPS)This organization in fact is tightly involved with other ways to consume or benefit from marijuana, a few examples, edibles which is the safest way to consume the component (THC) which gets you high, prescribed ointments with some ingredients from the plant to relieve, satisfy, and elevate such as severe back pains. Which gets me to my next point, the marketing regarding the overall potential of this industry is indescribable. The (AMA) or the American Marketing Association states though the drug is legal in Colorado, marijuana marketers must abide by stringent advertising rules set by the state of Colorado and other marijuana enforcement agencies. Cannabis brands must prove that at least 70% of the audience for each outlet in which like to advertise is 21 years old or older. Facebook accept marijuana-related ads, and outdoor advertising is not To show that even states that have voted and approved of this are still bucking down and taking this issue serious. The compromising suited for both these organizations, by legalizing marijuana you are not only giving individuals the freedom to do as they may, but it has a greater reason which is giving a hand to the global economy. More jobs are created from this, but one for one, there is also a higher risk of it falling into the wrong hands which are adolescence. Whether you are for or against this strongly controversial topic is irrelevant, it is saving lives but the other way people are going to jail for it. example, the American Medical Association has rejected attempts to convince them to endorse marijuana as medicine, and instead has urged that marijuana remain as a prohibited, controlled substance; the American Cancer Society does not advocate inhaling smoke, nor the legalization of (Lewis 66). In conclusion during negotiations with both my stakeholders The Marijuana Policy Project and the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies the only possible Mac Rothkopf Intermediate Draft ENC 1102 1/29/16 Rothkopf compromise would be the permission to fully legalize marijuana. As known, fighting for their own reasons, one to legalize it while as the other uses it to research and experiment the different uses and effect for the drug. Both organizations will agree that this topic is currently happening and the potential for this field is endless. Mac Rothkopf Intermediate Draft ENC 1102 1/29/16 Rothkopf Works cited: Harper, Kevin, kharper@kevinharpercpa.com. Medical Marijuana Emerges From The  Public Management (00333611) 97.6 (2015): 20-23. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. LEWIS, PAUL1. A Gateway To Future Problems: Concerns About The Stateby- State Legalization Of Medical  University Of New Hampshire Law Review 13.1 (2015): 49-97. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mission and  The National Cannabis Industry Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Project, Marijuana Policy. Marijuana Policy Project We Change  MPP. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Medical  MAPS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mac Rothkopf Intermediate Draft ENC 1102 1/29/16 Rothkopf