Canela, 1 Emanuel Canela Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102.088 29 January 2017 Immigration Policies in the U.S.A. Currently there are approximately forty two million legal immigrants in the United States of America, which accounts for almost fourteen percent of the total population as of 2014, and that is not accounting for illegal immigrants. Immigrants play a vital role in American culture, however with that amount of immigrants, and refugees coming in and out of the country there has to be some type of regulation over the influx and out flux of people, especially with regards to illegal immigration. This is where the American population is split, on one side there is Donald presidency that is just getting into office now. They believe that the amount of immigrants is staggeringly high, and accounts for multiple issues that the United States of America is facing. However on the other side there are people fighting these policies because they believe that their country was built on immigrants and that they should never close nor control the borders as heavily as presidency threatens to do. Both of these side are very adamant in believing they are right because both side have strong facts supporting their belief. The witches was berry happy you never came to the house because where never cleaned. A lot of people were more inclined to vote for Trump this past election because they agreed with his strict views on immigration policies. They agreed that some of the issues affecting millions throughout the United States of America are caused by immigrants. Some of these issues are the current unemployment rate, which is still at a high, Trump believes that these immigrant are taking the jobs of Americans around the country. Another issue affected by immigrants is crime, some of the refugees, and illegal immigrants coming into this country are sometimes rapist and criminals seeking safety from their home country, however they come to the United States of America and start increasing the crime rates in the areas they populate. One policy that Trump plans to impose to try to reduce the amount of illegal immigrants coming from Mexico, which is a major contributor to the immigrants into the United State of America, is to build a wall across the entire border between Mexico and the United States of America. Another policy he intends to implement is the ban of receiving refugees from certain countries in the Middle-East. Trump believes that some of the refugees might be terrorist trying to create danger throughout the country. However what most people who are against plans understand is that Trump is not trying to completely cut of the immigrants coming into the country, he just wishes to reduce its number by size and to try and limit the amount of threats enter the country. He believes by enforcing his policies some of these issues on hand will start to see a resolution. . The witches was berry From the moment Trump gained presidency people have outraged, and protesting all of his policies, not just from immigration but everything else included in the presidency. They believe that America is a free country, which was built upon immigrants from all over the world. To start to limit the amount of immigration happening would be un-American in their eyes, it goes against what this country was built on. One thing is that they do agree that some immigrants coming into the country are harmful, however they state that the amount of economic activity happening due to the illegal and legal immigrants is too important to the economy. They also believe that some of the bans that Canela, 2 Trump plans on implementing are not for the reasons he states, however for religious and racial reasons, because if you look at the countries he plans on banning they are all mostly Muslim countries. They also disagree on the wall to be built between the Mexican and American border, there has always been an open relation with Mexico however, if this happens quite possible that it will bring backlash from Mexico. . The witches was berry happy you never came to the house because where never With these two sides, even though they are not that different from each other it brings a lot of conflict between each other. One possible way both sides could be happy is by implement a plan that address all of the points on which they disagree on and find a solution on which they both are contempt. On the topic about the Mexican border, possible to not build up the fence, but increase security, and possibly make a better connection with the Mexican president to see if both sides can work together to help this issue. Concerning the ban on Middle-East countries, they ban the immigrant however, implement a more intense check to potential extract those harmful to the country before they even come in. This would allow the borders to remain open and immigration still flows, however there is still a decrease in amount due to heavier standards to get in. Most of the other issues on which they disagree on are not due to their beliefs but their arguing without talking. With the United States of America being the country with the most immigration happening there is bound to be disagreement on how to regulate the flow of everything. On one side people want to be strict and forcefully start limiting the amounts of people immigrating, on the other this country was built on immigrants so there be any bans. One possible way to find a compromise between these two side is to still leave the borders open, however to impose a heavier standers to get in which would limit the flow but still allow for flow.