Student 1 Student Nancy E. Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 When one thinks about cars, it is an immediate thought to think about motors, gasoline, and pricey maintenance. Elon Musk, founder and CEO of TESLA Motors, thinks about cars in a different manner. Elon envisions what the world could be like, and should be. Founded in 2003, mission is accelerate the transition to sustainable (Tesla). The company based in Silicon Valley, wanted to show the world that electric cars could overpass gas-powered cars (Tesla). One way to accelerate this process is by switching from gasoline powered cars to electric vehicles. A few years ago, it seemed like cars would never be anything but gasoline powered machines. Tesla is part of the few organizations who are committing all resources to make this once impossible concept, possible. In recent years, electric cars have made a huge impact in the automobile industry, Tesla is one the main competitor with all their models being powered by electricity. This paper will analyze the visual and rhetoric appeals that Tesla uses to promote the change from gasoline-powered vehicles to electric-powered automobiles and persuade users to buy their cars. Tesla, being the credited company that it is, knows exactly how to get a message out, in any way possible. Using images is a main way companies are getting their message out to consumers. On their website, Tesla uses large, bright, colorful images to impact viewers. The first image can be found on the Tesla website under the tab on the menu. This image shows the most-sold Tesla model being charged by a home-charger. On the website, under the image is a users can use to estimate how much money they will be saving on gas when switching to a Tesla electric powered vehicle. The image and information under it shows how easy and cost-effective it is to own a Tesla. It is clear that the company wants to show how a complex subject, such as electric vehicles, can also be simple and even simpler than what people are used to in gas-powered cars. It is clear how it is easier to arrive at Student 2 house, plug in the car and let it charge, than having to go once or twice a week to a gas station to re-fuel and spend even more money. The color white is another aspect that is very impacting. The use of the white car with the white background gives out a sense of peace and perfection. This definitely gives the user a sense of security and ownership, even before purchasing the vehicle. Tesla uses many elements of rhetorical analysis in order to transmit their mission to their audiences. One element present in this image is logos, the to (Lane, Lee, McKee, McIntyre, Pantelides, 22). use of the wall-charger and cable plugged into the car is a clear example of how it is more logical to own a car that in own home, rather than having to drive to a gas station each time the automobile needs gas. The presence of the wall-charger shows how Tesla is taking the steps necessary to make the transition from gas-powered cars to electric vehicles. A second element is pathos, the to (Lane, Lee, McKee, McIntyre, Pantelides, 23). The image gives off a sense of diversity. When looking at this picture, a person knows if they are making a change. Not only are they changing in the way their car operates, but they are also contributing to the environment. By using cars, they are taking all of the gasoline-powered emission off of the streets. People know that even one grain of sand makes a big difference in the end. As stated before, images are an extremely important part of getting a product out on the market. Tesla not only uses them to influence people into buying their products, but to show people how their products are superior in many aspects. This image not only shows an electric automobile, but the capabilities that this SUV has. The image shows the Model shown in a snowy mountain terrain which displays how the SUV is dependable on all terrains. The mountain background shows how the SUV can be taken nearly anywhere and will not let the user down. The snowboards and skis on the back of the car show how the SUV is also very practical, with the capabilities to carry these objects as well as giving the viewer the impression that they can also mount a bike rack or anything they need. The colors and form of the car also give the viewer the understanding that this is a luxury vehicle that doubles as an all-terrain SUV. This gives the audience confidence that the car will look good, and will have the mobility desired. Student 3 Rhetorical analysis elements are also present in this image from Tesla. One of the elements present in this figure is ethos, the to (Lane, Lee, McKee, McIntyre, Pantelides, 20). Since Tesla is a world-wide known company, it is easy to assume that what they state and show in their images is an accurate representation of what the vehicle is supposed to do. If this the case, people could have easy motives to doubt the capabilities of the Since Tesla wants to persuade viewers to buy their product, it is such an advantage for them to tell the truth and for them to show accurate information. This helps Tesla have the credibility they have which in turn leads to more customers wanting to buy their products which leads to sales. Another element is pathos, the to (Lane, Lee, McKee, McIntyre, Pantelides, 23). This figure transmits the sense of security. One thing many people look for when buying a vehicle is security. When seeing the way the car in the image can handle not-ideal terrains such as snowy mountains, they can immediately feel confident that the car will be very safe when driving on a normal road or any other conditions. Viewers also feel the vehicle is very reliable. When buying a car, this is important because people want a vehicle that they can count on always. The two images show many of the major aspects that Tesla want to portray. In the first figure, the simplicity and advantages that owning an electric powered car, and in the second figure, the capabilities and the reliability that Tesla offers. Overall, Tesla does a great job with getting in touch with their audience and telling them everything they have to offer, even when using no words. Student 4 Works Cited Tesla, https://www.tesla.com. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. About Tesla, https://www.tesla.com/about. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Charging Estimator, https://www.tesla.com/models. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Model X, https://www.tesla.com/modelx. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Sheffield, Jenna Pack. Down an Writing Commons, https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/747/01. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Moxley, Joe. Writing Commons, http://writingcommons.org/visual-literacy. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Student 5 Figures Figure 1 https://www.tesla.com/models Figure 2 https://www.tesla.com/modelx