Carliette Sierralta Dr. Oana Cimpean English Composition II 29 January 2017 Justice for Children of Undocumented Immigrants By 2013 around 4.5 million children in the United States were reported of having at least one parent of illegal immigrant status. With these children averaging about 7% of births every year, it is evident that this population is growing and currently demanding a solution to the issue regarding the legal status of their immigrant parents. The two stakeholders, the U.S. federal government and the Families for Freedom (FFF) advocacy group, have taken differing actions on this issue. Although people within the federal government hold individual and varied opinions on this topic, it is their overall decisions and legislations that will be taken into perspective. This will constitute for the view within the government, whereas mission statements and actions clearly state their views. The current legislations in place allow the deportation of all illegal aliens for violating immigration or criminal law. FFF believes that the federal government is not taking into perspective parents of U.S. citizens who are often separated from their young children after facing deportation. They work towards repealing the laws that are tearing apart homes and communities. To keep some of the essential aspects of the current immigration laws and to benefit the concerns of the FFF, illegal alien parents should be granted temporary residency until their U.S. citizen children reach the age of financial independence. The federal government has been changing immigration laws since the late 1700s. The most current immigration policy is encompassed in the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1965, in which the previous quota system is dropped and replaced with a numerical restriction of about 675,000 permanent residency visas a year. Any immigrant who does not hold one of these residency visas cannot legally reside in the United States. About 700,000 illegal immigrants enter the United States every year with intentions of staying, all of which are subject to being deported. All in all, these federal policies are meant to protect the rights and privileges of current U.S. citizens by restricting the amount of immigrants that can be granted residency. By looking to deport those who violate these immigration policies the federal government and other related organizations are simply enforcing the law. On the contrary, Families for Freedom advocacy group believes that the federal government has oversimplified their immigration policy. They believe that by looking at this issue in black and white, the federal government is ignoring those illegal immigrants who are parents to U.S. citizens. In 2013, over 72,000 parents of U.S. citizen children were deported. In these situations, it is common for parents to leave their children here with other family members or even in foster care if other options are not available. Many times leaving a child here alone is a better option than taking them back to the their home countries, as even foster care can sometimes provide a better life. FFF works towards repealing all laws that will tear apart families and communities, specifically those families who have parents without documentation. They also provide financial and legal support to those families affected by the immigration laws currently in place. In a broader scope, they oppose policies that oppress all specific groups of immigrants and believe that all illegals should be given the chance to prosper in this country without the threat of deportation. Although the current federal policies and Families for Freedom represent very different stances on this issue, they both share an underlying goal. Although not directly stated, it is clear that the federal government and FFF want to protect the rights and opportunities of U.S. citizen children, despite the legal status of their parents. The federal sole purpose is to protect the rights of all U.S. citizens in general and FFF chooses to advocate for U.S. citizen children whose parents can be separated from them at any moment. By intertwining the views of both sides to benefit these U.S. children a solution can then be made: grant illegal alien parents temporary residence while their children reach the pre-determined age of financial independence. After these children reach the age of 22, they should be able to petition for their parents to receive a permanent residency visa. This would be denied or accepted based on the history in the United States. For example, if during their temporary residence the parent was convicted of a felony crime, they would be denied. This would fulfill both of these common goals. It would be within the interest of the federal government to accept this solution, as it would benefit the socio economic position of all children of illegal immigrants, giving them equal protection under the law. In 2016 the Migration Policy Institute reported that percent of children with undocumented parents came from low-income families at or below 185 percent of the federal poverty (carnock) Most of this is due to the fact that illegal immigrant parents have to work jobs that do not require documentation or require far transportation. These usually pay below average wages and include jobs related to construction, agricultural work, housekeeping, and mining. By granting these parents temporary residence, they would be able to obtain work permits and licenses, which would enhance their possibilities in regards to job choices. Children of undocumented parents would therefore grow up with equal opportunities, which would ultimately amplify their quality of education and other factors that are affected by family income. Because many of the issues with granting residency have to do with wasting resources and money on people who are not U.S. citizens, it would make sense for these parents to have their privileges revoked after their children are financially stable. Thus, the parent would only benefit of american privileges for the good of the child. In the same manner, it would also be in the interest of FFF to accept this solution even though it does not meet their ultimate goal of allowing all illegal immigrants to receive permanent residence. Because one of their main issues has to do with the tearing apart of families and communities, this solution would appease FFF views sufficiently. With parents not facing the threat of being deported, families would not have to be separated and children would no longer have to suffer this hardship. Parents who showed to be contributing citizens during their temporary residence would also have a fair chance of being allowed to stay if their child chooses to petition for them. While the issue of undocumented parents being separated from their U.S.-born children is only a fraction of the current immigration issue at hand, it is one that concerns the well being of future generations of american citizens. With this population of children growing every year it is crucial for parties to quickly come to a compromise that will satisfy some of the goals on both ends. By allowing illegal alien parents to hold a temporary residence until their child reaches the age of 22, there are a variety of other issues being combated including poverty among children of immigrants. Similarly, it would protect the equal opportunity of all U.S. children despite the legality of their parents and ultimately keep thousands of families together in times when children need their parents most. Works Cited Carnock, Janie. Growing Up with Undocumented Parents: The Challenges Children  New America. N.p., 1 Feb. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Constable, Pamela. Majority of undocumented immigrants work in low-skill jobs, report  The Washington Post. WP Company, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Elbel, Fred. How many illegal aliens reside in the United States? CAIRCO - Colorado Alliance for Immigration Reform issues legislation projects  CAIRCO - Colorado Alliance for Immigration Reform. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Families for  About Us Families for Freedom. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Milestones: - Office of the  U.S. Department of State. U.S. Department of State, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.