Robertson 1 Erik Robertson Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 29 January 2017 Magical Medicinal Multi-Purpose Marijuana: A Compromise Marijuana has been a scorching topic in recent history. More and more states are legalizing it by the month it seems, and the numbers are only seeing a steady increase since the initial legalization of recreational marijuana consumption in both Colorado and Washington. Aside from just recent history, the plant itself has been used for tens of thousands of years. To understand why exactly this tall leafy plant has been such a delicacy for these years, you must consider the potential it must offer and what it can do exactly. To start, marijuana be used for pain relief, reduces muscle spasms, schizophrenia, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, epilepsy, disease, HIV patients, strokes. . (Dharshini 1). In the medical field, this can be a cure classified as a as it minimizes health risks from other prescription drugs such as oxycodone or Xanax while relieving a wide variety of symptoms. The short list provided even complete, there is a total of over seven hundred benefits, and alone, this is still a very broad spectrum. In addition to the medical benefits of marijuana, there are also several practical uses. For example, marijuana can be used practically for clothing, concrete, fiber, food, and Ten Ways You Can Use Marijuana and  1). Every situation and factor that I have listed, and more, are the exact reasons why the plant has been used since 8,000+ BCE. The list of beneficial uses that the plant offers, along with the fact that it is indeed a renewable resource makes this plant something that we should all consider. With all Robertson 2 of this, though, the United States decided to ban the drug in 1937 with the Tax This act successfully banned all commercial usage and sales of the plant within the country, and is still illegal on the federal level to this day. With this, there are groups actively trying to regain the legalization of marijuana in all practical uses, while some, on the other hand, are looking to stop the forest fire of legalization that is hitting the United States today. The two differing sided organizations that will be discussed are SAM (Smart Approaches to Marijuana) which actively fights for a lesser punishment on marijuana convictions, but at the same time would like to see the entirety of marijuana usage banned from the United States, and NORML (National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws), a party who wishes to also see a country with lesser rates of criminalization for marijuana, but also envisions the usage of marijuana in its entirety. So, in regards to marijuana, SAM and NORML have very different morals. One promoting legalization, and the other backing for the prohibition of the plant. This may seem like a never-ending feud between the two, but both groups should be able to come together to allow for the usage of marijuana in a way that can benefit this country as a whole. Beginning with SAM, or the organization against marijuana usage, has a very conservative view on the usage and consumption of marijuana. While they do look to marijuana and its (SAM 1), they are still looking to ban the consumption and usage. Their reasoning behind this view comes from studies done on how marijuana can negatively impact the user when consumed. Per written by the National Institute of Drug Abuse, marijuana produces anxiety, fear, distrust, or In addition to this, smoking marijuana can potentially produce side effects like coughing or a burning throat following the ingestion of marijuana and that avid marijuana smokers avidly more days of work than This is a big deal to some as anxiety and Robertson 3 panic do not mix well and can lead to panic attacks. Living in a world of heightened diagnoses of the side effects listed above, it is easy to say that not consuming marijuana at all would prevent these disorders, and in addition, one can point out that marijuana usage has risen drastically in the last hundred years, which can potentially lead one to believe that these disorders are directly linked to the consumption of the marijuana plant. If someone wanted to cure one disease that they must receive another issue to deal with, one would quickly turn away and avoid the risk of receiving another conflict on top of the disease or issue that they were dealing with already. Statistics like this are exactly why SAM exists today. The organization was founded by working in mental health and public (SAM. 1). While this may seem like a one-way road to some, other groups, like NORML, beg to disagree. NORML or the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, hopes to see a nation that views marijuana in a way that we view alcohol today. Only problem is, that alcohol is one hundred times more deadly than (Lachenmeier 8). NORML proposes a mission move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by (NORML.org 1) and to ensure that those who consume the marijuana will be guaranteed and access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (NORML.org 1). The view that NORML states is back by not only scientific evidence, but thousands upon thousands of years of ancient practice and usage of the plant. Like alcohol, one will feel when consuming the active chemical or tetrahydrocannabinol found in marijuana, but the side effects come at a much lesser price than drinking. During a period of heavy drinking, one may vomit repeatedly, or must receive immediate medical attention from a clinic to avoid death. During a heavy period of consuming marijuana, one may feel extremely hungry, creatively think, have a more positive outlook on life, or just sleep. In addition to this, Robertson 4 average or light marijuana consumption is one option that one may consider, which would result in things like heightened senses and creativity, or even give you a break from reality. This is a great remedy for some as they may stress about work on a daily basis, and never really seem to rest from their daily nine to five lives. Therefore, this is why people drink too right? To feel good inside and enjoy the moment in a heightened sense. Well, why not create the same effect on a more intellectual and responsible level while removing the harmful side effects that alcohol can procure short and long term. This is the approach that NORML is taking for the cannabis plant, and it seems as though they stand behind it pretty concretely. While this sounds great with their proposal, both organizations both propose valid views on the plant, and both state their own views, but they should not stop at the yes or no answer. They should come together to propose a valid compromise. A compromise between SAM and NORML would be as follows: To decriminalize marijuana under the usage of medicinal purposes on the federal level, and to allow individuals to produce marijuana for the sole purpose of practical usage. As stated earlier, marijuana has an endless amount of benefits in the medical aspect, it is cheaper than an average prescription drug, and has little to no harmful side effects when compared to other prescription drugs that are currently saturating medicine cabinets. Why prescribe a nine-year-old child a bottle of opiates which can cause side effects like physical dependence, sedation, vomiting, paranoia, depression, and even an overdose. It is not fair to force an active ingredient found in methamphetamine and cocaine to the population, let alone children. While one can argue that overdosing on anything is possible, they are correct. If a child swallows an entire bottle of their prescription, or just one pill too many, they will indeed face an over dosage. With marijuana, and with the lethal dosage rule put into play, an individual would have to consume fifteen hundred Robertson 5 pounds of marijuana in a fifteen-minute period just to overdose. The probability of an individual having fifteen-hundred pounds of marijuana, let alone smoking it in one sitting, is highly irregular making it a safe and inexpensive solution to other prescription drugs out in the market today. Marijuana been spread worldwide to treat, pain, seizures, nausea, depression. . . (Nelson 1), and there is a good reason for that. In addition to the medical benefits and medicinal usage of marijuana, it should also be important to promote the everyday industrial usage of the plant. Noting that is a renewable resource, to be able to produce things like fuel and paper would be huge. No longer would we have to create wars based on fighting over oil, or cut down extravagant rain forests just for some more paper. All we would have to do is turn to the cultivation of marijuana, and this is exactly why these two organizations should come together and fight for a positive change that would reflect every individual in this country. In conclusion, SAM and NORML have very conflicting views. SAM wants to ban the usage of marijuana in all aspects, while NORML wants to legalize the usage of marijuana in all aspects. These two agreeing on a standpoint of cannabis would not be an easy task, but a compromise could potentially crack the barrier between the two. A compromise of legalizing marijuana nationwide for medicinal purposes, and the promotion of legal practical usage of the plant as well is a good median between the two as most evidence points towards the compromise stated today. If these two organizations came together, a lot of lives would be changed. Costs of medicine would go down, the number of wars would decrease, and a new vision of an ancient historical plant would take place to revolutionize the would once again. Robertson 6 Works Cited Dharshini, Mary Pascaline. 10 Benefits Of Medicinal  Medical Daily. N.p., 26 Sept. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Smart Approaches to  SAM. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Sharp, Timothy W. Research  The Choral Journal 31.2 (1990): 1-8. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Lachenmeier, Dirk W., and Rehm. Comparative Risk Assessment of Alcohol, Tobacco, Cannabis and Other Illicit Drugs Using the Margin of Exposure Scientific Reports. Nature Publishing Group, 2015. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Working to Reform Marijuana  NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Nelson, Elizabeth Marie McGhee, PhD. Medical  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Health (2016): Research Starters. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Twb. Ten Ways You Can Use Marijuana And  The Weed Blog. The Weed Blog Https://www.theweedblog.com, 22 Nov. 2014. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.