Student 1 Student Ms. Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 WC: 1146 Project 1 Intermediate Draft As fossil fuels becomes scarce, alternative energy becomes an important tool to power the country. Solar energy is one of the most growing industries of alternative energy used in the United States. forty minutes enough solar energy reaches the surface to power the world for a (SolarPowerRock 2016). Two men, Dan Hahn and Dave Llorens created the organization, Solarpowerrocks, in hopes to give homeowners, business owners and legislators a way to research the investment of solar energy and show how it works economically. SolarPowerRocks is a company that advocates for use of solar energy by educating the public about the benefits, costs and providing steps into using this resource. It strives to show the public that solar energy can be an affordable and accessible energy resource and eliminate common myths. Overall, SolarPowerRocks provides info graphs to appeal to the general public with research on solar power. It uses rhetorical appeals like ethos, pathos, and kairos to persuade viewers into investing and getting involved with using solar power. The two info graphs used best show the intention of the stakeholder, SolarPowerRocks. The first info graph is a bar graph demonstrating the profit the consumer would make over the years from two thousand seventeen to two thousand forty one. In the left hand corner, it mentions the greatest solar loan available to Florida is 5kw System. In the right hand corner, it gives four steps to make the transformation into being a solar panel user. Thus showing how simple it is to Student 2 get into the process of using solar energy. It shows the first fifteen years with loan payments including the federal tax credit. In sixteenth year to twenty-fifth year, it shows the consistent and growing profit that will be gained through the investment. The second info graph is in a report card format. It uses colors and letter grades to evaluate policies, investment return, loan payback time and incentives in using solar energy in Florida. With each of the grades, it creates an overall grade of a C for Florida. On the left hand side, it ranks Florida against the other states for solar power grades and reveals its ranking as the twenty sixth state. With both information graphs it uses visual and rhetorical appeals to achieve its goal to persuade the public to invest in solar energy. appeals to logic and (Hoffman & Wiggs 27). Logos is a rhetorical appeal used in both info graphs. In the first info graph, the bar graph data creates statistics that appeal to logic that it benefits the consumer economically. If the viewer invests into this specific alternative energy, they can create profit for years to come and receive a federal tax credit within the first year. The second info graph references specific policies like the RPS law, Solar Carve- Out and incentives like rebates, tax exemptions to create grades. The categories create a pros and cons list for the viewer making it extremely easy to logically agree with making the investment into solar power. Logos is not the only present rhetorical appeal, Kairos makes an appearance as well. as the type of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right (Hoffman & Wiggs 28). For the first information graph, used in the bar graph showing the progression of profit giving the consumer a goal. Ideally, the consumer will feel pressure to invest because starting now means a bigger profit in the future. The graph starts in 2017 and the viewer does not know how the information will be altered if started next year. In the second Student 3 information graph, time is a huge factor. The report card is made for 2017 and not any other year. The consumer should take into account that any of the grades assigned to policies and incentives may be alter and change to a lower grade for the next year. Out of fear of data inaccuracy from this data, the consumer would assume that investment in the 2017 is the most beneficial year to start. Timiliness is also complimented by pathos. appeal to pathos is an appeal to (Hoffman & Wiggs 39). Pathos is used in the first information graph in the steps listed. The fourth and last step demonstrates that by saying the consumer will save money and smile after you the consumer starts using solar power. Saving money and smiling insinuates that the consumer will be happy just by using solar energy. The symbol of SolarPowerRocks on the bottom of this image uses a happy hand symbol of rock on that highlights that the company brings happiness to others. The second information graph uses pathos with the symbol. The symbol has the rock on hand signal as well on the right hand corner. The visual appeal of both information graphs is very powerful component that is used to persuade the consumer into investment. The visual cues in the first information graph used are the report card template, and icons. The circle contains all of the report card grades with colors, and highlighted grades for each category. Each grade is color coated depending on the letter each item received. Yellow is used to show a mediocre grade of C. Red is to show an unsatisfactory grade of a D or F. Green is to show a above satisfactory grade of a A or B. The icon of the company make the concept seem fun and lighthearted with the added hand signal . Overall, the colors help show you the strongpoints and low points of having solar power in Florida. The information graph are all earthy tones therefore it reinforces the concept of the environment being used in this investment. The visual cues in the second information graph are Student 4 the bar graph and the icons. The graph makes the data easy to understand and comprehend. The steps listed makes the process seem more accessible to viewers. The icons are supposed to lighten the mood and make solar power seem like a fun thing to learn about. The image uses earthy colors, green and orange, to further advance its point to use solar energy. Earthy colors help remind the viewer is helping the earth with deciding to use solar energy. In conclusion, the rhetorical and visual appeals help persuade the viewer to believe in the investment. The primary visual message of the first information graph is that the organization is trying to communicate is although it will take a while to reap the benefits, in the long run, solar energy will provide you with a large profit. The primary visual message of the second information graph is that the organization is trying to communicate is that Florida is one of the better states to get solar power in. As well as the benefits and disadvantages of getting solar power in Florida. Student 5 Works Cited SolarPowerRocks. Florida Solar Power for Your  Solar Power Rocks. 2017. https://solarpowerrocks.com/florida . Accessed 21 Jan. 2017 Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text