Calvin Courtney Professor Bob Botkin ENC 1102 1/29/17 The Electoral College: Time for Reformation? The Electoral College of the United States is a system that was created in the effort to equalize the amount of power that each state has for the presidential election. In September of 1804, the twelfth amendment to the US constitution was ratified, officially introducing the electoral college, and it has been a subject of much controversy in every election since then. Some believe that the electoral college is an efficient method of election that accounts for the varying sizes of each state, while others believe that the president should reflect the direct will of the citizens, regardless of state size. In the effort of avoiding division amongst our nation, it is essential that these opposing sides come to a compromise, such as a voting system that gives more votes to those that pay higher taxes, or to deny votes to those that receive the most financial assistance such as welfare or food stamps. Those that oppose the electoral college generally believe that it allows for the possibility of the candidate who is less desired by the nation to be elected. President Donald Trump has publicly announced that he is against the electoral college, once tweeting, electoral college is a disaster for a Despite losing the popular vote in the 2016 election and therefore only becoming president due to the electoral college, Trump still opposes the college and seeks to change our voting system within his administration. California Senator Barbara Boxer shares view of the college, having once tweeted, is the cornerstone of our democracy, and yet we have a system where the winner can lose. time to end the Electoral founding fathers initially put the electoral college in the constitution with the goal of encouraging the more informed and educated to be the primary voters, while still allowing others to vote. Those who defend the College often believe that a popular model of voting would lead to people basing their Calvin Courtney Professor Bob Botkin ENC 1102 1/29/17 presidential votes simply on the beliefs of the community around them, and would prevent citizens from becoming educated about each candidate. The result of this controversy over the Electoral College has lead to the country becoming divided, and without some resolution, tensions will only further rise, and more problems will be created. Robert W. McGee of Fayetteville State University believes that a compromise can be made, and those on both sides of the Electoral College conflict will be satisfied. For example, McGee suggests a system in which voter would get one vote for every dollar of taxes paid since the last election. Voters who have paid $10,000 dollars in taxes would get 10,000 votes, and voters who have paid no taxes would get no votes. Thus, people on welfare be able to vote for candidates who make promises to increase their As both those that support the Electoral College and those that oppose it have strong beliefs that they will likely not back down upon, it is essential that we devise a compromise that satisfies all parties. Such a compromise should include reformation without total abolition of the Electoral College. The importance of fair and equal democracy is the impossible to understate, and the success of our nation has and always will rely upon, communication, maturity, and compromise. Calvin Courtney Professor Bob Botkin ENC 1102 1/29/17 Works Cited Kimberling, William C. THE ELECTORAL  FEC Office of Election Administration. N.p., n.d. Web. Alternatives to the Electoral  Alternatives to the Electoral College by Robert W. McGee :: SSRN. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.