1 Project 1 Draft new and successful example of a perfect separation between ecclesiastical and civil matters is of (James Madison 1822). In the current political climate, the rhetoric of the two dominant political entities include progressing to a better America, or regressing to the America the Founding Fathers created. James Madison, Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, and George Washington were vocal of their definite belief in the separation of church and state. In the current political climate, there are controversial issues that the church may have a massive influence on such as abortion, and the legalization of marijuana. The way to get decisions to go your way in contemporary American politics is to set up lobbies. Lobbies such as the Christian Coalition and the American Christian Lobbyists Association who believe to encourage the increase of Christian beliefs and people in the US government, and the lobbies who believe in the separation of church and state like the Freedom of Religion Foundation, and Americans United. The United States of America was a nation built on religiously persecuted immigrants. The fusion of religion and this country has been an everlasting companionship, especially when a whole region of the United States is called the Bible Belt. In the reaction to the rise of counter- culture in the and the Christian Coalition was born in Christian Coalition offers people of faith the vehicle to be actively involved in impacting the issues they care about - from the county courthouse to the halls of (Christian Coalition website) Being listed as the purpose of one of the largest Church lobby groups in America, they promote the involvement of Christians in the United States Government. Then the Christian Coalition reveal their agenda on the bottom of their on their website. Christian Coalition is committed to representing the pro-family agenda and educating Americans on the critical issues 2 facing our society. Whether it is the fight to end Partial Birth Abortion or efforts to improve education or lower the tax burden, the Christian Coalition stands ready and able to work for (Christian Coalition website). This is a big statement, because the ending of abortion is a controversial topic that is holding problems today in our legislature. Now moving to the next Christian Lobby association, the American Christian Lobby Associations (ACLA). On the home page of the ACLA website, the goals and mission of the group are explained as: The American Christian Lobbyists Association (The ACLA) was founded in June of 2004 to encourage conservative Christian Individuals, families, and business people to participate in our nations legislative lobbying process by contacting your states elected officials in the U.S. House of Representatives and/or U.S. Senate on Abortion, Christian Free Speech or Marriage and Abstinence bills that are currently pending before the 114th U.S. Congress between now and the U.S. Midterm Elections on Tuesday, November 6, 2018. The importance of the size of two groups like these pushing the agenda of the Christian morals, beliefs, and protection of Christian rights is the fact that modern politics is dominated by money, and the more money a group has, the better the chance the agenda will be pushed and later passed. Christian morals and beliefs to Christian people is the right way this country should operate, but this world and country is changing socially and ideally and should leave room for compromise to their opposition. In comparison to the narrative of religion and this country, the ideals of this country set up by the founding fathers were to also separate the church and the state. Article 11 of the Treaty of Tripoli, signed by the president at the time, John Adams, states As the government of 3 the United States of America is not in any sense founded on the Christian (Yale Avalon project). Just like there are groups that will fight and lobby to increase the presence of Christians in the government, interest groups like FFRF and AU are dedicated to preventing the church and state to fuse. FFRF states on their home page: The history of Western civilization shows us that most social and moral progress has been brought about by persons free from religion. In modern times the first to speak out for prison reform, for humane treatment of the mentally ill, for abolition of capital punishment, for right to vote, for death with dignity for the terminally ill, and for the right to choose contraception, sterilization and abortion have been freethinkers, just as they were the first to call for an end to slavery. The Foundation works as an umbrella for those who are free from religion and are committed to the cherished principle of separation of state and church. As this is using historical approach to counteract the rise of church influence in politics, AU is against the idea of Churches even setting up lobbies. AU is a much bigger interest group than FFRF, and on their website, they have many issues and concerns besides Churches and Politics, but on their Churches and Politics section, they state: Religious groups have the right to speak out on political and social issues. Federal law, however, prohibits most tax-exempt bodies, including houses of worship, from intervening in elections by endorsing or opposing candidates for public office. Churches are not 4 political action committees and should not act like them. Religious leaders should abide by the law and refrain from turning their congregations into cogs in a political machine. Now seeing where the two sides conflict, here is where they can compromise. In conclusion, the conflict of separation of church and state will have a very big impact on controversial issues such as Roe vs Wade (abortion), and the legalization of marijuana, and other substantial cases. Interests of the lobbies like CC, and ACLA believe to strengthen the US government with more Christian thinkers that will instill the belief and morals of Christianity into the United states government. Interests of the lobbies like Freedom from Religion foundation and America United, both believe in the separation of church and state, allowing rationality to handle the problems of today, and not the outdated religions to handle them. The reason I singled out the religion of Christianity is because it is the most dominant religion in our governing body and is the majority religion of the united states. There are Islamic and Jewish lobby groups, but their size does not come close to the size of Christian lobby groups. All four groups mentioned are concerned with the progress of America and are all rooting for success. The way these two groups can compromise is by passing strict laws against the Church and political involvements, keeping them from influencing government in anyway, but the strict laws will also incentivize the Churches to be agenda free. This way Separation groups are happy that the Church loses its influences in government but the Churches will receive incentives from the government to limit their influence so the Church lobby groups will receive something back. This mean they will leave the political climate, they will just form other lobby groups detaching themselves from the church and they will be able to push their agenda without the backing of a Church. 5 Work Cited About FFRF - Freedom From Religion  About FFRF - Freedom From Religion Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. The American Christian Lobbyists Association (The  The American Christian Lobbyists Association (The ACLA). N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Avalon Project - The Barbary Treaties 1786-1816 - Treaty of Peace and Friendship, Signed at Tripoli November 4,  Avalon Project - The Barbary Treaties 1786-1816 - Treaty of Peace and Friendship, Signed at Tripoli November 4, 1796. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Christian  About Us Christian Coalition. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Churches and  Churches and Politics Americans United. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017.