Alisha Kohari Jared Fennell ENC1102 25th January 2017 EMBRYONIC STEM CELL RESEARCH Stem cells are known as the building blocks of the human body which give rise to different cells by being able to develop into more than 200 types of them in the body. Stem cells can also be Embryonic stem cells, which are cells removed from an embryo during implantation phase around 4-5 days into being fertilized for the purpose of medical analysis. Embryonic stem cells are extremely important in the world of research as they can pro generate a variety of different cells used for researches and regenerative medicine. They can change into more than 200 different types of cells in the human body. The National Stem Cell Foundation (NSCF) is a non- profit organization funding stem cell and regenerative medicine research and clinical trials National ,2005).. On the other hand the opposing stakeholder is the National Right To Life, whose mission is to safeguard the right to life of each individual from the begging of their life, National 1968) Despite the beliefs of pro life organizations and the impression they carry that there are other methods available to cure diseases without using stem cells, It alter the possibility of gaining advanced knowledge required to cure an array of life threatening disorders such as Autoimmune and Degenerative diseases along with Childhood Disorders. The controversy between the two stakeholders roots from an ethical view regarding embryonic stem cell research, The main focus is finding treatments for deadly diseases using embryonic stem cells. Since embryonic stem cells are identical cells found in embryos which can transform into extremely specialized cells and into all cell types within the organism they can aid in curing a variety of illnesses. (Nickel, 2008, p. 62) NRTL is a pro life organization in opposition to abortion which is seen to be inter mutually linked with stem cells. National Right to Life carries out its lifesaving mission by promoting respect for the worth and dignity of every individual human being, born or unborn, including unborn children from their beginning (National Right,1986) Hence, the NRTL is against the embryonic stem cell research method since it requires the extraction of cells from early stage embryos and can be seen to fall within the category of abortion. Although there is common ground shared by both stakeholders . The NSCF and NRTL both are in favor of protecting human life whether targeting issues like diseases at a later stage or preserving human rights from the beginning of life. To come to a compromise a research method could be used having the same purpose and simultaneously yielding similar results while having a more ethical approach regarding the usage of human embryos for the purpose. Although Dead embryos, Blastomere extraction and Biological artifacts are all examples of alternative methods of retrieving stem cells without using a human embryo the results obtained by them hold less accuracy compared to using human embryos. Continued research in the field could lead to more efficiency and ultimately eliminate the ethical factor and continue providing advanced research to generate cures for life threatening diseases. Embryonic stem cell research is definitely regarded as a breakthrough in medical history and has provided treatments for diseases like diabetes, disease and If the use of stem cells without is implemented it could lift the ethical controversy and continue to benefit both stakeholders by focusing on their main objective which is improving human life. Refrence list : 1. Marina. Overview Of Embryonic Stem Cell  Postmodern Openings / Deschideri Postmoderne 7.2 (2016): 59-77. Academic Search 2. Premier. Web. 25 National Stem Cell Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.Jan. 2017. 3. The Oldest & Largest Pro-life  National Right to Life. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.