Pugh 1 Sara Pugh Professor Van Winkle ENC1102 29 January 2017 Intermediate Draft In the past, people with disabilities have been institutionalized, denied an education, and all around treated as if they were less than the common man. Since there any helpful programs set up for the students with special needs, the majority of them barely got a high school education. The Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975 was the first public law in regards to the education for people with disabilities. This public law states that a right to education, and to establish a process by which State and local educational agencies may be held accountable for providing educational services for all handicapped (Wrightslaw) After EAHCHA was passed, there was a need for money to be able to create and implement these new guidelines and programs in schools across the country. As a result, the federal government agreed to a million, three-year funding commitment for special education grants to states that continued to appropriate funds on the basis of the student population (ages 3 through (McCann 5) Although EAHCHA improved the education for those with disabilities, the special needs community wanted more. Then in 2004, Congress amended and changed the name of The Education for All Handicapped Children Act to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act. IDEA 2004 was a monumental public law because it reinforced the educational rights of children with disabilities and created the idea of Individualized Education Pugh 2 Programs (IEPs). The huge issue between the federal government and special education nevertheless was and still is money. The federal government, on average, spends billion annually on special (McCann 2) $11.5 billion is a substantial amount of money. Those within the special education community are proud that they have fought for a proper education. Although the amount of students with disabilities increases, the funding does not. In 2010, The United States Census Bureau reported that there are 2.8 million students in the United States that have disabilities. This high number is thanks to the progress made by lawmakers since 1975. everyone is supportive of the amount of money the government allocates to students with disabilities since it is almost double the amount of a typical student. The one noted exception being the fact that schools are now spending a great deal more money on special needs students than they ever have in the past. This leaves much less money for regular education. Some research has shown that average students are falling through the cracks in this (Pawlowicz 2001) The fact that typical children are losing learning time because the teacher has to deal with the special needs students is frustrating to not only the parents of the typical students, but even some of the students themselves. The Houston Chronicle announced that the Texas Education Agency made budget cuts that saved them billions of dollars. This budget cut included that the Texas Public School Systems were only going to provide special education services to 8.5% of the special education students. Families of students who make the benchmark were then forced to either move out of the state or put their child into a private school. Consequently, Melissa Patterson, a special educator since 1997, vocalizes her opinion on the handling of special education. Patterson said in a Forbes interview, you be Pugh 3 sued if not giving the kid what they need? Yes. Should you be sued? Absolutely. the job to educate the kids. If not educating them, what are they doing and what are my taxes paying School systems pay an average of $90 million annually to lawyers when they are being sued. Unfortunately, the majority of those cases are special education related. IDEA 2004 noted that parents and students have rights and if their rights to a appropriate public withheld, then they can take legal action. If $90 million is being lost each year to unhappy parents, maybe the special education programs should be reevaluated in order to save that money and implement it back into the programs. An example of lawsuit was when a Colorado couple sued the Douglas County School District. Endrew, the son who had autism, attended a Douglas County Public School from Kindergarten to 4 th grade. His parents felt that he made little progress despite his IEP, also known as Individualized Education Program, so they withdrew him before 5 th grade and put him into a private school that specialized in helping children with autism. Since the private school was expensive, parents wanted to be compensated since the public school system failed to give Endrew a appropriate public all students are promised by IDEA 2004. Pugh 4 Works Cited Denied: How Texas keeps out tens of thousands of children out of special  Houston Chronicle. Brian M Rosenthal, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Haelle, Tara. Would Special Education Rights Be Safe With Jeff Sessions As U.S. Attorney  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 30 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McKenna, Laura. Is the Bar Too Low for Special  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The History of Special Education Law -  The History of Special Education Law Wrightslaw. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.