Jonathan Ling Professor Fennell ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Ling 1 The Controversy of Genetically Modified Organisms The world population is constantly growing, resources are being exhausted, and eventually, we may run out of the needs to survive. Many strides have been taken in the Science and Technological era these past decades; creating Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) in order to yield more product. However, due to the production of GMOs, several individuals and groups have rose up to stand against the issue. The Food & Water Watch is an organization that is strongly against the use and progression of GMOs, as it may cause many problems to the human population in the near future. Monsanto Company Inc. is the world leader in the production of GMOs, the company was one of the first to incorporate biotechnology to agriculture as a means for industry and business. In order to find the common ground for these two stakeholders, a deeper insight of GMOs is needed. However, GMOs can still exist without being completely dissolved, further research will be needed in order to determine this. The Food & Water Watch claims that the current GMO situation is not safe and can potentially harm the population and the environment. First of all, most genetically modified crops have become more resistant to pesticides and insecticides. This may affect the environment due to the chemicals affecting other organisms that may come in contact to the crops, such as using it as feed for livestock. Eventually, the chemicals make their way into the human body and act a source of pollution to the local ecosystem. Secondly, there has been a growth in food allergies Ling 2 within the past decade. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) food allergies in children under the age of 18 have increased from 3.4% to 5.1% from 1997 to 2001. Researchers believe that the increase is a result from the use of GMOs, but there is no evidence that genetically modified foods are doing so. Along with the previous statistic, GMOs have some linkage to antibiotic resistance and cancer, due to their stronger resistance to herbicides. Lastly, in the United States, GMO products on the market are not required to be labeled. Consumers blindly eat GMO products every day and given the right to gain insight on what they put in their mouths. Monsanto Company Inc. claims to be leading in the production of GMOs in hopes of a better future for the current and future population. According to Monsanto Company Inc. the world population is expected to increase by about 2.6 billion people by the year 2050. The influx of crops can help alleviate world problems such as, world hunger and even poverty, since this may create more jobs for the jobless. Monsanto provides the safety summaries of their products that have been peer reviewed by registered individuals. The publications show that the GMOs they produce are safe to consume and even environmentally friendly. In the United States, most of the corn, cotton, and soybeans are genetically modified for our everyday use. Corn and soy are ingredients used in everyday foods. This ranges from the bread that we eat to the sodas that we drink. According to Dr. Leigh Connealy, much as 75 percent of the processed foods sold in this country contain GMO This just in the United States, but in the rest of the world. Not all GMOs are consumed as food. Crops that are genetically modified such as cotton is used for making clothing and other luxury products. These items do not pose much of a threat to Ling 3 the individuals using them. GMOs such as alfalfa is used as an ingredient for medicines and drugs. Further research is needed to test the effectiveness of genetically modified alfalfa and regular unmodified alfalfa. Other than that, the crop is still safe to use in medicine to treat high cholesterol, stomach problems, and even diabetes. However, crops that are genetically modified for consumption will have a higher production yield. They will also be more tolerant. Genetically engineered plants have stronger flavors, colors, higher shelf life, and can have no seeds. Some genetically modified plants have more nutrients, so this can pose as a positive force in gaining the daily intake of nutrients. GMOs also cost less to produce, so farmers, corporations, and nations save money for producing more product. In contrast, at the rate GMOs are advancing, crops are not going to be the only things modified, animals will too. Eventually, vegetation will not satisfy and the science will continue to progress. The modification of animals has already begun, modifying livestock, poultry, and fish. This reaps the animal of viable nutrients that could have been attained in the wild, especially fish. Salmon in the wild obtain more omega 3 and omega 6 fatty acids, than genetically modified ones. Omega 3 and omega 6 fatty acids are linked to decreasing coronary heart disease, diabetes, cholesterol levels, and high blood pressure. These GMOs can potentially cause risk to the individuals consuming them. Though the two stakeholders may seem to be at disagreement with each other, a fine medium can be reached and they do have similarities. Both want to do what is best for the environment and for the people. They want to make sure everyone is having their needs fulfilled and not endangered. The Food & Water Watch and The Monsanto Company Inc. may have different priorities but the same end goal. Ling 4 In order to find a common ground for the two stakeholders, both must state their position in the matter and the policies they want met. The Food & Water Watch recommends use of the precautionary principle for the evaluation of GMO crops, animals and moratorium on new approvals of genetically engineered plants and labeling of GMO The Monsanto Company Inc. will continue to produce the seeds for their GMOs, but the common ground that both parties can meet is the labeling of the products. In Europe, countries are required to label genetically modified food products. This rule does not apply to the United States. The reason for is, is because a federal mandate does not exist in the country. Once GMO products are labelled on everyday foods and items, the general population can view what they consume. This can regulate the amount GMOs consumed, if someone is against the consumption of GMOs then they can choose not to purchase the product. Also, an individual can now monitor how much they eat or drink. Another common ground to face is for people to invest in organic foods. Foods that are USDA certified do not use chemicals, hormones, and GMOs to produce. The downside to this however, is the cost of organic food. Individuals who are suffering financially would not be able to sustain an organic diet. Though, the production of GMOs is still flawed and needs to be worked on, it is inevitable that we, as a population, will eventually rely on it. As of right now, many organizations are against the use of GMOs until it proves to be one-hundred percent safe. Due to the current world problems; world hunger, poverty, climate change, etc. We will resort to anything to fulfill our most basic needs. Ling 5 Works Cited Food & Water  Food & Water Watch. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Engineered Food & Water Watch. N.p., n.d. PDF File. 30 Jan. 2017. GMOs: The Pros & Cons of Genetically Modified Food Newport Natural  Newport Natural Health. N.p., 17 Nov. 2014. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. GMOs: Pros and  Healthline. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.  A Sustainable Agriculture Company. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Trends in Allergic Conditions Among Children: United States,  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 02 May 2013. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.