1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Anxiety and Depression Association of America the suffering: triumph over anxiety and This quote gives a sense of ease for those suffering from anxiety or depression. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America is an association that offers help for those affected with anxiety or depression. This association has a website people can easily access that offers a variety of treatments, including: therapy, support groups, self-help publications and brochures, clinical trials, and frequently asked questions. This allows one seeking help to have a variety of options available to them. There are plenty of uplifting photographs on the homepage of website that give a sense of hope for those in need of help. Some photographs also give an influence to give help to those in need. The association offers a button which will lead one into donating into more research into the treatment of anxiety and depression. There are two photographs that are intriguing to the people with the mental illness. These two photos (figure 1 and figure 2) are visually and rhetorically compelling to those who are seeking hope and help to their illness. In figure photo* there is a man standing on top of what appears to be a mountain with his hands held high up in the air as if he achieved something. People with anxiety or depression are looking to achieve success and overcome their mental illness. The audience this image is targeting are people who have the mental illness and who are looking to achieve that Carucci 2 goal of getting better by being as happy as that man on top of the mountain. The primary visual message of this figure is the hope to feel happy again. The visual cues in this figure are the man standing with his hands held high in the air and gives a sense of accomplishment. The photo also represents happiness because of the hues of this photo. Bright yellow and orange represent happiness and are warm colors which help appeal to those who are stuck in a dark state of mind. The text states over Anxiety and this gives off a message of hope that if one associates with this association, then they will overcome anxiety or depression. Logos is a part of the rhetorical analysis that is defined as the of this imagine. Logos is used in this image by interpreting a goal has been achieved. The body language of the man in the image shows a visual of achievement and success for overcoming something. In this image, he overcame his journey to reach the top of the mountain as the sun rises. A new day is present as well as a new accomplishment. Pathos is defined as the of the image. Pathos is used in this image by portraying the emotion of happiness and success. Happiness and success are two emotions people suffering from depression and anxiety are craving. With this photo present, it gives off a sense of relief that there is hope and there is a way to get better. Nobody is alone with the illness and this image helps assure that message. In figure photo* there are hands cradling Earth as if it is very precious and fragile. The targeted audiences are people who are in doubt of help or who feel that they need the help. The primary visual message in this image is that the reader is in good hands and will receive help and support. When one lives with the mental illness, they feel that they are alone and they feel something is wrong with them; it is reassuring to know that someone is out there to help and take care of them. The visual cue in this image is human hands holding Earth as if they are the things supporting it. The hues in this imagine are all cool colors, including: blue and green. Green Carucci 3 symbolizes healthy and good. For example, a green light gives people that excitement feeling of The text in the image read a Therapist near This text gives off a sense of hope to those in need because it states that there are therapists close by. It also sends the message that no matter where one is, there is always someone who is willing to help nearby. Logos is used in this image because of how the hands are positioned around Earth. They are cupped as if they are holding a baby chick or egg with great care. Pathos is used in this image because it gives off an emotion of caring. People affected by these mental illnesses are seeking help and sometimes need to go further than a family or friend. The word relieves people in need and will allow one to feel that they are not alone and help is literally just a phone call away. The overall goal for this association is to provide a variety of help options for those in need. The images alone will catch attention to read further into the association. The images also represent the kind of outcomes the association provides. It is for a positive outcome of treating anxiety or depression and to not fear of being alone. There are statistics from research conducted by this association that it has directly affected families in a positive manner. Figure one and figure two correlate with one another because the goal is to treat anxiety or depression. If one decides to allow this association to help, like the message portrayed in figure two, then they will achieve an accomplishment which is to feel great about themselves, like represented in figure one. The target audiences of this association are those who have these mental illnesses or a loved one who is diagnosed with this and needs help. The photographs both portray the sense of relief that the people diagnosed are not alone and there is support almost everywhere to help ease the mental illness. One primary message this association brings is that not This association is known for helping those in need of these illnesses and has a variety of treatments readily available. (W.C.: 1,038) Carucci 4 *Figure 1: *Figure 2: Carucci 5 Works Cited ADAA. Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. ADAA, 05 June 2010. Accessed. 22 Jan. 2017. https://www.adaa.org/ Downey, Brooke to Write an Engaging .Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016.152-154. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. to Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 237-243. Print. Scott, Andrea. a Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 237- 243. Print. McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 237-243. Print.