Weiner 1 Emily Weiner Kristian Gocinski ENC1102.07 30 January 2017 New Tricks The number of teens who are struggling with mental illness has been on the rise for years. The number of untreated teenagers with mental illnesses has been following this trend. Until recently mental illness was a misunderstood topic of controversy and many policies in all over the world reflect such. When concerning the topic of the definition of what an illness is classified, The School Board of Broward County and the organization NAMI have differing opinions. While they are at odds on this topic, they both have best interests at heart and they can come together to edit School polices. The School Board of Broward County is dedicated to providing the best possible education for elementary, middle, and high school students in order for them to succeed in the future (insert citation). With this goal in mind, they create policies that shape the way their education system works. These policies range from dress codes to how teachers are evaluated. All their decisions have one underlying goal, that being to create an environment that promotes students to do well academically in order for them to do well in their futures. In making these decisions they consider all sorts of data. One big problem the School Board faces is the amount of school kids miss. In the article 10 percent of students miss too much school written by Alison DeNisco the term chronically absent is defined as who miss 18 or more days of (DeNisco 28). This term refers to all absences, even excused ones. The article talks about the risks associated with students lack of attendance to school. These students have a Weiner 2 higher risk of falling behind and receiving poor grades (DeNisco 28). Therefore, it is understandable to the School Board of Broward County to have such a strict policy on what is defined as an excused absence. To stay true to their overall goal they must do everything in their power to make sure students attend school regularly and changing the policy on what is defined as sick could encourage students to come to school less. The National Alliance on Mental Illness is dedicated to providing any resources necessary to help improve the lives of those affected by mental illness (insert citation). They do this through not only listening to problems and providing support but also by educating the public and advocating for policy changes. People are still very ignorant on what mental health disorders are and how they affect the population. Through education NAMI enlightens people on what mental illness is and how we can provide support to those around us that are suffering (insert citation). Being proactive is especially important when it comes to adolescents. They have the highest rate of untreated mental illness. This is not just an issue in the United States, you can see the parallels all over the world. For example, in the article entitled Public School Perceptions About Mental Health written by Amanda Soares, Gustavo Estanislau, Elisa Brietzke, Fernando and Rodrigo Affonseca Bressan it talks about how high the number of children with mental illnesses are in Brazil. They also speak of a statistic involving children diagnosed in public schools that need special care being around 12.7% (Soares 942). They learn through their study that although most teachers consider mental wellbeing as part of being health, very few relate mental illnesses and mental health. Most the teachers do though want to learn more about mental health so that they can help their students and know how to handle certain situations relevant to the topic. This is precisely what NAMI wants to do, educate. It is especially important when it comes to the public-school system. Weiner 3 Even though the Broward County Board of Education and NAMI at first look seem to have no common goal, at a closer examination, they do. They goal of the Broward County Board of Education as previously stated is to help students receive the best education possible to insure success in the futures (citation) and the goal of the NAMI is to help people who suffer from mental illness in any way possible (citation). In the end, they both want to same thing, a good future for the youth of today. Both parties educate and both the struggle at times to find effective ways to do so. In this way, they share another common feature. If they worked together to achieve their common goal, it would do wonders for the students. If the Broward County Board of Education and NAMI worked together they could help students who suffer from mental illness achieve their highest potential. NAMI is dedicated to educating the population, and that is exactly what they would be doing with the Broward County Board of Education. The people who make up the Board of Education are not specially trained to understand mental illness and how it effects the youth. However, NAMI is qualified to teach the Board of Education what mental illness is and how it in turn affects their students. NAMI could help the Board of Education in amending their terms of what an excused absence for a sick day is to include mental illness. This amendment in turn will provide the student who suffer from mental illness the time they need to work through their bad days without the pressures of school compounding on top. An article entitled Work Accommodations and Natural Supports for Employees with Severe Mental Illness in Social Businesses: An International Comparison written by Patrizia Villotti, Marc Ellie Fossey, Franco Fraccaroli, Tania Lecomte, and Carol Harvey they talk about how people who suffer from mental illness have a higher unemployment rate than even people with general disabilities. The study shows how with a few Weiner 4 simple accommodations, including flexible hours, people with severe mental illnesses can thrive in a work place. People with severe mental illnesses do not do quality work when they must come in on days that their illnesses has flared up (Villotti 3). The same could be said for in public schools. Children and adolescents do not do quality work when they must come in on school days when their mental illness has flared up. School is the students job, and like the real world they need some accommodations to thrive. It is understandable for the Board to be hesitant due to the increased risk of children who are chronically absent, but with help they can write a policy that cannot be abused by students who are not mentally ill by dictating that the student must show referral by a psychiatrist. Overall, the students come first and this compromise between NAMI and the Broward County Board of Education would be doing just that, putting students first. Mental illness has been a lingering issue all over the world for a long time. With the Nation Alliance on Mental help the Broward County Board of Education can help student who suffer from mental illness achieve their highest potential educationally. They in turn can do this by amending the definition of what a sick day is defined as concerning excused absences. Although there is the risk of students abusing the new policy, restrictions can be placed so this is limited. In the end this compromise will prove essential in helping mental ill students do their best in public schools. Weiner 5 Work Cited DeNisco, Alison. percent of students miss too much District Administration, Vol. 49 Issue 11, 2013. p28-28, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=d8ec6cbc-64df-4c47-86fc- 1a80f8d5f4d3%40sessionmgr101&vid=2&hid=122. Accessed 28 January. 2017. Soares, Amanda Gustavo Estanislau, et al. Perceptions About Mental Revista de 48(6). Paulo: Faculdade de da Universidade de Paulo, Dec. 2014, pp. 940-948. http://www.scielo.br/pdf/rsp/v48n6/0034-8910-rsp-48-6-0940.pdf Accessed 28 January. 2017. Villotti, Patrizia, Marc et al. Accommodations and Natural Supports for Employees with Severe Mental Illness in Social Businesses: An International Community Mental Health Journal. Germany : Springer, 2016. http://link.springer.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/article/10.1007/s10597-016-0068-5 Accessed 28 January. 2017. (INSERT PRIMARY SOURCE INFO)