Nguyen 1 Van Nguyen Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 Section 041 27 January 2017 Two-Child Policy in China: Is It Better Than One-Child Policy? After the was implemented in China, the policy got people to question whether it is a good solution to the rapid growth of the Chinese population. rights organizations such as the Rights Without (WRWF) argue that this policy is inhumane and ineffective for the over-population that China have been facing. According to WRWF, the does not only violate rights but it is also a murder. On the other hand, the Health and Family Planning (NHFPC) states that this policy will help control the population, create more job opportunities, and lower the rate of poverty. Although these two organizations have some conflicts with each other regarding this issue, they share the same mission: supporting women. In order to reach a compromise, both parties should call the Chinese government to impose federal tax instead of placing a ban on having more than two children. WRWF, a branch of Human Rights Without Frontiers, was established to fight against forced abortion in China. Their goal is raise public awareness regarding the coercive enforcement of Two-Child and champion freedom, justice, and rights in (WomensRightsWithoutFrontiers.org). In Two-Child Policy, New Number Same Violence Against Reggie Littlejohn, President of WRWF, illustrates Nguyen 2 that even when China shifts from One-Child Policy to Two-Child Policy, the crimes against the rights and human rights remain the same. Littlejohn believes that the new policy will not end any of the violations, which are caused by forced abortion and sex-selective abortion of baby girls. In addition, forced sterilization or forced contraception will still be the cruelest crimes in China since, according to NHFPC, China is not going to abandon the family planning restrictions (Littlejohn). Therefore, WRWF suggests that Chinese government do not need to modify by replacing it with Instead, they need to abolish both policies. Sharing the same opinion with WRWF, in Ratio Under Two-child Bing Xu and Maxwell Pak claim that the policy creates gender imbalance. According to them, there are no constraints on the number of children that parents can have, then a son-preference would not necessarily lead to a high gender (Xu and Maxwell Pak, 290). In China, son-preference is not a new thing as Chinese parents want to give birth to a son rather than to a daughter so that their son can preserve the surname. As a result, gender imbalance has been one of the major problems in China since 2000. Moreover, Xu and Pak demonstrate that gender imbalance grows, desire to manipulate also (Xu and Maxwell Pak, 290). They believe that by restricting the number of children a family can have, is creating opportunities for gender imbalance and son-preference to grow. In addition, to make the situation even worse, the policy also leads to another problem: gender-selective abortion. This method has been practiced widely in China to help parents intervene the birth process and therefore, increases their chance to have a son. If gender imbalance continues in China, the number of people who fail to find their mates will increase. As Nguyen 3 stated in Xu and article, likelihood of a son marrying successfully decreases as the proportion of males in the population (291). This will lead to a dramatic decrease in the as keeps increasing. On the other hand, NHFPC, a government agency formulating family planning, argues that policy had come in time and worked effectively because the number of births increased 7.9 percent in 2016. Ma Xiaowei, deputy head of NHFPC, believes that a decline in maternal mortality after the policy has been applied is a major factor contributing to the increase in birth rate. Xiaowei explains in Of Maternal Mortality that this is because measures taken by health authorities to cope with the impact of the universal Two-child policy had helped bring down the maternal mortality (Wang Xiaodong). In addition, according to Wang another deputy head of NHFPC, this policy rebalance the demographic structure, increase the workforce, help support the aging population, and help with economic and social (NewDelhiTelevisionLimited.com). NHFPC also expects that by 2050, the will bring an extra of 30 million workers and reduce 2 percent of the aging rate. For this government agency, the policy is doing a great job in China. To support point of view, in The Effects Of Universal Two-Child Yi Zeng and Therese Hesketh indicate that the new policy promotes the fertility rate by stating that the rate assumed to rise from the current 2.01 in rural areas and 1.24 in urban areas, to 2.15 in rural areas and 1.67 in the next (Zeng and Therese Hesketh, 1932). The two professors also suggest that Chinese population size will start Nguyen 4 to grow under which eventually leads to a substantially larger workforce by 2030. Furthermore, they illustrate that this policy is a contributing factor to economic growth since there is going to be a larger working-age population after the had been implemented. In addition, Zeng and Hesketh demonstrate that the new policy helps solve the problems of son-preference and male-domination in Chinese society. The two professors give a scenario in their article that the previous policy, interpreted by many Chinese people as implying that one boy was sufficient to ensure family welfare, but one girl was (Zeng and Therese Hesketh, 1933). As a result, Chinese parents valued their daughter less than their son. Zeng and Hesketh believe that by adopting the new policy, there will be a significant reduction in the sex ratio at birth in China. To alleviate the conflict that WRWF and NHFPC, both the organizations should propose to the Chinese government to impose federal tax on the third child of a family rather than coercing them to abort their baby. The tax should be based on the income of each family to avoid forcing poor families to pay their fines. In addition, the tax will increase as the number of children increases. The money that the government gets from those families will be used to improve the economy of the nation and to restrict the population growth. One of the first problems that could be solved with the tax money raising from families with more than two children is to solve the problems with pension system. In Population Prospects: Problems Nicholas Eberstadt states that policy makers are struggling to devise a reasonable plan for its pension system since population is aging so fast due to its low fertility, which is the consequence of the Child As policy makers estimated, the grandparents of 2025 will be the parents of the one-child era and have to suffer Nguyen 5 from their low fertility as they will have few to none surviving children (Eberstadt, 33). Therefore, the amount of money that China could tax from families that violate the Child could be used to overcome the consequences of its past Child Furthermore, since most of the population of China lives in the east of China, the west of the country still remains unoccupied. As a result, the money can be used to build new cities and to expand residence to the west of China, which helps solve the problem of congestion in urban areas. The government can also encourage Chinese parents to have only one to two children by providing benefits such as free education to the kids from the families following the Therefore, by applying this, Chinese government can not only control the population growth but also reduce the abortion rate in their nation. Moreover, the two organizations, WRWF and NHFPC, will also accomplish their goals. In conclusion, WRWF and NHFPC are having conflict with each other regarding the While WRWF argues that it violates rights, NHFPC believes it will solve lots of problems that China has been facing, including abortion and maternal mortality. Despite opposing each other, these two organizations share the same goal: bettering lives, whether it is for their rights or their health. Therefore, WRWF and NHFPC can have a compromise between them by imposing their government to draft more laws and regulations for this policy. Through this agreement, each organization can gain their achievements for the goals they have set. Nguyen 6 Works Cited Will Have 1.45 Billion People By 2030 Due To 2-Child . New Delhi Television Limited, 30 Oct. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Eberstadt, Nicholas. Population Prospects: Problems  Of Post-Communism 47.1 (2000): 28. Search Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Juan, Shan. Policy Increases Births By 7.9 Policy Increases Births By 7.9 Percent . National Health And Family Planning Commission, 23 Jan. 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Littlejohn, Reggie. Two-Child Policy, New Number Same Violence Against Rights Without Frontiers . Rights Without Frontiers, 1 Dec. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. To The Website Of The National Health And Family Planning Commission Of The To The Website Of The National Health And Family Planning Commission Of The PRC . National Health And Family Planning Commission, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Rights Without Frontiers Stop Forced Abortion War On Rights Without Frontiers Stop Forced Abortion War On Women! Rights Without Frontiers , n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Xu, Bing, and Maxwell Pak. Ratio Under Two-child Of Economic Behavior And Organization 119.(2015): 289 307. . Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Xiaodong, Wang. Of Maternal Mortality Of Maternal Mortality Declines . Nguyen 7 National Health And Family Planning Commission, 22 Jan. 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Zeng, Yi, and Theresa Hesketh. The Effects Of Universal Two-child Lancet 388.(2016): 1930 1938. . Web. 25 Jan. 2017.