TRANTINA 1 Nicole Trantina ENC 1102 SEC 099 29 January 2017 Intermediate Draft Project 1 As you enter the office, your heart is pounding and your body is shaking, the test results came back today. You are called back to talk to the doctor right away and you hope for the best. Sitting in the room with your significant other, you look over to see a tear running down their cheek. You are in shock, cancer. Life now begins to really take a bigger meaning. How is the treatment going to be paid for? Will the children be able to go to college? Will you be able to walk your little girl down the aisle at her wedding? Insurance only covers so much of the treatment; will my significant other be able to stay afloat if you pass away? With all these questions, there is one thing that could solve the problems, and that is moving to a country with universal healthcare. Universal healthcare is free healthcare in a country. Countries such as Austria, Canada and Germany offer universal healthcare. Although the United States health care system is doing what it is supposed to do, many do not have the money to get the proper treatment, like they would in places that offer Universal Healthcare, therefore the United States should offer Universal Healthcare. The amount of deaths in the United States is large compared to places with universal healthcare. According to The National Center for Health Statistics, the number of deaths in the United States in 2014 was 2,626,418. (Center for Disease Control) According to Statistics Canada, the total amount of deaths in Canada for 2014 were 521,019. (Statistics Canada) These statistics show just how much universal healthcare has done. Canadians are able to have less deaths because there are more doctors there to help people of every background and every financial status. Universal healthcare system is there as a free healthcare system. It is used widely in European countries and Canada. Other factors may also contribute to less deaths, such as eating less junk food, walking on a regular basis as opposed to using a car to get everywhere. TRANTINA 2 However, the use of free healthcare means treatment for everyone and anyone, making the treatment of diseases such as cancer more affordable and less stressful and easier to obtain. Universal Healthcare is more affordable for the government and the people of that country. According to The Elders Organization and WHO, out of healthcare services offered to people in a country, one of those services is unaffordable to at least 400 million of the countries people. This shows just how unaffordable non-universal healthcare is compared to universal healthcare because everything in a universal healthcare system is free to the people of that country. (WHO) Looking at the statistics from The Elders organization and the Work Bank, more than 100 million people are going broke because of how much their health services are costing them and their families. (The Elders Organization) Some may say that insurance is there to cover most of the medical expenses, however some may not be able to afford insurance and even with the insurance companies help, there is still money that must be paid that some people do not have at their fingertips. Universal Healthcare would allow the economy to be boosted and would allow more jobs to be brought into the world. Universal healthcare would also help to cut costs because it is free. With the implementing of a universal health care system, taxes will go up, however, in the end, the economy will be boosted. With an increase in taxes, free healthcare services are implemented, and that means more people are likely able to afford things like food and housing because they would not have to worry about paying for their medical needs anymore. According to Expathealth, universal healthcare increases the life expectancy by at least one year and that could increase the GDP per capita by as much as 4 percent. (Expathealth) With a higher life expectancy in a country, it means more people who will be working which boosts the economy. The statistics from Expathealth also confirm that labor can go up for 20 to 45 percent once TRANTINA 3 universal healthcare is implemented because there are less health problems and less missing of work. (Expathealth) Universal Healthcare can also create more government jobs which will help to bring the economy up. health clinics have wait times due to the fact that there are always medical problems and emergencies happening in a country, and with that, wait time would be longer with the use of universal healthcare. A study done by Fraser Institution shows that the wait times in Canada to see physicians has not decreased with the implementation of universal healthcare. It is said that in Canada in 1993 the wait time to see a physician was about 9.3 weeks, while the wait time now is 97 percent longer. (Fraser Institute) This wait time not only causes more health issues, but could also help aide in getting people who come in contact with the sickness sick before the doctor is seen. Universal healthcare may be free, but it would take more time to be seen by a doctor because everybody who had a sickness or a disease that could not afford treatment before are trying to get into the emergency rooms and physicians because they can now afford it. Free healthcare being implemented does not necessarily mean it is completely With the implement of universal healthcare, it would cause an increase in taxes. According to Health Affairs, health care would be less than a healthcare system. (Health Affairs) Publicly financed would be insurance based and people based, while tax financed would be universal healthcare standards, which means healthcare. With this being said, having the universal healthcare could cause poverty because people may not be able to afford the increase in taxes. Some healthcare would not be free such as homeopathy medicine, which some people prefer more than pharmaceuticals, which would mean those people would not only be paying for the healthcare in their taxes, but they will be paying for their own healing. TRANTINA 4 Implementing universal healthcare would mean allowing every person to have the same rights to healthcare. This would mean that someone who is considered wealthy and someone who would be below the poverty line would be getting the exact same type of care from their doctors. According to WHO, quality health service can only be reached if the universal healthcare starts slow, otherwise it is not going to be adequate or have any quality causing universal healthcare to not do its task the way that the healthcare system in the United States is doing now. (WHO) Universal healthcare would then cause more money to be lost due to the fact that if the quality of healthcare deteriorates, so does the amount of cured people. With all the pros and cons being said, there is a solution to the problem that is healthcare. With all the different classes of people based off of financial status, there should be different classifications in the universal healthcare guidelines. With people who are considered high class and wealthy, the tax should be higher, but they should be allowed more when it comes to healthcare. Middle class should have the second highest tax and be allowed the same as someone wealthy, but there is more of a wait for them. The low class should be taxed less, but offered the basics and things for diseases such as cancers. They would be offered everything the same, but the wait would be different due to the fact that they are paying less in taxes. This would still make everything free, but it would allow wait times to be different by the amount you can pay towards the taxes. The government would still be getting the money they would need, but the healthcare would be easier to get to for people in need. With the implementing of universal healthcare, there are going to be pros and cons and some may not see eye to eye, however there is always a solution to those problems. Although the United States health care system is doing what it is supposed to do, many do not have the money to get the proper treatment, like they would in places that offer Universal Healthcare, therefore TRANTINA 5 the United States should offer Universal Healthcare. Universal healthcare is paid for through taxes and each financial class should pay a certain amount of tax depending on what they can afford. Waiting time may be extended for lower class, but everyone will have equal benefits within the system of healthcare. With the implementation of this, doctors can work with all and have the same quality practice that they had prior to universal healthcare, making the healthcare system more affordable, and helping give jobs and treatment to those in need. TRANTINA 6 Works cited Deaths, estimates, by province and  Government of Canada, Statistics Canada. N.p., Dec. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Deaths and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 07 Oct. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Universal Health Coverage  The Elders. N.p., Fall 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cariker, Bill. How universal health care benefits the  The Guide to Expatriate Health. N.p., 22 Oct. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Barua, Bacchus. Waiting Your Turn: Wait Times for Health Care in Canada, 2015  Fraser Institute. N.p., 8 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Woolhandler, Steffie. Steffie  Paying For National Health Insurance-And Not Getting It. N.p., 01 July 2002. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Questions and Answers on Universal Health  WHO. World Health Organization, Spring 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.