Cummings 1 Annie Cummings Noah Pearlstone ENC1102 01/25/2017 Childhood Obesity Prevention It has been a known fact for a while now that children around the country have contributed immensely to our obesity rates. Some say because kids get enough exercise, and others may say mainly from a poor diet. Since childhood obesity has been a big concern over the past years, organizations have come together to try to address people who might not be as aware on this issue as others may be. Organizations such as the Move Campaign, which was brought upon by Former First Lady Michelle Obama, believes that if our generation comes together to raise awareness on childhood obesity by encouraging the youth to become ultimately more physically active then be able to decrease childhood obesity rates. Although, organizations such as My Plate puts a strong emphasis on what people, especially kids, consume in their diets on a daily basis. In other words, My Plate group believes that if kids eat enough of each food group then they should be healthy. Though Michelle Move Campaign and the My Plate group encourage different goals to overcome childhood obesity, by working together in making sure kids are both physically active and eating healthy, they would ultimately be able to become more successful in their goals of striving to prevent childhood obesity. The Move Campaign is an organization that was started by Michelle Obama that is strongly to solving the problem of obesity within a generation, so that children born today will grow up healthier and able to pursue their Move Get This organization originally began by putting an emphasis on kids to not only become physically Cummings 2 active, but to also maintain a healthy diet by cutting off fatty foods. Move was aiming towards this goal by access to healthy, affordable foods in schools and (Eschmeyer). Not only was this organization striving to make sure kids stay physically active, but making sure kids consume the right nutrients every day, especially at school, in order to prevent obesity rates. Although, Move stopped putting such a strong emphasis on strictly eating healthy foods, because kids enjoy healthy foods. Former First Lady spoke out at a conference back in 2011 and stated, importance of really promoting physical activity to our forcing them to eat their (Nestle). In other words, encouraging kids to eat healthy can only go so far, especially with kids at such a young age. Young kids in general always look forward to eating tasty foods, and they necessarily understand the importance of vegetables until they reach an adolescent age. With that said, you can get kids to run around and be active way more easily than getting them to sit down and eat their vegetables. That is ultimately why Michelle Obama changed the direction of her Move Campaign and began pushing kids to be as active as possible so that they can have fun and not stress out so much about what they consume. The second stakeholder, My Plate, is a nutritional guide that is provided by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), which places an emphasis on eating healthy foods that derive from five nutrient groups. Those groups are: fruits, vegetables, grains, proteins and dairy products. This organization strictly focuses on guiding people, including children, to maintain a healthy daily diet rather than emphasizing on exercising daily. The My Plate website allows children to plan out their daily meals and portion sizes as well as making sure they receive all of the appropriate and needed nutrients in order to stay healthy. Although, according to an article from Harvard University, Plate still offer the most complete Cummings 3 Nutrition My goal is to get people to utilize their nutrition guide in order to maintain a healthy diet that incorporates all five nutrients. The USDA organization believes that if people, including children use this guide then obesity rates would go down as a result because people would be eating more healthy portions. Although, My Plate has been proven successful in order to people to eat healthy. An article that was posted on the Obesity Action Coalition (OAC) website, included how My Plate useful for you to educate your children about the components of a balanced (Lofton). The point that My Plate is trying to make is that if children understand the important of knowing what a healthy, balanced meal is then they should sequentially be able to keep themselves from not eating healthy and contributing to the obesity rate. All in all, My Plate firmly believes that if children maintain the proper amount of portions and nutrients on a day-to-day basis then they should be able to maintain good health. A well-known campaign like Michelle Move would want to be as sure as possible that successful in encouraging children to exercise and stay fit to lower obesity rates. Yet, My Plate begs to differ believing that emphasizing strongly on a healthy diet will ensure people, including children, from becoming obese. Although these stakeholders are in opposition with how to go about preventing obesity amongst children, they are ultimately trying to reach the same goal of encouraging children to become healthy and decrease the high obesity rate. The problem among both stakeholders is that they incorporating more options for children to overcome obesity. Instead, they are both putting their main focus on one thing that children can do to become physically and nutritionally fit. What they can both do is work together in order to achieve the obesity prevention that they are striving for. If they were to establish that common ground of tying their two main interests together, which are exercise and a Cummings 4 healthy diet, then they would be able to work closer together at beating the childhood obesity epidemic. The most appropriate compromise would be for Michelle Move Campaign working together with My Plate program staff and incorporate a nutritional diet within her campaign. Instead of encouraging kids to solely eat more vegetables, the Move Campaign could utilize the My Plate nutritional guide and encourage kids to not only be more physically fit, but to make sure to portion their foods properly. Kids not only need to know how to eat healthy, but portioning their foods appropriately could make all the difference to a diet. By portioning their foods throughout the day accordingly to their exercise schedule, and becoming more aware of what they need to do in order to stay fit, then children would be able to keep up with a healthful, daily routine. Both Michelle Move Campaign and My Plate may have different takes on preventing childhood obesity, but they ultimately both believe that important to find ways to prevent childhood obesity from increasing. The Move Campaign can collaborate with My Plate in order to get kids to not only maintain an exercise routine but to also maintain a nutritional and proportional diet as well. With Michelle focus on children burning off calories working together with My Plate nutritional guide, children around the country will be able to stay motivated to stay healthy in both a physical and nutritional way. Cummings 5 Work Cited Move to Raise a Healthier Generation of Move Campaign. Feb. 2010: Web 25 Jan. 2017. Eschmeyer, Debra. Launch of Move Campaign. 2010: Web 25 Jan 2017. Lofton, Holly. Becomes the New Obesity Action Coalition. 2017: Web 25 Jan. 2017. Nestle, Marion. Move Campaign gives up on healthy diets for Food Politics. 5 Dec. 2011: Web 25 Jan. 2017. The Nutrition Source. Eating Plate vs. Harvard University School of Public Health. 14 Sept. 2011: Web 25 Jan. 2017