Ghofran khoj John Williams ENC 1102 January 29,17 Homeless rights. Homelessness is the word that we say it for people who do not have a home, but do we know what they feel. Do we know what they need? The homelessness issue has been an issue for a long time and many people tried to fix this problem and solve it. People started to bring some solutions like shelters and going to these shelters and give them some food. It is not bad solutions but it is not helpful at all. It is helping them just for a short amount of time and then they become worst and no home again. Even with these two solutions the homelessness rate still increase. People who can help to stop homelessness are business people and organizations people but the sad news is these two people have a big conflict. Both of them want to stop homelessness but in their own ways. The question is do they helping stop homelessness or doing just because they want to take benefit from it. The businesses believe that keeping homeless people away from them is the good solution and the organization helping them for just short period of time. Both organizations have the same goal: to stop homelessness, which will decrease the number of homeless people. To solve this problem, they have to find solutions that satisfy both of them. There are lots of organizations helping homeless. There is a normal organization that takes money from business people and then they help homeless. The other organization is a religious organization. There is an organization named Memphis organization. It is offered that sign up for the program will be asked to  a homeless family or individual and provide mentors to help transition them to permanent (Memphis, TN). There is also some of the churches do shelters that just for one day. Homeless people should go to the shelter every day in the morning and they stand in line for three hours just to take one bed to sleep just one night and then the next day they should go out and take all their stuff with them because this place first comes first serve. The other people that did not allow for them to sleep there, they will sleep in the street until the next day. Hess said It is not enough to simply take homeless people off the streets and hide them. The real solution is to address the reasons why they become homeless in the first If there are a children or kids with it is not going to be helpful or healthy at all because many people sleep in the same bed and they are going to go too many shelters and they will not have their own friends and society. This is going to harm both kids and adult. Some of the religious organization are doing it just because they want to take the satisfaction from god, so because of their own benefit. The other group is the business. Some businesses want to stop homelessness on their own way and their own benefit. As we know many businesses live in the downtown, so they wanted to remove the homeless from there. They did an organization called NIMBY (not in my back yard). They give money to this organization to remove the homeless from the downtown. It is racism and selfish from them. Then they show up and said we are helping stop homelessness. They want to just make the downtown or the place where they live clear from homeless. The organization that cooperates with some of the businesses help the homeless for a just small period of time and then they sent them back with no improvements and nothings that help them. The businesses and the organizations have the same goals. They all want to stop homelessness. They could do a company that employs homeless people. In this way, they are going to help the get money and they make them do the work for them. Businesses should know where to put their money. There are some organizations pretend to give the money to homeless people, but actually, they take the money for themselves. So giving the money for trust organization and deal with them. Religious people do not like other organizations because they believe that they took the money for themselves, which is true for some of them. Religious people and Organization companies can solve the problem by making the Religion people give the money for the organization and the organization help the homeless by giving half of the money and convenes them to go to this Religion or make the religion people do some event that makes them like this religion. This is the solution for Religious people to take the satisfaction and help the homeless people at the same time. They can do houses, community or a short-term rental subsidy use of short-term rental subsidy vouchers offers a new approach to addressing the housing needs of families facing (Mohan) for them, on the other hand, these homeless can help them by working in their company or in the church or mosque. All in all, when some want to help other people, they have to do it for them not for taking benefit from it. Businesses can help stop homelessness by seeing what they need and then cooperate with the organizations to help them do it. They could do a very good to help homeless and seeing what they need. Helping homeless life in the home and have a better life is going to be beneficial for homeless people first and then without taking their right, they will benefit other and all of them will be satisfied. Work cites Memphis, Shelby County seek help for homeless from religious  Commercial Appeal (Memphis, TN) 2012: General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hess, Robert V. Helping People Off The Streets: Real Solutions To Urban  USA Today Magazine 128.2656 (2000): 18. Academic Search Premier. Web. 6 Oct. 2016. Mohan, Erica, and Carolyn M. Shields. The Voices Behind The Numbers: Understanding The Experiences Of Homeless  Critical Questions In Education 5.3 (2014): 189. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 4 Oct. 2016.