Project 1 Intermediate Draft Ever since the human race acquired the ability to hunt, meat has been a part of diet. However, in 1971, the publication of Diet for a Small Planet by Frances Moore Lappe launched a vegetarian movement in the United States. (Bluejay, 1) Since that year, the topic of animal rights in the meat industry has grown considerably, with a veganism movement also starting in 1987. These movements have led to the American people and animal welfare organizations, an example being the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS), becoming increasingly involved in taking steps against the meat industry, to protect the lives of the animals involved. This has been met with opposition from farmers and meat-related organizations, an example being the North American Meat Institute (NAMI), to whom the sale of meat is a vital source of income. However, despite their many differing viewpoints, the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) and the North American Meat Institute (NAMI) may be able to come to compromise involving slaughterhouses based on their shared interest in the ethical treatment of animals in the farming industry. Since the Humane Society of the United States was founded to 1954, it has fought for the rights of animals nationwide. Their website states that they are largest and most effective animal protection They have worked extensively against factory farming and cruelty to farm animals. They have been especially critical of slaughterhouses, and raised for slaughter animals, advocating natural growing conditions for animals. They also push heavily for a vegan lifestyle, being opposed to the general idea of animals being killed for food in the first place. HSUS seems fairly radical in their approach, but it may share some ideals with some of the meat organizations it opposes. The North American Meat Institute was formed in 2015 from the merger of the American Meat Institute and the North American Meat Association. It states on their website that their mission is be a catalyst for continuous innovation and improvement; a strong advocate for the meat and poultry community before consumers, policymakers and media; and a vehicle for members of all sizes to develop positive, constructive and long lasting This may seem to be directly opposed to animal welfare groups, as it advocates for the consumption, but the organization states in its ideals that it values the voice and right to choose a meat lifestyle or not, and the ethical treatment of animals in their care. With these factors in mind, it would seem that a compromise between these two stakeholders in this issue may be possible. A compromise between the North American Meat Institute and the Humane Society of the United States would be fairly simple in theory; call to draft legislation to ban the use of slaughterhouses, and the raising of animals within them. This would benefit HSUS as it would cause the animals used in the factory farming industry to be treated more humanely, and would lead to less animals being killed, as a result of the mass slaughter of animals no longer being a feasible option. This would benefit NAMI as well, as it would cause them to be seen in a more positive light by the public eye, and may allow them to increase the prices of their meat, as they would not be able to produce as much of it. Therefore, this compromise is a logically-sound action for both of these organizations to take. The North American Meat Institute and the Humane Society of the United States do have many differences in their policies, goals, and general ideals. However, they share many of the same interests. That is the reason that the compromise of abolishing the slaughter would heavily benefit them both. Also, if these two organizations continue to oppose each other, it may push them further away from achieving their goals, rather than closer. Works Cited Dawn, Karen. Making Progress Against Animal  Progressive 80.7 (2016): 37-39. Academic Search Premier. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Davis, Jennifer. Humane Society Of The United  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2015): Research Starters. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Woiwode, R., et al. Research: Compliance Of Large Feedyards In The Northern High Plains With The Beef Quality Assurance Feedyard  The Professional Animal Scientist 32.(2016): 750-757. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Bluejay, Michael.  A Short History of Vegetarianism with an emphasis on the U.S. from  Vegetarian Guide: History of Vegetarianism in the U.S. N.p., 1998. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About Us : The Humane Society of the United  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  North American Meat Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.