Adams, 1 Patrick Adams Mr. Bob Botkin ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Steroid Use and the Baseball Hall of Fame Every year the Baseball Writers of America Association (BBWAA) votes on which players should be inducted into the Hall of Fame and every year there is a great debate on how steroid use should affect Hall of Fame candidacy. The BBWAA has long been divided on how to approach this issue. This divide has harmed Baseball by sowing discord and causing strife among fans, players, the media, and owners. The debate on steroid use is an even bigger problem within the context of the waning popularity of baseball. That is why now more than ever baseball, more specifically the BBWAA, must unite along a common front and make a clear cut decision on how players linked to steroids, whether by evidence or rumor, should be treated with consideration to the Hall of Fame. The BBWAA has over 600 members and all of them have their own opinion on the controversy. This paper will focus on the two most popular opinions, all for players linked to steroids or all against players linked to steroids being treated the same for consideration for the Hall of Fame, and finding common ground between the two sides so that there may be a compromise. The argument for players with ties to steroids getting inducted like any other player is a multi-faceted one. There are three arguments that hold the most sway are that it is not the place to judge the morality of players, the idea that while taking steroids was technically against the rules there was no testing for it which practically made it okay, and that players taking steroids actually helped baseball by restoring some of the popularity lost by the players strike of 1994. The idea that the BBWAA judges people on morality or character clause Adams, 2 is one that people often find ridiculous as they think that a players morals have no effect on how well he plays the game of baseball and therefore should have no effect on their candidacy for the Hall of Fame. As Tammara Gage points out in her paper concerning off the field issues and the Hall of Fame that Mantle and Babe Ruth were both widely known to be drunken (Tammara Gage, Hall of Fame Eligibility Should Not Be Affected by Off-Field Activities, Mckendree.edu). Another famous example where the BWWAA seemingly contradicted itself is in the case of Ty Cobb. Ty Cobb was famously belligerent and unsportsmanlike going in so far to jump into the stands to fight a fan. In all three of these cases these players were inducted even considering their questionable morality and sportsmanship. The advocates for players linked to steroids point out the hypocrisy in refusing admission to players because of the morality of steroids when they have inducted players like Babe Ruth, Ty Cobb, and Mickey Mantle. Another defense is that during the steroid era taking steroids was not technically against the rules. While steroids were on list of banned substances in 1991 there was no extensive testing done until 2003 according to the official drug timeline by MLB.com (mlb.com). This meant that while it was technically against the rules many players looked at the fact that since there was no testing for it that Major League Baseball was indifferent about it. Many players took this as a sort of endorsement as the way they looked at it steroids were helping baseball. In a way these players were right as baseball lost a lot of fans because of the 1994 players strike. A look at the attendance records before and after the strike show that attendance fell a whopping twenty percent (ESPN.com). This in part led to the massive offensive boom in baseball due to steroids. According to sportswriter Cliff Corcoran home run record chase of 1998 can be tied to the full recovery of the attendance figures for multiple so certainly steroids helped baseball in that case. Corcoran points out well in Adams, 3 the article that may not have actively fostered the tilt toward offense in those years, but it also did little to counteract it, especially by turning a blind eye to performance- enhancing drug supporting the idea that while steroids were against the rules that Baseball certainly did not care that players were using (Corcoran, The Strike: Who was right, who was wrong and how it helped baseball, si.com). The advocates for steroid users in the Hall of Fame have valid points that need to be considered when addressing the issue of steroid users in the Hall of Fame. Similarly to the defenders of the players linked to steroids the people opposed to the idea of players with ties to steroids making the Hall of Fame have several valid arguments. The two most potent ideas are that taking steroids was against the rules and that steroids did irreparable damage to the clean players. Steroids has been on banned substances since 1991. There is no disputing that fact, however advocates of players linked to steroids are quick to point out that there were no tests for it until 2003 and that MLB did not care. The champions of anti-steroids point that against the rules is against the rules. Dan Naulty a former player who used steroids states this poignantly was a full-blown cheater, and I knew it, you need a written rule. I was violating clear principles that were laid down within the rules. I understood I was violating implicit Sportswriter Tom Verducci also points this out in his 2012 article To Cheat or not to Cheat where he states that silence in the culture of steroids is a dead giveaway that the users knew they were (Tom Verducci, To Cheat or not to Cheat, si.com). More importantly, people who are against steroid users in the Hall of Fame point out is the harm that steroids did to the clean players of the day by putting then on an unfair playing field. Making it in the majors is already incredibly difficult as Verducci points in his article To Cheat or not to Cheat as Adams, 4 percent of all drafted players never spend one day in the big leagues. Steroid users made the odds even worse for clean (Verducci, To Cheat or not to Cheat, si.com). In the article, Verducci goes on to tell the story of four players who played on the 1994 Fort Meyers Miracle. All four players were pitchers of similar skill only one of them made it the majors and only reason he made it was steroids. In the story, Verducci points out that of all the players that played at least one game with Miracle in 1994 six made the majors half of which were using steroids. According to anti-steroid defenders, not only does using steroids cheat the game but it also cheats the players who did not cheat. Even though both sides have very solid arguments backing their opinions they have one uniting factor. Their love for the game unites both sides because if they did not love it all their careers would not revolve around it. On the basis of this common ground, they should be able to agree that steroids have hurt the game. A compromise that both sides should be able to agree with is based on evidence or lack thereof. Essentially, if there is evidence of a player using steroids he is out of consideration, but if not then he is treated like any other player. In conclusion, the BBWAA can unite over their love for the game and a compromise based on evidence of wrongdoing can be made. Adams, 5 Works Cited Gage, Tammara. Hall of Fame Eligibility Should Not Affected by Off-Field  Mckendree.edu. McKendree University, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.mckendree.edu/academics/scholars/issue9/gage.htm>. Drug Policy  Major League Baseball. Major League Baseball, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Press, Associated. 1994 strike was a low point for  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 10 Aug. 2004. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Corcoran, Cliff. Strike: Who was right, who was wrong and how it helped SI Magazine. Sports Illustrated, 12 Aug. 2014. Web. 29 January 2017. Verducci, Tom. TO CHEAT OR NOT TO  SI.com. Sports Illustrated, 04 June 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.