Pollard 1 Christian Pollard Jarad Fennel ENC 1102 25 January 2017 Medical Marijuana For years, medical marijuana has been a heated topic of discussion. Today, there are two stakeholders in the situation. You either think marijuana should be legal for use or you think medical marijuana should remain illegal. Medical marijuana has been proven to help with several conditions that were deemed as something that is not treatable to the public. Others think that it is a hassle and that the big prescription agencies want marijuana to be legalized due to the amount of profit that would be lost. Over these topics it has divided the population to people who are for and people who are not for the legalization of marijuana. With the stakeholders of NORML and Florida Medical Association being on complete opposite side of the spectrum. I think that it would be possible that both corporations, if they learn more about the medical advances of marijuana, would come to an agreement on the legalization of marijuana. NORML, National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, is a non-profit organization who seeks the legalization of marijuana for medical and recreational use. Not only do they want marijuana legalized but they seek to teach the public about the perks of Pollard 2 marijuana and the benefits from its use. While not only do NORML try to reform the laws of medical marijuana but often they try to inform the public on how marijuana can impact the sick or dying. Marijuana has been linked to cure some diseases that have no cure or only use medication to treat the side effects. With links to often help suffering individuals, NORML tries to show the public the benefits of medical marijuana. One of the big oils that help with not only diseases but cancer too is CBD oil. CBD oil has been linked to help shrink tumors in all forms of cancer and help the patient recover without the use of chemotherapy. NORML sees the potential with this oil when it comes to cancer and why they are pushing for the legalization of medical marijuana across the United States. The other stakeholder in this situation is the Florida Medical Association. The Florida Medical Association, FMA, is a big pharmaceutical back company. With this being said, the pharmaceutical industry want the advancement of legalization of marijuana because the profits for pain medications, prescriptions, or even topicals used would be cut extremely. This is a very big issue for the pharmaceutical industry because pain medications are one of the top leading prescriptions sold. If medical marijuana would be legalized, the profits for this industry would be cut. This is seen as a huge threat to the industry, and that is why most pharmaceutically backed companies oppose the legalization of medical marijuana. This is exactly what is going on with the FMA, the pharmaceutical industry is such a big contributor that if FMA lost its business that company would be in danger as well. My proposed solution for both companies would be for NORML to talk to FMA and try to get them to realize the benefits of medical marijuana in the healthcare field. Marijuana does not only help with certain diseases but has been linked to help with tumors in cancer patients. Pollard 3 If medical marijuana was to be legalized the usage of other, often deadly, prescriptions would become unnecessary. The compromise will be for NORML to talk FMA into investing into medical marijuana. If the FMA was to see the possibility of medical marijuana in the healthcare field then the pharmaceutical industry would start to produce it instead of harmful prescription drugs. If FMA was to cooperate with NORML then medical marijuana would be easily accessible for not only the sick but also the terminal. Pollard 4 Works Cited Iannelli, Jerry. Pharma-Sponsored Conference, Florida Medical Association Votes to Oppose Medical Miami New Times. N.p., 22 Sept. 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. National Organization For The Reform Of Marijuana Laws (NORML). NACLA Report On The Americas (2002): 49. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan 2017 wrong to oppose medical marijuana The Palm Beach Post (West Palm Beach, FL)2014: Business Insights: Essentials. Web 27 Jan. 2017.