Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Visual Analysis of Music Therapy on Mental Health Music is a beautiful and intangible form of art that impacts individuals in various methods. Though intangible, music reflects itself physically onto people through facial expressions, dancing, and playing instruments. Additionally, rhetorical appeals and music go hand in hand in communicating messages through a creative filter of lyrical content and form- fitting melodies. Music tends to be highly associated with the rhetorical appeal of pathos in that songs and melodies often bring on cathartic and repressed emotions. In this regard, the National Alliance on Mental Illness sees the art of music as a powerful tool concerning the road to recovery for individuals that suffer from debilitating mental illnesses such as anxiety and depressive disorders. Consequently, visual appeals take effect not only with the use of pathos, but also with the appeals of ethos, logos, and kairos. Using the image of a young adolescent captured with joyful expressions whilst listening to music, along with another visual conveying an adults focus in the midst of playing an instrument, NAMI encourages readers and individuals to associate music as a form of cathartic release, therefore emphasizing art as a hopeful form of treatment for mental illnesses. Figure 1 visualizes a boy emitting positive emotions while listening to a song. The primary visual message suggests a primarily young audience, such that the stakeholder is communicating towards the new generation of individuals that encounter mental illnesses. Additionally, the context regarding the pop of colors in the background indicates an audience of Student 2 musically inclined enthusiasts. The positive and colorful vibes bring forward a message or feeling of comfort in using music to escape into a more positive state of mind. The colors on the wall are being reflected onto the face and arms, just like how music amplifies entire mind by changing overall mood, and then onto the rest of the body by dancing. The first visual cue that stands out to convey the message are the headphones, which is one of the best and most convenient ways to listen to music. All of the surrounding sounds are blocked so that entire focus is on the instrumentals and vocals of their favorite song, album, or playlist. The second and powerful cue is the eyes being closed. a huge difference between listening to music with eyes being closed and eyes being open. almost as if music is more intense and impactful when eyes are closed. Consequently, the visually pungent and intense colors pertain to the various genres of music. Each color represents a different genre, and often the most beautiful forms of music combine multiple genres. Various genres reflect a series of emotions, and that combination is key in catharsis. The bursts of color on the wall is reflected onto the skin in an eye-catching and reflective way. Since the colors represent music, the music is clearly impacting the overall state of being. Nevertheless, the face is the purest form of proof that music brings on many cathartic, uplifting, and comforting emotions. According to Joe Moxley, visual interpretation is highly influenced by the of the designer (Visual Literacy). Following the rhetorical situation of the visual are the rhetorical appeals, which play an underlying factor in creating the overall message. Logos represents itself through the headphones in this image; since the topic focuses on music, the headphones represent music being implemented and reflected through the Student 3 facial expression. Credibility is used in this source due to the fact that the National Alliance on Mental Illness is the top and most recognized organization concerning mental health. Pathos is shown through the art of the vibrant colors which pertain to various emotions released by listening to music, as well as the comfort and happiness in the face. Studies show that music helps to alleviate and reduce symptoms associated with mental illnesses (Rawls). Not only does the cathartic release from music help individuals cope with anxiety through senses of happiness and state of calmness, but it also helps lessen the severity of depression in patients (Rawls). Consequently, the stakeholder addresses that happy sounding instrumentals are one of the quickest ways to improve mood and to overall (Rawls). In addition, the neck and below is faded out in black, which emphasizes how music is an art meant firstly for the mind before anything else. This goes along with the fact that the brain releases dopamine, a feel-good hormone that takes over the mind. The aspect of kairos is uniquely shown through the hands on the headphones; it suggests that this photo was captured right as the music started playing, which clearly shows feelings of enjoyment. As music is intangible, visual images capture moments in which one can see the affect that music brings through outward expressions. Figure 2 visualizes an adult focused on playing the guitar, seemingly on a stage in front of a crowd. As opposed to the first image of the child listening to music through headphones, the stakeholder is emphasizing the impact on live music, and that playing or listening to music in its most natural form may be even more beneficial on improving mental health. This image crops the head out in order to put all focus onto the guitar; this goes to show that the main focus is on how music therapy impacts an mental health. The first eye-catching visual cue is the lighting shinning down on the person and how the rest of the image is faded out with dark colors. When music is being played, or being listened to, surroundings are faded out Student 4 and all of attention is on the melody of the instrument. The faceless aspect of this image emphasizes the theme of music therapy. The lighting structure in this image is quite impactful to the overall message. The light shines from an angle that puts its focus on the artist while a photographic image is taken in a way that fades out everything in the surroundings. Regardless of not having an imbedded text, the placement of the fingers on the guitar indicates a cathartic and beautiful melody. As music is the main focus, only logical that there be a present musical instrument of some sort represented in the article. Credibility emerges from the fact that this image is from a highly reputable mental health awareness website. In addition, the author of the article, Molly Warren, has a degree in Music Therapy, and works with individuals with behavioral disorders and trauma and neglect backgrounds (NAMI). Moreover, the dark and light hues capture pathos in that music is a completely encompassing feeling; the sound of a guitar is very beautiful and in a way that the melody allows us to express emotions. The article discusses the importance of lyrical content mixed with the and of different instrumental melodies help individuals about topics that may be difficult to (Warren). This image was most likely taken while the individual was performing a song, and in that the audience captures photos of that unforgettable moment. Using a picture of a person standing next to an instrument been much less persuasive because the main objective is to use music as an emotional and for experiencing safety, peace, and (Warren). Both of these simple but effective images work together to emphasize the importance of music in improving emotional and mental health. Music enthusiasts are uplifted through listening to and playing instruments, and readers are encouraged to see if incorporating music into their life will help them cope in their struggles. (WC: 1276) Student 5 Figure 1 Music Is More Than A Form Of Art; A Form Of Treatment Figure 2 The Impact of Music Therapy on Mental Health Student 6 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric matters: foundations of rhetoric and composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Moxley, Joe. Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rawls, Natalia. NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness. N.p., 29 July 2015. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. http://www.nami.org/Blogs/NAMI-Blog/July-2015/Music-is-More-Than-a-Form- of-Art%3B-it%E2%80%99s-a-Form-of-T Rawls, Natalia, July 29, 2015 via NAMI. National Alliance on Mental Illness Warren, Molly. NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness. N.p., 19 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.nami.org/Blogs/NAMI-Blog/December-2016/The-Impact-of-Music- Therapy-on-Mental-Health>. Warren, Molly, Dec. 19, 2016 via NAMI. National Alliance on Mental Illness