Al Ibrahim 1 Ammar Al Ibrahim Dr. John Williams ENC1102 January29, 2017 The Effects of Social Media In The Middle East In day, social median have taken a main role in daily socializing and communicating life. rare to find person who is not a registered user in any of social media platforms (SMP). Years ago, most people used to use social media for a few purposes and the main one was communicating. After social media have taken over the world, people started to not use social media for only socializing aim. For example, they started to use it for own profits such doing businesses and advertising them via different SMP and fortunately they got succeed. App is one of those platforms that gets popular in the all world especially in the Middle East. Most people in the Middle East prefer to use app than other chat apps for different reasons. Middle eastern medical-services organization (MEMO) believes people should limit their usage hours of social media because it causes many side effects for eye tissue, while app company itself worn people about what doctors is saying. To integrate both organizations positions, using special screens would be a great solution for those who use devises for long hours. MEMO is a profit organization that offers a healthcare across many Middle East countries. This organization states most adults in the Middle East are unaware of the danger light devices that cause issues for eye. MEMO believes people always pay attention to eye issues because eyes usually get affected in long-term. People often get Al Ibrahim 1 lack vision and feel about those issues once they get around 40 years. What proves the idea of long-term effects, MEMO resulted around 68% of people in the Middle East start to wear glasses at age of 40 and above. According to MEMO 34% of adults are unaware of the potential dangers of blue light emitted from light-emitting diode (LED) and compact fluorescent light (CFL) to (Smick, Kirk 32). MEMO states every parent should be aware about kids because they believe kids start to spend more hours on using those devices that bring harmful lights. Most of members suggest, need to be more educated about the effects of dangers of harmful light on (Smick, Kirk 33). Using device in darkness has very bad effects in the eyesight. app is an investment company that cares about its profits and getting more and more customers. app is an application that has many characteristics such as sharing document, phone contacts, voice notes, photos and videos, and location. The most thing people in the Middle East like in this app is the ability of creating groups that have more that fifty members. Furthermore, The normal phone messages are not free in the most countries of Middle East, while app is free and provided all the needs. A study that has been done at Imam Muhammad Bin Saud Islamic University in Saudi Arabia found app is the most common app that students use to socialize and they spend most of their hours in texting through. The study resulted, of students use App applications more than 20 times a Msfarah 80). In the study most students see app is an app for all ages and it found 31% of the teachers at that university prefer to use app than other chat apps. Both organization App and MEMO can be integrated their positions. MEMO worries about the harmful digital lights that come from devises especially with Al Ibrahim 1 the increasing of social media users. app is an investment company that care more about its profits and success. There are screens that reduce the amount of light-emitting diode (LED) and compact fluorescent light (CFL) that come from digital devices to not hurt the eye tissue. Since people spend a lot of hours on devices such as laptops and phones mean they are receiving those harmful lights. LED and CFL are very dangerous for eyes and keep receiving them could lack the eye vision gradually. Those screens would be great solution for both because it will reduce the danger of digital lights, so people will not be worried. These social media have become a main part of our daily life and none of us can spend a day without using any type of social media. Social media platforms take a lot of time from people and it become hard to find person who use any type of social media. Thoughts about social media have changed and most people around the world became use social media for many different goals such as for studying by getting help from, marketing, and even working. These thoughts have increased the hours that people spend on their devices, which could be not really good for eyes and brains. App is a platforms that gets popular in the Middle East and makes people get addicted to. Using safety screens would be best solution for those who become very addicted to social media in order to integrate both organizations positions. app company keeps working on updating its app and attract people in the middle east more and more, while Middle eastern medical-services organization (MEMO) believes people should decrease their using hours of social media because the digital devices causes many side effects for eye tissue. Al Ibrahim 1 Work cited Smick, Kirk. How To Educate Patients About The Dangers Of HARMFUL  Review Of Optometry 152.3 (2015): 32-33. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Jordan Journal Of Social Sciences 9.1 (2016): 75-92. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. L. J. Current status of the digital micromirror device (DMD) for projection television Proceedings of IEEE International Electron Devices Meeting, Washington, DC, USA, 1993, pp. 381-384.doi: 10.1109/IEDM.1993.347329