Student 1 Student Lewis ENC 1102.704 28 January 2017 Homelessness: Take a moment and imagine what being homeless and the idea of homelessness looks like. The first thing that comes to a lot of minds may have been someone asking for money or maybe a person sleeping under the over pass or on a park bench. This idea of homelessness is very black and white, you are homeless because of insert common assumption here, when in actuality it is part of a greater spectrum. It comes from not only a downward spiral from drugs, which is what a majority of humans think, but there are also the wounded veterans and everyday Americans who work hard but just fell on hard times. Homelessness is a problem that this country is facing more and more each day. Many organizations believe that the problem can be solved by pushing congress to protect those who are less fortunate. While a few others think that the problem will be solved on its own or that the people who are homeless did this to themselves and shall fix it themselves. The Coalition for the Homeless is one of the major advocate for homelessness in America today. Their organization, developed in the 70s, was built on helping those in need who are from all different parts of life with the mission statement being envision a world where everyone has a safe decent, affordable and accessible There was an image posted on the website from an article discussing the violence that homeless individuals face on daily. Due to the fact that this image comes from video camera it shows that the issue is real. It helps persuade people Student 2 to try to help and become more involved in making a change, it opens their eyes to what a lot of people do not know is going on. This image pull at the heart and makes them sympathetic for the individual enduring. It will make the reader feel anger towards the person causing the physical and emotional pain. Also make them question as to why this is happening and what did the victim do to for this to happen. The reader looks at the picture having some sort of knowledge to the situation even though the video may have never been watched. It is undoubtedly yet questionably obvious that the victim is homeless while the antagonistic being is senseless. In contrast, another image posted on the Coalition for the Homeless website was one of soup can with the sentence, Homeless People Deserve food too written on the label. The coloration and font in the image pushes for people think of an ad they see in a magazine or a television ad. The word deserve helps differentiate between the false misconception that people who are homeless ask for money or food because they do not want to work. The word deserve shows America that they are not asking for a meal or money because they want to, but that they are asking because they have no other choice and they need food. Everyone needs food, it is the way of life which is why the coalition is pushing for people to donate and help. The coalition is also trying let the reader question what make me and this individual different. As in why should I deserve food and they should not. The picture of the soup can gives almost a mother-like nurturing feeling. The feeling that we all should help each other. The article lists facts about how many people go hungry a day as well as the number of people who attend food sharing programs. million Americans visit food sharing programs annually. It is estimated that one out of every six Americans go hungry on a daily Student 3 In comparison, the first image gives an obvious strong emotional feeling in contrast to the second. The message is there in the second image but not as forceful and demanding. This attracts a completely different way of thought as well as mind set to the article. The first image would bring someone who is strong hearted about helping those in need. While the second image would bring someone who is passionate about the issue but wants more information and pushes to help in a less forceful yet still demanding way. (W.C.742) Student 4 Works Cited The National Coalition for the  National Coalition for the Homeless. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.