Barrineau 1 Jacob Barrineau Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project One: Intermediate Draft In 2012 a soda ban was placed over New York City to help to help to curve rapidly increasing obesity rates. The administration of Mayor Bloomberg working in conjunction with the New York City Department of Health created the ban. Essentially, this ban outlawed the sales of all sugary beverages larger than 16 ounces therefore forcing inhabitants of the city to make healthier choices while out to eat. New York plans to ban sale of big sizes of sugary ) Though the ban had good intentions, it was received poorly by the public and was done away with by the New York City Appeals Court on grounds that it limited the rights of the people and that it was an overstep of the Department of Health. The lift of the ban was the last event to take place regarding the issue leading New York City with no real initiatives in place to stop rising obesity rates. New Ban on Big Sodas is Rejected by Final ) If the two sides could have come to a compromise, lifting a ban but placing an increased tax on oversized sugary beverages then both sides could have been appeased and the city could have been working to end obesity in a non-offensive manner. Mayor Bloomberg championed the ban with the soul intention of making his city healthier. It was never intended to be a ban that made people feel that their rights were being infringed upon. New York plans to ban sale of big sizes of sugary ) However, the people see it as a helpful tool to get them back in shape and a clear majority of people in Barrineau 2 the city were unwilling to attempt to find a common ground with the office of the mayor in order to create an anti-obesity initiative that worked for everyone. (Dolmetsch) The Appeals Court of New York City exists to protect the best interests of the people and ensure that the law is always being carried out. When the court shut down the soda ban it was not from a place of not wanting the people to be healthy, it was a place of insuring that rights were not being taken away from the people and keeping governmental institutions in check. The appeals court was watching out for the good of the people and this just so happened to be the opposite of what the Bloomberg Administration had in mind for the people of New York City. (Dolmetsch) Both stakeholders in this argument have valid points for the steps they took as both sincerely believed that they were watching out for the good of the people. However, it is inexcusable that they allowed the anti-obesity initiative die completely rather than finding a compromise that they both could get behind. All they had to do was find some way that they could watch out for the health of the people while making sure that the government was not playing a big brother type role determining exactly what the people can and cannot do. A solution that could have, and still could, work for the City of New York is an increased tax on all large sugary beverages. Rather than banning the purchase of large sodas, people would just have to pay a slightly larger tax as the product has been deemed to be very unhealthy. The US government has never been opposed to issuing a sin tax on products that have apparent health risks. For example, the same type of tax currently stands on all tobacco products. The new legislature would mirror the national tobacco laws and would entice people to make healthier choices without infringing on the rights of the people. In this scenario both the mayor and the Barrineau 3 appeals court are happy and people are being put in a position in which they are more inclined to make healthy choices. The solution would not be difficult to implement as the stakeholders in the argument just happen to be the exact people necessary for its success. If the office of mayor could release the new anti-obesity initiative in the same way that the original soda ban was released and the courts supported the decision it could be easily implemented and it would be much more widely accepted by the people of the city. In the end, people would be pushed towards healthy options but would still maintain the same right to choose what they do with their bodies. The issue of obesity still stands in New York City and policy makers should not have to choose between a healthy city and a city where people feel that they have all the rights they deserve. An all-out soda ban failed to accomplish the goals that it set out to do, however a tax increase can have the same desired impact of the soda ban while still maintaining that the government does not have too large of a role in the lives of the people. Compromise within government entities is the only way that the nation will ever be able to progress and in this case, it will help New York City to progress towards greater physical health without sacrifice. Barrineau 4 Works Cited Grynbaum, Michael. New York plans to ban sale of big sizes of sugary  New York Times (2012): A1. Grynbaum, Michael. New Ban on Big Sodas is Rejected by Final  New York Times (2014): A1. Dolmetsch, Chris. New York Big-Soda Ban Rejected by Highest  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 26 June 2014. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.