Gil 1 Ariana Gil Professor Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 30 January 2017 Cannabis Compromise Marijuana has been around since 2700 BC and was used as a method of medical treatment until the 1900s. During this time the Mexican revolution happened and many Mexicans began to immigrate into the US; many of those people where frequent marijuana smokers. This frightened people and made people believe that marijuana would make them like the Mexicans, causing a ban on marijuana (Boerner 28). The Drug enforcement administration (DEA) and National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) are both well-known organizations that are at opposite ends with the idea of legalizing medical marijuana. The two organizations have many valid concerns and reasons on their position on the legalization of marijuana. These companies can come at a compromise to only allow federally legal sale of medical marijuana, low levels of THC and high levels of CBD, to people that are in chronic pain and have a severe medical condition, such as cancer. Both organizations share a common interest in doing what they believe is the best for people. With a compromise like that, both organizations would be helping people with medical conditions while at the same time keeping the substance as controlled as it can be to decrease the chances of substance abuse. With this compromise, the two companies can support one another by implementing the harmful effects that cannabis can cause on the NORML website and the DEA can post numbers of doctors, according to area, that would test people to see if they are eligible for a prescription. Gil 2 The main goal is to enforce substance laws and regulations in the US and to stop the ongoing trafficking of illegal substances into the US (Drug Enforcement Administration). This organization was created in 1973 and now has about 5000 special agents working for the DEA to stop the growth of the use/transportation of illegal substances (Drug Enforcement Administration). Marijuana is seen as a drug meaning that once one uses marijuana regularly they want a more powerful effects which then turns them to harder drugs (Wen et al. 109). This is exactly what the DEA does not want; increase the use of other drugs once medical marijuana becomes legal. Not only does the DEA want to prevent the use of illegal drugs but they also want to prevent the abuse of any drug, including alcohol. Marijuana and alcohol both have similar yet district effects to an individual which could cause someone to turn to alcohol when marijuana is not attainable causing an increase in alcohol use. Also, alcohol increases the longevity and intenseness of the marijuana is consumed at the time which could cause people to drink often when already intoxicated with marijuana (Wen et al. 109). The DEA and other organizations, just want what they believe is best for the people and does not want people to abuse the use of any substance. The National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) main goal is to educate the public on marijuana and to legalize the use of marijuana at a safe, convenient and affordable cost (National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). This organization was founded in 1970 and during the 1970s, it has successfully decriminalized offences in 11 states (National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). they also have a sister organization called the NORML Foundation which sponsors public advertising in order to educate the public about effects and benefits of marijuana (National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). in a study, animals models were given marijuana as a way to treat Gil 3 types of cancer and researchers concluded that the chemical CBD, a chemical found in marijuana, inhibited the progression of glioblastoma, breast, lung, prostate, and colon cancer (Birdsall 1). With studies like this, NORML is motivated to push for the legalization of medical marijuana in order to help people dealing with cancer to get proper and effective treatment. There are now 28 states that have medical marijuana legalized and 3 states that legalized marijuana for recreational use. The NORML organization believes that once marijuana is legalized it would eliminate the crime and violence that there is in the black market for marijuana and get replaced with regulated shops where people could buy marijuana at a safe place (National Organizations for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). this organization just wants the best for people and they believe that the legalization of marijuana would keep people safe from the dangers of the black market and treat people for chronic medical conditions. These two stakeholders can come to a compromise on only legalizing marijuana for medical purposes and for those that are in chronic pain and have a severe medical condition. Also, the marijuana that would be sold as medicine should have a high level of CBD and a low level of THC since CBD is concluded to be the main component in treating pain and cancer (Boerner 29). This should be a good compromise between the stakeholders since the main common interest that these two share is the safety of people. With the NORML getting the satisfaction of legalizing medical marijuana the DEA also gets to still feel like they have the substance controlled. These two stakeholders should also be able to support one another after the legalization by implementing information about the benefits and effects of marijuana on their websites. This would then allow people to get legitimate and unbiased facts about the substance before they decided on whether or not to start using it. This would also allow society to get educated on the substance so it could become more socially acceptable. Gil 4 Work Cited Birdsall, Shauna M., Timothy C. Birdsall, and Lucas A. Tims. The Use Of Medical Marijuana In  Current Oncology Reports 7 (2016): 1. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017 Boerner, Heather. Medical Cannabis: From Legal To Illegal To (Sometimes) Legal  Physician Leadership Journal 3.6 (2016): 28-30. Business Source Premier. Web. 31 Jan. 2017 Wen, Hefei, Jason M. Hockenberry, and Janet R. Cummings. The Effect Of Medical Marijuana Laws On Adolescent And Adult Use Of Marijuana, Alcohol, And Other  Journal Of Health Economics 42.(2015): 64-80. ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.