Garcia 1 Haley Garcia Professor Gocinski ENC1102-012 30 January 2017 Exact Replications and False Representations. As you grow in our society remember to never get too comfortable, you will always be replaceable. People have developed this idea that humans are unique individuals who are non replaceable, but is that really true anymore? Over two hundred years ago in 1885, a man named Hans Adolf Edward Dreisch took two cells of a fully grown sea urchin and separated them, which led to the embryos growing into two more sea urchins. This created the foundation of what is now called human cloning, a process involving the extraction of the nucleus of the unfertilized egg, replacing it with the nucleus from the species that is intended to be cloned, then putting it into a womb for it to mature and develop. This process, although rather difficult, has been incorporated into science and has become successful for a variety of different purposes. A variety of companies are involved in this practice including a company called Clonaid: Pioneers in Human Cloning. They successfully cloned the first child on December 26 th , 2002 and since then this company has helped a variety of families that had difficulty producing their own children to have babies. Their goal is to help those parents who are sterile, homosexual, have an STD or just simply want children with identical DNA to have the ability to have their own babies. On the other hand organizations like the Organic Consumers Association are against human cloning and have had several movements to stop the development of this science. They believe that the cloning of individuals is a crime against human dignity and . The unethical and general manipulation of genes is seen as disruptive to the natural functions of the Garcia 2 world. Looking at the arguments given, it is easy to see that both stakeholders are just looking for the appropriate decision for all individuals. That being said, in order to settle the dispute between these companies they should focus more on the cloning of stem cells, which can lead to the regeneration of body parts on individuals who have gone through events in life that have led to needing a transplant. Every decision made by individuals is only effective if they work together for a common good. Imagine going to the gynecologists after trying several times to produce a child with your spouse and being unsuccessful. Walking into the building believing that they will fix the issue and you will start your family right away, yet once they do some tests on you they discover you are sterile or infertile. Thousands of families worldwide go through this tough situation daily, so someone out there one day said what do you know, maybe we could do something about this. That person was Dr. Boisselier who immediately began developing a way to clone your DNA and create an embryo that will develop just like a normal child. Clonaid: Pioneers in Human Cloning has now helped hundreds of families just like this to have their own children that share their DNA. Replicating DNA and  individuals has allowed many people the ability to have children that resemble them, or if it comes from one individual, clones them. The development of this science allows them to learn the limits of cloning and how they could use it for a variety of other reasons. Robertson stated in the book Clones and Clones, Human cloning is a means of reproduction and so the most plausible moral right at (Nussbaum,143). This quote establishes the idea that although it is everyones choice, people are still reproducing, just in a less natural form then through sexual behaviors. Who are we to disregard beliefs in a society based on freedom of speech. The ability for people who are infertile to reproduce gives a whole new method of procreating. This company truly believes in the best Garcia 3 options for people, no matter what the specific reason is for cloning individuals. Even though there is benefits to this, there will always be people who completely disagree with the statements above. Our individuality has always been a value held highly for people worldwide. The ability to differentiate from each other as a whole and feel unique in a world of people is incredible, and exactly why so many organizations are revolting against the ability to clone others. The Organic Consumers Association has established a movement against the replication of people, they believe that this destroys human dignity and the concept of humanity. The destruction of diversity and the general manipulation of genes leads to a disruption of the functions that are normally assumed for people, leading to potential health problems. The decrease in genetic makeup variation could lead to an increase in susceptibility of a variety of diseases. Another topic they touch on is the lack of research on human cloning. In many places, including the United States, have created laws against the replication of people. This has decreased the amount of scientists who are actually developing the ability to clone humans to limited numbers. The lack of communication and funding going into this has made it more difficult for scientists to get established. Also it could become possible for criminals to replicate themselves, leading to difficulties for the law enforcement when evaluating crimes. Stated in the book Clones and Clones, Most possible harms to a cloned child are less serious than the genetic harms with which parents can now permit their offspring to be conceived or (Nussbaum,145). Genetically creating a child with replicated DNA could lead to many altercations or defects within a child. This means that people are given the opportunity to pick their appearances, yet this could lead to defects that potentially risking their lives. This Garcia 4 organization is against the general concept, especially regarding the lives of people, yet is there a way to clone certain body parts in order to only help those already living? Clonaid: Pioneers in Human Cloning and The Organic Consumers Association both have varied opinions on the idea of human cloning. The first company mentioned wants to help individuals who struggle with infertility, STDs, or homosexual families who can not produce their own offspring with the ability to produce a child with their DNA. On the other hand the Organic Consumers Association focuses on the general population and the rights of the cloned individuals. A way to develop an agreement between the two differentiating companies would be to focus on a similar but equally important matter. Cloning organs, body parts, skin and other sections of the body so people who have deteriorating bodies can live a more fulfilling life. If companies who can clone individuals established a communication between others who are looking for the good of all they could develop actual information that would help everyone in our society. When people need new organs they are placed on a list and wait months, even years until one comes. Developing a way that we could use stem cells and DNA to duplicate healthy organs to replace the old ones would be sufficient to all. Instead of cloning individuals, we could create a way for families to become fertile again, allowing for the reproduction to occur. Both companies could help fund this research through donations and company funding. All people worldwide that are missing or need new organs would benefit from this development. Altering the nucleus of an egg to replace it with the DNA from the  would no longer be necessary for the Clonaid company and the Organic Consumers Association would have to accept that replicating body parts is going to be necessary for this development. Cloning, the ability to replicate the DNA of an individual and growing another who resembles the host, is a highly debatable concept that has been discussed in the past two hundred Garcia 5 years. A company called Clonaid: Pioneers in Human Cloning has successfully cloned a baby back 2002 on December 26 th . As this company has grown, it has allowed several families to produce their own children. Other organizations like the Organic Consumers Association are against human cloning and have created movements regarding this dispute. Considering the arguments, both stakeholders are just looking for the appropriate decision for all individuals at hand. So in order to settle the dispute, they should focus more on the cloning of stem cells, which can lead to the regeneration of body parts on individuals. Without a compromise nothing would get done in a world full of so many different opinions. Garcia 6 Works Cited 1. Nussbaum, Martha Craven, and Cass R. Sunstein. Clones and Clones: Facts and Fantasies about Human Cloning. New York: Norton, 1998. Print. 2. Unknown Author.  Services - Clonaid.com. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <https://www.clonaid.com/page.php?8>. 3. Unknown Author. US Citizens Movement Against Human  US Citizens Movement Against Human Cloning. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.