Whigham 1 Alexandria Whigham Bianca Hernandez Composition II 26 January 2017 Death by Euthanasia: The Analysis Many believe that death is not a choice. We enter this world with an expiration date and nothing can interfere with that set time stamp. On the contrary, others argue that we do indeed have a choice in dying. This ideology is encompassed in the practice of Euthanasia. Euthanasia is simply defined by dictionary.com as The act of putting to death painlessly or allowing to die, as by withholding extreme medical measures. expected, the conversation is quite a controversial one. There are many stakeholders involved, both for and against Euthanasia. A position in the argument is rather insignificant, but rather an analysis of what each stakeholder has at stake and how both sides can reach a compromise. Within the argument of making Euthanasia legal in many places there are two main opposing stakeholders. Those that are for the legalization, such as organization like campaign for Dignity of Dying, and Death with Dignity. Also, those that are opposed to Euthanasia, organizations such as HOPE: Preventing Euthanasia and assisted suicide and Care Not Killing. Before presenting evidence for both sides, it is important to discuss why we are even discussing Euthanasia. In 1997, Oregon passed the Death with Dignity Act which terminally ill- Oregonians to end their lives through the voluntary self-administration of lethal medications, expressly prescribed by a physician for that Oregon soon became the Whigham 2 catalyst for the adoption of Euthanasia practices. As of today, 5 states have adopted the Death with Dignity Law; California, Colorado, Oregon, Vermont, and Washington. Currently, many countries like Australia and The United Kingdom are now fighting to pass the Law. Within this fight, there are strong contending organizations that are challenging these laws. One organization that is not in agreeance with the Death with Dignity Law is HOPE. HOPE undeniably opposes the law on their argument based on a rights and justice perspective based upon firm belief that Euthanasia is a risk for vulnerable people (HOPE: No HOPE ultimately believes that human rights should be respected. They argue that those near deaths are vulnerable and therefore are not thinking logically. HOPE presents the issues of elderly abuse and choice as an illusion as evidence against euthanasia. According to them, the elderly is the main target for Euthanasia due to their senile state of living. law in this country could effectively be aiding and abetting elder abuse with extremely grave consequences (HOPE: No By legalizing the Death with Dignity Law it would make it much easier for relatives to their elders emotionally and financially. By passing the law, relatives abusing their elders will now have a card to play in achieving monetary gain from their loved passing. Aside from this, there have been cases in which the physicians were seemingly pressuring the patient into considering assisted suicide as an option of care. For example, a woman in Vermont reported that her mother was a victim of this pressure. Beth Neil stated that while her mother was at the Berlin Health and Rehab Center recovering from a fall she was constantly told that she had the right to choose which is assisted suicide. This consistent reminder from doctors caused mother to feel pressure to kill herself (Citizens Against Assisted Suicide). Beth was highly confused that her mother was being informed about this option because she did not meet the criteria for assisted suicide. Her Whigham 3 mother was not terminally ill and she was in relatively in good health for her age. Cases like this help support the claim that assisted suicide is a form of elderly abuse and discrimination. almost comes across as the elderly have fulfilled their role in society, therefore, their purpose has been completed. Organizations like Dignity in Dying state that they do not campaign to assisted dying for people who do not have the capacity to make decisions for themselves i.e. elderly (Dignity in Both organizations have opinions that parallel such as that the main argument surrounding Euthanasia is that people have the right to choose death, but is the patient really in control? As discussed earlier, HOPE uses the idea that choice is an illusion as evidence against euthanasia. They express that is simply a mantra used to sell a false reality. Even if an individual chooses they want to end their life, legislation sets out under what circumstances a medical professional may decide to kill a patient (HOPE: No Regardless of the individuals wishes, the doctor decides if the decision was based on pressure, mental state, and a number of other factors. judge whether or not a particular request for assisted suicide is rational or results from impaired judgement (Not Dead On the contrary, to HOPE, Dignity in Dying organization expresses that the dying people are in control at all times, not Doctors. people should have support to take the final act that brings about their peaceful death (Dignity in According to their view, the Doctor is just the system that helps the ill individual carry out their death. In conclusion, Euthanasia is a very controversial topic. All stakeholders involved express why they are for and against Euthanasia practices. Those against Euthanasia all seem to agree Euthanasia is a form of discrimination and its quite biased. while those who support it believe that individuals should be able to end their own life because of basic human rights. As stated Whigham 4 earlier, the position in the argument is not as important and how these two opposing sides can come together to find a compromise. Upon researching the arguments on Euthanasia and why each side is for or against the practice, one possible compromise would be to implement a committee that ultimately comes in to evaluate the patient of concern. Once a doctor declares that a patient only has 6 months or less to live and the patient requests assisted suicide, a Euthanasia committee will then be called in to examine all aspects of the case including: medical history, current tests, physician testimony, mental capabilities, age, a full interview from the patient, life expectancy, disabilities etc. The process will be very in depth, thus, preventing any inconsistencies and wrong doings. Once the patient meets all criteria for Euthanasia decided by the committee, then and only then can the patient continue with their wishes to end their life. This compromise is beneficial to both sides because it eliminates the of the actions and it takes out the emotional aspect in the decision making process. By bringing a third party into the decision making process, the issue of elderly abuse will not be one of concern. Able-bodied individuals will still have the option to end their life but they will just have to strongly support their case for why assisted suicide is their best option. In closing, the conversation of Euthanasia does not have to be one of such hostile conversation. Ultimately, there is a common ground possibility that can make both sides content. Whigham 5 Bibliography Disability Rights Toolkit for Advocacy Against Legalization of Assisted  Not Dead Yet. N.p., 01 May 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Issues - HOPE: No  Issues - HOPE: No Euthanasia. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Join the  Dignity in Dying. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. - Euthanasia -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Citizens Against Assisted  True Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.