Stamm 1 Melissa-Lynn Stamm Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 19 January 2017 Quality vs. Quantity: A GMO Compromise The first plant to be a genetically modified organism was discovered by scientists in the southwestern region of Asia during the time period of 7800 BCE. It was thousands of years before that, when Charles Darwin introduced the theory of artificial selection to explain how GMOs first came to exist in dogs from domesticated wolves (Rangel 3-5). Currently, most of the crops and food consumed have been modified with different traits to ensure survival, Syngenta is one of the top leading businesses in the manufacturing of new biotechnology products used today. Many farmers rely on Syngenta to provide them with products that are both affordable in price, and will give them the most growth of their crops. While farmers do need to profit from their crops, they also need to make certain that their crops are safe enough for consumption. The non-profit organization named The Non-GMO Project spends all their money and time educating the public on the effects of genetic modification, and how to receive your Non-GMO certification for your product, business, or restaurant. Both business and organization want to support their consumers to the best of their ability, however the on going controversy over GMO labeling makes it arduous for the two to work together. While productivity needs must be met, preferences should also be taken into consideration to assure a positive profit. This is a concept Syngenta and the Non-GMO Project understand, and can work together on contriving a product to meet all standards. Stamm 2 The production of crops and food for farmers increases as the population increases, and with that comes an increase in farmers demand for new affordable products. The global agriculture business Syngenta has made it their mission to achieve global food stability for not only the consumers, but for the farmers, and growers struggling with poverty as well (Syngenta). With new growth plan and seed- care facility, they have grown with the population, and are now working on improving their business with more enhanced technology to make new products for consumers. In the article Seed-Care facility Opens, Willie Vogt talks about the future plans Syngenta has initiated to expand their company globally and improve their research, experiments, and training by opening a this new facility in Stanton, Minnesota devoted to fulfilling their mission. According to Vogt, Syngenta has invested a lot of money and time into their new facility for seed treatment, has been producing seed treatment products for more than 35 and plan on using this technological improvement to better their business, products, and service all around the world (Vogt 5). The president of Syngenta, Vern Hawkins invests $1.3 billion in research and million in seed treatment to support (Vogt 5). The facility is a new addition meant to focus on seed treatments, and finding new innovated way to test out active ingredients in real life situations, to observe the outcomes, and compare them to past treatments for strengths and weaknesses. With all the new innovations this facility offers, only does bench testing on new tools, but also offer extensive training (Vogt 10). . It is clear to see in article that Syngenta is doing exactly what they need to do, by opening their new seed treatment facility Syngenta is meeting the needs, and growing with the population. Stamm 3 The Non-GMO Project is one of the most fastest-growing labels in the retail sector thanks to their dedication in preserving, building, and educating sources of non-GMO products and consumers (The Non-GMO Project). In the Non-GMO mission statement, they explain their goal to provide as many forms of programs to better educate the public, and support products/ businesses that are Non-GMO verified, or that are planning to be. In the article Megan Westgate, the author credits the Non-GMO Project for all of their success in spreading awareness about the effects of GMOs, and the amount of products, companies, and restaurants that have achieved verification of Non-GMO Project Verified products increased 219% between 2010 and 2011, when the seal first started appearing on (Westgate 1). This certification entails that the food, and products must go through a series of steps and inspections before they are verified and allowed to use the seal. . The article also includes some of the responsibilities the project has to focus on, such as expansion and participation with their labeling, explaining to retailers the importance of understanding GMOs, and how to ensure your crops do not become contaminated the organization Month in October, helping retail partners convey information about GMOs to staff and (Westgate 6). The Non-GMO Project wants only the best and highest quality for their consumers by spreading their label around the world as best as they can. Above all, Syngenta and the Non-GMO Project are both working towards common goals whether they realize it or not, the two of them consistently put their consumers needs first, striving to provide the population with the best possible products while maintaining food stability. There is such a diverse culture when it comes to shoppers, people are no longer looking for what is the cheapest, or most popular Stamm 4 anymore, with the variety of options shoppers have they can choose from organic, Non- GMO certified, conventional, or gluten free (Vogt). Syngenta has realized that they are falling behind other businesses, and needs to make the initiative to broaden their knowledge to ensure a there business and products will remain long-term. Syngenta and The Non-GMO Project has noticed this change and hopes to grow with the population, meet the high standards that are expected of them by reaching out, and expanding to other businesses and companies. While these two companies have such strong differences in their beliefs on the genetic modification of organisms, they also share such an important common goal for their consumers. has improved their investments in research for new products with the opening of their own seed-treatment facility, and the Non-GMO Project has also improved in their constant dedication for high quality products. These two companies should combine their efforts and come together creating a product that is both beneficial to the consumer, and beneficial to the environment as well by becoming a Non-GMO verified product. Willie Vogt goes into detail on upcoming new products and the expenses required for research in his article Company Leaders Embrace Change. He goes over the different topics discussed at the summit with Vern Hawkins, the president of Syngenta and other members of the keynote panel. A big topic that was discussed revolved around other companies merging together to eliminate some competition, while using resources from both companies to experiment with, and also cut costs to save money and time (Vogt 8-9). Creating new products is an immensely long process takes seven years of breeding to see the result of new years to bring a new GM trait to the (Vogt 11). If Syngenta and The Non-GMO Project teamed up Stamm 5 they could cut the time it takes to make a new product in half while both staying in charge, cooperating as one. This idea would work great with Syngenta and the Non- GMO Project, by working together they would both get what they want while finding a compromise. With a Non-GMO verified product on the market Syngenta would be able to increase their consumer size, because they would be able to sell to not only the general population, but also to other diverse groups of people. The Non-GMO Project will also benefit by taking part in the first Non-GMO labeled product of Syngenta, which is a huge step forward for them as well educating even the biotechnology companies. Most of all, Syngenta and The Non-GMO Project are trying to ensure they fall behind other businesses, and intend on making the initiative to broaden their knowledge to assure there businesses and products will remain long-term. However, neither company wants to give up their mission, so a compromise is necessary, a collaborative Non-GMO certified product will satisfy both all needs including the consumers. Stamm 6 Work Cited Rangel, Gabriel. Corgis to Corn: A Brief Look at the Long History of GMO SITN, 9 Aug. 2015, http://sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2015/from- corgis-to-corn-a-brief-look-at-the-long-history-of-gmo-technology/. Accessed 29 January 2017. We Syngenta Global, http://www4.syngenta.com/who-we-are. Accessed 29 January 2017. NON GMO Project, https://www.nongmoproject.org/about/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Vogt, Willie. Facility Farm Industry News, Vol. 49, Issue 8, 1 Nov. 2016, pp. 12-13. Business Source Premier, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=d54 d658b-e572-4e7d-b80c-ff9812d34535%40sessionmgr104&vid=2&hid=127. Accessed 26 January 2017. Westgate: Megan Westgate leads the nonprofit Non-GMO Project, whose reach is Nutritional Outlook, Vol. 15, Issue 10, Dec. 2012, pp. 36. General OneFile, http://go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/retrieve.do?tabID=T003&resultLis earchForm&currentPosition=1&docId=GALE%7CA339015801&docType=Articl e&sort=RELEVANCE&contentSegment=&prodId=ITOF&contentSet=GALE%7 CA339015801&searchId=R1&userGroupName=tamp44898&inPS=true. Accessed 26 January 2017. Stamm 7 Vogt, Willie. Leaders Embrace Farm Industry News, Vol. 49, Issue 9, Dec. 2016, pp. 6-7. Business Source Premier, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=ad5cd8b9-b067-4efe- 89e6-56ce58fdfc33%40sessionmgr4007&vid=2&hid=4102. Accessed 26 January 2017.