Krieman 1 Julia Krieman Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102.015 27 January 2016 Compromise on the Taxation of Religious Organizations There are opposing stances on the issue addressing whether religious organizations should be taxed or by the Government of the United States. On the one side, the Freedom from Religion Foundation argues for religious organizations to be taxed while Catholic Charities, on the other side, argues against this taxation. One argument is that it is painless to create a religion in the United States, this means that virtually any group of people can call themselves a religion and become tax-exempt through a simple application. The Freedom from Religion Foundation make this argument. On the other hand, religious organizations, like Catholic Charities, being tax-exempt allows them to put the money, that is not being taken in taxes, to good use in service to the nation as a whole. Without eliminating tax-exemption for religions completely, the government should put stricter regulations on the creation of a religious organization and there should be annual inspections of religious organizations to make sure they are running in a way that makes it appropriate for them to receive a tax-exempt status. There are a few different reasons the tax-exempt status of religious organizations is considered corrupted in the views of groups like the Freedom from Religion Foundation. This organization is a group of who believe that religion and specifically the tax-free status of religious groups is ruining the way the government works because it is taking money away from the government and it is preventing a separation between church and state. They state on their website, that social and moral progress has been made by free and that their organization as an umbrella for those who are free from religion and are committed Krieman 2 to the cherished principle of separation of state and 1). They do not believe that the government should grant any on religious organizations and non- profits because the government should be completely separate and free from any form of religion. Currently, do not need to apply for or obtain recognition of tax-exempt status, do not need to file an annual return with the IRS, and do not need to withhold taxes from compensation paid to ministers or pay unemployment taxes on employee wages. Furthermore, there are significant limits on the ability to audit (Hofmann 38). It is relatively easy for any group of people to be considered a church in the United States so, if churches do not have to apply to be tax-exempt any group can be considered tax-exempt. The tax-exempt status has also been taken advantage of in certain groups like or churches with unusually large congregations that typically preach conservative or evangelical Christianity, and other organizations. In one instance, an organization was using its tax-exempt status to grant its members tax-exemption as well. This organization was later caught and stripped of tax- exemption. (Betz 1). If there is little to no regulation on churches, there is no way to stop any group of people from gaining a tax-exempt status. In Church and the Tax Lax: Keeping Church and State Separate, Mary Ann Hofmann quotes the Virginia Tax Review saying, Supreme justification for tax exemption for churches has been based most often on the historical premise that churches devote significant resources to charitable work and, hence, should be treated in the same manner as secular charitable (Hofmann 37-38). Hofmann is stating that churches should not receive any special treatment if they are doing the same type of work that a secular organization may be doing. If religious organizations have been committing fraudulent activity due to the inability to monitor economic Krieman 3 movement, the Freedom from Religion Foundation and other organizations like it, believe that there should be no difference in privileges then that of a secular organization. Religious Organizations like Catholic Charities USA help the government more because they are free from income tax. Because they do not have to pay the government a portion of the donations they receive, they can use that money to do charitable acts for the whole country. The Catholic Charities mission is provide service to people in need, to advocate for justice in social structures, and to call the entire church and other people of good will to do the (Our Mission 1). Many churches and organizations in the U.S. like this one are using the money they save to help people in need within the United States. Catholic Charities USA receives money from the United States government each year to use for charitable purposes. In 2014, the government gave this organization $1,807,104 in federal grants. Furthermore, Catholic Charities USA, gives more then it receives it its annual income reports. The Charity Navigator website shows that in 2014, Catholic Charities USA had an income of $31,800,473 and spent $330,170,588. They are giving more than they are receiving and using every dollar that is donated to them to help people in need in the United States. If this organization were taxed based on income, they would not be able to help as many people in the U.S. In opposition to the Freedom from Religion Foundation, Leo Pfeffer , a constitutionalist lawyer, discusses the fact that taxing churches would be a way for the government to control churches which would in turn take away the separation of church and state in their book Religion and the State: Essays In Honor of Leo Pfeffer. He mentions that if the government could tax churches it could tax enough that it would strip the churches of their resources and they would not be able to function as religious practices anymore. He also mentions the Tax-Base Rationale which states that, organizations are not taxed because they are not tax-base to begin with. This basis of Krieman 4 taxation is wealth, and therefore, public revenue is normally derived from the procedures and amplifiers of (Pfeffer and Wood 237). Churches and non-profit organizations would not be considered and amplifiers of so they would not fall under the means for taxation. If churches and religious organizations were taxed they would not be able to serve their purposes as places of worship and charitable organizations. To continue the separation of church and state and without allowing churches and religious organizations to take advantage of a tax-exempt status the government should require stricter rules to be followed once an organization receives a tax-exempt status and a more difficult process when becoming a religion. Gerrit Betz, a contributor to the New England Law Review, proposes that the IRS clarify and further explicate what guidelines churches and charitable organizations must follow in order to gain or maintain tax-exemption. He further explains that if churches are tax-exempt for that even if there are religious activities that may seem to violate the requirements of IRC Section 501 (c) (3) they can continue to be tax- exempt as long as it maintains religious purpose. He argues that if the government chooses to follow the Section 501 (c) (3) then they must only allow tax-exemption as a privilege to organizations who follow the code exactly. The religious organizations must be running for the purpose of religion and they must follow code exactly in order to maintain their tax-exempt status. If they do not follow code and are found to be abusing this privilege they will be refused their tax-free status. He states: best answer is to use intermediate sanctions to pass governmental judgment on the pay arrangements only (because those rules apply to all tax- exempt organizations, not merely religious ones), ignoring the beliefs as much as (Betz 1). The government must insure that they are not preventing religious freedom Krieman 5 while also insuring that no religious organizations are taking advantage of the tax-exempt status that the Constitution grants them in the separation of church and state. Religious organizations should still be able to obtain tax-exemption only if they are have gone through a process that is more difficult than the current one in place to become a church and they have annual check-ins to ensure that there is no fraud or misuse of income. This will allow churches that are using the money in charitable ways that benefit the United States as a nation to continue their work. It will also prevent groups from masking themselves as churches to gain a tax-exempt status. Krieman 6 Works Cited About FFRF - Freedom From Religion  About FFRF - Freedom From Religion Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Betz, Gerrit V. and Private Inurement: Are Some Faiths New England Law Review 3 (2010): 733. Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan.2017. Hofmann, Mary Ann. The Church And The Tax Law: Keeping Church And State  ATA Journal Of Legal Tax Research 13.1 (2015): 36-53. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Our  Catholic Charities USA. Roman Catholic Church, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2016. Pfeffer, Leo, and James Edward Wood. Religion and The State: Essays In Honor of Leo Pfeffer. Waco Tex: Baylor University Press, 1985. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Rating for Catholic Charities  Charity Navigator. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.