1 Wei Zhong Jan 28 2017 Genetically Modified Food The World Health Organization (WHO) (2017) defines genetically modified organisms, commonly known as GMOs, as those organisms that have had their DNA altered in a manner that does not take place naturally. Subsequently, GM foods refer to those foods that are produced with the use of GMOs. Genetic engineering is a technique that is informed by the advantages perceived to be held by the organisms produced. However, it has received both support and criticism in equal measure. On one hand, there are interest groups that strongly oppose genetic engineering and GM foods to be specific, while on the other hand, there are those that offer strong support to the adoption of these foods. For the purpose of this paper, Organic Consumers Association will represent those that oppose GM foods while Genetic Literacy Project will stand for those that support GM foods. Genetic Literacy Project advocates for the adoption of biotech foods, and these encompass GM foods. The organization has given a number of reasons as to why the global society needs GM foods. The first one is that biotechnology, including genetic engineering, promises to significantly increase food production. This will in turn help feed the skyrocketing global population. Here, it is important to understand that GMO crops and animals are more resistant to pests, insects, and diseases, and this alongside other favorable characteristics, increases the yield per a given size of land (Genetic Literacy Project, N.d). Secondly, the organization argues that with increased food production and thus food security, the global economy will stand a better chance for growth. This will emanate from such factors as the fact that the global workforce will have enough to eat and thus the energy to produce more. Also, increased yields are argued to increase the income received by those farmers that practice small scale farming, and who are mainly the poor. This would in turn help reduce poverty (Genetic Literacy Project, N.d). Thirdly, the organization highlights that GM crops require less chemicals to grow, and this not only cuts the cost of production, but also ensures consumers have healthier food options. It is also the view of the organization that farming of GM crops is more sustainable, and it is thus a more promising option for feeding the global population. Here, it argues that GM crops do not require much field operations for instance tilling, and this translates into more residue remaining in the ground (Genetic Literacy Project, N.d). These crops also sequester more CO2 in the soil and this reduces the proportion of emission of greenhouse gases. Genetic Literacy Project also notes the improved nutrition and health associated with GM foods. This is because GM crops are often enhanced to incorporate important nutrients, an example being cassava enhanced with vitamin A. Most importantly, the organization indicates that so far, no independent research has shown evidence that consumption of GM foods causes any harm to humans (Genetic Literacy Project, N.d). On the other hand, Organic Consumers Association expresses fear that health safety testing on GM foods has never been conducted by the Food and Drug Administration and as such, there is no assurance that the foods are safe. Secondly, the organization complains on the lack of labeling on GM foods, arguing that the measure is the least the FDA can take to enable consumers to only consume what they want (Organic Consumers Association, 2017). The third complaint brought forward by the association is that the FDA is sneaking GM foods to consumers by ensuring that consumers do not have adequate means to voice their concerns. Here, it also cites the contradicting reports given by the regulation body that leave most consumers confused and thus unable to make an informed decision (Organic Consumers Association, 2017). Taking the above two points of view, three issues that can potentially bring the two stakeholders together. The first one is the need for further research, the second one is the need to create consumer awareness, and the third is the need to label GM foods so that consumers consume them voluntarily. Even though the Genetic Literacy Project argues that no independent research has shown that GM foods consumption is harmful, this does not necessarily mean that they cannot be harmful. This implies the need for further research so that consumers can be convinced beyond any doubt that they can go ahead and enjoy the benefits that come with GM foods. Without disputing that GM foods have numerous advantages, their safety needs to be supported with adequate and clear evidence. Secondly, it is important to label GM foods because consumers have the right to know what they are consuming. Consumers will certainly not refuse to consume what has been ascertained to be helpful, but they need to know when they are doing it. Thirdly, it is clear that many people are not yet aware on what foods are genetically modified and their benefits or risks. With this lack of awareness, it would be hard for consumers to make a decision on whether or not they would adopt GM foods. It may be true that GM foods are beneficial, but it is only when people properly understand everything about them that they shall be able to support them. In conclusion, GM foods may contain the many benefits that have been highlighted by various interest groups and even research, but consumers need to be convinced of their safety beyond doubt for them to adopt them. Many researches have so far been conducted, but many consumers are not yet convinced that they can fearlessly consume the foods. Once adequate research has been conducted, it will also be important for the foods to be labeled so that consumers will know when buying them. Most importantly, consumer awareness will be crucial so that consumers can comprehensively understand what constitutes GM foods. This way, the opposing sides such as those discussed in this paper may be able to come together and agree on the most reasonable way of approaching the issue. References Genetic Literacy Project. (N.d). 10 Reasons We Need Biotech Foods and Crops. Retrieved from https://www.geneticliteracyproject.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/Biotechnology- Organic Consumers Association. (2017). Five Ways the FDA Has Failed Consumers On Genetically Engineered Foods. Retrieved from https://www.organicconsumers.org/news/ five-ways-fda-has-failed-consumers- genetically-engineered-foods World Health Organization (WHO). (2017). Frequently asked questions on genetically modified foods. Retrieved from genetically-modified-food/en/