Al Balushi 1 Abdullah Al Balushi Kristin ENC 1102 30 th February 2017 Is there Freedom at the End Humans get born in a world which in recent decades with every birth an idea spreads that all fellow human beings are equal and free. No matter race nor religion human are equal as it is stated in the universal declaration of human rights. Human beings are born free and equal in dignity and (art 1). terminally ill people are those who suffer from a condition which could be caused from a diseases or injury that is impossible medically to restore health of the ill person. The condition will lead to death unavoidably. (McCartney) There are among terminally ill people who consider death not an easy way out but as an alternative to end their misery. On this particular topic people are contradicting each other over whether if a moral act or define it as crime against those who are incapable medically to determine their fate. Organizations formed to lead the two sides such as DWD (death with dignity) which represents those who support the legalization of physician assisted suicide and giving people the right to choose their ending. Other Organizations Not Dead Yet supports people who argues that it is an unmoral act and people should be protected from it. to achieve an understanding and compromise between the sides, both sides will have to prioritize interests and needs and offer the right to choose whether if the right and moral act. To better understand the argument exploring both sides is an essential key. Death with dignity is nonprofit organization that beliefs that giving the qualified terminally ill Americans the Al Balushi 2 option of ending and the way of ending their lives. The organization uses the Oregon model to help spread and enforce laws in other states which Oregon state is first state that legalized the act of physician assisted suicide. DWD was the responsible organization that passed and defended the Oregon law in the years 1994,1997 and 2006.as we for the tremendous efforts to pass the Death with Dignity statutes in Washington in 2008, Vermont in 2013 and California in 2015. Offer education, information and promote the idea to patients alongside the family and including other members of the society (About us). The organization is doing its best to offer terminally ill people an option that in some conditions suffice as a better choice. Since the Oregon model was stablished and effective terminally ill people go to Oregon just because the act is legal. An example of those people is Al Balushi 3 Work cited Hui, David, et al. Review Article: Concepts And Definitions For Of And Of A Systematic  Journal Of Pain And Symptom Management 47.(2014): 77-89. ScienceDirect. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.