Lyan almasoud Pr. John Williams Compisition2 29/1/2017 Animal Testing Animal testing has become one of the controversial topics of the modern world. Animal testing has existed and practiced since the fifteenth century. According to Kristina Cook and professor at oxford, published in stand up for science 2006, animal research, medicine as we know it today exist. Animal research has enabled us to find treatments for cancer, antibiotics for infections, vaccines to prevent some of the deadliest and debilitating viruses and surgery for injuries, illnesses and However, animal testing opponents have been bothered and demanding to stop animal testing because of their animal cruelty and dangerous toxic chemical dosages and that there are alternative ways than experimenting on animals. According to an organization called people for the ethical treatment of animals (PETA) are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment or abuse in any other However, Pro-test organization disagree with their belief saying that animal testing is standing up for science for the sake of progression. Therefore, since animal testing both opponents needs animals in their future, both opponents can reach to a decision of legalizing animal testing, but with more rules and obligation that satisfy both sides. PETA is the largest animal rights organization in the world. PETA is an American non-profit organization based in Virginia focuses on finding non- animal testing methods and stopping killing animals and using them in any way that would elude their animal rights. PETA has won many awards for their love of animals and many people have been supporting their organization. Another organization that support the same goal as PETA is, Johns Hopkins University Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing (CAAT), established in 1981, is an organization that encourages in vitro methods in the medical field than experiment on animals. According to the The US Department of Agriculture (USDA) reported in 2010 that 97,123 animals suffered pain during experiments while being given no anesthesia for relief, including 1,395 primates, 5,996 rabbits, 33,652 guinea pigs, and 48,015 hamsters. Therefore, these organizations are fighting for the freedom of these animals and demanding for banning animal testing and finding non animal testing methods. On the other hand, Pro-test and scientist completely disagree saying that testing on a human being is risky and inhuman. Pro-test goal is to test on animals till its safe and successful to merge it to humans. Pro-test is also claiming that animal testing not only it can help humans but also it benefits animals as well. for an example, if vaccination existed millions of animals would die from diseases. Furthermore, some kinds of animals that are eligible to get tested for an example, share 99% of their DNA with humans, and mice are 98% genetically similar to humans. Nevertheless, both stockholders are apposing one another, but both stockholders need animals in their lives. Pro-test and scientist have to follow certain obligations and rules that are identical to animal rights in order to experiment on them. However, we live without animal testing and ban them because we will never know the circumstances in the future and if our entire humans race depends on it. Therefore, to satisfy both stockholders we can still allow animals testing but with more obligation and human ways to not make them suffer. For an example, we can ban certain experiments that is assured that the animal will suffer and die in a cruel way but instead provide them more pain killers and sedatives to less their suffer and allowing less animals and compromise kinds of animals like not allowing big animals and using only rats and other animals if nectary and lastly, putting more people in charge that can give them the approval based on their research that its worth testing it on animals and instead of doing numerous of experiments that is based on illusion and impossible results. Therefore, in order to please both stockholders are to promote non animal alternative methods but meanwhile still continue on animal testing in a human way and stricter obligations. In conclusion, both stockholders do care about animals and wanting them healthy and well in their lives. Animal testing has existed for a long time and the world have lived the same live that we are living today, but some animal testings are unacceptable and doing illegal practices on animals. Therefore, animal testing be banned but be promoted and pay attention to their rights in a way that can benefit humans and keep animals alive and well. Work cited: Welfare Animal Welfare Act. U.S. Department of Agriculture, n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2015. Stand Up for  Stand Up for Science: March 2006. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. De Vos, J., Bouckenheimer, J., Sansac, C., J., & Assou, S. (2016). General review: Human induced pluripotent stem cells: A disruptive innovation. Current Research In Translational Medicine, 6491-96. doi:10.1016/j.retram.2016.04.001 Ji, C., Guo, X., Li, Z., Qian, S., Zheng, F., & Qin, H. (2013). Original research: Advantages of the experimental animal hollow organ mechanical testing system for the rat colon rupture pressure test. International Journal Of Surgery, 111110-1113. doi:10.1016/j.ijsu.2013.09.007 Kwak, C., Lim, C., & Kaang, B. (2016). Research report: Assessments of cognitive abilities in a mouse model of disease with a touch screen test. Behavioural Brain Research, 30163-71. doi:10.1016/j.bbr.2015.12.016 PETA Catalog: Shop for Vegan, Vegetarian, and Animal Rights  PETA Catalog: Shop for Vegan, Vegetarian, and Animal Rights Merchandise! N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.