Jachimek 1 Ben Jachimek ENC 1102.910 Professor Gocinski 30 Jan. 2017 Nuclear Family: Transition to Nuclear Energy The energy production sector is capable of emitting over seven billion metric tonnes of carbon and sulfide emissions each year. This level of pollution does not only destroy the environment, but it can also pose as a major health risk to humans. Two stakeholders are at odds over the issue, one of which is the Tampa Electric Company (TECO), which is solely responsible for the Bay electricity. The other is the Global Environment Facility (GEF), an organization working to tackle the largest environmental issues. Although these two organizations have different goals, they do hold a concern for the environment and preserving it. TECO has already been attempting to make environmentally conscious decisions, but the changes it has made thus fare are negligible. These two organizations have something to gain if one factor is introduced into the TECO electric production facilities: a nuclear reactor. The Global Environment Facility is an organization who uses investment strategies to not only help the environment but to reduce poverty and promote equality between men and women. The organization has been active for nearly 25 years and is still working hard to keep the planet preserved (GEF 1). The conglomerate is primarily focused on reducing environmental damage and would most definitely protest methods and vision as a whole. The GEF has sound logic when prioritizing the environment, as Douglas Dockery conducted a study across six U.S. cities to find a correlation between air pollution and mortality. His study found a positive Jachimek 2 correlation between air pollution and mortality, especially when sulfides were present in air samples (Dockery 1756). The primary byproduct of burning coal for energy is sulfur dioxide, and not only is this compound hazardous, but it is a small enough particle to inhale and absorb rather easily (Dockery 1757). The issue is, with the growing energy industry, the background levels of sulfides and nitrates in the atmosphere can cause a global decrease in life expectancy if something is not changed. This is why the GEF is working hard to reduce global carbon and sulfide emissions, to hopefully stop this problem before it turns into a disaster. Energy is questionably the most important part of modern infrastructure and utilities, as it allows hospitals, police stations, and many other vital assets of daily life to properly function. TECO is the sole provider of electricity in the Tampa Bay area, one of the larger metropolitan areas in the state of Florida (TECO 1). primary goal is to keep the lights on for nearly 350,000 people, and to meet demands as the local population and city expands. This is a tall order, as J. Henderson discusses in his research that urban growth can accelerate drastically once certain population marks are hit (Henderson 303). This shows that TECO needs to continue providing quality service to its customer base, which will only continue to grow. With such a demand and inefficient coal and gas facilities to work with, TECO may eventually reach a point where they struggle to meet energy demands and construct a number of new facilities to keep up with urban expansion. This would result in a drastic increase in the price of energy and greater amounts of local air pollution. On top of this, TECO has been starting projects to decrease the emissions coming from their production plants (TECO 1). So now TECO is tasked with finding a way to easily upscale their production output while keeping on the path of mitigating environmental damage. Jachimek 3 These two stake holders are at odds, as both companies primary objectives are opposite in nature. But with a recent flare in research and environmentalist movements, TECO is now working to be more environmentally friendly, thus giving both stakeholders a new common objective. For TECO, there is a simpler way to accommodate the metropolitan evolution than increasing the efficiency of their power plants and opening public preserves. By adding a nuclear reactor to their production facilities, TECO could almost double their production output while producing a fraction of the waste. This would allow them to be more than prepared for a population influx, cut down on costs to fuel their facilities, and also satisfy the goals of the GEF. Unfortunately, there are some constraints that may impede this proposition from pushing through. First of all, most people would not be too happy living anywhere nears a nuclear reactor, meaning that TECO would need a sizeable plot of land away from residential areas to construct the site. This also could present an issue as Florida is known for its unstable limestone and marshy areas. Next, nuclear reactors are very expensive to construct, but once built they are cheap to fuel and operate. Finally, reactors still produce waste, and nuclear waste is a real vexatious form of waste to process and make safe for disposal. Fortunately, these hurdles can be overcome with one simple solution. What if TECO just waits about a decade before taking this action? Ralph Sims published an article that compares all forms of energy production and gives some insight into each. When he discusses nuclear energy, he talks about the South African company ESKOM, who is working on advanced reactor designs that can do everything from using depleted fuel to being a fraction of the cost to build (Sims 1317-18). This new technology is still in its early stages, but with some patience it could be a very beneficial investment for both stakeholders. TECO would be more than ready to accommodate a huge population boom and drastically reduce hazardous emissions, as nuclear power plants avoid carbon emissions of 600 Jachimek 4 Mt=year compared with using coal-fired plant to generate the same quantity of (Sims 1318). This reduction in emissions would correspond with the ultimate goal of environmental protection. The GEF is a very large, international organization. They could help expedite the development of this technology by simply expanding the work they are doing in South Africa to include energy production, and therefore the company ESKOM. Once these reactors are fully functioning it is likely that a wave of energy companies like TECO will invest in them. This creates a win-win situation between the GEF and TECO along with many other energy production companies across the world. The answer to growing energy demands and harmful pollutants has been around for many decades. Unfortunately, this technology still has some maturing to do before smaller energy operations can afford to buy and operate their own reactors. In conjunction, the GEF and TECO could help make a difference in how electricity is made and consumed, and how its byproducts impact the surrounding populous. If they set the example and contribute to the streamlining the complex process of splitting an atom for electricity, they could possibly even revolutionize electricity for the world, and help put an end to air pollution simultaneously. Jachimek 5 Works Cited About  TECO Energy. Emera Incorporated, 02 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. About  Global Environment Facility. Global Environment Facility, 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Dockery, Douglas W et. all. An Association between Air Pollution and Mortality in Six U.S.  New England Journal of Medicine 329 (1993): 1753-59. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Henderson, J. V. et. all. Urbanization and City Growth: the Role of  Regional Science and Urban Economics 37.3 (2007): 283-313. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Sims, Ralph E. Carbon Emission and Mitigation Cost Comparisons between Fossil Fuel, Nuclear and Renewable Energy Resources for Electricity  Energy Policy 31.13 (2003): 1315-326. Web. 6 Nov. 2016