Bazan 1 Valeria Bazan Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 29 January 2017 A Change In Awareness Laws are continuously being challenged by one of the biggest emotional debates, the right to die. Tackled on many sides, the right to die has become a societal, ethical and constitutional issue. Opponents to the right to die such as the disability group, Not Dead Yet, believe that suicide and euthanasia are forms of discrimination Dead Yet and have more of a moral perspective on the issue. In contrast, non profit organizations such as Compassion and Choices, as their missions states, are to improving care and expanding choice at the end of life & Choices What these two opposing stakeholders have to realize is that with these types of issues the less confrontational approach is a compromise between, if there is, their common values. Not Dead Yet needs to accept the idea that death should be an available choice but together with Compassion and help, they both should advertise to keep pushing to ensure everybody has a lifelong substantial health care plan to try and deviate the willingness to choose an earlier death. Death is not a natural inclination for most people, but Compassion & Choices, believe death should definitely be an available option for those who are terminally ill. They legally, push to create programs that will provide patients with a well-rounded health care plan personalized to their values & Choices) . They assist and provide resources to patients who choose to end their life in any state where assisted suicide and euthanasia is legal & Bazan 2 Choices ). Compassion & Choices also involve themselves federally by supporting bipartisan legislation in Congress & Choices ). Recently, their New York outreach manager, Amanda Cavanaugh along with others, have been pushing for law, death with dignity, to be established in New York through a bill called the Medical Aid in Dying Act for 2017 right to  The act would make New York the seventh state to allow assisted suicide to be an option for those who are terminally ill and mentally stable to make such a decision. As a large organization, Compassion & Choices, has also created Medicare and Medicaid service centers. Opposing the legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia, the disability rights group, Not Dead Yet (The Resistance), believes these are forms of discrimination towards the elderly, ill and disabled Dead Yet ). They have devised strategies such as writing articles, engaging in public presentations and have put forth legislative efforts to increase awareness on why assisted suicide is not the answer. As one of their main goals, Not Dead Yet, wants to ensure that any life-sustaining medical treatment whether the decision to continue or not, will be voluntary. From the information provided, these two organizations seem to be in discordance with one another due to their opposite primary belief. One supports right to die, the other one does not. When dealing with such an emotional issue there will be different perspectives to scope it out from. People are wary about the societal issues, referred to the that the legalization of the right to die might bring. This includes the belief that could become confiscation, police could become instruments of oppression, public education could become indoctrination, etc Is It Ethical to Affirm a Right to However, the National Review includes a report by The Economist that concluded that one third of those medically Bazan 3 prescribed with lethal drugs do not end up using them but feel secure enough with having the option. Ethical and moral issues come into hand when the perspective of choosing to die is seen upon immoral. Similar to the abortion debate, there is a religious view in which words are brought into the matter stating life as a precious gift to humanity from him. This however is biased and so forth it is the constitutional issue that rises towards the debate of whether people should have the right to die. Many people are diagnosed terminally ill, and proponents for the right to die believe it is the right to dictate whether they want to keep pushing through the remaining possible painful weeks of their death, or choose to be assisted to a professional, painless suicide through a doctor. The proponents believe it is unconstitutional for the government to be able to override our right to death as everyone has the right to with This saying however is tackled down by Not Dead Yet as they view it as a negative stereotype that insinuates people with disabilities lack dignity Dead Yet ). As explored, this is a huge ping pong issue with different perspectives and ideologies being thrown back and forth refuting and proving both sides to the argument. This is why there must be action taken to set forth a compromise. A compromise with Not Dead Yet and Compassions & Choices, would involve some more of an open-minded involvement by Not Dead Yet but the importance is that a lot of their other common values would be held upon. Compassion & Choices, is frankly quite larger and has been more persuasive with their motives over the many years it has been established. The option of the right to die should be left on the table as a choice but not embraced. This means that it is awareness and the push for better medical services that should be embraced by these two groups instead of focusing on whether choosing death is right or not. With such legal impact that Bazan 4 Compassion & Choices has shown, they should be pushing forward policies for a better life-long health care plan. They should keep up their centers that advise on Medicare and Medicaid, and Not Dead Yet should bring awareness to these centers as one of their core values is to ensure a righteous treatment to all patients. Compassion & Choices should keep up their guides in case that is the route some patients want to go but they should not advertise or embrace this idea. Both advertising campaigns could appeal to the religious audience by supporting the idea that life is indeed a precious gift worth keeping and that these better health care plans will insure this. To a non-religious audience the same impact would be seen as it is just life positivity that is being embraced. The right to die continues to be an emotional debate tackled through many sides. That being the concerns of people with their societal, ethical and constitutional stances. It is for their own best for two opposing organizations such as Not Dead Yet, who is against the right to die, and Compassion & Choices, who are proponents for the legalization of assisted suicides and euthanasia, to work together in bringing a positive life awareness. It is not death in which they should be focusing on but instead those common core values they both share where they believe everybody has the right for a proper life-long health care. Bazan 5 Work Cited Compassion &  & Choices . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Not Dead  Dead Yet . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The right to  Economist . The Economist Newspaper, 27 June 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Press-Republican, Robi Caudell. A right to  . N.p., 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Will, George. Is It Ethical to Affirm a Right to  Review . N.p., 31 Aug. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.