Alasadi !1 Zayd Alasadi Gottlieb Composition II February 1, 2017 Are GMOs Worth It? The concept of food has evolved tremendously over a long period of time. In the very beginning, nomads would have to base everything they did in their lives on where the animals travelled in order to survive. Ten thousand years of progression has resulted in scientists developing genetically modified organisms in labs to mass produce all kinds of food. Genetically Modified Organisms, or GMOs, are: result of a laboratory process where genes from the DNA of one species are extracted and artificially forced into the genes of an unrelated plant or (IRT 1). The debate on whether or not these scientific practices should be used is a longstanding one with many stakeholders in the mix. Companies like Monsanto believe that GMOs are a fundamental part of society and carry more benefits with them than hindrances. Contrastingly, organizations, such as the Organic Consumers Association, claim that biotech companies, such as Monsanto, are responsible for harming health by creating toxins during the GMO process. However, Monsanto and the OCA do agree on several things regarding the GMO debate, especially when it comes to the main subject of all of this: the American consumers. Educating the American people on the specific GMOs that carry health risks and the harmless ones will satisfy both parties because neither of them will have to make a lot of sacrifices. Furthermore, labeling food products will allow the consumers to decide whether they want to partake in the GMO era or not. Alasadi !2 Monsanto is a biotech company that deals with modern day agriculture strategies. The company is: number one producer of GMOs and believes that these scientific practices bring many great benefits to the (SWC). Monsanto claims that GMOs help make jobs easier and creates food with higher nutrient content; the result of both of these factors helps reduce world hunger. They also note that although there are GMOs that may be harmful to health, not all of them pose health risks. When it comes to the famers, the company states that an example of making their job easier is how: resistance reduces the need for them to mix and apply dangerous chemicals resulting in extra time to focus on farming more (Monsanto 2). This fact contributes to goal of reducing world hunger because farmers are able to be more efficient with their time. There are also GMOs that manipulate an DNA to yield higher amounts of meat than normal. For instance, a cow that is genetically modified will be overall bigger in size than a cow that lives under normal conditions. This also contributes to the fight against world hunger because these GMOs simply generate more food. Furthermore, Monsanto does acknowledge the GMOs that are dangerous to consume however believes that advantages of the biotechnology outweighs all the potential (Monsanto 2). The Organic Consumers Association, or OCA, is an organization that promotes the consumption of organic foods and discourages the consumption of foods containing GMOs. OCA claims that biotech companies, such as Monsanto, are responsible for creating products that are detrimental to health. They believe that: increase the risk of allergies, kidney and liver disease, ADHD, cancer, infertility, chronic immune disorders and (OCA 3). Furthermore, their main goal is to shut down all biotech companies so that all foods will grow Alasadi !3 through organic farming strategies. Although the OCA does not deny the fact that GMOs do provide a means for food production to accelerate faster, the organization does not comply with the notion that the biotechnology makes food production more efficient. This is because they believe that: yields are not greatly improved while consumers get no benefits and are all but forced to eat foods with uncertain long-term health (OCA 1). GMOs may assist with the problem of world hunger but they will just present another issue when people start to get affected by the potential health risks. Additionally, the OCA does recognize that there are some GMOs that are completely safe to consume. The main question however is how the consumers will be able to differentiate between the safe and unsafe GMOs. They also believe that further studies need to be performed on the safe GMOs to ensure all consumers that no health risks will be taken if they decide to feed their families these products. Monsanto and the Organic Consumers Association both present legitimate points to consider in the GMO debate. As the population keeps increasing at an exponential rate, people need to figure out ways to provide basic needs to all humans around the globe. Monsanto is a company that definitely contributes to alleviate that problem by making farming more efficient and producing more food at a faster rate. However, it is an undeniable fact that a high amount of GMOs do create health problems to the people that consume them; this makes organic products a much safer alternative to foods that contain GMOs. Monsanto and the OCA do agree that there are two types of GMOs: the ones that are safe to consume, and the ones that are not safe to consume. The problem, however, is that mainly the organizations know about this fact and the consumers themselves do not. According to a study released by Rutgers University, than half of Americans (63 percent) say they know very little or nothing at all about Alasadi !4 genetically modified (GM) foods, and one in four (25 percent) say they have never heard of (Research News). Educating the American people on which GMOs are safe while at the same time teaching them about the benefits of GMOs will not only protect them from the health risks, but will also provide a valid reason for Monsanto to continue their fight against world hunger. This type of education can also be presented in the schools in order to teach children at a young age. Furthermore, labeling food products will make it easier for people to identify what the products contain. This will ultimately leave the GMO consumption decision up to the American consumers themselves. As the world goes through a technological revolution, so does the food industry. Genetically Modified Organisms have been a major talking point all around the country. Big biotech companies like Monsanto have been articulating arguments to not only keep GMOs around, but to expand their influence even more on the food. They claim that world huger is a problem they can fix with the practice of biotechnology. Organizations such as the Organic Consumers Association have been fighting to halt the use of GMOs. They do not see the world hunger argument as strong enough to outweigh the potential health risks that GMOs bring with them. Although the debate may seem like a never-ending circular argument, there is a solution that can please both components. Since there is such a small amount of people that know about GMOs, educating the American people on how GMOs can feed more people quicker but also be a detriment to health will allow both Monsanto and the OCA to further their endeavors. Finally, labeling food products will then make it completely up to the consumer if they think GMOs are worth the risk. Alasadi !5 Works Cited Monsanto at a  Monsanto at a Glance. Monsanto, 2015. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Norwood, Marlena. Who Are the Stakeholders regarding GMO Decision  Sustainable World Coalition. SWC, 16 Sept. 2013. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights  PETA. PETA, 2017. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. U S Food and Drug Administration Home  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. FDA, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Most Americans Pay Little Attention to Genetically Modified Foods, Survey  Most Americans Pay Little Attention to Genetically Modified Foods, Survey Says Media Relations. Rutgers University, 1 Nov. 2013. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.