Murdock 1 Sheena Murdock Instructor Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 27 January 2017 Racism and Equality: Division Amongst Our Own Throughout human history, racism and discrimination can be seen throughout almost all civilizations. People with a darker complexion were perceived as inferior and incompetent, and were treated as such. In the United States of America, blacks and African Americans have been fighting for the equality and treatment they deserve since 1954; the start of the Civil Rights Movement. (Allen) Two figures that were vital to this movement were Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. from the south, and Malcolm X from the north. Their mission was the same: to end discrimination and inequality for black African-Americans. They both had a large amount of support to push for a change. But they had different methods of reaching this goal: King used a peaceful approach, while Malcolm X used a more hands on, violent approach. For this reason, the two remained divided, preventing the Civil Rights Movement from being as fruitful and effective as it could have been. It was only near the end of their lives, in 1964, that they expressed their respect and appreciation for one another, setting an example for their supporters. Though some think racism exist in modern America, police brutality, arrests records (GSS/NORC experiment), and other sources of information reveal that the racist stereotype against blacks is still alive. Organizations like the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) and the Black Lives Matter movement are fighting against modern racial discrimination and racism. But just like it was half a century ago, these two Murdock 2 main driving forces pushing towards the same goal, are against one another because of their methods. The NAACP uses a peaceful approach: pushing for change through the law and the judicial courts. On the other hand, the Black Lives Matter movement utilizes a more direct approach, striving for everyone to hear their voice as loud as possible through public events like large protests. striving for the same goal of equality, yet they are against one another. Similar to how the black community came together in the 1960s, it would be most beneficial for these two modern organizations to join forces to have a louder, firmer voice in promoting equality for black Americans from all sides: judicially, socially, and globally. The NAACP has been a long-standing organization concerning black rights, well- deserving of the title and when it comes this field. The NAACP was founded in 1909 to fight against the criminal acts of lynching in the southern states. Per their official website, their mission statement/vision is ensure a society in which all individuals have equal rights without discrimination based on and to barriers of racial Everything that the NAACP has done in the past century was never through violence; they used legislative and judicial approaches, attempting to abide by the law in every way. An example of this is shown in the organizations role in the infamous Brown v. Board of Education case. The NAACP provided substantial evidence that segregation of elementary schools has a greater effect on children of color than on the white population, explaining that the children of color felt the inferiority as children, and had a lower desire to learn. The Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS) reviewed this evidence and declared the integration of all public schools. (Bell) The NAACP pursued their dreams by working in ways similar to this. Even today, former president Barack Obama praised their efforts in fighting for equality regarding healthcare and education. Murdock 3 Speaking at the celebratory ball recognizing the 100 th anniversary of the NAACP, President Obama explained: but our kids all aspire to be Lebron or Lil Wayne. I want them aspiring to be scientists and engineers, doctors and teachers, not just ballers and rappers. I want them aspiring to be a supreme court justice. I want them aspiring to be president of the United States of Praising their efforts to push black children to have greater hopes and desires for themselves, President Obama delivered this speech to show that he fully supported and appreciated their efforts. The NAACP works closely with political officials to push for a change, and the achieve their mission: to ensure a society where race limit your desires and abilities. The Black Lives Matter movement is also working towards the same goal. They seek the of black and to the black libertarian as explained on their official website. Not having as much experience as its counterpart, the Black Lives Matter movement began in 2012, amidst the ruling of the widely known Trayvon Martin ruling. Martin was shot in the back and killed by a white male, which stirred up loads of racism rumors. The white male was found not guilty of murder, being released after claiming he shot Martin in self- defense. The black communities across the nation went out into the streets, exercising the first amendment right, and began protesting across the nation. In turn, this bold move brought much ridicule and seemed to promote further division, as the crowds proclaimed Lives With their motto, a moment, but a they use bold notions to get their point across: Police brutality is evidence that racism still exists in America; and it needs to change now. Though this cause is similar to the of the NAACP, not all their protests are Murdock 4 During a protest for Michael Brown in 2014, multiple police officers and civilians were injured or killed out of the vigor and strength. The Black Lives Matter movement was never fully convinced of the support, due to their different approaches. (Flynn) Despite this, many argue that the NAACP is outdated, made more believable considering much of youth participates in the Black Lives Matter protests. Regardless of how they approach the situation, it is evident that the two organizations want the same thing: equal rights for blacks. The conflict arises when one group support the methods and tactics of the other. For the sake of black Americans across the country, it would be most beneficial for these two major forces to combine their efforts, resulting in a louder voice for change. The judicial and legislative approach of the NAACP is one proven to be very effective. Yet, the idea of public protests resounds amongst youth. If these two methods are combined, along with the supporters of each group, the movement for equality for all will not prosper in just The United States, but will have a greater possibility of spreading globally, throughout North and South America, and across the world. Both groups are effective in their own way. Once we combine the knowledge and experience of the NAACP with the liveliness of the Black Lives Matter movement, it will become force to not be reckoned with; one that is stronger, has a louder voice, and has more persistence to fight for that they want. It will be the combination of different generations, and different ideas that will allow these organization to work alongside one another harmoniously. Murdock 5 Works Cited Morris, Aldon Origins of the Civil Rights Movement: Black Communities Organizing for Constitutional Commentary, 27 January 2017 Mills, Nancy of Minds : Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X: What If . . . The Huffington Post 27 January 2017 Association for the Advancement of Colored National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) http://www.naacp.org/ 27 January 2017 Lives Black Lives Matter http://blacklivesmatter.com/ 27 January 2017 and Law Enforcement in America: Racial and Ethnic Differences in Attitudes toward the Criminal Justice The General Social Survey at the University of Chicago http://gss.norc.org/ 27 January 2017 Bell, Derrick v. Board of Education and the Interest-Convergence 27 January 2017 v. Board of Education The Leadership Conference www.civilrights.org 28 January 2017 Stolberg, Sheryl Gives Fiery Address at The New York Times 28 January 2017 Blake, John and Martin, closer than we ever The Clinton New Network (CNN) 27 January 2017 Devichand, Mukul does the slogan Lives mean now? British Broadcasting Corporation 28 January 2017 Murdock 6 Flynn, Megan Black Lives Matter Remains Unconvinced of Houston Press 29 January 2017