Muthiah 1 Sarina Muthiah Ms. Hannah Lay ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Pipeline VS Native People In January of 2016, Dakota Access Limited Liability Company,LLC, received approved to construct the Dakota Access Pipeline. Since this approval of the pipeline there has been a long-standing division between the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and the Dakota Access of LLC of Dakota Access The conflict between these two opposing sides is that the crude oil within pipeline would run into the Missouri River which is their water supply for the Native people (Dakota Access Pipeline; At Not only would it ruin their water supply but possibly ruin the land that they consider sacred to their culture and having detrimental effects to the environment as well. With the growing media attention placed on these two stakeholders, the country is waiting and watching to see the potential outcome (Dakota Access Pipeline; At Dakota Access has released statements saying that their pipeline will not run anywhere near their land and it is the safest most advanced pipeline of its time Dakota Access Pipeline ). Although Dakota Access continuously attempts to reassure the Native people nothing will go wrong, the Natives fear that history of dangerous pipelines will come true in their own back yard. Although it might seem difficult to find common ground between these two stakeholders, they share goals as to ensure the safety of the land and environment. Another goal of both of these stakeholders are to ensure that both of their wishes are fulfilled in a way that pleases both sides without terminating each of their own Muthiah 2 end goal. A compromise that could occur between these two stakeholders is that Dakota Access could change the route of the pipeline so it is farther away from the water supply and the sacred land.This could work due to the fact that within the Dakota areas there is much open land and not a lot of people so individuals would not be harmed. The Dakota Access which is a Limited liability company, LLC, is a branch of a larger corporate company known as Energy Transfer Dakota Access Pipeline ). Energy Transfer began in 1995 with its roots in Dallas, Texas. At the time, it was a small natural gas pipeline but it is now one of the largest limited partnerships within the United States While this corporate company holds various operations, which are currently active, one in which that is receiving the most attention the Dakota Access Pipeline. Although Energy Transfer is the Dakota Access, LLC is the one developing this new pipeline. The Dakota Access Pipeline, also known as the Bakken Pipeline, is a crude oil pipeline in the United States that will run through North Dakota, South Dakota and Iowa Dakota Access Pipeline ). This pipeline will thus end an oil tank farm located in Patoka, Illinois and save millions of dollars each year Dakota Access Pipeline ). It is a $3.8 billion project stated by the company to be on the most technologically advance and safest pipelines of its time Dakota Access Pipeline ). One of the ways it has been said to help the people of this is county is that the crude oil produced within the United States with the transported in a safe and trusting manner that will thus keep gasoline prices low improving the worsening economy and ensure the safety of the environment Dakota Access Pipeline ). The second Stakeholder is the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe. The Standing Rock was originally a part of the Great Sioux Reservation. This Reservation compromised all of present- day South Dakota west of the Missouri River As the years went on there Muthiah 3 were many executive orders which reduced the size of this once large reservation Rock: In the year of 1889 Congress at the time reduced the reservation into six separate reservations, one of which is the Standing Rock Sioux Reservations Rock: The Sioux Tribe is known to be one of the Firsts Nations people in North America Rock: The Standing Rock Sioux Reservation is located in North and South Dakota. Standing Rock land area is 2.3 million acres long and 1,408,061 is owned tribally Rock: In light of recent events this tribe has been receiving much attention due to the fact of the protest of the DAPL. Many Native people across the country of having been traveling to stand the by the sides of their people to fight against this pipeline ruining the land that they believe to be sacred. Although there is a limited number of options in finding a solution, one that is commonly brought up is the Dakota Access Pipeline being rerouted. With the rerouting option being thrown in the air there are few route options available, most of which cross either culturally important lands to Native Americans or large waterways Easy Resolution Unlikely for Contentious Dakota One route that is rarely talked about to head further north avoiding the Missouri River all together Easy Resolution Unlikely for Contentious Dakota This option would cause the construction of the parts of the pipeline that have already begun to be built to be destroyed and start over again Easy Resolution Unlikely for Contentious Dakota This would also require large changes such as new state and federal permits Easy Resolution Unlikely for Contentious Dakota Although this option requires much effort it could possibly be the only plausible and environmentally safe option for both parties Easy Resolution Unlikely for Contentious Dakota Muthiah 4 This compromise may seem only beneficial to the Native Americans but it actually beneficial to both sides of the parties. The Native Americans are able to keep the land and the surrounding environment around them safe form bursting pipelines and contaminated water. Dakota Access is able to still build their pipeline instead of ending construction of it like many of the protesters of the pipeline wanted. Although the timeline of when this pipeline would be built will be much longer than once thought and the amount of money necessary to build this will increase as well but it will save the potential risks of harming the individuals that live near the pipeline Easy Resolution Unlikely for Contentious Dakota Pipeline). The voices of the Native people refuse to go unheard and Dakota Access LLC refuses to end the construction of their pipeline. The Dakota Access LLC and the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe are two opposing sides that may seem to have different views when they actually both want to preserve the environment. One thing that both of these stakeholders must do is understand where both of these sides are coming from and take into account their separate goals. Once they are able to do that their common ground and compromise will be much easier to reach. Muthiah 5 Works Citied Dakota Access Pipeline  Dakota Access Pipeline Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://daplpipelinefacts.com/>. Corporate  EnergyTransfer.com - Home Page. 2017 Energy Transfer Partners, L.P., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.energytransfer.com/>. Standing  Standing Rock. KK BOLD, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://standingrock.org/>. Indigenous Policy  #NativeVote16-Overdue National Debate about Pipelines and Science Trahant Indigenous Policy Journal. Trahant, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://articles.indigenouspolicy.org/index.php/ipj/article/view/422/412>. Easy Resolution Unlikely for Contentious Dakota  Reuters. Thomson Reuters, 19 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-pipeline- nativeamericans-reroute-idUSKCN11P09K>. Standing  Standing Rock. KK BOLD, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://standingrock.org/>. Thorbecke, Catherine. Timeline of the Dakota Access Pipeline  ABC News. ABC News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://abcnews.go.com/US/timeline-dakota-access- pipeline-protests/story?id=43131355>.