Guilarte-Debras 1 Laura Guilarte-Debras Dennis Composition 2 01/30/2017 Animal Testing for Cosmetic Purposes The cosmetic industry is one of the most prominents industries around the world, business has made millions, even billions of dollars throughout the years on products that are tested primarily on animals such as bunnies, guinea pigs, and rats. Animal testing is a procedure that has been around since the year 1850 as a way to have preliminary data on the usage and safety of makeup products. While European Coalition to End Animal Experiments is attempting to get together 20 groups to end animal testing and intersect experiments on animals in laboratories because they believe that animal testing is inhumane, cruel, and no longer necessary, Pro-Test argues and fights for the right to be able to use animal testing to facilitate science. Pro-Test believes that no other alternative that has been currently created will deliver the results that animal testing in laboratories would. To satisfy the objectives of both groups, European Coalition should keep doing research on possible alternatives that could potentially put a complete end to animal testing and Pro-Test should try to minimise the use of animal testing and only use animal testing when no other alternative out there will can deliver the results animal testing would and there is no other way to do it. The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments is an organization that branches into 20 different organizations that are made for the protection of animals. It was formed in the year 1990 by organizations all across Europe, they were campaigning for a ban on animal testing for cosmetics. They believe that animal testing is scientifically unreliable and that human alternatives are the best way to go, a lot quicker and a lot cheaper. ECEAE is an organization that opposes to all animal experiments abhor vivisection with my soul. All the scientific discoveries stained with innocent blood I count as of no Mohandas (Mahatma) Gandhi, this is one of the quotes that they have on their online website where they post what the organization stands for. The website also states that million animals are used in European laboratories every year- 137 animals suffering in cruel and painful experiments every 10 (ECEAE website) they provide the audience with facts on how many animals suffer every year to animal testing that tends to not be reliable 92 percent of the time. Pro-Test is an organization that has been around since 2006 and is fighting for the right to keep animal testing in laboratories going. Pro-Test aims to educate people on how animal testing is still the best way to go when it comes to measuring the reliability of a chemical or a specific drug. Pro-Test standing for science is an organization that advocates animal testing and seeks to fight for the right to be able to use animal testing to facilitate science. The organization strongly supports animal testing and believe that is it crucially needed to be able to further medical science. They claim that without animal research a lot of the medicine that is out there would not exist today. According to them animal research has made it possible for scientists to find treatments for cancer, antibiotics, and vaccines. Their goal is to keep spreading awareness on the necessity of animal research and that someone will listen and stop trying to take it away from them. It is very difficult to find common ground between these two stakeholders since their goals are so far apart from one another. One stakeholder is aiming to put an end to animal testing for once and forever and the other stakeholder refuses to let go of their rights to do animal research and animal experiments. Something that they do have in common and their ambition to keep fighting for what they each believe is right. They both provide plausible explanations for why they believe and feel the way that they do. Although ECEAE has been around a whole decade longer than Pro-Test, they have been around for quite some time as well and keep fighting for what they believe. A compromise between these two stakeholders may be very difficult since they each have such opposite points of view in regards to animal testing whether it is for cosmetic purposes or for medical purposes. A compromise I was able to come up with is a compromise that both stakeholders will have to agree on without too many problems. I would suggest that European Coalition spend all of its time gathering the 20 groups so they can campaign to ban animal testing but to get together and figure out different alternatives that can put a complete end to animal testing or find ways to improve the alternatives that we already have. Pro-Test would have to reduce the amount of animals that they use during their research and limit it only to cases that could not be done any other way and to cases that will deliver the best results with animal testing data. Works Cited European Coalition to End Animal  . Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pro-Test. PAST  Standing up for Science . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Www.drumbeatcreative.co.uk, Drumbeat Creative -. About  About Us . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. What happened to...Observer stories updated: Pro-Test in support of animal  The Observer (London, England) 2006: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.