Marianna Andreucci Dr. Theodore Murray ENC1102 29 January 2017 Making CrossFit Mandatory for Everyone High-intensity weigh training, gymnastic, cardiovascular exercise, resistance and team work, this is what CrossFit is about. This new physical training method creates workouts that challenge the human body in many different fields, such as endurance, stamina, strength, speed, flexibility, power, coordination, agility, and balance (Davies 240). As many other types of sports, CrossFit creates the right environment to bring people together, and it can help to find meaning in daily routine. This discipline can also create very special bonds between people as well as giving to very different people something in common. Even though CrossFit is not necessarily a team sport, it requires the athletes to have a solid support system behind them because it is built on personal efforts, as well as team work. Like every other sport, CrossFit has the power to release endorphins, which are hormones responsible for happiness and serenity. In fact, any type of physical activity releases chemicals that are proven to diminish anxiety, depression, and to increase self-esteem (Biddle 100). Since doing is such a beneficial and fundamental thing in lives, and CrossFit is a discipline that challenges the human body in many different aspects, a CrossFit workout of at least one hour per day during week days should be required by law. This law will ensure the members of the population to remain physically and mentally healthy. This new law will be eventually accepted and it will become part of routine This plan can benefit people by giving them the opportunity to learn more about their own bodies, their limits and their passions. This revolutionary idea could also help many people that feel lost and abandoned to find a purpose and give them the courage to start a new chapter of their lives. The main goal of this law is to increase awareness about physical and mental diseases, and to make them aware of their strengths and value as human beings. To make this possible, the law should be enforced by politicians, police officers, military forces, and all the other members of the government. Education will also play a crucial role in the promotion of this new plan. In fact, it will be the main tool to spread the knowledge, and to persuade people into thinking that this law is beneficial and ethically correct. This new plan can also create new job opportunities and diminish the crime rate and violence around the country by channeling negative energy and frustration in the daily workout. In the case that the mandatory workout be completed, a fine will be given to the individual that failed to complete this requirement. After a fine, if the negligence persists, punishments will range from volunteering for the community to incarceration. This daily mandatory workout could also increase empathy and emotional intelligence, as it is shown that athletes can cope better with stress and can better control their emotions (Artinger 70). This would lead to higher success rates in college, and to lower rates of depression and anxiety. Many studies and national surveys conducted on college students stress rates and depression rates have shown to these mental disorders have been constantly increasing over time (Tartakovsky). The average age of onsets for many health disorders is around 18 and 24, and the amount of pressure that is put on college students is sometimes hard to handle (Tartakovsky). With college acceptance rates getting lower, and the numbers of applicants getting higher, it is not hard to believe how hard it is for many students to feel accomplished and successful in the current American society. The workout requirement could change this situation by helping students are workers to let their emotions out and to fight back; and what is a better than physical activity to do that? This drive to achieve a common goal will also lead people to create a social environment and a new positivity will start to spread. Furthermore, one of the issues of the current society is that people do not find time to take care of their personal and physical health; yet, if this law requirement is approved, they will be required by law to do so. Additionally, the energy and the anger that usually people channel into doing something that will hurt them in the long run will be channeled towards a positive change and a purpose. Afterwards, levels of attention at school will get higher and hyperactivity of kids in class will diminish. On top of that, life expectancy for many people will improve drastically. For the people that are not physically able to complete a fully CrossFit workout, there will be many different options and workout plans that will be based on the mobility and health. Old people will also have to complete a soft workout until they are physically able to do so. Whenever an elder will be diagnosed physically unable to complete the daily workout by a Doctor, they be constricted to do it anymore. Yet, the end goal of this project is that people will not just complete their workout because it is mandatory but because they understand it is beneficial. If this happened, people will become healthier and more prone to live in accordance to a healthy life style. This will make established diseases such as obesity to dramatically drop. Since new governmental job positions will be created to make sure everyone will do their daily workout, crime and unemployment rates will also go down, and people will be educated on what being healthy means during their school hours. Everyone will have the time needed to exercise, and to take a break. Many types of cancer will soon disappear the human race will highly improve generation after generation. Even though this law would surely make people healthier and more aware of their own body and health, one may argue that this law is quite absurd. Many questions may rise that put in doubt the rightness and integrity of this law. For example, one may ask how this law will be enforced, since there are not enough police officers and time to follow every individual in the country to make sure he or she complete the daily workout. Additionally, one may ask if this law goes against freedom, individuality, personal space and identity. Many people will also argue that this law is unethical, and totally foolish because it deprives people of a big part of what makes us humans, which is our own freedom and control over our own body. However, even if all these points are very valid, they do not prove the sport requirement to be wrong and unethical. In fact, because of the structure of our society, we will never have complete control on our body and decisions. There are many laws that do not permit the consumption of drugs, and suicide is considered illegal. So why if these things are already prohibited, we just add another thing to the list that would be beneficial for the humankind? Since this will bring everyone to a healthier life and lifestyle this can still be considered acceptable, and the policy can be enforced by education and by making people paying higher fines for not meeting the minimum workout requirement. People are never completely free, and what defines freedom is highly subjective. This means that this idea can still be considered ethical because it will change the world in a better place. Lastly, one will conclude that this law is not more foolish than many other laws that were passed throughout history. In fact, this law could fight global warming by promoting physical activities and outdoor event. This will help to diminish carbon dioxide emissions and it could make a difference. In addition to this, if society does not think that being punishable by law for consuming drugs is wrong, why would we think that this law is absurd? Bibliography Artinger, Lori. The Social Benefits of Intramural  NASPA, vol. 43, no. 1, Jan. 2006, pp. 69 86, Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Davies, Melissa J., et al. The relationship between basic psychological need satisfaction, behavioral regulation, and participation in  Journal of Sport Behavior, vol. 29, no. 3, Sept. 2016, pp. 239-245, Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Nielsen, G., et al. Health promotion: The impact of beliefs of health benefits, social relations and enjoyment on exercise  Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports, 23 May 2014, pp. 66-75. Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Owen, Jeffrey G., et al. The Intangible Benefits of Sport  Public Finance & Management, vol. 6, no. 3, 2006, pp. 321-345., Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Tartakovsky, Margarita. Depression and Anxiety Among College  Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Zakrajsek, Rebecca A., et al.  National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Certified Athletic Perceptions of the Benefits of Sport Psychology  Journal of Atheletic Training, vol. 5, no. 51, May 2016, p. Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017.