Syed Maisam Jafri Intermediate Draft Project 1 January 29 th , 2017 Internet Polling Imagine that the date is November 7 th , 2017 and you wake up tired and prepare for your daily 9-5 job. As you check your phone you realize that today is election day and you did not request work off. At first it bothers you but then the realization that your one vote does not matter washes over you. There are very few elections each year and this is just another missed opportunity. Voter apathy is an incredibly common feeling among American voters. Citizens need to be able to vote using the internet on a greater number of issues than they are able to currently. Giving American citizens the opportunity to vote securely anywhere in the world over the internet would increase the abysmal voting percentages. The United States currently trails the developed world by fluctuating between 40% and 60% voter turnout (Wallace). The youngest demographic of voters, ages 18-25, have the lowest voting contribution. The ability to cast ballots on presidential elections and city or state laws would increase voter turnout significantly. Not only from the youngest voting demographic but also for all ages. Also, power would be equalized for groups who traditionally do not vote as often as others since this idea gives no one the excuse not to vote. Almost 1/3 of all votes cast in the country of Estonia are cast online (Warner). Their system utilizes national ID cards with embedded encrypted chips to secure their channels of voting. A card reader plugged into a computer is used to verify identity. Though the population of Estonia is considerably less than the United States, the percentage of votes occurring online should sway naysayers. If US citizens get the opportunity to vote online, they may use the internet to educate themselves further. The eLearning market revenue was at $49.9 billion dollars in the year of 2015 (Pappas). If an individual is attempting to vote on the internet and does not understand the implications of a certain voting choice, he or she can easily do research and self educate themselves on the subject. Increased voter education only has positive results. The efficiency and convenience for voters and vote counters would skyrocket if ballots could be cast online. Voters unable to take work off, stuck in class, bedridden, or sick could quickly and easily cast their votes over the internet. Even though polling stations are required by law to be disability accessible not all stations are. The ability to vote online would remove many voting barriers for multiple groups. Voting online in the comfort of the home is significantly more convenient than waiting in a line at a polling station. Not only would this change make it considerably easier for voters, it would also speed up the vote counting process. Computers can do simple tasks, like counting, at a much faster pace than humans. This would cut down on time spent counting ballots, potential sources of human error during the counting process, and would provide a lot of data for voter analytics and statistics. Some people may make the argument that the website which houses the online voting center could be compromised due to the work of hackers. The US Government, more specifically Homeland Security, has some of the strongest cyber security in the world (Homeland). The Department of Homeland Security would undoubtedly incorporate the best of the best in terms of cybersecurity in order to keep the polls from being hacked. Voting online is not a new idea. President Clinton made a suggestion to look into online voting at the turn of the century in 1999 (Warner). A program was launched by the US military which allowed active duty personnel stationed in various countries to vote in US elections. The project was halted due to potential security threats. The US Government has the ability to properly secure online channels of voting if this matter was given serious consideration. There would be innumerable benefits and little to no drawbacks if American voters were allowed to cast ballots over the internet. Not only would this increase voter contribution and reduce voter apathy, it would also encourage voters to educate themselves on the subjects they are voting on. The efficiency and convenience for everyone involved would also increase significantly. you vote online if given the opportunity? Works Cited Homeland Security.  Cybersecurity Homeland Security. US Department of Homeland Security, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pappas, Christopher. The Top ELearning Statistics And Facts For 2015 You Need To  ELearning Industry. ELearning Industry, 10 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wallace, Gregory. Voter Turnout at 20-year Low in  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Warner, John. - MILITARY VOTING AND THE FEDERAL VOTING ASSISTANCE  Military Voting. US Government Printing Office, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.