Dylan Elsner Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 29 January 2017 The Road to Self-Driving Cars The idea of autonomous vehicles has interested humanity for ages, the concept has been making appearances in science fiction since before the Jetsons. Self-driving cars have never been closer to society than today; technology giants like Google and Tesla are leading the development of super intelligent vehicles, but they face constant problems with the current infrastructure of driver oriented roads. It is absolutely possible to integrated self-driving and assisted driving cars into our current roads, however, it would require all drivers to convert their vehicles to the new system. In order for automated vehicles to become commonplace in America, a compromise must be met between the developers of the technology and the Department of Transportation. Last May, an accident occurred while a driver was using the autopilot feature of his Tesla Model S. Tragically, the autopilot systems to distinguish a large white 18-wheel truck and trailer crossing the (Yadron) and the vehicle drove directly into it, killing the driver. Elon Musk, the CEO of Tesla Motors, has spoken about the event and what they believe may have caused the crash, the autopilot system that blocks out overhead signs and such as bridges to avoid triggering false (Reuters) ignored the trailer. The event, although terrible, is the first death directly caused by an autonomous driving system; the company has already updated their autopilot feature to prevent such accidents from happening again. Consumers need to keep events such as the May accident in their minds as the technology becomes more attractive. Tesla was very fast to respond to the event, and companies need to be held to a similar standard in the future. Some groups such as Consumer Watchdog think that the company got off to easy, saying, should have been held accountable for the (Levin). Groups that put the consumer first will play a vital role in the development of autonomous vehicles. Companies need to know that self-driving cars are not an area for cutting corners. The Department of Transportation has held a briefing on how they regard the safety of self-driving cars. Generally, they are held to the same standards as regular cars, the government intends to use the current regulations promote the safe development and deployment of automated (DOT). Implementing autonomous vehicles into the current infrastructure will require strict regulations to ensure that accidents, such as the fatal crash in May, become commonplace. Currently, assisted driving cars result in less accidents than traditional cars, the features available even help in preventing accidents, yet that will not stop accidents from occurring while the technology is being perfected. Companies need to have the foresight to identify any flaws in their systems and correct them before they do harm to the consumers. It is unreasonable to expect government organizations to work with groups such as even if they hold the same interests, it simply something that happens. Instead, organizations such as the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or NHTSA, need to represent the public and properly restrict what technologies are safe for the public. A good compromise between developers and the groups supervising their products would be to focus on the development of assisted driving, rather than fully autonomous vehicles. The transition from traditional cars to those with features such as autopilot is a good halfway point between traditional driving and self-driving cars. The biggest issue this compromise faces is an increase in events such as the May accident, where a driver treats assisted driving as automated driving. Despite that, it will still be safer than the current system. The NHTSA will need to restrict features that encourage distracted driving, but still allow for the development of self-driving cars. Although this compromise seems contradictory, the most important part of developing this technology is that those who are in the vehicle are safe. Assisted driving should not be advertised as automated driving, and it is in the best interest to prevent the two from mixing; the transition from the current driving system to self-driving cars needs to be done in phases, not in a slow shift. The Department of Transportation intends to use the SAE scale of ranking autonomous cars, for the compromise, companies would be developing technology that meets the rating of SAE 2: automated system on the vehicle can actually conduct some parts of the driving task, while the human continues to monitor the driving environment and performs the rest of the driving (DOT). The SAE scale ranges from 0, which is traditional cars, to 5, where 5 fully automated in all conditions. Ideally, the SAE rating system will be used to help consumers purchase vehicles. Someone who spends half an hour driving to and from their office has no need for a level 5 automated car, however, someone who spends several hours a week traveling between states would be much safer in a fully autonomous vehicle. The first step to reaching the point where the scale is beneficial for consumers is getting all cars to be a minimum of level 2, assisted driving. A level 5 car can prevent almost all accidents, but if someone drives their 2005 Honda the wrong way on the highway, it will be nearly impossible to prevent a crash without human intervention. Until all level 0 and 1 cars are phased out of public roads, level 5 cars are virtually useless; drivers in cars with the lowest scale ratings are still capable of making mistakes that even the best automated system has no way of responding to. It will be the responsibility of the NHTSA to ensure that drivers will be safe driving cars with high SAE ratings, and that begins with the proposed compromise. By starting with a maximum of level 2, the majority pf the public will have access to safer vehicles before fully automated vehicles take to the road. Tesla continues to make massive strides with their autopilot system, and as older companies begin to explore similar technologies it is important to treat assisted driving as a tool for safety, rather than a luxury that allows for distracted driving. In addition to placing restrictions on how quickly different levels of automation can be sold by producers, consumers need to be reminded to be completely aware of the road until level 5 automation is available. Federal Automated Vehicles  Department of Transportation. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. AV Fact Sheet - Current Regulatory  Department of Transportation. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Levin, Alan, and Ryan Beene. Sigh of Relief for Self-Driving Cars as Tesla Cleared in  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tesla considering two theories that may explain fatal Model S  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 29 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Yadron, Danny, and Dan Tynan. Tesla driver dies in first fatal crash while using autopilot  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 30 June 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.