Chao Ma Ma 1 Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 29 Jan 2017 GMO issue Nowadays, GMO issue is a big issue in worldwide. There are many different kinds of stakeholders involve in this issue. The mainly two oppositely stakeholders are European and U.S. consumers and GMO companies Monsanto. They are arguing the mandatory GMO labeling law for many years but this problem never gets solved. People always hold different bias on this question and never want to change what they believe. By researching this question, a solution can be made to compromise this issue for both sides and benefit for both sides as well. The consumers treat GMOs differently due to their living standard. Developed counties and developing counties have really opposing points of view about GMOs. Developed countries like U.S. and Europeans want mandatory GMO labeling law because they are focus on human right and high quality foods. These countries have higher education level than those African countries and their culture ask them to think a question in a critical way. So they may ask more questions on a new technology that attach to their health than the people live in African. On the contrary, African countries have taken a lot of benefits from GMO. GMO not only solved their food shortage problem but also brought many of job opportunities. GMO companies like Monsanto exported these GM seeds to African countries and help them to develop cultivation technology. Monsanto believe that GMO is the solution for food shortage in worldwide and it also has much more advantages such as maintain environmental sustainability. European and U.S. consumers and Monsanto have debated GMO problems in 50 years, and these problems can be solved in a relativity fair solution by finding common ground between different stakeholders. Due to unbalanced distribution and unequal development of agriculture in different countries, countries treat GMOs differently. European countries and Americans do not like Ma 2 GMOs and they have strict GMO labeling law since 1997. first GM labeling requirements for food products were introduced by the European Union (EU) in 1997 (Regulation EC No 258/97) as an application of the precautionary (Carter and Gruere 1). As we all known, European countries and U.S. are mostly development countries on 20th century. Their high GDP and countless welfare policies make their people need to worry about food. In these case, Europeans and Americans can even pay more to pursue the higher quality foods rather than eat GMO for living. In addition, more and more scientists cannot assert safety. Furthermore, more and more consumers are standing on the Non-GMO side after they were persuaded by the social media. Because nobody can assert the safety of GMO but media can easily to catch the attention by reporting GMO issue. European counties and U.S. also spent a lot of money on the organic foods planting and prohibiting the GMO foods be placed on market as much as possible. So were created. is an anti-GMO organization in the U.S. There slogan is simple and strong. label organization is aiming to mandatory label all the GMO productions that Americans may consume. They believe that consumers have right to know what they are eating every (Davio 12). Nowadays, over 100 organizations have joined in consumers have a right to know what is in our food. They believe that mandatory labeling bill of all GMOs will finally passes if they keep pressuring the federal legislation in the U.S. So these consumers mostly hold negative views on GMO. Monsanto is a sustainable agriculture company. Nowadays, they have 404 facilities across 67 countries. They believe that genetic modified technology can help many of farmers to produce more crops while save valuable natural resources such as water. They emphasize how their seeds can help the environment and sustainability and really important to human being. Ma 3 They also hope for protecting their effort, also produce leading in-the-seed trait technologies for farmers, which are aimed at protecting their yield, supporting their on-farm efficiency and reducing their on-farm (Monsanto). is really important for the future. This is the way to keep healthy food supply chain also. In addition, Monsanto is a GMO based seed company. It provides genetic modified seeds to over 67 countries. All of those seeds are used genetic modified engineering. They are firmly believing that GMO are safe and environment friendly products. However, some developing counties and the counties which have a number of population are willing to adopt GMO as a solution of their food shortage problem. 2004, South Africa continues to be the only African country that has approved transgenic crops for commercial purposes and, at the same time, is the leader in agricultural biotechnology research and development on the (Aerni 464). Developing counties like South Africa want to take advantage of GMO for creating more jobs, foods and technics. However, These GMO actually are provided by Food companies. Food companies like GMO. GMO is the promise of production. Comparing with normal crops, GMOs can be planted in more area even though these places are under serious pest problem. Farmers can apply more and more pesticide and need to worry about kill these crops. So the food companies can make crops as many as they want and keep the environmental sustainability at same time. The consumers and GMO companies also have something in common even though they are opposing stakeholders. The solution is all Non-GM foods should be mandatory labeled but there are also a number of GM foods which should appear in market. In other words, GMO and Non-GMO must be separated by specific label. Since they both believe that GMOs are not 100% safe, none of them can determine what foods all people should eat. in the absence of industry action to positively label, governments may be pushed by consumers and various Ma 4 lobby groups to impose mandatory labeling to ensure firms are held accountable for the product- specific credence (Phillips and Isaac 6). There are three reason that this solution is work. First, GMO are created by genetic engineering and it cannot be controlled after people consumed. Nobody will know how GMOs affect body after they are consumed. And some of the effects may take years to know. Both of groups believe that GMOs have potential dangerous. Second, GMOs also brought a lot benefits for human being. GMOs solved food shortage in many counties. The people who live in poor countries cannot live without GMOs. Most of counties also have big percentage adoption of GMO products. GMOs also created a lot of jobs, poor countries can save money rather than import expensive foods from developed countries. GMOs has steady yield and can be planted on more land. So the GMO should not be restricted. Third, GMOs also good for environment. Due to high suitability, GMOs can live longer and use less water which is good for environment and sustainability. Environment and sustainability are also important factors that stakeholders are considering about. Because people only have one earth, save the energy and resources are priority for human being to live. In the conclusion, the best compromise for this issue is to leave the choice to consumers. Government should label all foods to separate Non-GMO and GMO. People can afford the higher quality food may choose Non-GM foods. And people who really care about this will use GMO. Ma 5 Works Cited Ademola A.Adenle. Stakeholder attitudes towards the risks and benefits of genetically modified crops in South Africa. Environmental Science & Policy. October 2005. Volume 8, Issue 5. Carter Colin A. and Guillaume P. Mandatory Labeling of Genetically Modified Foods: Does it Really Provide Consumer Choice? Agbioforum. Rimmer Matthew. Just Label it: Consumer Rights, GM Food Labelling, and International Trade. April 2015. Phillips Peter W.B. and Isaac Grant. GMO labeling: threat or opportunity? AgBioForum. Volume 1 Number 1. 1998. Davio Stephanie. Consumer Choice and the Spread of Genetically Engineered Food. Pesticides and You. Vol. 31, No. 4. Monsanto. at a Monsanto n.d. Sun. 29 Jan 2017.