Pavly Sharoupim 1 Pavly Sharoupim Prof. Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 January 28, 2016 Trade Privacy for Security?: The Intermediate Draft Would you trade your individual privacy for mass security or, the opposite? Although favorable to go with them both, technically impossible, or at least what the NSA and the masses believe. In June 2013, Edward Snowden, former contractor for the United States government, revealed his data about mass surveillance programs targeting the people of the United States, shocking the world with the unexpected news. (Elliot, Rupar) As a response, protesters stood in Washington, demanding the NSA to stop their surveillance programs at once. (Kelly) Since then, the NSA and protesters have been standing in each face, trying to prove a point, and the result would be neither proving any points, stalling each other from doing their own jobs. Does the situation depend on giving up one right for the other? Is it impossible to balance security with privacy for the NSA and people to live together harmonically and focus on what matters in each agenda? a matter of fact that the NSA works for safety, as it slogan indicates, our Nation. Securing the (nsa.gov) a matter of fact, too, that people need to feel safe. If they work together, a compromise could be possible for both parties to reach to the goal they want without sparking more conflicts. The first party in the conflict is the NSA. Following Edward revelations, the NSA had to either confirm or deny the leaked news, and clarify the reason, or perhaps the misunderstanding, behind these accusations. Defying misunderstanding, General Keith Alexander, the director of NSA, clarified that assumption is our people are just out there wheeling and dealing. Nothing could be further than the truth. We have tremendous oversight over these programs. We can audit the actions of our people 100%, and we do (Carroll) In another press conference, James Clapper, the director of national intelligence, stressed on the fact that collected under this program is among the most important and valuable intelligence information we collect, and is used to protect our nation from a Pavly Sharoupim 2 wide variety of (Savage, Wyatt, Baker) As obvious from their statements, they spy on whomever they want whenever they want, because not their objective in work. In fact, General Alexander made a funny remark saying that he even spy on any of his four emails (Carroll), stressing on the fact that this program a toy, and they believe otherwise, unlike some of the audience, who believe it is. The second party of the conflict is the people. Following revelations, protestors across the United States sounded their disagreement concerning the mass surveillance programs. (Kelly). They claimed that the programs the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution, which protects against unreasonable searches and seizures without (Kelly) When reviewing the leaked documents, Ilna Georgieva, a researcher, concluded in a research that programs involve countless interferences with privacy and that society is developing in a profoundly undemocratic (Georgieva) The audience seem to accept their liberty for (Kelly). But, going back to General and James words about their perspective towards the program, are the people actually in a situation where sacrificing one for the other? The audience believe that the surveillance program is being used as a toy, but is that the truth? It is a matter of fact that people need safety in order to feel secure in their own respective homes or roads. In order to achieve that tranquility, external threats and terrorism have to be detected and wiped out; the job. In a press conference, General Alexander stated that job is defending this country, saving lives, supporting our troops. our responsibility to provide the information that they need to survive to go after the (Carroll) The people need the NSA and vice versa. They complete and help each other. In order to achieve that mutual connection, a compromise is needed. The people will have to sacrifice, and so will the NSA, but a greater good will be achieved for them both. For the compromise to happen, people will have to accept sacrificing some details about their daily lives for the NSA to execute its job well. The NSA, on the other hand, will have to be transparent, vocal, and clear about their activities and programs. have to let the individual know being taken and being received in return, the purpose, and the result of the programs. A research Pavly Sharoupim 3 conducted by the University of Texas at San Antonio concluded that, in fact, there are more people who approve the surveillance programs than people who (Reddick, Chatfield, Jaramillo) The research suggests too that the government to be more efficacious in communicating about surveillance programs more transparently to garner greater approval for its surveillance (Reddick, Chatfield, Jaramillo) In order for the NSA to have more audience whom support the surveillance program, the NSA needs to be more transparent about its programs, their purposes, how being used, and how effective they are in defeating threats. As the people know how effective their information is, they act as resentfully as they once were, since they know where the being taken to and how helpful it is. Edward revelations have been an unexpected surprise for both the NSA and the people of the United States. Misunderstandings were all over the minds. The NSA know information were stolen until it was too late. Both parties have been backlashing ever since, trying to prove a point without listening to the other, resulting in more conflicts. Audience thought that officials were playing with their own privacies while the NSA were trying to prove that these programs toys. The NSA were trying to speak out that their first and foremost importance is the safety of the people under their duty, while some sounded their preference of individual privacy over mass safety. However, the interest is safety, and safety is the ultimate request. Each party relies on the other to form that mutual infinite connection that keeps the United States safe from external threats, including terrorism. A compromise is possible with little sacrifices: the people will have to give some of their information to the NSA and the NSA, through this information, will give them safety. The NSA, however, will have to be very clear about how this information is processed, used, who sees it, and how useful and effective it is in helping the army to fight threats. Once the people see the results before their eyes in form of tranquility, safety and security, be ready to give more in order to have more of that security and safety for themselves and generations to come. Pavly Sharoupim 4 Works Cited: Elliot, Kennedy; Rupar, Terri. Six Months of Revelations. The Washington Post. December 23, 2013. Kelly, Heather. Protests Against the NSA Spring Up Across U.S. CNN. July 5, 2013. Caroll, Rory. NSA Director Keith Alexander Defends Surveillance Tactics in Speech to Hackers. The Guardian. July 31, 2013. Savage, Charlie; Wyatt, Edward; Baker, Peter. U.S. Confirms that it Gathers Online Data Overseas. New York Times. June 6, 2013. Georgieva, Ilna. The Right to Privacy Under Fire-Foreign Surveillance Under the NSA and the GCHQ and its Compatibility with Art. 17 ICCPR and Art. 8 ECHR. Utrecht Journal of International and European Law. 31(80) P. 104-130. February 27, 2015. Reddick, Christopher G.; Chatfield, Akemi Takeoka; Jaramillo, Patricia A. Public Opinion on National Security Agency Surveillance Programs: A Multi-Method Approach. Government Information Quarterly Volume 32, Issue 2 P. 129-141. March 17, 2015. Https://www.nsa.gov/. National Surveillance Agency.