Bianco 1 Richelle Bianco Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 27 January 2017 The Social Fight over Beauty Pageants Although very prevalent in society, toddler beauty pageants have been around since the 19 th century. In 1855, P.T Barnum hosted National Baby where 143 mothers competed in front of more than 60,000 observers, each demonstrating reason why their baby should win (Baby Show Exhibit). Even then, people questioned the safety and mentality of the babies that were forced to compete for commercial gain. Today, child beauty pageants have become a highly debatable topic, with opinions stemming from the mothers that put their children through it, to the mothers that have never stepped foot into a pageant and never will claiming they are too aggressive and sexualizing. The stakeholder for child beauty pageants is Universal Royalty, a pageant company. The stakeholder against these beauty pageants is the organization Mothers Against Toddler Beauty Pageants, or better known as M.A.T.B.P. Though the opposing sides have their differences, both advocates believe the child should be vivacious in their surrounding environment. With the influence of social media and reality T.V. programs, toddler beauty pageants have been more prominent than ever before, thanks to the popular, yet controversial, TLC show, Toddlers and Tiaras. The reality show is based around children aged one to nine, that around wearing makeup, false eyelashes, spray tans and fake hair to be judged on their beauty, personality and costumes One of the main companies that sponsors the show is Bianco 2 Universal Royalty. The founder, Annette Hill, started the program in 1995 with aspirations that beauty pageants will positive learning experiences for children of all ages. Annette Hill believes that pageants bring out the very best in children by learning about competition, self- confidence, social skill and the importance of striving to be Working with and against the other girls promotes a sense of unity yet independence for the young girls that compete. The contestant that wins gains fame and fortune, as well as a rhinestone crown. Many look at these novelties in disgust, shameful to see a child so young put through so much pressure by being individually singled out on their beauty. Though Robby Meshell, a grown-up child beauty pageant star, found comfort in the industry. When she was just three years old, her mother put her into her first beauty pageant. From then until age seven, she attended over one hundred beauty pageants, only stopping when her mother died at age ten; I was 10, my mother committed suicide, so my platform was suicide awareness. I wanted to tell my story. After my mother committed suicide, I was very antisocial. Getting into the pageant world brought me out of that shell Meshell claims the pageant community helped reshape her outlook on the world as she shared her stories about her mother. She has no regrets joining pageants and compares it to a sport, where the mothers are just as competitive as their children. Her response towards beauty pageants is the reason why there needs to be a compromise- the industry does provide crucial moments for young girls to feel welcomed. The stakeholders against child beauty pageants is a Facebook non-profit organization defined as Mothers Against Toddler Beauty Pageants (M.A.T.B.P). They have created the page to protest and petition against the pageants, all the while encouraging people to donate to the cause of stopping the pageants for good (Facebook). They are spreading awareness to destroy toddler beauty competitions believing that they are a form of child abuse, Beauty Bianco 3 Pageants are a form of child abuse and should be One on the main commenters on the site suggested child beauty pageants should be forbidden because the clothing seeks out perverted older men. Another stated beauty pageants lead little girls to end up like JonBenet Ramsey- a six-year-old beauty pageant star who was found dead in her basement (Egan). According to Christine Tamer, writer of the scholarly journal Toddlers and Tiaras and Pedophilia? Borderline Child Embraced by the American Public, the JonBenet Ramsey case fueled our horror at how effectively a child can be constructed as a sexual being and our guilt at the pleasure we take in such a suggesting the unsolved Ramsey case happened due to her promiscuous behavior on stage as she posed in different outfits, and her fame in the industry at such a young age. The debate over the prevalence of child beauty pageants are concrete ideas that neither advocate wants to dismiss, and though the views contradict each other, both Universal Royalty and M.A.T.B.P. want the child to benefit mentally and psychically within its surroundings. They agree that a child should show characteristics of competition and playfulness around the young age of three to four. They believe that children should begin to find themselves and interact with others their own age group. A compromise that encompasses the various views and can pleasure the main sides, is that beauty pageants should focus more on the intellect of the young girl rather than the looks and choreographed abilities, though the girls should still be able to dress up and compete. The children will be able to participate in dressing up for each event, though costumes and makeup will be made suitable for the age, based on a committee of people from both opposing sides, that will come to an agreement on the article of clothing for each contestant. On Toddlers and Tiaras, the young girls are dressed up to wear clothes that expose the midriff, while their Bianco 4 makeup routine consists of fake teeth, wigs, and occasionally implants in the clothing that give the appearance of breasts and buttocks- unusual extremities for girls at such young of an age. Once on stage, the child will dance a routine that corresponds to their overall appearance. To appeal to mothers and organizations against this situation, the outfits should not expose or give idea to the genitalia in any form, including dresses and costumes that go above the mid-thigh and advertise the midriff- which are socially seen as provocative. Also, makeup should be subtle, with no use of any fake enhancements. The child will still be allowed to wear makeup, dress sophistically and produce their talent, however, instead of just dancing in front of the judges, the children will be judged on their mentality that corresponds with their age group. The judges will test the girls on their individual hobbies and activities, making the pageant more personal while creating bonding moments between girls. One child can completely win, though each child should walk away with some kind of prize. At the very end, each mother must congratulate and give a nice comment to at least one other contestant and mother, this will the reduce tension and drama between families as seen on Toddlers and Tiaras. With more formal rules created and addressed by both sides, beauty pageants will become easier to manage and less stressful, while acknowledging each specific point of view and adhering to their values of the controversial subject. Bianco 5 Works Cited About Toddlers &  TLC. N.p., 01 Oct. 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.tlc.com/tv-shows/toddlers-tiaras/about-the-show/about-toddlers-and- tiaras/>. Baby Pageants, Beauty Pageants, Little Miss Texas Beauty  Child Beauty Pageants Austin, TX - Universal Royalty Beauty Pageant. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.universalroyalty.com/>. Egan, Leigh, Crime Feed Staff, Catherine Townsend, Mike McPadden, Amelia McDonell-Parry, and Terri Osborne. JonBenet Ramsey  CrimeFeed. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://crimefeed.com/crimeline/jonbenet-ramsey-murder/>. Goode, Laura. I Was a Child Pageant Star: Six Adult Women Look  The Cut. N.p., 14 Nov. 2012. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://nymag.com/thecut/2012/11/child-pageant- star.html> M.A.T.B.P. Mothers Against Toddler Beauty  Facebook - Log In or Sign Up. N.p., 2011. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <https://www.facebook.com/pg/MATBP-Mothers-Against- The Baby Show Exhibit The Lost Museum  Baby Show Exhibit. American Social History Productions, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://lostmuseum.cuny.edu/archive/exhibit/baby/>. Toddlers, Tiaras, and Pedophilia: The Borderline Child Pornography Embraced by the American Public Note 13 Texas Review of Entertainment and Sports Law  Bianco 6 Toddlers, Tiaras, and Pedophilia: The Borderline Child Pornography Embraced by the American Public Note 13 Texas Review of Entertainment and Sports Law 2011-2012. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://heinonline.org/HOL/LandingPage?handle=hein.journals%2Ftresl13&div=7&id= &page=>.