Charles Nyberg ENC 1102 015 Ms. Madeline Gottlieb 31 January 2017 Vaccinations Most kids in America and other first world countries have received vaccinations since birth for many different diseases and viruses. The world has a general understanding that vaccinations are beneficial and have prevented the spread and outbreak of some major diseases. However many groups have started to grow around the idea that vaccinations are quite harmful and cause lasting effects. Two prominent stakeholders in this issue have opposing sides on vaccinations. Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations (PMV) argue that companies involved with vaccinations and the creation of them are only out for money and that vaccinations can be quite harmful. The World Health Organization (WHO) plans on vaccinating as many people in third world countries as possible because this is seen as the best option to protect against disease and other harmful illnesses. A compromise however can be proposed and met, with understanding both stakeholders and synthesizing common goals. The first stakeholder in this vaccinations conflict is a group named Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations. Their slogan is and Opposing the Vaccination (Whitney). Major points for PMV include that the Center for Disease Control, and other groups including the American Academy of Pediatrics are all for-profit corporations. With this in mind PMV has strong belief that vaccinations are highly unsafe because of lack of regulation and monetary drive by the groups involved in vaccine distribution (Whitney). On the website, known include that physicians receive more money for a fully vaccinated patient in their practice compared to a now vaccinated child. Also the page includes that all groups that are a part of vaccinations are unable to be blamed by any sort of injury or illness that results from vaccinations. This group is enraged by these many points that are quite evident to them but not the public (Whitney). Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations want public to know the truth behind vaccinations and the harm they can do to the child receiving them and how the companies are focused on money instead of safety. The International Medical Council on Vaccination (IMCV) shares the same ideals as the Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations. The IMCV is made up of doctors who have done the research and have firsthand seen the effects of vaccinations on children and those who receive them. They believe that vaccinations are highly unsafe and like PMV they should not be mandatory or widely performed Another major idea held in support of Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations is that in making vaccinations mandatory, the government is infringing on the religious rights of people (ProCon.org). The website also states that many people who worked for the CDC leave to work for the vaccine manufacturers which leads to a conflicts of interest. All pharmaceutical companies as the website ProCon.org states are out for a profit. A vaccine for Lyme disease was on the marker for four years and then was pulled off the shelf because of too many lawsuits put against it (ProCon.org). The pharmaceutical companies, the CDC, and other government based groups should not be in charge of regulating vaccinations as the IMCV, ProCon.Org, and Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations all state because of the conflicts of interest and the basis that they are all for profit groups. The second stakeholder, the World Health Organization, or WHO, believes that the health of the human body is one of the fundamental rights of human beings. To this end the WHO supports and lends aid to any government that promotes the health of everyone The World Health Organization believes that it is the responsibility of the government to ensure that their people are at the fullest possible level of health. In regards to vaccinations, the World Health Organization hopes that by 2030 the death rate can be greatly lowered and mostly with an increase of vaccinations as this is their main goal. With this belief they have proven that between the years of 2010 and 2015, more than five million lives were saved because of vaccinations (Bustreo 6). With goal of lowering the death rates in the whole world, they believe that more vaccinations should be performed most specially in third world countries where the death toll from preventable diseases is the highest Many groups and studies done agree with the World Health Organization. One significant group that shares the same views as WHO is the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The HHS agrees that vaccinations are for everyone and provide safety for the individual and community as whole They also state like WHO that diseases and illnesses are easily preventable through vaccinations. The United National Health Service agrees with the World Health Organization about the saving factor of vaccines. Both smallpox and polio, as stated on the NHS website have been eradicated. However what is included in their website is the answer to the question of why people should still receive vaccinations. The NHS states that there are many other diseases still prevalent in the world that could easily be prevented by receiving vaccinations; new vaccinations for diseases are also being made Vaccinations . . The World Health Organization believes that everyone should be vaccinated and many other groups agree with this belief. The health of the individuals and communities are at the utmost importance. These two stakeholders the World Health Organization and Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations both want to ensure the safety and health of all humans, some their own children. In 2008 the cost to fully vaccinate a boy was through 18 was about $1105 and about $1407 for a girl (Shen, A. K., et al. S541). For families that do not have a high income this cost over the 18 years may be too much to spend. The World Health Organization wants everyone to become vaccinated and the Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations want the vaccinations to be safer and not mandatory because of the cost. As a compromise between the two groups, the cost and the safety of the vaccinations would be addressed by having vaccinations become completely free to the public and more research be done to perfect the quality and safety of vaccinations. To reach this compromise more money from governments and the United Nations would be placed into researching ways to improve vaccinations and vaccine manufacturers would need to both decrease their cost as well as receive more funds from governments. This free system of vaccinations has been able to work on a smaller scale in Washington County in Oregon. The National College of Natural Medicine received a 2-yer grant of $387,000 from the county to help the uninsured patients of the area College Receive With this money, the county was able to provide free or highly discounted vaccinations, and STD testing and treatment all clinics in the Portland area of Oregon. Also seen in the article by Shen, A. K., et al., different groups agreed and would be willing to increase funds for vaccinations since it would be beneficial for everyone overall. The argument over vaccinations has many sides however one goal that both sides have in common is the need for safety and low cost. If vaccinations were free and better researched then the health and safety of everyone would be best protected. Works Cited International Medical Council on Vaccination, www.vaccinationcouncil.org/about/. Bustreo, Flavia. Vision and Mission in Immunization and  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Vaccination Saves Lives - NHS Choices, Department of Health, www.nhs.uk/Conditions/vaccinations/Pages/vaccination-saves-lives.aspx. College of Natural Medicine Beaverton Clinic Receives Natural Medicine Journal, www.naturalmedicinejournal.com/community-news/national-college-natural- medicine-beaverton-clinic-receives-grant. ProCon.org. Vaccines  ProCon.org. 31 Jan. 2017, vaccines.procon.org/ Shen, A. K., et al. of Vaccine Manufacturers on Financing Pediatric and Adolescent Vaccines in the United Pediatrics, vol. 124, no. Supplement, 2009, doi:10.1542/peds.2009-1542n.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, www.vaccines.gov/basics/protection/index.html. Whitney, AL. Parents Against Mandatory  Parents Against Mandatory Vaccines. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.