Thorpe 1 Khamisi Thorpe Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102.025S17 24 January, 2017 Her Body? The Legal, Moral, and Ethical Parameters of Prostitution The practice of prostitution is ancient, and opponents consider it to be the form of against women, Prostitution is the cornerstone of the institution of the system of inequality between the  Angelique). And when dealing with the parameters of prostitution a person must consider the physical and emotional abuse the women in this field endure. Opponents such as The Breaking Free organization believe the decriminalization of prostitution does not promote (Raymond, Janice) and argue that beyond the realms of physical abuse there is also sexual and mental dissolvement. The proponents of prostitution express it to be how a woman can make dues, an also that it is her last resort, that she has exercised all other options. The Eminism group believes that female prostitutes were by many factors, including poverty, sexism, racism, homophobia, (Koyama, Emi). The Eminism group is also adamant about the institution of health and rights when dealing, particularly, in the field of prostitution; they proclaim protect other women from sexual assault, domestic violence, etc. and other workers from unfair labor practice, unsafe or hostile working our rights to safety, dignity, and respect that all people Considering the commonality between both the Breaking Free organization and the Eminism group, specifically the maturation and prosperity of health, it would be mutually beneficial for the Breaking free organization and the Eminism group to consider Thorpe 2 pushing for the legalization of prostitution in more districts, to aide with decriminalization of the women and to focus on there their health, sexually and physically while simultaneously acting as an outreach program to help provide outlets to a less licentious life. helping sisters break The Breaking Free organization is based on the freedom from sexual oppression in women. Founded in October 1996 by Vednita Carter, the organization prompts themselves to act on the United Nations Declaration on the elimination of violence against women. Therein the realms of said declaration is the mention of form of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual or psychological harm or suffering to women, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or private (United Nation). The Breaking Free organization interprets this declaration as pertaining to prostitution and sex trafficking, thus developing the mission provide direct services to victims and Specifically, they provide and have provided: victim-centered services, trauma-informed services, permanent housing, and rental/placement assistance to over 500 women a year. The Breaking Free organization is equally driven about the education of prostitution to the masses as they are about their great services. The Breaking Free organization works with multiple police departments and city attorneys such as Saint Paul Police, and Minneapolis Police; Minneapolis City Attorney, and the Ramsey County Attorney, etc. to heighten their voice and speak more easily to the communities through these institutions. The Breaking Free organization is to the diversity and empowerment of (Carter) the Emi back in The Eminism group was established in 1975 by Emi Koyama. By no means is this group an organization that carries out work to forward the advancements of their issues; rather, it is a tool through which feminist voice their ideas and Thorpe 3 beliefs concerning the world that circumvents them. The Eminism group is a feministic vlog whose platform includes the push for acceptance and respect for female sex-workers as well the rights, policies, and laws that would govern their mental, physical, and sexual health. The Eminism groups combats many arguments about prostitution to make their point. There is the claim that prostitution is a form of slavery and the Eminism group rebuts: exploitative working conditions exist in many different fields. Two of the contemporary examples are offshore sweatshops ran by large U.S. corporations, and the U.S. farms where undocumented migrant workers (Koyama). The Eminism group continuously argues that all faults found the field work of prostitution are applicable to other lines of work, and that many of the faults are reflective of poor governmental intervention. The faults of prostitution concerning oppression and mental dissolvement is due to a capitalist and prostitutes were more vulnerable to exploitation than other workers today, it is because we, like offshore sweatshop workers and migrant farmworkers, lack the institutional power to defend our rights as (Koyama). As it was aforementioned, the compromise that would mutually benefit the Breaking Free organization and the Eminism group requires cooperation and ultimately, the sacrifice of one belief or value of each invested party. The idea of legalizing prostitution in more counties, and districts to decriminalize the women in the field would aid the ideas, and beliefs of the Eminism group; however, this would be the sacrificial act of the Breaking Free organization considering the strong opposition, and personal experience with prostitution. While legalizing prostitution, the idea provided by the Eminism group that this practice, for some women, is the only means by which they can make due must become temporary. Each investor should become an outreach programs to make sure that women in this field have a way out. This aspect of the Thorpe 4 compromise would be favorable to the Breaking Free organization and the sacrificial act of the Eminism group, considering that the group is not in the business of dissuading women from their practice. Consider the application of decriminalization in Nevada where prostitution is legal in only eight counties. There are implications and very strict restrictions that govern safety. Perhaps pandering, which is the unlawful act of persuading a person to become a prostitute or more simply, a pimp (Nev. Rev. Stat. Ann. 201.300 (a).), and is punishable by for not less than one year and not more than four years, a fine of not more than $5,000, or both. (Nev. Rev. Stat. Ann. 201.300 (2)(a), 193.130 or the practice of prostitution after testing positive for HIV which is punishable by of not less than two years and not more than 10 years, a fine of not more than $10,000, or both. (Nev. Rev. Stat. Ann. 201.358 (England, Deborah). With sanctions and statutes as such, it would become increasingly difficult for the criminality in prostitution to manifest and health to further decline. If the Breaking Free organization and the Eminism group could push for the replication of the applied system of governed prostitution in Nevada in other states across the United States, the possibility of government health aid may become accessible As seen in the Nevada application of governed prostitution, it is evident that with policies and laws, government intervention can regulate safety and health for the women in this field. With the cooperation from the Breaking Free organization and the Eminism group, unmeasurable advances for women can be made. It is imperative that these to foundations equally support the practice of prostitution as a temporary means for monetary acquisition while engaging with the society of prostitutes to provide a series of outlets and sources for a less sexual career. Let the women do the work they can without destroying their records, this will make them available to Thorpe 5 attain any other career once being aided by the outreach programs provided by the Breaking Free organization and the Eminism group. The decriminalization of prostitution would undoubtedly protect women from the harsh judgement they would face once their records are soiled with lewd and lascivious charges. Rather than working individually, the Breaking Free organization and the Eminism could broaden their platforms and heighten their voices in order to accumulate a more Thorpe 6 Bibliography A/RES/48/104. Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against  United Nations. United Nations, 20 Dec. 1993. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Angelique.  Article. 2011 Coalition Against Trafficking Women, 22 Aug. 2011. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. England, Deborah C. Prostitution in Nevada: Laws and Penalties Criminal  CriminalDefenseLawyer.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Koyama, Emi. Support Rights  Support Rights Now! N.p., Apr. 2001. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Raymond, Janice. Learn  10 Reasons for Not Legalizing. N.p., 2003. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.