1 Jenna Snodgrass Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102.025 29 January 2017 Legal or Illegal Assisted Suicide In most states in the United States it is illegal to commit assisted suicide. However, assisted suicide can be justified under the circumstances that the patient is terminally ill, in pain, but with sound mind to be allowed to ask for assisted suicide as a treatment option. This can become complicated situation when dealing with a treatment option that is essentially asking your doctor to take your life. The website Not Dead Yet has concerns about people with disabilities being taken advantage of. Obviously this can cause controversy with the families of the patients, however ultimately in the end it is the decision if they wanna have assisted suicide as a treatment. Meanwhile, on the other side of this issue on the website Death with Dignity, they believe that it should be the right to choose what their treatment should be, assisted suicide included. This is mainly because everyone have control on their lives and they have the right to decide if they want to end their pain and distress with assisted suicide. Assisted suicide can be a controversial topic as many people do not like the idea of someone killing themselves. However while some believe it can be justified, there are some who still argue it is not right.. Not Dead Yet advocates for assisted suicide to be considered illegal, the organization is concerned that with the legalization of assisted suicide will set up a double standard legally for health status being the deciding factor of whether they will get 2 suicide prevention or assistance in suicide. The main concerns are protecting the rights of patients who may not have the ability to protect themselves. Not Dead Yet wants to keep assisted suicide illegal in order to prevent disabled people from being (Not Dead Yet 1), preventing a legal double standard for how to deal with suicidal patients, and preventing healthcare from becoming suicide (Not Dead Yet 1). On the opposing side of the assisted suicide argument is the Death with Dignity organization. Death with main goals conflict with that of Not Dead Yet in arguing assisted suicide should be legalized for patients who want to no longer be in pain and distress. Death with Dignity wants to make assisted suicide legal and allow for patients to have the right to die. Death with Dignity believes that it should be up to the patient and have it be their choice if they would like for their treatment option to be assisted suicide. The right to die as seen by Death with Dignity is seen as right that every ill person should have, being able to choose how a person dies should be a choice made by the person themselves. Not the family or spouse. If a woman is diagnosed with lung cancer and that woman does not want to die due to her cancer and would rather die by lethal injection, she should have the right to make that decision. This is because in the end it is her life to decide if she rather continue on with the pain or pass in peace. Death with main goal is the right to choose how you as an individual would would want to die. According to the beliefs of Death with Dignity if a patient is a consenting adult they are capable of choosing whether or not they want to keep going 3 with treatments or if they would rather pull the plug an end their lives there, and they should have the right to a humane death of a lethal prescription rather than using any of the traditional methods of suicide that may leave a messy and gruesome scene for their family to uncover. Both sides of the assisted suicide argument have valid points and are concerned about patients health and wellbeing as well as their treatments while in the care of doctors. Though the two stakeholders beliefs conflict with one another their main goals of people feeling safe protected, and feeling like they are free to make the decisions they feel are best for themselves are relatively similar and should make it easy to come up with a compromise that should meet the goals of both stakeholders. The compromise being proposed to solve the issue of should assisted suicide be legal or illegal is that Assisted suicide should be legal if specific criteria is met. The criteria that needs to be met is the following: is the patient ill with a chronic illness? Is the patient ill with a terminal illness? Is the patient a legal adult? Is the patient of sound mind? When questioning is the patient is of sound mind it means in order to make the decision of having assisted suicide as their treatment they should be high functioning adults that would meet standards of whether they are competent enough to stand trial, and if the patient has any diagnosis that would maybe cause them to feel suicidal such as PTSD or depression that it is being treated and that it is not the reason for wanting assisted suicide to be the treatment they receive for their medical condition.the compromise allows for Death with Dignity to accomplish their goal of 4 assisted suicide being legal and Not Dead Yet accomplishes their main goals of protecting disabled patients rights and not allowing the (Not Dead Yet 1) of disabled patients. The criteria for assisted suicide to be an option of treatment puts safeguards in the way to prevent any family members or friends of the patient making the choice for them when it is not something they actually want and cannot express that for themselves, the safeguards are also meant to prevent patients with mental illnesses such as depression from letting their mental illness be their deciding factor in having assisted suicide as their treatment. The compromise is meant to fulfill the goals of both organizations and over all making sure that the option of assisted suicide is available as a treatment while still protecting all patients rights and not allowing for assisted suicide to be used as a means of murder. At the end of it all both organizations are making attempts to advocate for the right to choose their own death and still feel safe in the care of their doctors and are not made to feel like assisted suicide is their only treatment options. People who have been diagnosed with a chronic illness, terminal illnesses or have lost control of their bodily functions and need help doing simple everyday things. These everyday things can include bathing and just getting out of bed. If they believe they are miserable and no longer want to go through the daily struggles they face that they should have the right to choose how they die. If they want die rather than continuing on with treatments it is their right to do so. It is their right to decide to no longer go through their 5 life in pain and distress. The assisted suicide may be the only way out for the patient to no longer be in more distress or pain.