Beckford Page 1 Jessica Beckford TJ Murray English Composition II ENC 1102 29 TH of January, 2017 Why are waffles a good option for breakfast? nothing like a crunchy, full of syrup, butter, and whipped cream, warm waffle for breakfast to start a busy day along with your coffee. If hungry, no problem, always a Waffle House around the corner where you and your family can enjoy a sweet meal to start your day, or simply by getting some waffles from the fridge and preparing them in a matter of minutes. If too bored of the typical, eggs and bacon deal, waffles have a variety of flavors and toppings you can enjoy, from fruits for a healthy diet, to even chicken! They are a very common meal around the world made of a mixture of flour, a little bit of salt, eggs, butter, milk, and leavening; nothing complicated, as long as you got a waffle iron by you side. Although they the most nutritional and healthy plate at the top of the food pyramid, waffles are the best option for breakfast, not only providing you a full tummy but sufficient nutrients and a tasty flavor that the most complicated critics, kids, can enjoy. Although breakfast is the most important meal of the day, as reported by the article Influences on Adolescent Eating Patterns: The Importance of Family Meals in which many surveys and experiments were analyzed, in five adolescents usually ate nothing for (Tami Videon and Caroling Manning 369). The importance of a nutritional meal that can provide both sufficient nutrients and a good taste can come on an, effortless to make and delicious, stack of waffles. Beckford Page 2 One of the principal characteristics waffles are so well known for, is due to their familiar and practical square pattern which provides a beneficial support for any topping, making it easier for us to not make a mess on the plate. Another well-known characteristic waffles are loved for, their crunchy yet soft texture, compared to pancakes, they get soggy and the toppings get absorbed in a much slower time. Besides, food texture has a very important role of whether consumers enjoy or not certain foods, according to researchers Melissa Jeltema, Jacqueline Beckley, and Jennifer Vahalik on their article Food texture assessment and preference based on Mouth Behavior, is important to product liking and preferences ... can be a major reason for food rejection (Drewnowski, 1997) and one of the strongest drivers of food aversion (Scott & Downey, The stimulation of the mouth from a crunchy to soft texture may make certain individuals satisfied; such as elderly people, who may have problem chewing hard foods. Besides their good taste, waffles are very easy and simple to make; need something fast to eat for breakfast? Go to the store near you and get some frozen waffles. Many Americans who work a full-time job, go to school, or simply have a tight schedule usually have time to consume nor prepare breakfast in their morning routine. Because of these overload schedules, is extremely relevant for the time-starved busy family of today, as well as the staying-single-longer (tap the hidden power of the frozen food aisle the Schwan food company 2) be honest, nothing easier than getting a box of from the fridge, tossing them to the microwave, waiting for a couple minutes and BOOM! Bon appetite. Besides, waffle irons facilitate the whole cooking process for those who very good at it and big fans or frozen foods. Although the typical eggs, flour, and milk recipe is the most famous traditional way to prepare a waffle, there is a variation of flavors many consumers can experiment with and put Beckford Page 3 distinctive tastes to enjoy their breakfast. Many classic combinations that make waffles exquisite are: bacon waffles, chicken and waffles, peanut butter and bananas waffles, Belgian waffles, rolled waffles, pizza waffles, and anything you can throw on a waffle iron. Their versatility also provides consumers with strict diets, such as vegans, to be able to obtain a nutritional meal with fruits, protein, ice cream, or anything necessary for a rich nourishment. Many people can argue waffles exactly the most appealing meal when it comes to a healthy and nutritive diet. Considering the high number of health risk factors, 17% of adolescents in the United States are obese, making them more likely to exhibit risk factors such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and Type 2 (Health and wellness among adolescents David Virtue), waffles fall into the category of high calorie, low nutritive meal. Although a high number of calories may put into question how healthy something may be, waffles can provide nutrients by using alternatives ingredients, such as: soy milk, pieces of fruits, light syrup, and others. variability of waffles that can lead to the right diet for everyone. Beckford Page 4 Works cited David C. Virtue, and wellness among Web. The Phi Delta Kappan, Vol. 93, No. 7 (April 2012), pp. 76-77 ways to Tap the Hidden Power of the Frozen Food Progressive Grocer. Oct 2016, Vol. 95 Issue 10, Special section p6-8. 3p. Melissa Jeltem, Jacqueline Beckley, Jennifer Vahalik texture assessment and preference based on Mouth Food Quality and Preference 52 Web. (2016) pp. TAMI M. VIDEON, Ph.D. AND CAROLYN K. MANNING on Adolescent Eating Patterns: The Importance of Family JOURNAL OF ADOLESCENT HEALTH Web. (2003)32: