Aljuboori 1 Ahmad Aljuboori Prof. Robert Ryan ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Internet privacy The Internet has become a huge issue or a big deal in our society, children, adults. The government is trying their best to keep us safe from the internet and the hackers around it, through the NSA, the NSA keeps the world from being informed about happening, how they deal with internet security and lots of legal information is hidden from us. Specialists concurred that the Internet has negative impact on pre-adult who appear that considering it to another level of importance. Among the buzz over the social media IPO (Initial open offering), the unendingly creating theories about by what method Twitter is reforming our exchanges and theory about wherever the accompanying internet organizing engaged clash or miracle will happen. The sensitive improvement of web based systems administration, mobile phones and propelled devices is changing our lives, in school and at home. The NSA (National security Agency) an insight association or a gathering of the United States government, in control for worldwide observing, assembling, and preparing of material and reports for remote knowledge and counterintelligence responsibilities. Some examination says that the NSA is keeping an eye on our youngsters for security however no motivation to keep an eye on them, what kids need is assurance from risky sites that can hurt our future juvenile. The NSA most likely can do this yet they rather keeping an eye on them, which is useful yet the spying implies for them not to have contacts with abroad individuals through irregular sites. Research tells us that even the most energetic of our adolescents are involved in web programs, using tablets and PDAs, downloading or uploading applications. Aljuboori 2 74.8% of individuals in North America are utilizing overall web and the rate continues developing each year (World Internet Users Statistics Usage and World Population Stats, InternetWorldStats.com). These mind-boggling numbers demonstrate that the noteworthiness of the Internet in the advanced world is unquestionable (Arjun Walia). Be that as it may, alongside every one of various favorable circumstances, there seemed shocking issue, which alludes to the web security. The issue continues getting more  with current exercises including Edward Snowden on one side and NSA (National Security Agency) on another. Revelation of NSA records by Edward Snowden starting on July 5 th , 2013 pulled on the consideration and got to be distinctly one of the greatest holes in U.S. history later Pentagon  by Daniel Ellsberg. When all is said in had done, Snowden given the top mystery data about United observation projects to The  and The Washington  which stunned individuals (Sam Biddle). People and nations everywhere throughout the world consider this as human rights infringement, however USA government as Burglary of government property, unapproved correspondence of national safeguard data, and tenacious correspondence of ordered insight to an unapproved individual Edward Snowden, born in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, on June 21, 1983. He dropped out of school and contemplated PCs at Anne Arundel Community College in Arnold. Snowden inevitably found an occupation as a security watch at the University of Center for Advanced Study of Language. The foundation had binds to the National Security Agency, and, by 2007, Snowden had taken a data innovation work at the Central Intelligence Agency(Glenn Greenwald and Laura Poitras). In 2010, he was associated with attempting to break into grouped documents, he cleared out to work for private contractual workers, among them Dell and Booz Allen Hamilton, a tech counseling firm. In his times of IT work, Snowden had seen the most distant reach of the ordinary reconnaissance. While working for Booz Allen, Snowden started replicating top-mystery NSA archives, constructing a report on practices that he Aljuboori 3 discovered intrusive and aggravating. The reports contained unlimited data on the household observation rehearses (based on information from biography.com). The NSA however denies any of the information that was passed by Snowden is true. The information that was passed out lets us know how much of information the NSA is hiding from us. They are not trying to keep us safe, in fact they are spying on us to make sure that we get involved in any dangerous or outrageous information that can be found throughout any website that can harm the government, but remember that the government is very strong and no matter what happens the government will always stay stronger than us. Our new president Donald Trump orders to make sure that non-American going to get similar privacy rights like a US citizen (Thomas Brewster). But he actually made any changes to U.S. laws. Immediately Edward responded on twitter giving warnings of the orders impact, saying that it can end legal framework transmission between the U.S. and Europe (Thomas Brewster). The NSA and Edward can work with each other only if the government can pay him a huge amount of money for him to convince the public that whatever he leaked true at all. However this might have some positive and negative issues behind it. It can affect the NSA if Edward once again informs the public about the offer that he received from the government and from that it will be a huge problem for the NSA to solve. Some positives about it is that if Edward agrees and everything goes according to the plan, then government will have the power to control the internet privacy once again. Most of the world believe something like that could happen but in order to solve the issue, this could be one of the solutions. Aljuboori 4 Work Citied Glenn Greenwald and Laura Poitras. Snowden: the whistleblower behind the NSA surveillance (Jan 11, 2013). Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Thomas Brewster.  Trump is killing plans for world privacy rights  (Dec 29, 2016): Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Arjun Walia. Snowden Tweet Hints That The NSA Can Access Your THOUGHTS & (Jan 22, 2017): Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Sam Biddle.  Top-Secret Snowden Document Reveals What The NSA Knew About Previous Russian  (Dec 29, 2016):Web. 27 Jan. 2017.