Woolley 1 Alex Woolley Robert Ryan Composition II 27 January 2016 The Dakota access pipeline (DAPL) is a 1,172 mile long pipeline that would run from the Bakken oil fields of North Dakota to Patoka, Illinois. If completed the pipeline will supply crude oil to the major oil refineries around the country. The pipeline would be a more cost-effective way to transport crude oil, which in turn would make oil cheaper, as well as increasing profits for Energy Transfer Partners (ETP). The pipeline also runs through land that once belonged to the Standing Rock Sioux Indian tribe. The tribe argues that the project could potentially contaminate the drinking water of the area, as well as disturb sacred burial grounds for the tribe. Both sides are willing to negotiate, which opens the possibility of potential compromise. One of the potential compromises could be the construction of new oil refineries in North Dakota, funded partially by the state as well as by private investors, saving the land under threat currently as well as create new jobs in the area. Transfer is a Texas-based company that began in dedicated to providing exceptional service to its customers and attractive returns to its This is the mission statement of ETP taken directly from the Energytransfer.com. First and foremost the company is run in the interest of growing profits for the shareholders. While the number one purpose is exactly this, it is also benefitting the country as a whole, providing a better way for crude oil to be transported to refineries; in effect lowering the cost of the finished product. This does provide a service for the American people, however there is some Woolley 2 debate if the DAPL should be considered a public utility or not. The construction of the pipeline is also creating 12,000 jobs in the region, including some of the Native American tribes that are protesting its completion. In the long term, the finished pipeline would create royalties revenue for private landowners and the tribes which own the land. Primarily the completion of the pipeline directly benefits ETP and its shareholders, but indirectly benefits the nation as a whole. goal is that the pipeline be completed as it is currently planned to be. The Standing Rock Sioux tribe is located on the border of North Dakota and South Dakota. On Standingrock.org under mission and values it says Rock Tribal Goverenment strives to be a more effictive, efficent and visible goverenment, providing oppurtunites for our economy to grow through business development by educating our members to enhance the health and wellnessof the people of Standing DAPL runs just North of the land owned by the tribe. The route runs directly underneath lake Oahe, an important source of drinking water for the community. The area is also home to sacred burial sites for the people living there. In fact, documents presented to the court by the Standing Rock tribe show that a large stone fixture depicting the constellation the Big Dipper was recently unearthed at the site. The discovery indicates that an important tribal leader may be buried near by. is one of the most significant archeological finds in North Dakota in many years..However, reviewing survey work, it appears that they did not independently survey this area but relied on a 1985 says Tim Mentz, member of the tribe as well as a native archaeologists. The tribe also statest hat the government did not consult the tribes before the pipeline was being constructed, which was supposed to be required per United States law. The goal of the protests Woolley 3 being held by the tribes is to halt the construction of the DAPL and have it be re-routed elsewhere. Both groups being presented here appear to have completely opposite goals, but in actuality they do share some similar interest. Both ETP and the Natives living there strive to preserve the area under question. ETP CEO Kelcy Warren says in an interview with an NBC affiliate that the pipeline is completely safe a little over five eighths of an inch thick and op each side of the lake of the body of water there is automated shutdown valves. What I mean by that is if there was ever a leak that sensed we have control rooms, and they monitor that, and you can immediately hit a button and those two valves close. So you encapsulate the crude that would be on each side of the body of water and limit what might be spilled if there was a Both parties are also interested in the economic advancement of the community being affected by the build. The construction of the pipeline has created 12,000 jobs, as well as supporting 80,000 jobs affected by the completion. With both sides willing to negotiate, the door is opened to the possibility of a compromise. The main function is to transport crude oil to refineries in a more efficient way. With that being said it stands to reason that constructing oil refineries closer to the source is another way to achieve the same outcome. While ETP has already completed much of the construction necessary for the current route, they could be compensated by the state government. Compensation could come in the form of funds raised both by the state owned bank and private investors to help build the refining facility, and ETP will make up the rest of the required capital. This idea is being proposed Chase Iron Eyes, a tribe member who is also running for the lone house seat in North Dakota. feel that we can reach a peaceable resolution but that all sides Woolley 4 need to be talking to each eyes of the world are on North Dakota right Major benefits of new oil refineries include the creation of many new jobs, as well as a decrease in export of crude oil from North Dakota. Thus, creating more income for the state. Going a step further, it may even be possible that the Standing Rock tribe and ETP work together on a partnership that would supply jobs for members of the tribe. In this scenario ETP could sponsor tribe members and help them get the training necessary, and then employ them at the facility, in exchange for use of tribal land. This would generate more revenue for ETP while at the same time enhancing the economy of the Standing Rock tribe, and preserving the major water source for the community. The stalemate over the DAPL has gone on for many months, and does not appear to be coming to a conclusion. One possible course of action to solve this is the construction of new oil refineries in North Dakota.This would benefit both sides in a fair way, ETP would increase their revenue with help from state funding, and the Standing Rock tribe would acquire a new source of jobs for their community, as well as preserve the integrity of their water source. Woolley 5