Antonio Thompson Professor Robert Ryan ENC 1102.001 28 January 2017 Hydraulic Fracturing vs. Environmental Protection Extraction can be thought of like a clicking of a pen. It tends to be annoying, but it is effective in keeping control of ink usage with a pen. When the pen being used, the top is clicked in order to retrieve the point of the pen back into its concealed area. Hydraulic fracturing can be simply explained as the extraction of oil from underwater shale formations. Yet, with this being a main contributor in the United States economic growth and stability, it serves as a controversial topic in the country today. As we look at the two stakeholders, we realize that both organizations serve the purpose of having clean resources and have clean and efficient energy. The EPA and the ACS GCI both deal in the issue of each other, but show that they have rather conflicting views on what they would like to accomplish. Just to give a little insight on the issue at hand, hydraulic fracturing is used in nine out of 10 wells throughout the United States for oil drilling. It is the main source of producing oil in the United States, and it has many different kinds of methods in order to extract oil. The main method used is hydrofracking, or underwater oil drilling. Pressurized water, mixed with chemicals, is used to break the shale formations underwater to reach the oil and to extract it to the surface. There are the pros with hydraulic fracturing that give those companies cheaper oil and give the nation an alternative source of oil, rather than buying foreign oil. However, everything good comes with something bad, and the bad out of this process is the excessive misuse of chemicals that lead to catastrophes, such as oil spills and fatalities. The EPA and the ACS GCI both support hydraulic fracturing and share the same type of views, but want different goals. The EPA, also known as the Environmental Protection Agency, is a well renowned organization that strives to make the environment clean and safe. Their mission statement, as stated on their website states their mission is to, human health and the They also serve the purpose to ensure that protection is an integral consideration in U.S. policies concerning natural resources, human health, economic growth, energy, transportation, agriculture, industry, and international trade, and these factors are similarly considered in establishing environmental (Environmental Protection Agency). In terms of hydraulic fracturing, the EPA is striving to ensure that water contamination is reduced and that oil spills within the bodies of water are no longer happening due to the malfunctions of mechanics and human error. They strive to reduce the amount of chemicals used within the process in order for their mission to happen. In retrospect, the ACS GCI, also known as the American Chemical Society Green Chemistry Institute, is an organization that promotes green chemistry. Their mission is catalyze and enable the implementation of green chemistry and engineering throughout the global chemical (ACS GCI). It seems as if they have nothing to do with hydraulic fracturing, however they have a separate mission statement just for the implementation of green chemistry in hydraulic fracturing, stating that their mission is systematically integrate green chemistry and engineering principles into the chemical supply chain for hydraulic (ACS GCI). They want to ensure environmental protection as well, yet they want to also provide this prestigious and remarkable process with more efficient ways of production and extraction. The common ground amongst both of the stakeholders is to promote environmental health and protect, while also producing oil in the safest way possible. Although both have a different way of doing so, the common ground is found amongst all of the stakeholders present, yet these two have some views that they see eye to eye with. Although common ground is there, conflict is present amongst both. The problem the EPA has with this process is the chemicals used to extract oil from the underwater shale formations. The chemicals cause water contamination, which leads to human health threats. The problem the ACS GCI has with this process is the chemicals used as hazardous, and wants to implement more, yet not enough scientific research on the chemicals they want to use to be approved for the process. Rugters University states that the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process causes human threat and threatens the environment and the species that live within it. Erle Donaldson, who was a contributor to the book Fracturing Explained , states in Chapter 6 section 1 of the book that, of the products (toxicity, volumes, duration of exposure, and quantity of the chemicals) used can have serious detrimental effects on the surface and subsurface environments. Ecological impacts are caused by the environmental aspects associated with the hydraulic fracturing process which affect the physical environment as well as the flora and fauna of the area. Emphasis is placed on the detrimental effects of the chemicals on the physical A compromise that can be formed by these two stakeholders is for the use of chemicals within the process to be reduced and to be used more effectively and efficient and with pure caution, with research being conducted on the chemicals being used before they are put into the solution, with this being supported by a research conducted by Rugters University. The compromise calls for the EPA to accept the usage of chemicals in the process, where the ACS GCI will have to conduct in depth research to make sure the chemicals being used and implemented are not detrimental to the health of humans or the environment and the species within them. Works Cited Gas Extraction - Hydraulic , Environmental Protection Agency, 30 Dec. 2016. 6 Environmental Impacts of Hydraulic Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing - Hydraulic Fracturing Explained - CHAPTER 6 . GCI Hydraulic Fracturing Chemical Society . Mission and What We , Environmental Protection Agency, 21 Jan. 2017. the ACS Green Chemistry Chemical Society . Valko, Peter, and Michael J Economides. Fracture Gas Extraction - Hydraulic , Environmental Protection Agency, 30 Dec. 2016. University, Rutgers. file from Editorial of Hydraulic Fracturing , pp.