Student Student Enc 1102 Stephanie Derisi 24 January, 2016 Mission to the Red Planet As people may know NASA is the largest space company in America, that was founded in 1958. The company has accomplished many things including the moon landing to sending off Echo 1, their first communication satellite. This company has over 18,000 people employed by them. Together they achieve missions and space explorations. Nowadays people might ponder what next mission is and what they have been working on currently. Well on their website online they continue to discuss the topic of trying to eventually have humans on planet Mars. Scientists and researchers even wonder if life could ever be habitable on the planet Mars. web site continues to advertise and discuss this mission to let people know of their goal. website talks about a lot of their research. They have a lot of other research missions going on now, but sending people off to the Red planet seems to be their main goal. They post articles about their plans and what they have already accomplished online for people to see. Examining their website, when it talks about the Mars landing, people can see a picture of an foot in its white normal space suit stepping into red soil. This appears on their front page of the website next to a couple other research missions. People could then click on this picture to read more about the mission to Mars. This symbolizes a man or woman finally conquering the planet Mars. It can also help motivate people to start learning more about the Mars landing and consider it to actually happen one day. They use red soil in this picture to Student indicate the outer texture of surface. Next to this image they give a brief description of what their mission is by stating that their working to send humans to Mars in the . This image gives people hope that their will be a Mars landing. The image of an astronauts foot in red soil brings a meaningful message and proposes an enormous mission for NASA. In the image there is also a footprint left in the red dirt of the boot. This can symbolize the mark in history America will make if humans finally reach planet Mars. This image by NASA uses logos by convincing the people that see it a logic understanding of the possibility of the Mars landing. The image also provides under it what their plan is to get people to Mars, they mention the Space Launch System and Orion. NASA is engineering a powerful rocket called the Space Launch System which will provide enough force to launch the spacecraft Orion into outer space. The image provides knowledge of actual plans that are in process by scientists and engineers. This image that NASA provides to support the Mars exploration talks about having people on Mars by 2030. The use of kairos comes into play in this image as well because it speaks in a timeliness manner. The mission is going to happen eventually and their goal is on a time schedule to be done before the year 2030. This gives people an idea and hope to look forward to them being done in the next decade. website also contains a picture of a rocket preparing to launch from Earth into space. This shows an example of how the Space Launch System and Orion will look when it is ready to head off to their voyage. The image is titled Orion  to give a clear understanding to the audience of what it is. This image displays NASA hard work and dedication they are putting in to achieve the goal of building the spacecraft. This picture provides a clear image of a spacecraft taking off and the rockets are producing an enormous amount of smoke to take off. In the distance behind the launching spacecraft there is a Student building. This image is displayed on their website under Journey to  to help the audience get an idea of what plan will look like. This image of the Orion spacecraft taking off lets people know what to expect from NASA in the next decade. Their mission is in progress and will eventually happen soon. This mission is a big priority to NASA so they are working very diligently on it. This image uses the skill of pathos to give the audience hope of this project by providing a realistic photo of what it is going to look like. This image looks very realistic but it is just a model of what the Orion spacecraft will look like done and ready for take off. This image was a great choice because it explains more on how the Mars landing will be possible. Advertising their project, out for the public to see can also give the workers motivation towards the Mars landing. This image is a great example of that because it draws people in with realistic picture of Orion. big mission to the red planet is explained all throughout their website. These images that have been explained give help give knowledge and an understanding to anyone that visits their website. They also draw the attention to audience by providing logical facts about the future landing on Mars. The images they displayed gave many rhetorical devices through the images they chose. Both of them used the following logos, pathos, and kairos by including emotion, facts, and time. NASA continues to bring the newest research to the world. Searching through their website they provide people with the information about what they have discovered and what they plan to discover. They do a great job designing their website and provide appropriate images that help their topics. The two images that were described on their website advertised mission to the Mars in many ways. Now people will be educated with the possibility that Mars might soon be conquered by humans. (WC: 1022) Student Works Cites NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <https://www.nasa.gov/>. Journey to Mars  NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <https://www.nasa.gov/content/journey-to-mars-overview>. The Ins and Outs of First Launch of SLS and  NASA. NASA, 27 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <https://www.nasa.gov/feature/the-ins-and-outs-of-nasa-s-first- launch-of-sls-and-orion>.