Parker Jacobs Kristen Rouisse Project 1 Intermediate Draft (ENC 1102/35) 29 Jan 2017 1027 Daily 93 people die in America due to gun violence according the Brady Campaign. The Brady Campaign is a non-profit organization that is trying to put an end to gun violence. They have participated in various protests for anti-gun violence, one of their most recent ones being in Philadelphia in 2015. They believe there should not be only stricter gun laws but also gun bans for civilians. One the other hand there is the NRA which stands for the nation rifle association, they promote gun safety but believe American citizens have the right to bear arms. The NRA too wants to have safer gun laws but they are more conservation about it than The Brady Campaign. Both groups are so clear on their point they feel the need to work together. Both stakeholders not only believe gun violence is bad but they also believe there should be stricter background check on anyone who applies for a gun license. So, if the NRA and The Brady Campaign were to work to get who knows the things they would be able to accomplish with new gun legislation and how to stop gun violence. Obama has already given an executive order on safer background checks but time to take it to the next level and make America a Safer place. federal statute prohibits those who unlawfully use, or are addicted to, controlled substances from possessing a firearm. The construction, like that of 922(g)(4), creates two distinct classes of individuals who are excluded from Second Amendment protections. This law provides ample reason for concern given that the law lacks narrow (Soloperto 2016) This article from the Seton Hall Law review shows how gun laws have changed over time. Both stakeholders sway in the same direction when it comes to this subject, although guns are legal they be in the hands of drug addicts and dealers when they could inflict pain and in some cases many deaths. The problem with the two stakeholders is that when a mass shooting event takes place they want to work together. When two parties work together there is a significant advantage then just working alone. Most mass shooting result in a protest (much like the one the Brady Campaign demonstrated in 2015). Most of these protest started taking place after the 2011 Tucson, Arizona shooting where a guy named Jared Lee Loughner killed six and injured fifteen in front of a Medical Center, one of which was a United States representative (Gabrielle Giffords). Although guns be in the hands of drug lords they also be in the hands of a mentally ill person. On January 6 th ,2017 in the delta terminal of the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport in Broward County, Florida a mentally ill male named Esteban Santiago-Ruiz opened fired in baggage claim leaving five dead and six more injured. The Brady Campaign came out with statement on the event a couple of hours after it happened. thoughts and prayers are action only will have to reserve the course now through sensible laws that protect all of us. As a new session of congress gets underway, every politician should reflect deeply on what they can do to keep all Americans safe from such acts of tragic violence, as well as the gun violence that takes 93 lives in this country every day. Enough is enough, we are better than this. Congress has to be better than While on the other hand the NRA make a statement on the event. Whenever a mass shooting it seems like the NRA goes and hides in the bushes. About three days after the shooting they send out a tweet stating law abiding gun owners are not the problem and will do anything to protect there 2 nd amendment rights (to bear are fight for what they think is right but there is a grey area they can meet at in the middle. The NRA and The Brady Campaign should team up with congress and other government officials to make better gun legislation. A citizen who purchases a gun must have a mental illness procedure two weeks prior to the purchase of the firearm. This includes random check-ups to see if the person with ownership of the gun is still mentally stable. This would also create a ton of jobs, but for another time. This will ensure that the gun in not getting in the hands of an ill person. Citizen who have gotten a drug charge before even if it was expunged be able to purchase firearms. Guns in the hands of drug lords can turn into a blood bath, we have all seen what El Chapo could do. This comprise would be great for both parties because the NRA gets to keep their gun rights while the Brady Campaign will see a decrease in deaths by gun violence in America. Who knows maybe if these legislations went in affect it could have stopped people like Syed farook (San Bernardino), Omar mateen (Pulse Nightclub Orlando), and Esteban Santiago- Ruiz (Fort-Lauderdale). Innocent lives be taken because a person is mentally sick and be possessing a gun when they should be in a mental hospital. Many things have to happen for these legislations to get passed but it could happen with effort not only from the Brady campaign and the NRA but help from congress and the president. http://www.bradycampaign.org https://home.nra.org Cooper, Alexander C. Fully Loaded: An Alternative View Of The Gun Control  Albany Government Law Review 8.(2015): 337. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rostron, Allen1. A New State Ice Age For Gun  Harvard Law & Policy Review 10.2 (2016): 327-360. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Soloperto, Adam P.1. A Standard Of Review For Gun Rights: The Second Amendment Question Hot As A Two-Dollar  Seton Hall Law Review 47.1 (2016): 225-265. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017.