Whitney, Alex Robert Ryan Composition 2 1/28/17 Technology and the Impacts on Childhood The topic of education is one of the major concerns for new parents, as it may decide their future from the start. With the noticeable increase in technology in the daily lives of the world, the idea of using it to aid in learning has become more widespread. However, there are still parents who see this as a negative, and have worked to fight against using technology to teach their children. However, behind the obvious differences between those for and against this change, there is no malicious intent between these parties. The idea is that because both sides are intending to benefit their development at a young age, they should balance the amount of technological interactions with more traditional and less electronic methods of learning to increase the positive effects while diminishing the negative effects. One of the leading groups in the integration and development of technology for learning purposes is the National Association for the Education of Young Children, or NAEYC. They believe that used intentionally and appropriately, technology and interactive media are effective tools to support learning and and creating a better future as a whole. (NAEYC) This not only enhances the learning effectiveness of the teaching materials provided, but additionally expands the opportunities available to a larger audience in less favorable circumstances. The NAEYC intends to continue researching and developing new means to improve the quality of their ideal learning environment. However, they are also aware of the drawbacks to bringing children into a technologically enhanced world They intend to take and improve upon precautionary measure so they may protect the privacy and safety of these children from the dangers both known and unknown to them. The Association also looks to include time away from the screen and with family members to aid in improving human interactions. Overall, the National Association for the Education of Young Children works to develop the One of the groups opposing the expansion of technology into the learning environment is the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, or CCFC. CCFC was created to fight against the recent growth in technological learning programs and devices, so that children can grow up in a safe and unbiased environment when their learning tendencies are at their greatest. They advocate practices that would screen time and insure children time and space for active and creative play, face time with caring adults, and a connection with (CCFC). They believe that by limiting and even stopping this encroachment, it would solve problem such as the loss of identity and individuality, discord of family relationships, and imprinting ideals onto impressionable souls. They also strive to make the children by removing the ability for companies to advertise their products and messages to children. This ideal is one they ask schools and other learning facilities to apply to themselves, in order to prevent external influential parties to change the way a child should think. Both sides of this conflict are fighting for one big reason: to help children become better, more educated people to benefit themselves their society, and the world as a whole. They want to give every chance they can to survive in the rapidly expanding world for society. And both sides actually agree that technology should be regulated in some fashion to prevent unintentional abnormalities to occur from this overexposure. They each believe that unnecessarily long exposures will cause problems, though each group defines different negatives as the result of this exposure. Both sides also reach out to schools and other places of learning to spread the word for the benefit of learning. It is this dedication to their children that ties these opposing sides together, and leads them to a possible solution. Because of the similarities behind both sides, there is a path that could bring these opposing groups a little bit closer. The idea is to cull the idea of complete technological learning processes, or the complete elimination of technology in the education system. seemingly impossible to do either. Instead, it would be wiser to balance the amount of digital interaction with periods of time spent away from the computer or phone to develop the relationships with family and learn skills that technology cannot so easily duplicate. This not only allows children to benefit from exposure to the technology-heavy world hey live in, and be able to face the real world without having to hide behind a screen. Begin the life entirely devoid of technology. Then, as the child grows older, introduce newer and more advanced methods of teaching until they are fully integrated and comfortable with the digital age without loosing their core values The increase in technology and its applications in the development of young children has led to two different outlooks. There are those like the NAEYC who wish to cultivate and nurture this exposure to better these children for their future. Then there are those like the CCFC who believe limiting and even eliminating this exposure would benefit the children of the world, and make them less of a target for corporations looking to expand their presence. Both groups work for the benefit of the children, though their methods and outlooks are not so aligned. So, the proposed idea is to incorporate both tried and true methods with the digitally enhanced learning features of tomorrow to gain the benefits of both while diminishing the negative effects created from either one. Work Cited Bavelier, Daphne, et al. Children, Wired: For Better and for for a Commercial Free Campaign for a Commercial Free Childhood, www.commercialfreechildhood.org/. Herman, Jana Morgan. for More Balanced Technology Hsin, Ching-Ting, et al. Influence of Young Use of Technology on Their Learning: A Association for the Education of Young Children National Association for the Education of Young Children NAEYC, www.naeyc.org/.