Student !1 Student Nancy Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Fight Won Once The War Is Over The United States military makes up only one percent of the entire U.S. population (NPR). This may not seem like much but their presence can be felt from sea to shining sea. With bumper stickers on cars seen driving down the highway accompanied by Few. The billboards challenging us to be a Marine, the military personnel - on active duty or in the reserves - of our nation have dedicated their lives to protect us since our independence was won over from the British. To honor those who have fallen and to give back to those who survived, it is the Wounded Warrior aim provide leadership and facilitate the integration of non-medical and medical care to combat and non-combat wounded, ill, and order to maximize recovery as they return to duty or transition into civilian (Wounded Warrior Regiment) As citizens of the United States we have been given the gift of freedom by the brave warriors of our nation. The is not over once the wars have been won. Many Sailors, Soldiers, Pilots and Marines return home only to be accompanied by the horrors of PTSD. It is our obligation to recognize their as much as we can being civilians, and to give back to them what they gave up upon enlisting or commissioning in our military. As a sub-branch of the Wounded Warrior Project the United States Marine Corps Wounded Warrior Regiment does just the latter by instilling in their program the maxim a Marine, Always a and Student !2 programs that focus on and recovery through four lines of operation: mind, body, spirit and (USMC Wounded Warrior Regiment) The Wounded Warrior Project was founded in 2003 Roanoke, Virginia by a group of veterans and friends who took action to help the injured service men and women of this according to the organizations main website. The images I will be comparing and contrasting are a platoon of wounded warriors - some on crutches, some in wheelchairs - marching in cadence with a commanding leader and an ice-hockey game being played by wounded Marines. MARCHING IN CADENCE This image depicts veterans marching in a platoon formation - regardless of injuries - along the pace of their uniformed commander. (Athletes Representing the Veterans Team) The idea of always being a Marine, even after discharge, is used in this image. No matter what happened to a Marine or how bad an injury, these Marines laid down their lives to service and should for the rest of their lives be granted the privilege of being called a Marine. In the spirit of esprit de corps, Marines will always have a place within ranks even if they are transitioning into civilian life. Their place in rank is visible in that, regardless of physical condition, they all wear the same uniform. Yellow Student !3 and red are the chosen colors of the Marine Corps in-turn making the wounded proud to be wearing colors the rest of the Marine Corps shares. Some may argue against such grand support of discharged individuals, however, the credibility of these wounded veterans is in their injuries. To establish credibility even further, the uniformed Marine marching at their side shows the Marine support via leadership for their wounded brothers and sisters. The use of a running track further established such support towards the veterans as it gives a great perception of distances marched and time taken to do so. When they start and stop is up to the discretion of their leader on their right. Furthermore, the wheel-chair-bound have overcome adversity to march and retain perfect formation with those fortunate enough to walk. The rhetoric in this image represents all four lines of operation the Wounded Warrior Project intends to give the veterans. The veterans minds are healed through structure of training, their body healed through physical preparation, their spirits high from being part of something greater and the family-like support of the Marine Corps. PLAYING HOCKEY WITH SEVERE INJURIES Veteran Marines playing a game of ice hockey. The rules have been changed and the veterans let their injuries stop them from being active. (Larue) No amount of physical activity is off limits for these wounded Marines. A passion in hockey, after service of this nation Student !4 can progress into wearing USA red-white-blue jerseys, sharing the colors of our nation in a Wounded Warrior Project event. Like the previous image, the credibility is in their injuries as well as their uniform. The standard rules and regulations for hockey have been altered and for these wounded Marines. This goes to show the willingness of organizations and companies to accommodate for their injuries because of the these Marines made to defend our freedom. While emotion in this image may seem to be saddening in knowing that most of these players can never walk again, if you look deeper you can see the dedication and determination these players have to stay active. Such attitude to their physical conditioning possibly means their feelings towards their supposed disadvantage are more of a challenge to overcome. The biggest fact or logical challenge here is that you need to be able to stand on two feet to play hockey. As long as you can balance and know the rules of the game you can play almost any sport - injured or not. Lastly, time in this image is used to show a moment that these wounded Marines found strength to overcome their loss of limbs. This split-second in time can be a driving factor to continue progressing in their physical and competitiveness in the future. The Marines playing this match have overcome their limb loss as this image represents any other fast paces hockey game image you may taken in the NHL a blurred puck, focused on the players involved around the puck and focused facial expressions. The rhetoric in this image represents all four lines of operation the Wounded Warrior Project intends to give the veterans; healing of the mind by working as a team on the ice, healing of the body through physical training to reinforce their strengths regardless of injury, healing of spirit by being on a team that works for a common mission, and lastly having the support of both their own team and the Marine support in a family-like environment. Student !5 ONCE A MARINE ALWAYS A MARINE Those who remain after service have far more than that of ninety-nine percent of American citizens can ever think of giving up. The two images I have analyzed and contrasted in this paper express that even after a war is won, the is not over. The has become transitioning into civilian life and overcoming the adversity of their injuries. Once you are a Marine and have served this nation you will be given the privilege of carrying that title for the rest of your life, with the help of the Wounded Warrior goals of healing the mind, body, raising spirit and creating family connections. [WC: Student !6 Works Cited Athletes Representing the Veterans Team. 2014. Pendleton, Calif. Flickr. By Wounded Warrior Regiment. Web. 13 Jan. 2017. <http://bit.ly/2j2d33a>. By The Numbers:  National Public Radio. NPR, 3 July 2011. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. <http://www.npr.org/2011/07/03/137536111/by-the-numbers-todays-military>. in Rhetoric and Rhetoric (Really) Matters. XanEdu, edited by Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs, 2016, pp. 331-351. Larue, Rachel. Service Members Participate in a Hockey Game. 2012. Arlington, Va. Flikr. Comp. Wounded Warrior Regiment. Web. 13 Jan. 2017. <http://bit.ly/2j7X45J>. MyReviews Guide to Style and Grammar. XanEdu, edited by Brooke Downey, Elizabeth Loyer and Katie Walkup, 2016, pp. 348-351. USMC Wounded Warrior Regiment. Wounded Warrior Project, 2017. Web. 13 Jan. 2017. <http://www.woundedwarriorregiment.org>.