Lutz 1 Tyler Lutz Kristen Rouisse Composition II 29 January 2017 Finding Common Ground The topic of, College Education be Free, very popular topic in the present day. When describing this topic, there are two main sides that go against each other known as stakeholders. Those two sides are the Government and the Free College Now organization. The government is the U.S. Government and Free College Now is a private organization started by retired politicians. The main argument is that it would be spending too much money. The Free College Now main argument is if we want to have a workforce with the skills needed to make the economy stronger, then free tuition is the key to success. These two sides have not yet come to an agreement or common ground on this topic because the government has the biggest say and they shoot down this topic every time it comes up in the news. The government is ultimately who runs the universities and they have more of a say then private organizations. These two positions have common ground in that they both are willing to change costing of college tuition. Free College Now and the U.S. Government could come to a common ground if college tuition is half of what it is today. (About Us) (Luebke, Bob). Free College Now is a private organization that is in support of free college tuition. The main argument this organization has is that they believe that if the U.S. wants a more efficient and skilled workforce, having free college tuition is the key success. When college tuition is free, they argue that the lower class citizens of the U.S. have a better chance of getting an education after high school. Adding more of the lower class to the workforce as skilled workers would boost the economy by adding more jobs and revenue The workforce of Lutz 2 the U.S. would be more efficient than it is today. They also argue about a big issue in society, college debt. By having free college tuition, students leaving college for the workforce have to deal with any remaining debt from school. They would have more money to spend on a house and for their potential family in the future (About Us). The other side of the topic, the government, argues that it would be too much spending on their end for this to possibly be realistic. The government says, something free make it free. Nothing in life is free. simply a matter of who pays the (Luebke, Bob). In this quote the government is saying that people believe so much into the hype of having free college tuition but forget that someone else has to pay the costs. Because the spending coming out of the pockets, they will have a strong voice in saying that college tuition should be free. Even though college tuition would be free to the people, the government would have to end up paying the costs instead of the people They argue that these costs would be too much for them to handle and therefore it be done. A statistic they argue is that if the government had to pay for the costs they would end up spending roughly 62.6 billion dollars. The government proves that with this statistic that the government would have 62.6 billion dollars to spend on other important such as health care (Luebke, Bob). The way that this topic will be resolved if the two sides find a common ground between each other. When finding common ground between two stakeholders, each side has to come to a valid agreement. Free College Now and the U.S. Government both have valid arguments on this topic that keeps this topic going in the present day. A compromise that could come between these two stakeholders is if more financial aid options are available and we have the states less involved. With the recent Obama administration involved, they purposed many financial aid options for families that have the money to pay for college. With more financial aid Lutz 3 options, this would work both in the U.S. Government and Free College favor. The U.S. Government would spend less money than they would if college was completely free. They would pay a less amount in costs that could equal to up to half or more of that 62.6 billion dollars that they would roughly have to pay if college tuition was free. They could use the other half of that spending money on other important needs of the country such as health care and solving the homeless of America. This would work with Free College Now as well because the spending of college would even less than it is now. This would allow for more students to get a good education and become skilled individuals in the workforce. They would also benefit from financial aid because it would be a first big step in the process of making college tuition completely free. The second part of the compromise is less state involvement. Most of the arguments from the government truly come from the state governments first. Some states agree and want to push for free college tuition and other states want to have college be paid for. This causes disruption and confusion to the federal government with swaying opinions. This makes it difficult and a longer process of coming to a conclusion on this topic. With less state involvement, free college tuition could seem more realistic In conclusion, Free College Now and the U.S. Government could come to a common ground by having more financial aid options for students and less state government involvement. Both sides have a valid argument in the discussion of this topic. Free College Now is actively pushing for a way to go to college for free. The U.S. government responds by saying it would be too much spending on their end to be possible. In the end, this topic is still far from being concluded. Other organizations such as Free College Now will continue to fight for free college tuition, but the government has way more power. Realistically, this topic be resolved until many years have gone by because of how much spending the government would have to do and Lutz 4 the amount of people that disagree with the topic. Other organization such as Free College Now have a ways to go. Word Count: 1198 Lutz 5 Work Cited Exactly How Much the Government Would Have to Spend to Make Public College  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. How Washington Could Make College Tuition Free (Without Spending a Penny More on  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Http://twitter.com/FreeCollegeNow. About  Campaign for Free College Tuition. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Luebke, Bob, Lonnie Webster Says, Larry Says, Lonnie Says, Mike Says, Billy Bob Says, Ben Johnson Says, and John Kantor Says. Why Free College Tuition Is a Bad  Civitas Institute. N.p., 04 Feb. 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Should College Education Be  Debate.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.