!1 Adam Phillips ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Meat Industry Environmental Impact Not long ago a meal centered around meat was regarded as a rare occurrence, a treat even. However, most individuals in the West now consume meat on a daily basis, or even at every meal. People in less carnivorous cultures are getting a taste for it too (Hooper 1). Worldwide meat production has skyrocketed from 78 million tons annually in 1963, to 308 tons in 2014 (Hooper 1). Without a doubt, the meat industry is extremely satisfied with the exponential growth. The North American Meat Institute, representing the meat industry, has attentively refined a benevolent image of itself and worked hard to disseminate that image into consumers heads (McDermott 52). Typically, consuming meat daily is considered part of the average American diet. On the other hand, an opposing stakeholder, Green Vegan, sees this expansion as an issue. On their website they claim one of their main goals: are advocating for the end of animal agriculture because of its immense role in the destruction of ecosystems, waste of resources, conflicts with wildlife, pollution, and a detriment to human health The planet can simply not support the current growing appetite of meat (Hopper 1). In order for the North American Meat Institute and Green Vegan to reach an agreement, there will have to be a limit to the meat produced and alternative options put in place. The North American Meat Institute has the vision of being the main source of information, education, and service that allow meat companies to supply people around the !2 world with safe and sustainable protein (NAMI). According to USDA data in 2015 2.9 billion land animals were killed in the United States for meat (McDermott 52). Approximately 80% of agricultural land is utilized for livestock production; beef takes up 11.6 million square miles and chicken takes up 1.5 million miles (McDermott 53). The North American Meat Institute list their values on their website, one being the value of sustainable practices and sound environmental stewardship (NAMI). In addition, they state on their website, members of the U.S. meat and poultry industry are committed to being good stewards of the environment in which they operate. In addition to striving for full compliance with a host of federal, state and local environmental regulations, the industry embraces a comprehensive set of environmental best practices. The American Meat Institute also recognizes outstanding achievement in voluntary environmental protection through an annual awards program This quote shows that they do care about the environment and are determined to follow regulations regarding the environment, which is one of Green Vegans main concerns. Green Vegans claim that a vegan diet is the answer to the environmental problem of the meat industry. According to Djekic, sector is one of the leading polluters in the food industry. Regardless of the perspective, environmental impacts of the meat chain influence three dimensions - climate change in respect to the global warming potential, acidification potential and eutrophication potential: consumption of natural resources and; polluting the environment with various types of waste and waste water discharge (Djekic The world population is predicted to reach 9 billion in the year 2050, meaning the meat industry would have to increase production by 50-73% to maintain the demand for meat (Bonny 256). Society is taking so much from that they are ruining the scope to generate the surplus that !3 allows humans to live (Bekoff). Unfortunately, forests and meat compete for the same landmass (McGrath). Without question, these are unfavorable effects on the environment, however, both stakeholders want to support the environment. The most fundamental question on the issue is what is the most environmentally sustainable practice of meat production. In order to reach a compromise, a sustainable amount of meat production needs to be put into place. It has been discussed that sustainable meat consumption practices are time-consuming and stressful (Austgulen 46). The government would have to play a primary role in changing consumption patterns (Austgulen 47). A number of studies have deliberated the consumer enthusiasm to participate in a more plant based diet and the results conclude consumers appear to be unaware of the environmental impacts correlated to meat consumption (Austgulen 49). Environmentally sustainable consumption of meat has been discussed in other countries, for instance, Norwegian (Austgulen 61). Norwegian placed the responsibility on the consumer which lead to a lack of action and consensus among policy makers (Austgulen 61). Many who are opposed to a reduction in meat consumption view meat as biologically meant to be eaten, and associate not eating meat with ill health (Tucker 175). Suitable knowledge is vital for environmentally attentive action. The lack of knowledge diminishes the probability of a solution being put into place. Many studies point to a reduction in meat in diet to result in lower carbon emissions (Bonny 257). According to Tucker, less dependence on animal based protein can supply a substantial part of the resolution to decrease the environmental harms (Tucker 169). He points out it is important to note that he is suggesting meat reduction not a complete absence of meat in diet (Tucker 169). By the government placing limits on how much meat can be produced the harmful effects on the environment would !4 decrease and both organizations would reach a happy medium. In fact, a study was conducted on how current meat eaters felt about eating less meat to help the environment and the responses were overall positive, only 3% negative (Tucker 174). The exact limit the government should place would require further research to conclude. However, with a decrease in meat, there would need to be alternative options put into place. Bonny suggests, the future agroecology, cloning, and artificial meat may provide technologies and techniques which would allow the meat industry to meet the increasing demands. However, it would be unrealistic to expect artificial meat to completely replace conventional meat (Bonny In addition, other alternatives could be in vitro meat. In vitro meat is meat grown in cell culture versus inside the animal (Galusky 935). According to Galusky, the potential of in vitro has captivated acknowledgment from various entities and individuals concerned about the dilemmas associated with meat production (Galusky 936). Hence, a plant based diet or alternative meat options could be the answer to replacing meat if it was placed on limited production by the government. Thus, the two organizations, Green Vegan and the North America Meat Institute can reach a compromise. Both show concerns for the environment and want to preserve the earth to the best of their abilities. With a government implementation of a limit to how much meat can be produced the detrimental environmental effects will be reduced. Although, the limit would require further research to determine how much of a boundary on meat production would need to be placed. Individuals could substitute some of the meat they consume with plant-based products, a few times a week. It would be unrealistic to expect everyone to go vegan or to stop the meat industry completely. By setting regulations on the amount produced society would still be able to enjoy meat, it would just be considered more of a treat than a typical daily diet. !5 Works Cited About  North American Meat Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. !6 Austgulen, Marthe Harvik. Environmentally Sustainable Meat Consumption: An Analysis Of The Norwegian Public  Journal Of Consumer Policy 1 (2014): 45. Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Bekoff, Marc, PhD.  Green Vegans. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Djekic, Ilija. Environmental Impact Of Meat Industry Current Status And Future  Procedia Food Science 5.The 58th International Meat Industry Conference (MeatCon2015) (2015): 61-64. ScienceDirect. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Galusky, Wyatt, galusky@morrisville.edu. Technology As Responsibility: Failure, Food Animals, And Lab-Grown  Journal Of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics 27.6 (2014): 931-948. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Hooper, Rowan. The Real Cost Of  New Scientist 225.3005 (2015): 1. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. MCDERMOTT, MAT. Assessing The Meat Impact On  Hinduism Today 39.1 (2017): 52-57. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. McGrath, Emma. The Politics Of  Social Alternatives 19.4 (2000): 50-59. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Sarah P F Bonny, Graham E Gardner, David W Pethick, Jean-Franois Hocquette. What Is Artificial Meat And What Does It Mean For The Future Of The Meat  Journal Of Integrative Agriculture 2 (2015): AGRIS. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Tucker, Corrina A. The Significance Of Sensory Appeal For Reduced Meat  (2015): AGRIS. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. !7