Kwadwo Frimpong-Manso Karen Hanson ENC 1102 1/29/17 Wage Discrepancy of Ghana Doctors Labor unrest has always been a persistent issue in Ghana for the past decade. This is because the always seems to be tension, between labor unions and the Government, over wage related issues. It has caused many, in the public sector, to lay down their tools and seek employment elsewhere. When this happens, private firms tend to take over the economy and this would eventually lead to a rise in the cost of goods and services. To prevent this from happening, the government of Ghana created the Fair Wages and Salaries Commission (FWSC) to handle all labor-wage related issues, and ensure equity of wages among public workers. However, their work has been open to scrutiny. Recently, the Ghana Medical Association (GMA) approached the FWSC demanding full payment of arrears of wages, but no consensus was reached so they withdrew their services and embarked on a strike action. According to the GMA, the migration to the new payment structure (Single Spine Salary Structure) for government employees, reduced their wages drastically leading to what has now been known as arrears. The law behind the Single Spine Salary Structure (SSSS) was that; employees whose basic salary reduced as a result of its implementation would be reimbursed with what is referred to as Conversion Difference, till their salaries return to its original amount. For instance, Jack receives $1,000 under the new SSSS. However, under the previous payment structure he used to receive $1,500. To cater for the difference, Jack will be paid an extra $500 as Conversion Difference, every year till his salary rises back to $1,500. The FWSC, on the other hand, claims that the GMA entitled to conversion difference because their basic salary in the previous structure included their overtime and so it will be inappropriate to pay them extra. As a result of this, they came up with an alternative method; a market premium which would be used to calculate the overtime, to raise them back to their original wages. This has however been rejected by the GMA. They claim that the basis for calculating the overtime is unscientific and only accounts for half of their actual overtime hours (100 hours out of 201). To integrate the stances of both organizations, the GMA should call off their strike and a neutral economic/financial organization should be hired to fix the market premium. The Fair Wages and Salaries Commission, as mentioned above, is an organization set up by the government of Ghana to ensure equity of wages among public workers, and to handle all labor- wage related issues. Their aims and objectives are listed on their website. It includes; promote equity in the administration of public service pay, establish principles for matching wage increases to productivity, promote a high performance culture in the public services, to promote industrial and so many more. The FWSC was the government agency in charge of administering the transition from the old payment structure (Ghana Universal Salary Structure) to the Single Spine Salary Structure which was put into effect January, 2010. According to the FWSC, the Single Spine Salary structure was put in place to ensure equity and transparency of public service wages. However, its implementation brought about so many challenges because it was supposed to, at the initial stages, reduce salaries. So they developed the an amount which would be paid to employees whose salaries reduced as a result of the transition. But most labor unions in the country happy with this. They understand why their wages would have to be reduced, so it took meetings upon meetings before the FWSC was able to explain the way the new system works to the unions. However, not everyone was satisfied, particularly the Ghana Medical Association. The Ghana Medical Association (GMA) is an association of doctors which was set up to fight for the well-being of medical doctors and to promote quality health service in Ghana. Their goals, as listed on their website, includes; continuously promote good health through participation in the development and maintenance of the highest possible standards of healthcare delivery in Ghana, to seek the total welfare of members of the Association, develop partnerships with all stakeholders who subscribe to and support the philosophy of the and so much more. Recently, the president of the Ghana Medical Association, Dr. E. Ewusi-Emmim, gave an executive order for all medical doctors at public hospitals to withdraw their services and embark on a strike action. According to a statement on the Fair Wages and Salaries website, the GMA approached them demanding full payment of their arrears (difference between their old salaries and their new salaries) but they explained to them that they are not entitled to Conversion difference. The FWSC claims that, under the old payment system, the basic salary included their overtime bonus and so it would be inappropriate to pay them extra as Conversion Difference. Instead, they decided to come up with an alternative; a market premium. The market premium is supposed to serve as a basis for calculating the overtime. According to the FWSC, the U.S uses a similar method to pay their overtime and it has proven to be efficient. The GMA however like the sound of a market premium. They claim that the basis for determining the market premium was inappropriate and account for all of their overtime hours. They called it unscientific. According to one of the top newspaper organizations (Daily Graphic), there is enough documentation to support the claims. Apparently a Memorandum of Understanding was signed by the FWSC to find a way to pay their arrears but they took no action causing the GMA to withdraw their services. Despite the disagreement between the FWSC and the GMA, both organizations have the same goal in mind. To ensure fair wages. Therefore, to appease both organizations and for the betterment of the nation, the proposed market premium by the FWSC, should be fixed by a neutral financial/economic organization. The neutrality of the third organization would ensure that the basis for determining the wages will be appropriate and will cover not part, but all of their overtime hours. The GMA should also call off their strike and attend to sick patients at the hospital. They should give the FWSC a specific time period to pay their arrears and the FWSC must see to it that the monies are paid within the agreed time frame. This compromise is likely to solve the issue and improve the FWSC and the relations because according to the Monthly Labor Review, attitudes towards employees concerns improves their relationship and ensures efficiency. Therefore, the FWSC meeting with, and paying the arrears to begin with, would be the first step to solving the issue! Works Cited Avorkpo-Takyi, Rebecca. Press Statement on Strike Action. Ghana Medical Association. http://www.ghanamedicalassociation.org/v3/index.php/2013-03-15-11-35- 36/gma-news/138-press-statement-on-doctors-strike-action. Accessed 29 January 2017. FWSC Response to GMA Claim. Fair Wages and Salaries Commission. http://fairwages.gov.gh/Slideshow-News/response-by-the-fair-wages-and-salaries- commission-to-the-claim-by-the-ghana-medical-association-on-the-payment-of- conversion-difference.html. Accessed 29 January 2017. Overtime Pay - Wage and Hour Division. U.S. Department of Labor. Accessed 29 January 2017. Why are doctors still on strike? Graphic Online Ghana News. 26 April 2013. www.graphic.com.gh/features/features/why-are-doctors-still-on-strike.html. Accessed January 2017. Martin, James E., Lizabeth A. Barclay, and Lawrence L. Biasatti. Successful Public-Sector Labor Attitudes May Matter  Monthly Labor Review 102.5 (1979): 36. Business Source Premier. Accessed 29 January 2017.