Laverde 1 Valentina Laverde Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.068 1 February 2017 The Different Approaches to Feminism modern world has evolved from it later counterparts, rising past obstacles that have been overcome throughout the years because of growing movements. Of the several movements that are still alive and fighting today for a cause, women have united, joining in the strive for equality, taking on the name as feminist through their own definitions and beliefs of the idea. As women, have slowly accomplished their goals as a united movement, success has been a popular outcome across the movement. Those who characterize themselves as feminist each have their own reason for identifying as feminist (Kelly). Awareness, education, and personal experiences can influence the perspective of not only an individual who identifies themselves as a feminist but a group as well (Swirsky and Angelone). Several organizations support feminism, but they all possess different goals and concerns, their beliefs or values determine the issues they support along with the what they believe to be the solutions to those issues. There may be disagreements in what issues should be focused on, who should be allowed to assist in bringing awareness to concerns, or from what stance should an issue such as gender equality be dealt with. The UN Women and Concerned Women for America (CWA) are organizations that have their own individual approaches towards the topic of Feminism, opposing goals may coincide with disagreements, but a common strive towards growth and equality may unite them and bring them towards a compromise. Laverde 2 Focus on gender equality goes beyond United States borders, at an international level UN Women seeks to strengthen equality and the empowerment of women from a worldwide approach as detailed in their mission statement. Serving as the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women the organization works on establishing agreements that address concerns that are vital to moving forward in gender equality. UN Women works with countries to tackle inequality, focusing on matters that they find essential towards growth. The organization approaches feminism with intentions to earn respect in leadership, education, employment, safety, and inclusion in the development of nations for women worldwide. They provide not only awareness but assistance financially to tackle concerns in various countries, working closely with the United Nations gives them the opportunity to be notified of what is taking place globally. UN Women pursues to an environment in which every women and girl can exercise her human right and live up to her full Their approach to feminism is that women should be at the same level of respect of men, that they should not face discrepancies based on their gender. The organization wants to leave an impact internationally addressing not only first world concerns but third world conflicts. Their motivation to intervene in the affairs of other nations can lead to opposition, there are those that disapprove of international organizations, such as the Concerned Women for America. Beyond experience, education, and awareness, religion oftentimes influences the values of an individual or an organization, in this case, an approach to feminism. The Concerned Women for America is a woman lead an organization that strives to implement their belief in the bible and will in determining the issues they believe should be addressed. Striving to influence public policy in the American government the Concerned Women for America aim to not only influence the government but all people, educating them regarding Laverde 3 about their concerns by making connections to important principles in the bible. These values form their approach to feminism; they agree that women should be viewed equally as men in a family setting and that women should not be abused. Being established as an organization lead by women that addresses American issues demonstrates their effort and approach towards Feminism. Even with their religious background, they touch on current issues that impact women whether it be abortion, abuse, or another form of discrimination. Along with this, they see fit that men should take part in managing the imbalance between men and women equality. Their focus is primarily on issues within the United States, they disapprove of the interference of international organizations, such as the United Nations. The concerns they possess align with other organizations, but they also contradict the purpose of those like UN Women who work at an international level. Feminism is a topic that several individuals and organizations address through promoting its issues and initiating in activism. Organizations such as UN Women and Concerned Women for America each have their values and the reasons behind the initiatives they follow. These two organizations though in particular quite see eye to eye on some matters. Concerned Women for America is an organization within the United States that holds national sovereignty as one of its core issues to address. Standing against the influence of international organizations participating in matters residing inside borders. This is where UN Women falls into conflict with them, as an international organization that strives to achieve gender equality worldwide. The CWA would not approve of their participation in American affairs. This disagreement may be able to be overlooked, if in a common effort to resolve or minimize one of their common concerns within American borders allows them to accomplish their mission, meeting half way through a compromise. Laverde 4 In a potential compromise between UN Women and Concerned Women for America, even with opposing beliefs, they can agree that women should be respected, just as their male counterparts are. Both want to raise awareness in the harassment and abuse of women, agreeing that it is not justified that women should be mistreated in a verbal or physical way. Disregarding their disapproval of international organizations intervening in American affairs, both organizations could come to establish an awareness campaign or movement that addresses violence on women. UN Women offers financial efforts that can provide the assistance Concerned Women for America could use to create an event, fundraiser, campaign, or any awareness initiative that will aid in the growth in the respect of women in society. Working together would potentially increase the success of the goals they pursue as individual organizations. Nothing is for certain that if a compromise were to be established between UN Women and the Concerned Women for America it would be successful or that it would occur. What matters though is that in retrospect to any approach towards feminism, the issue of gender inequality is being addressed. important that whether within United States borders, first world countries, third world countries, or any other nation, they should be aware of current events regarding the topic. Location may have an impact on how prevalent the issue exists within a society, but it is necessary to address the feminist movements prevalence in different parts of the world (Cornwall and Rivas 405). Several organizations exist today that approach feminism through their own ideas and methods, some are related to religious beliefs, political standing, personal experiences, or other external forces. Identifying as a feminist can be similar when compared between organizations or an individual explanation. Understanding that behind every movement there are several stories that reach across from different themes have an imprint on Laverde 5 reason gives us a well-rounded understanding of why people classify themselves as feminist and join the movement. Data has even been collected demonstrating that feminist tend to fall under seven common themes (Swirsky and Angelone). From a vast population, there is variety when understanding numbers, no one approach or belief can exist, a common outlook though can blur out the differences, shaping what we know to be the feminist movement. Laverde 6 Works Cited Concerned Women for America, concernedwomen.org/. Accessed 22 January 2017. Cornwall, Andrea, and Althea-Maria Rivas. From Equality And To Global Justice: Reclaiming A Transformative Agenda For Gender And  Third World Quarterly 36.2 (2015): 396. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Kelly, Maura. Feminist Identity, Collective Action, And Individual Resistance Among Contemporary U.S.  Studies International Forum 48.(2015): 81- 92. ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Swirsky, Jill M., and D. J. Angelone. Equality, Empowerment, And Choice: What Does Feminism Mean To Contemporary  Journal Of Gender Studies 25.4 (2016): 445-460. PsycINFO. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women. UN Women, www.unwomen.org/en. Accessed 22 January 2017.