Sophia Mancuso Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 28 January 2017 The Ethics of Factory Farming With the increasing temperature of the Earth and its obvious correlation with the degradation of the environment, many questions have been raised about its main contributors. Greenhouse gases are the gases emitted into the atmosphere that trap heat in the atmosphere causing what is known as the phenomena, global warming (EPA). Global warming has been and still is wreaking havoc on many ecosystems all over the world. One of its largest contributors is factory farming and the raising of livestock for food. This is said to be responsible for 51% of the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, which to put into perspective, is more than all vehicle emissions combined globally (PETA). On top of this, factory farming is infamous for their unethical treatment of their livestock and there are currently no federal laws protecting those animals from this mistreatment (FFAC). Factory Farming Awareness Coalition is an organization against factory farming; their goal is to push others to reduce their personal consumption of animal products. The National Beef Association is an organization that works with the beef industry and works to increase the demand of beef. Possibly meaning treating animals even more unethically than they are already treated, and destroying the environment further in the process. To come to a compromise concerning their opposing stances on the ethics of factory farming, FFAC and the NCBA need to work together to help improve the lives of the animals and reduce its ecological footprint by lowering the demand for animal products. However, efforts need to be made by FFAC to instead focus more on only reducing demand for animal products rather than eliminating it altogether. FFAC was founded in 2010 with the mission to combat the harmful effects factory farming has on animals, people, and the environment (FFAC). The fight against livestock is one that tends to be difficult. Many people are unaware of the dangers behind animal products and if they are they are reluctant to make the life style change it requires to make an impact. FFAC takes a different route to deter the animal industry by educating people across the country at numerous colleges. With these efforts, they hope to make small impacts across the country that will in turn make a large one. They encourage people through education to reduce or cut out animal products in their diet and so they can ultimately lessen the demand of animal products. Doing this will force the industry to stop producing so much, minimizing the amount of harm done to the animals involved and the environment surrounding us. The NCBA is an organization with the goal to increase the demand for beef through marketing the safest and best protein. They are responsible for the popular slogan For seen everywhere. Their marketing urges the support of the meat industry and factory farming. They also have their own national marketing and research program that they fund as well that reaches out to business nationally and internationally. One problem the industry is facing today is supplying the increasing population with meat that as sustainable as it is wished to be by the meat industry. The industry alone is composed of over one million businesses and farms and is a crucial component to the economy (NCBA). If the meat industry were to dwindle so might the economy. Even though both organizations are essentially opposites, they both care about sustainability. FFAC recognizes that animal products are hardly sustainable, especially with the population growing exponentially. Their push toward plant-based diets is with sustainability in mind. The reason for factory farms is to save space, time, and money. Even on free-range farms animals still suffer and this uses more land than a factory farm would, which is why switching to this would not be a good compromise in the case of sustainability (PETA). The NCBA continues its research in sustainability while keeping up with the population size (BeefUSA). It was estimated by the USDA that in 2015 the average American ate 210.8 pounds of red meat and poultry in one year (The National Chicken Council). Compare that to 1980 where the average American only ate 195.1 pounds of red meat and poultry. The rate of animal products consumed is going up significantly (The National Chicken Council). Not only that but the population is growing too. Implementing the lower production of animal products in the industry is the only way to reduce the harm to animals and the environment, as well as deal with the sustainability issue all in one. The only other option is eliminating the animal industry in one go, which is not a compromise. Also, the FFAC does not succeed by eliminating all suffering and ecological harm, which is their goal, but they win some by reducing some of the problems. The same goes for the NBCA. Their goal is to keep up with growing populations and even increase its demand. With this compromise, they may have to lower production but with lower production comes higher demand. It is said that the average consumer is willing to pay for animal products even if the prices go up (NBCA). So, if prices are raised because of this supply and demand ratio, loyal customers will pay and no money is lost. Others, however, will shift toward a plant-based diet. When it comes to the Earth, nothing is more important. Without it there is no life, no society, no economy, or politics. Many of these things are put ahead of the welfare and care of our environment and the animals in it every single day. It is important for activists and the factory farm industries and all industries for that matter to work together to ensure a better tomorrow and not just for a profit today. The FFAC and the NBCA working together to help each causes should only cause a ripple effect off support of animals, health of humans, and the environment throughout society and the nation. Bringing information about factory farms to the public in collaboration with the NBCA allows people to make their own decisions. Works Cited Greenhouse  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 35 Mind-Shattering Facts Linking Factory Farming to Climate  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Factory Farming Awareness  Factory Farming Awareness Coalition. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  Beef - For Dinner. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Beef Industry Long Range  Beef USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Per Capita Consumption of Poultry and Livestock, 1965 to Estimated 2016, in  The National Chicken Council. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Word Count: 1015