Nolte 1 Logan Nolte Professor Phillips ENC 1102 22 January 2017 Oil Drilling Oil drilling, as we all know, is not the cleanest nor the safest method of extracting oil. This profession can lead to minor to major injuries of employees, and in global terms, oil spills. Organizations such as Oceana have been campaigning to end all off-shore oil drilling since 2001, while large companies such as BP have been drilling since 1909. Both organizations have reasons to keep campaigning or working, whether it be to protect all of marine life or to keep 79,800 employees in work. I will be discussing a middle ground that these two organizations could possible use so that a compromise can be reached. To start, Oceana is a wildlife protection group that focuses on marine life. The biggest threat to marine wildlife is unfortunately pollution created by the human race. They clash with major plastic companies, aluminum can companies, and oil drilling companies. 87 agonizing days, millions of gallons of oil spewed from the ocean floor 5,000 ft beneath the ocean surface, much of it flowing under the relentless gaze of a televised as BP tried various methods to cap the (Sherwell) The oil spill that BP was responsible for in 2010 was one of the worst environmental disasters that the United States has ever seen, and it was in our country. A horrific amount of wildlife was killed or injured due to the oil spill, and this is what Oceana fights Nolte 2 for. There has been a total of 182 total recorded oil spills, and many are still yet to be recorded. to the U.S. Department of Energy, 1.3 million gallons (4.9 million liters) of petroleum are spilled into U.S. waters from vessels and pipelines in a typical year. A major oil spill could easily double that (Thompson) campaign aims to drastically reduce that number or even abolish it all together. The amount of oil spilled worldwide is outrageous, that is about $1,624,071.43 spilled each year. As that much oil is spilled out into the sea, cleaning it up is much more costly. BP oil spill will cost an estimated $12.5 billion or more. BP announced Monday it will pay for all cleanup costs in the Gulf of just the cleaning, the fines are also added to that as well. Oil spills cost the government, companies, and the lives of workers and marine wildlife, so no wonder Oceana campaigns to end it. BP is the largest oil drilling company worldwide and has given many workers a way to put food on their tables. Putting a complete halt on oil drilling would leave millions of people worldwide out of a job, which is why a compromise between Oceana and BP is needed. BP also paid 20 billion dollars for the oil spill in 2010, so they are paying what is needed and not just leaving it as they destroyed the area. BP pays their employees exceptionally well, with their lowest salary being 30k. This shows that BP cares for their workers and not just for their profit. BP is also very known for their philanthropy and service side, where they have donated 218 million dollars to various communities and they have logged a total of 55,000 service hours from their Nolte 3 employees. BP could never shut down entirely without causing 79,800 people losing their base of income and without cutting the United oil import in half. So with both sides being represented, I believe the compromise too terribly crazy, it is rather reasonable. Oceana and BP need to come together will open minds in a conference and discuss what I call drilling What these zones will do is give a map to oil drilling organizations, and give specific areas to where these organizations can drill. Now naturally Oceana will want and try to restrict the majority of the ocean, and that is why a third party will have to attend said conference: the EPA. The EPA is a great medium for this because they are controlled by the national government. The only issue with having the EPA as the third party regulator is the possibility that the currently administration of the executive branch of the U.S. may sway the opinions and ideals of the EPA. Oceana could pick vital sites that need to be protected for the good of species and saving them from potential oil spills. I firmly believe that this compromise is the best option on the table because both stakeholders are giving up something in order to meet in the middle: BP is giving up free reign of drilling wherever they please and Oceana is giving up the notion of absolutely no drilling. The compromise also seems extremely feasible because it is not too drastic for either side. BP would lose oil drilling sites, but they are capable of creating immense revenue due to the demand of oil, and Oceana been able to do much affirmative action due to active oil lobbyists, so this would be a great first step in the right direction. Another step in the correct direction would be to have the EPA create higher standards for oil spillage reduction and protection, and pressing massive fines on the companies that do not comply with the new initiative. While this is not necessarily a compromise, I Nolte 4 believe that it will reinforce oil companies to work with the oil drilling zones because it forces them to comply. More interference between oil drilling and federal or state government is needed so that these companies will stay in line because we have seen what these companies have done in the past to regions. The oil companies will lose more revenue in the entire process of these ideas and compromises, but when the CEO of BP makes a yearly salary of 19.6 million dollars, I think losing that will upset that person terribly. Compromises often lead to the best solutions because the idea of a compromise takes the great ideas of both parties, and creates a much better idea that both parties can agree on. So in conclusion, both Oceana and BP are great organizations that contribute to this world in a positive way, regardless of mistakes. Once this compromise is reached, the Earth will slowly be able to heal from the damage that the human race has done. Works Cited Page  Oceana. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Exploration and  Bp.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. BP at a  Bp.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. BP oil spill: Five years after environmental in US history, how bad was it  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. FAQ: The Science and History of Oil  LiveScience. Purch, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Crude Oil Prices - 70 Year Historical  MacroTrends. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Nolte 5 Haq, Husna. BP oil spill 2010: How much will it  The Christian Science Monitor. The Christian Science Monitor, 03 May 2010. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. British Petroleum  British Petroleum (BP) Employer Salary, Average Salaries PayScale. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. BP  Bp.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.