1 Nic Hodges ENC 1102 Animal abuse. Some people put animals at the same level, if not higher than humans, while others think animals are on this planet simply for the needs of mankind. If you were to ask someone that ate bacon for breakfast, hamburgers for lunch, and a steak for dinner, their opinion on animals would probably be very different from their neighbor the vegetarian. Whether we eat animals or not, most people would say they are not for animal abuse. The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) is trying to stop animal cruelty in various categories such as: animal fighting, puppy mills, factory farming, and the wildlife trade. They wish to pass animal cruelty laws in every nation and transform the landscape for pets in poverty. Then there is Tyson; their company depends on the captivity and slaughtering of animals to pay their company bills and ensure that the American people are fed. While both these organizations are complete opposites, there is a silver lining. Both organizations want their animals to be as healthy and natural as possible. A compromise for both of these organizations would be for HSUS workers to house and feed animals until they are ready for slaughter. The Humane Society of the United States is a non-profit organization that provides care for more than 100,000 animals per year through their rescue teams, sanctuaries and wildlife centers, free veterinary care for low-income pet owners, and other life-saving programs. Their primary goals are to pass anti-cruelty laws in every nation, end extreme confinement of farm animals in cages, stop cosmetic testing on animals, halt cruelty to wildlife, and transform the 2 landscape for pets in poverty. According to an article titled 10 things to know about factory- farmed chickens, found on the World Animal Protection USA website, billion chickens are raised every year across the world to be sold for their meat. 40 billion of these will be raised in huge, crowded sheds, or cages, kept in dismal conditions that can cause them painful heart, skin, lung and bone problems and immense (World Animal Protection USA 2017). The Humane Society of the United States was approved by the Better Business Wise Giving Alliance for all 20 standards for charity accountability. They were also named by Worth Magazine as one of the 10 most fiscally responsible charities. According to an article written by congressman Brad Sherman titled, Animal It is estimated that 2 to 4 million puppy mill puppies are sold each year in the United States. Facilities that breed dogs for commercial resale are required to be licensed and inspected under the federal Animal Welfare Act (AWA), but a loophole in the law allows thousands of puppy mills to sell directly to the public and go unchecked from any federal oversight. Due to improper care and over-crowded conditions, their puppies are often ill, leaving unsuspecting consumers with sick, sometimes dying puppies, expensive vet bills, and very unhappy children. Meanwhile, the breeding dogs at these facilities often spend their entire lives in constant confinement and (Sherman 2015). This is just one of the many issues that the Humane Society of the United States is trying to solve. Tyson is a profit company that works in the food industry. They are the number one leading company in the food industry for selling chicken, beef, and pork. They are one the few companies that offer chicken, beef, and pork to their consumers. According to Tyson Food co. website, chicken, beef, and pork products are sold in more than 130 countries around the world. Some of their international sales offices include China, European Union, Japan, Mexico, 3 Middle East, Russia, South Korea, and Taiwan. main goals are to promote responsible and sustainable business, support team members and local communities, and ensure food safety in emerging markets. They sponsor more than 11,000 family owned farms and currently have around 113,000 team members. Their sales for the year 2015 resulted in $40.6 billion and 79 percent of those sales were from chicken, pork, and (Tyson 2017). Tyson wishes to sell the highest quality meat on the planet; which means they do not want genetically altered animals on their farms. They feed all of their animals with natural food to ensure their animals remain healthy and safe for consumers to eat. According to an article titled Working with experts who share our commitment, Office of Animal Well-Being, established more than 16 years ago, advises us on animal well-being practices and oversees our animal well-being programs. We have a staff of veterinarians that oversee the health of our chickens and turkeys and company- owned hogs. Specially trained nutritionists also create specific diets for (Tyson 2017). Tyson wants to remain the number one meat selling Food Company on the planet; to do this they must continue to house their animals, slaughter them when the time comes, and sell them to consumers. While Tyson Food Company and the Humane Society of the United States do share a lot of common ground, they do share the same goal of keeping animals healthy of illness and diseases, as well as genetic alteration. These two companies should start a campaign together to ensure the proper health and care of all as many animals as they can. This means these animals should be provided with proper shelter for protection from storms and other natural disasters, naturally grown food and water to ensure they are kept healthy, and natural habitats that provide enough space for the animals to live comfortably with one another until the time of slaughter. 4 According to Animal Well-Being Policy and Commitment written by President & Chief Executive Officer Donnie Smith, understand the importance of the internationally- recognized Five Freedoms for animal well-being and we urge our farmers to strive for these fundamental principles, which include: freedom from hunger and thirst, freedom from discomfort, freedom from pain, injury, or disease, freedom to express normal behavior, freedom from fear and (Smith 2016). As shown on their policy agreement, Tyson strives to make all of their animals as healthy and as comfortable as possible. The Humane Society of the United States would certainly agree with their five freedoms policy and help ensure that all the animals under the care of Tyson Food Company are properly taken care of. Maintaining the physical and mental health of livestock and animals kept on farms will ensure the safety of consumers who wish to eat meat raised off of these farms. If animals kept on factory farms are not properly taken care of, they can become sick with illness and diseases, making it unsafe for consumers to eat. If consumers are unaware of these animals becoming sick, it could result in the illness of customers, and even death. A proposal for these two companies would be for animal care takers from the Humane Society of the United States to oversee the care and well-being of the animals being housed on farms sponsored by Tyson Food Company. The animal care takers will ensure that all livestock and animals are being feed properly with natural food, along with clean water. They will also be responsible for keeping track of all the animals at the farm and providing the animals with afternoon walks to provide the animals with the opportunity to get exercise and a little bit of freedom every day. If any animal is unaccounted for at the end of the day, the Humane Society of the United States will have to pay money to 5 Tyson Food Company to compromise for the lost profits. Animal safety and health is very important, especially when it is the animals that we as every day humans consume. The last thing we want is to be looking down at the steak on our plate and asking ourselves, I die if I eat 6 Work Cited Page Why Animal Well-Being Is  Tyson Foods: Animal Well-Being. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tyson Foods: Around the  Tyson Foods: Around the World. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tyson Foods: Tyson  Tyson Foods: Tyson Overview. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. You Love Helping Animals. So Do  The Humane Society of the United States : The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Animal  Congressman Brad Sherman. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 10 Things to Know about Factory-farmed  World Animal Protection USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Work Cited Page http://www.tysonfoods.com/our-story/around-the-world http://www.tysonfoods.com/our-story/tyson-overview https://sherman.house.gov/issues/animal-rights