Renee Cyr Professor Adam Phillips English Composition II 27 January 2017 The Use of Laboratory Animals for Research In the world of zoology, the ethical treatment of laboratory animals is a widely controversial issue. According to the Humane Society, testing refers to procedures performed on living animals for purposes of research into basic biology and diseases, assessing the effectiveness of new medicinal products, and testing the human health and/or environmental safety of consumer and industry products such as cosmetics, household cleaners, food additives, pharmaceuticals and Animal). People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and American Association of Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS) are organizations who both care about animals but have opposing positions on whether to experiment on animals. PETA believes that all beings, human or nonhuman, should have rights and be free from harm. Members of PETA actively defend the rights of animals all over the world. On the other hand, AALAS holds the belief that laboratory animals are necessary for medical and scientific advancement. By replacing some laboratory animals with computer models, reducing the number of animals used in laboratory experiments, and refining how they are treated, the two stakeholders can come to a compromise. The first stakeholder, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is one of the most powerful animal rights organization in the world. PETA maintains that animals were not created for humans eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other (About PETA). Their vision has been supported with their actions in undercover investigations. In 1980, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals started with exposing a Silver Spring research laboratory in Maryland for monkey cruelty (Maroufi). In addition to undercover operations, this organization is also responsible for educating the public. They educate the public about animal testing through lectures, visual images, workshops, and much more. Members of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals believe that it is not ethical to test on animals because they have rights too. Because they cannot give consent to be experimented on, members of PETA are their voice. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals mainly focus in areas where animals suffer the most: factory farms, laboratories, clothing trade, and entertainment (Maroufi). With PETA members targeting laboratories, an organization that they are at odds with is the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS). Another organization involved with animal testing is the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science, which is comprised of a group of professionals that use laboratory animals for scientific and medical research. This association was created in 1950 by the five founders: Dr. Nathan Brewer, Dr. Elihu Bond, Dr. Robert Flynn, Dr. Bennett Cohen,and Dr, Robert Schroeder (Welcome). Members of AALAS believe the laboratory animals are needed for testing products, vaccines, and other medicines that people take. Because animals have similar organs and body systems, they are susceptible to the same diseases as humans (Welcome). Biomedical research with animals is essential data to the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science because it can be applied directly to humans and other animals. Though the study of animals, scientists have learned so much about bodies and how they function. Due to this knowledge, life expectancy of humans has risen from an average of 49 years in 1900 to 70 and older in 2004 (World). increase in the number of older Americans is mostly due medical advances that have been based on animal (Welcome). Although it may seem that PETA and AALAS do not share the same values, there are still aspects of each organization that overlap in belief. For instance, each stakeholder has a mutual love for animals. Because most members of the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science are veterinarians, they have chosen their profession as a result of their love for animals. They get to be involved with the care and treatment of laboratory animals. These veterinaries have come to understand that animal testing results can improve the health of other animals as well as humans. Similar to AALAS, PETA formed because of their love for animals. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals believes humans should live in harmony with animals not control them because both are beings created to live on earth. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals and the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science share the fact that they love animals. However, plan to stop animal testing cannot be achieved when AALAS continues to research on laboratory animals. Nevertheless, there are steps that can be taken in order to come to a compromise; the first step being replacement. This arrangement can be used in laboratory studies when computer models or tissues can provide results that are just as accurate if an animal was used (Curzer 556). If this cannot be done, there can be less harm inflicted if the research was to replace one species with another more suitable for the experiment. For instance, Curzer says, could draw blood from healthy animals which will have no trouble replenishing it, rather than injured or otherwise compromised animals which are likely to suffer from the (551). The next step is reduction; reduction in the numbers of animals used to obtain information of a given amount and (Curzer 552). After reduction is taken into consideration, the final step is refinement. Researchers need to choose the less harmful procedures and euthanize all animals unintentionally injured instead of letting them suffer (Curzer 560). Laboratory animals should also be kept in reasonable living quarters and have enough food and water. Researchers should try to make the animals as comfortable as possible before, during and after their experiment. The Three clarify some of the moral conflicts between the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Additionally, these steps establish boundaries to stay ethical. For both stakeholders, this plan is for the protection. Furthermore, it establishes that have moral standing and may not be harmed without a good (Curzer 562). To make this compromise work, the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science will have to give up some of their laboratory animals and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals will not get a total cease of animal testing. However, both gain the best interest when they go through with it. PETA and AALAS, the stakeholders in this issue, have a common ground of caring about animals. In order to combat their differences, a compromise of replacement, reduction, and refinement of animal testing is necessary. Overall, there are beneficial aspects of testing laboratory animals as well as unfavorable ones. Though the debate over animal testing is sure to continue, each stakeholder desires to make to world a better place for animals. Works Cited About Animal Testing : Humane Society  HSI. Humane Society International. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Animal Research  American Association for Laboratory Animal Science. AALAS Foundation. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Curzer, Howard1, howard.curzer@ttu.edu, et al. The Three Rs Of Animal Research: What They Mean For The Institutional Animal Care And Use Committee And  Science & Engineering Ethics 22.2 (2016): 549-565. Humanities Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ethical Issues In Behavioral Research : Basic And Applied  (2007): Bibliotheksverbund Bayern. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Maroufi, Chogollah. People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Watson, Stephanie. Animal Testing : Issues And Ethics. New York: Rosen Publishing Group, Inc, 2009. Discovery eBooks. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Welcome to the AALAS  Welcome to the AALAS Foundation. American Association for Laboratory Animal Science Foundation. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. World Health  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.