Reinke 1 Ashley Reinke Kirsten Rouisse ENC 1102 28 January 2017 The War on Vaccines Every year around the United States the public views countless advertisements from the Center for Disease Control encouraging them to go out and get their annual flu vaccine. In fact, these ads greatly increase the average amount of flu shots received in this country. However, there are many that reject these flu shots because they fear that it harms their health in a long term process. An organization that is strongly against flu vaccines is the Vaccine Resistance Movement. When viewed from the outside, both organizations seem to be as opposite as Sea World is to PETA. But when viewed in an abstract way, they are both pushing for what they feel is best for the well-being for the public. Because of these strong similarities, the Center for Disease Control and the Vaccine Resistance Movement should work together to accomplish more research in order to create new flu vaccines that include both alternative and modern medicine. Since 1946, the Center for Disease main focus was to minimize the spread of diseases around the United States and continues to do so to this day. They are a firm believer that the health of the United States resides largely with the injection of vaccines at least every 6 months. With different doses depending on your level of immunity, they have designed specific vaccines that provide people with many options that doctors feel best suit their needs. The Center for Disease Control continually works to update the flu vaccine in order to keep up with its mutating state as each flu season is different each year. In fact, statistics from the last 36 years show that the doses received to the general public is continuing to grow year by year. However there are some that are very resistant to vaccines and are Reinke 2 working in order for there to be a change in the ingredients that are put into the flu shot and the options that medical doctors give them. Vaccine opposition dates back to the early in which parents feared for the injection of a live smallpox virus into their body. Today, a group that stems from that initial protest is the Vaccine Resistance Movement. Their main purpose is to eliminate any and all vaccines that are currently in use and is also a big weigh in for the idea of parental choice for their children. Contrary to the Center for Disease Control, they promote the negative effects associated with vaccines in that they contain harmful chemicals such as Thimerosal which contains a high concentration of mercury. This chemical is also known to be found in the flu vaccine. Additionally, they claim that if young babies and children are vaccinated, it can lead to a declined immunity to disease later in life along with the development of autism. However, like the Center for Disease Control, there are people that oppose the Vaccine Resistance Movement and reject the idea that flu shots and other vaccines cause autism and feel that the flu shot should be promoted instead of shot down. Ironically, these two organizations have a couple main pieces of middle ground between them that neither of them seem to recognize. Primarily, they both want best for the people of the United States as well as our future generations for years to come. The Center for Disease Control is promoting the flu shot to the public through advertisements and increasing the number of locations one could get a flu shot. Meanwhile, the Vaccine Resistance Movement is gaining momentum through Facebook and their online website explaining the problems with modern medicine. Secondly they both care very strongly towards the health of population and how it can be maintained throughout life. This is the one thing that has never changed since the founding. The Center for Disease Control and the Vaccine Resistance Movement are doing a plethora of research and, even though one is for modern medicine and the other is for alternative medicine, making great achievements in the health field. Reinke 3 It is, therefore, important for the Center for Disease Control and the Vaccine Resistance Movement to come together and make massive strides in research and health options by working with one another rather than against one another. A way they can do this is by having the Center for Disease Control can distribute its research between modern medicine and alternative medicine which helps the Vaccine Resistance Movement progress in their medical goals. Even though the Center for Disease Control will now have more research to take on, there would still be distribution of vaccines which goes against the Vaccine Resistance goal. However, there would ultimately be easier access to alternative medicine in later years after research in that field has been conducted. Overall, both organizations would be contributing to the health of the public by providing them with more options in medicine even though neither would reach their current long term goals to the fullest. The Center for Disease Control and the Vaccine Resistance Movement have both made great accomplishments within themselves towards the health of the public to the current date. Yet their differences in what medicine should be distributed and what that medicine should contain is causing them to focus on those differences instead of working together. If these two organizations recognize each other similarities and what they what for the people, they could possibly make even bigger accomplishments than if they remained separated. Word count: 910 Reinke 4 Works Cited CDC Works . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://www.cdc.gov/> History Of Anti-Vaccination Movements History Of . Historyofvaccines.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.historyofvaccines.org/content/articles/history-anti-vaccination- movements>