Hardy !1 Ariel Hardy Bob Botkin ENC 1102.099 29 January 2017 Length of Life vs Quality of Life For years now the debate on weather physician assisted death (PDA) is ethical has been raging on. As it slowly works its way through the legal system, becoming legalized in part of the United States and other countries, the debate is becoming more and more heated. The one question lingering in the background is, should humans have the right to help someone die? The main apposing sides are as follow, weather physician assisted death is killing someone or ending their suffering, weather this will lead to just anyone having access to a means to their end, and what would be the criteria for this treatment plan be. This paper address how Physician Assisted Death should become legal in all of the United States, so long as restrictions are put in place that define the circumstances in which this treatment option should be used. In the article Ending Life, Morality, and Meaning Jukka Varelius paints a picture of a dying patient who is suffering greatly and has no hope of healing or successful palliative care, he wishes to end his life and ask his doctor for help (559). If his doctor were to agree to help him is she committing murder or is she simply treating her patient? This question is the main argument that is rigorously debated when discussing physician assisted death. The bad thing about this argument though is that it is strictly opinion based. One cannot change opinion with scientific facts, it is the way they view life that has to change in order for them to accept that the Hardy !2 doctor is treating the patient by ending their suffering. Varelius speculates that the issue regards the patients meaning of life and how the patient views it verses how society views it (562). However, ultimately it only matters how the patient finds their meaning, like Varelius says, a person can be taken to have a significant existence only if she herself (too) sees meaning in her  (562). So, society should try to relate more to the patients unforgiving circumstances in order to better judge weather a physician is helping or hurting when they assist in ending a patients suffering. The second argument that is often used against physician assisted death is most commonly referred to as the slippery slop argument, as said by Abilash A. Gopal in his article Physician-Assisted Suicide: Considering the Evidence, Existential Distress, and an Emerging Role for Psychiatry (185). If physician assisted death becomes legal, the apposed parties are worried that vulnerable patients would be pressured in to using physician assisted death as a means of treatment. However, Gopal references a study in his article that, found no evidence of heightened risk of death by physician , referring those considered vulnerable (185). People who object to the legalization of physician assisted death often speculate that by legalizing physician assisted Death, they are making it easier for all types of people who are trying to kill themselves; the depressed, the bored, the ill, the old, the unstable. The fact that they realize, however, is that the screening process prevents just anyone from utilizing PAD. Physician assisted Death is to be used strictly for those who are constantly suffering, and those who view life as something harder then death, not just some depressed adult. In his article The problem of the possible rationality of suicide and the ethics of physician-assisted suicide, Hardy !3 Wittwer goes on to explain that those who choose physician assisted death as a treatment plan are not irrational (422). They have carefully thought over all their options, and have no intention of hiding their desire to die, but if you look at those who commit suicided on their own they do hide their intentions (Wittwer, 421). Ultimately, this argument is invalid and inapplicable because the slippery slope argument is a fallacy. John S. Westefield among other authors conducted a study that asked 406 participants their opinions on physician assisted death , they published their findings in an article titled The Oregon Death with Dignity Act: The Right to Live or the Right to Die?. Their results are as followed, In terms of general support/nonsupport of PAS [physician assisted 31% would consider PAS if it were an option, and 45% would support PAS if it appeared on their state  (167). Maria Bulmer also conducted a survey, except her findings were a bit more characteristic specific, she published her study in an article titled Predicting moral sentiment towards physician-assisted suicide: The role of religion, conservatism, authoritarianism, and Big Five personality. Bulmer reported that those who are more educated, democratic, atheists, and/or Protestant (over Catholic) have a stronger tendency to support physician assisted death. If we were to apply these statistics to the entire United States population, we can conclude that the divide on this debate is pretty even. It is really close to a fifty fifty split of those who support the legalization and those who appose it. A compromise that would take in to consideration both sides would be the legalization of physician assisted death, but only certified institutions and doctors are allowed to partake in this Hardy !4 treatment plan. Also only those who have a deadly diagnoses, and no hope of successful palliative care can choose to utilize this treatment option. On top of these restrictions, a patient looking into this treatment plan must give both written and verbal consent, as well as undergo a psych evaluation to ensure that there is no influence of mental illness to skew their decision. So far four states have legalized physician assisted death, Oregon, Washington,Montana, and Vermont (Gopal, 183). Gopal referenced a study in his article that questioned families from Oregon who have had members that opted for physician assisted death. These families said the the patient had a better quality dying experience (apposed to those who do not choose physician assisted death), they were able to maintain their dignity by keeping the ability to control their toileting needs, they also reported the patient being more prepared for death, they had time to say good bye to their loved ones (Gopal, 185-186). Physician assisted death is a controversial topic that has been at a stalemate for a long time. Four states have legalized physician assisted death, but since then not much progress has been made in battle to allow PAD across all of the United States. When looking at statistics gathered from different surveys one can see that the population is divided, is physician assisted death killing someone or ending their suffering, will legalization lead to anyone having easy access to suicided, and what should be the criteria for this treatment plan. A solution that appeases both sides is legalizing physician assisted death, but placing restrictions on different aspects of it to ensure that it is not abused. Physician assisted death is another step in the right direction for medicine, not everything can be treated with a pill, sometimes treatment should be centered on quality of life versus length of life. Hardy !5 Works Cited Bulmer, Maria, Jan R and Gary J, Lewis. Predicting Moral Sentiment Towards Physician-Assisted Suicide: The Role Of Religion, Conservatism, Authoritarianism, And Big Five  Personality & Individual Differences vol. 105, Jan 2017, pp. 244-251. Education Source, doi: 10.1016/j.paid.2016.09.034this Gopal, Abilash A. Physician-Assisted Suicide: Considering The Evidence, Existential Distress, And An Emerging Role For  Journal Of The American Academy Of Psychiatry And The Law vol. 43, no. 2, Jun 1, 2015, pp. 183-190. PsycINFO, http:// jaapl.org/content/43/2/183.long Varelius, Jukka, Ending Life, Morality, And  Ethical Theory & Moral Practice vol. 16, no. 3, June 2013, pp. 559-574. Academic OneFile, doi:10.1007/s10677-012-9374-3 Westefeld, John S, The Oregon Death With Dignity Act: The Right To Live Or The Right To  Journal Of Loss & Trauma vol. 14, no.3, May/Jun 2009, pp. 161-169. Social Sciences Full Text, doi: 10.1080/15325020802173868 Wittwer, The Problem Of The Possible Rationality Of Suicide And The Ethics Of Physician-Assisted  International Journal Of Law & Psychiatry, vol. 36, no.5/6 Sept/Dec 2013, pp. 419-426. Science Direct, doi: 10.1016/j.ijlp.2013.06.009