Rieder1 Ty Rieder Mrs. Rouisse ENC 1102.035 29 January 2017 GMO or NO? One of the major issues that genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, is that just saying an item is genetically modified tends to automatically insight a negative reaction in people not completely informed on the subject. On the same note however, GMO should not be entirely free from criticism regarding their health defects, or at least whether the benefits outweigh the negatives. Whatever position is on GMOs, major businesses and organizations dealing with GMOs gravitate towards their own goals and agendas while not willing (or are not apparently willing) to compromise with the stakeholders on the other side of the debate. This is where companies like Monsanto, who genetically engineer seeds, and organization like the Non-GMO Project, who seek to reduce/eliminate GMO products, need to reach an understanding. Although the science behind GMOs is well understood by members of the scientific community, that information might not always resonate with the public, and since the market and the public are one in the same, the truth can get muddled when marketing GMOs to the public. Pro-GMO companies like Monsanto have a ethical obligation to be as transparent as possible with the health conditions of their products while the Non-GMO Project and other organization like them need to admit the benefits of GMOs when presented with a good case for them. According Henk, a GMO is defined as a organism that has had its genetic content altered in a non-natural way. The genetic modification is usually carried out by the insertion of genetic elements carrying the desired trait into the genome of the organism to be  (Henk p.2) By this method, scientists are able to genetically alter the DNA of organisms Rieder2 (primarily plant seeds) so that way they hold more favorable genetic straits, such as being more resilient to pests, droughts, and harsh weather. This is what companies like Monsanto do for a living, altering plant species by genetically modifying the seeds of these plants. Monsanto claims in the memoir that they are a sustainable agricultural company, who manufacture genetically engineered seeds to farmers while also licensing their seed and trait technologies to other companies ). While the companies main focus is seeds, Monsanto also manufactures herbicides. The Non-GMO Project is an organization dedicated to avoiding products made through the genetically engineered process and informing the public on which food brands are made with GMOs. In the mission statement, the Non-GMO Project also supports the restoration of traditional seed breeding and the right of farmers to plant their own seeds while also growing a variety of crops of their own choosing MOST ). Of course however, managing which crops and food products are made with GMOs is a difficult task, but the Non-GMO Project has their own solution for this. The organization provides support to the Non-Project Verified, which only promotes and brands food that evades utilizing GMOs. To this extent they also verify products as non-GMO and console retailers on which products to put on their shelves MOST ). As stated before the problem with GMOs is the lack of interest the public has about genetically modified organisms. Stakeholders on both sides can utilize the ignorance of GMOs to warp the truth or refrain from dispersing it. For example, a news article on the World News Daily Report outlined the death of a 31 year old man named Juan Pedro Ramos after he ingested a tomato that was infused with fish DNA, which he was allergic to. Although the story gained traction it turned out to be completely fabricated (Papple). The tomato the article referred Rieder3 to was , which only contained a gene that prevented the tomato from softening too quickly and the World News Daily Report cite is notorious for reporting false information (Papple). While it is a relief that GMOs are not as dangerous as some dissenters would imply, some questionable practices from Monsanto and the Food and Drug Administration. Since the 1990s, Monsanto has had ties with FDA and is scrutinized for not disclosing data that some experts were reluctant to expose the public to GMOs (Aubert). The problem some companies have with labeling products that utilize GMOs is the possible negative reaction of the public. If products are labeled the fear is that costumers will not purchase ones that are even though they are perfectly safe to consume. If Monsanto truly has nothing to hide, then the FDA should require them to disclose all information regarding the health benefits and defects of their products. In turn, Monsanto could use this as an opportunity to address the public, whether its in a press conferences or memos, on the benefits of their product compared to GMO free foods. Monsanto could even work along side education programs or organizations to teach adolescents about GMOs. If younger people and the general public are properly educated, then companies and retailers will not have to worry about any hasty reactions. Groups like the Non-GMO Project can continue to verify and label products that use GMOs. As long as the public is informed about every aspect of GMOs, consumers can make the decision to either buy GMO free products or to simply continue their normal buying habits. Both sides of the argument just need to simply be as honest and transparent as the can be with information regarding GMOs. The issue over GMOs will mostly likely continue to be discussed because even if they are completely safe, it ultimately falls to own sensibilities. The main issue here is making sure that citizens are informed of what they are putting in their bodies and knowing the data when Rieder4 dealing with how healthy a product is. If the consumers are provided with all the information, then all left is for them to decide which food products they want to buy. The comprise does not even be limited to these two stakeholders, it could be for anybody that wishes to see a better, healthier world. Rieder5 Work Cited Aarts, Henk J.M., et al. Traceability of genetically modified  Expert Review of Molecular Diagnostics, vol. 2, no. 1, 2002, p. 69+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do? AUBERT, JEAN-ERIC. NGOs on GMOs: the reasons for  OECD Observer (2000): 47. Business Collection. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Papple, Dawn. Did Kill Juan Pedro  The Inquisitr News. Inquisitr, 05 Mar. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  A Sustainable Agriculture Company. Monsanto, 2002. Web. Jan. 2017. MOST TRUSTED  The NonGMO Project. Non-GMO Project, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.