Project 1 Intermediate Draft The Campaign for a Commercial Free Childhood and The Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning and Media are at odds about technologies role in childhood development. While one organization (the Campaign) wants to reduce the corporate markets access to children, the other (the Fred Rogers Center) wants to increase the use of technology. Both organizations can agree that there is something wrong with what the children are getting from the technology and not the actual technology itself. Together they can come to a compromise where the use of technology can be effective if there were limitations on the duration and content in which the children see. The Campaign for a Commercial Free mission is to protect the rights of children to grow up without being exploited for corporate interests. The CCFC also believes that, key policies and agencies created to protect kids from harmful marketing have been weakened. The result is a commercialized culture causing harm to Children are the future and when they adopt values of materialism, conformity, etc. the health of our world is diminished. The CCFC hosts Community Kids Summits, to reclaim childhood from marketers and uses a wide range of media coverage to change attitudes. They also submit petitions regularly to change the rules. To change how children spend their time, CCFC hosts a Screen- Free Week to encourage children to enjoy life outside of a television screen and to connect with nature. CCFC also works with schools to create commercial free zones. An important partnership CCFC has been involved with is one with the Alliance for Childhood and Teachers Resisting Unhealthy Entertainment (TRUCE.) These two organizations worked together to construct, Facing the Screen Dilemma, the first guide created to help educators make decisions about screen technology when working with young children. The Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning and mission as a whole is to help children grow and their belief is that foundation of every healthy development is the power of human As far as technology in childhood development, to help children grow on the inside, learn through relationships, and give meaning to technology, as they for positive potential for The center believes that technology in a development is important and effective, if used correctly. According to the center, digital media and technology play a significant role in the development of children. They have also partnered with the National Association for the Education of Young Children to conduct a position statement that provided research to prove this. The Center focuses mainly on technology in an educational setting. Along with other places school is where cognitive and social abilities are developed and the center is dedicated to helping children do this. Since both stakeholders can agree that the limitations on the use of technology is important, a compromise between them is limiting the duration and content of commercials and other mediums. Technology is only effective when used appropriately. By monitoring what the children see and what the media puts out both parties are satisfied. Technology itself is not necessarily inadequate, but what is being broadcasted to ourselves and our children is. The duration is also a problem because kids in this generation grow up with technology and can become attached. As a result, social skills, along with others, between children declines. There is no way to eliminate technology completely. Also, studies have shown that technology expands knowledge, but negative exposure is harmful. That is why monitoring what children watch is a very important step. So with this compromise, children everywhere can take advantage of technology in an effective and healthy way. Works Cited Finger, Peter, and Walt Seng. digital media & learning - Fred Rogers center for early learning & Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning & Media. Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning & Media, Dec. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Linn, Susan. Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood. Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, 1 June 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Sharkins, K.A., Newton, A.B., Albaiz, N.E.A. et al. Early Childhood Educ J (2016) 44: 437. doi:10.1007/s10643-015-0732-3