Ying Mao ENC 1102.026 Adam Phillips 01/29/2017 Global warming all cause by human beings? In contemporary societies, climate change and global warming are a hotly debated topic, such as rising sea levels, rising water temperatures, acidification of seawater, melting glaciers, and so on ... More and more scientists have done research on global warming , On the one hand, most people believe that global warming and human activities in society is closely related to the recent sharp increase in population is one of the main factors leading to global warming, the same population also threatens the ecological balance of the environment , The emission of carbon dioxide is called: the greenhouse effect. Secondly, I think that environmental pollution and climate change have a great relationship, land erosion, desertification, because the human uncontrolled development of forests, land reclamation caused widespread floods and sandstorms. However, the above reasons are related to human activities, on the other hand, some scientists believe that part of the reason for climate change is the periodic orbital changes, and is not human activity. Statements about Climate  @politifact. N.p., July 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 This article mentions that most scientists agree that climate change is real and that humans are causing climate change. The authors provide a chart of survey information,. This article has specific research materials, a statement on climate change and at least 18 scientific associations agree. This supports my research topic, Human Activities, and Climate Change, which are background information on the subject of my study and tell readers why I chose the theme and explain the human impact on the environment and call attention to the seriousness of the environment problem. Adec Group - Web Development Team. Climate Change is a  Climate Change is a Business. N.p., Apr. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article describes climate change as one of the major environmental issues facing the world. Climate change affects human life, and the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (UN IPCC) reiterated the fact that climate change, It is recognized that mitigation of climate change and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are no longer a business objective, but rather a global concern. The paper proposes two strategies, a strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, efforts to prevent deforestation and land degradation programs also support climate change adaptation and mitigation. Another strategy is to support the use of low-carbon materials and facilities to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions by reducing the carbon footprint. Finally, through partnerships with governments and non-governmental organizations, climate change awareness, awareness campaigns, advocacy and education, and climate change advocacy will be enhanced. This article is a good resource because it illustrates the various impacts of climate change on human life, and this is an effective way to rethink why Earth has climate change because of human activity, All kinds of hazards, human activities led to climate change, climate change has a serious impact on human beings, How Much Does Human Activity Affect Climate  How Much Does Human Activity Affect Climate Change? NCSE. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. At the beginning of this article, the author clearly shows that the climate is changing rapidly. Based on more than a century of scientific investigation, human beings are responsible for most of the climate change that we have seen over the last 150 years. But man is not the only suspect. The climate has changed throughout the history of the earth, far more than human evolution. While humans can influence this balance, other factors, from continental drift and changes in Earth orbital shape to changes in solar activity and El phenomena, For more than 100 years, scientists have argued that humans are the main suspects of current climate change. When humans burn gasoline, coal, natural gas, or drive cars, large amounts of carbon dioxide are released into the atmosphere. In the 1950s, scientists began to systematically measure the global growth of carbon dioxide. Since then, they have been able to confirm that the increase was mainly due to the burning of fossil fuels (as well as through other human activities such as land clearing). A recent analysis by Scientific American estimates estimated that at least three- quarters of climate change since 1950 was due to human activities. This article is an academic article, on the one hand it provides a lot of scientists research information, there are many specific examples, to seize the information provided by the article, which for my research topic is of great help, this article also embodies the other hand My topic gets the value of research. In addition, the research paper gives me a new view that climate change is not only related to human activities, but also to changes by Earth. Lupo, Anthony. Global Warming Is Natural, Not  N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The general attitude of this article is that human-induced global warming is already a fact of life, which is another matter. First, they argue that carbon dioxide is not a major pollutant in the long-term history has been more and less in the atmosphere of carbon dioxide. Second, they deny the climate is stable and slowly changing, and we are accelerating the climate beyond natural variability. Third, they pointed out that the latest model projection shows that the Earth will warm. No one advocates destroying the environment, and we have an obligation to protect the environment for future generations. At the same time, they believe that we need to make the right decisions based on scientific facts. This is a good resource for my subject, and the author clearly states that climate change is associated with natural ecological factors and is the object of my research topic. This is another key stakeholder, with a different view of climate change. Climate Change  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., 28 June 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This organization also discuss whether human is the main cause of climate changes. It compares the different ideas from scientists who agree different ideas. It lists 14 points that why human is the primary cause of making global warming while listing 13 points why human is not the main cause. It is interesting that have many different ideas from both sides