1 Hydraulic Fracking a process by which oil-searching and gas0searching company try and inject fluid (primarily water with salt and other solutions) at a high pressure into crust. in attempts to open veins within the crust to bring oil and natural gases to the surface to be extracted. Once the veins are open, the veins are kept open by the solutions in the fracking fluid. Once the fracking fluid is removed a decent flow of natural gases and crude oil rises to the surface of crust to be extracted by these governments funded oil searching companies; such as: Chevron Corp, ExxonMobil Corp. the public hydraulic Fracking experiment was first attempted in the 1940s, in a small town of Oklahoma , but the hydraulic fracking experiment publically proven successful until the early 1950s. recent reports state that there have been over 2.5 million attempts of hydraulic fracking in the us alone. Because of the nature the fracking it can only be safely performed in rural areas of the us. helping North Dakota the second most oil producing state in the us. Due to the rise in the demand of energy sources have caused the fracking sites to be opened closer to human civilizations which have proved very hazardous to the occupants of the nearby towns. Hydraulic fracking has caused many environmental problems over the last fifty to forty years. Due to the rise in awareness to global warming and climate changes in the ozone pf crust. As previously mentioned due to the recent surge in the demand of finding sustainable energy sources the fracking companies are forced to try and find more sites to fracking on. (Pritchard) (smith) Resulting in sites closer to civilizations. Sometimes when the fracking solutions have an over spill the fracking solution permanently contaminates the groundwater for the surrounding civilizations. in a recent documentary a story surfaced about the dangers of fracking to close to civilizations and a man in North Dakota recently reported that he was able to light the tap water coming out of his water faucet on fire and it stayed on fire. (smith) This because when the fracking occurs not only does it bring up renewable energy fracking also bring a gas called methane which is: highly flammable and highly fatal to a human being upon ingestion in to the body important systems. Investigators have found over 1000 other fatal 2 chemicals in fracking fluid including the following: arsenic mercury and other fatal chemicals. another problem with fracking is the amount of water that it takes to produce a decent flow of natural resources.it takes about 6 million gallons of water for a single fracking sites. Not only is fracking (once leaked in to the ground water creating a shortage in suitable water the amount of the water consumed in the fracking process also drastically drops the suitable water supply. As any government agency funded programs there is a level of risk and a level of benefits. From one point of view the benefits proceed to deterrents but some researchers beg to differ. one of the most currently surfaced benefits is that; hydraulic fracking process is the recovery of natural resources that could not have been recovered had it not been for the fracking process. Another benefit so hydraulic fracking is the economic spike in production because of the nature of fracking the majority of the fracking sites are in rural areas, but with the production of the natural resources added to the economy. studies have shown a greater spike in the economy value of the certain state or city. Because of the monetary value of the oil and natural gases rise so odes the monetary value of the cities or towns that have a nearby fracking sites bringing in revenue. Another benefit is the fact of bring jobs to the citizens of the rural area of the us giving them a chance to be able to provide for themselves as well as their families. And any time there is a process by which a natural energy source is to be extracted from the crust ids a benefit. After searching both sides of the hydraulic fracking debate I have arrived upon a solution. to hope make everyone involved in the dispute content. I propose that the general public petition their lawmakers from the law makers to pass a bill that the government licensed hydraulic fracking companies be able to only preform the application of the fracking fluid into the crust a certain mileage or distance from any populated civilization and also potion for a bill that regulates how much of the natural resources (the water in the solution, a the natural gases and oils brought to the surface as a result of fracking) used in the fracking process have a limit put on it. 3 Works Cited Pritchard, Joshua,. fracking debate. salem press encyclopedia, january 2016. document. smith, michael. hydraulic fracturing. boca raton,florida: CRC press, 2015. electronic documents. http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=10&sid=3d81805a-a08b-4276-8732- 8341d0169a60%40sessionmgr104&hid=119&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=edsgcl.469823 4