TeMaat 1 Melanie TeMaat Mr. Phillips Composition II 27 Jan. 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Animal Rights organizations, such as PETA strongly believe in the protection of animals and against animal abuse. Recently, Amblin Productions has produced a movie entitled Purpose, which is about how a dog finds purpose throughout different lifetimes. Recently, leaked footage from the movie shows trainers forcing a dog into turbulent water. Immediately, the movie and its producers received backlash from animal rights groups. Birds and Animals Unlimited, the trainers for the dogs in the movie, went under fire for the leaked footage. The video clip became popular in the media and will and has had a significant effect on the success. Many movies today, especially children films, involve animals such as cats or dogs into the story, making their appearance and use within the film industry inevitable. The question to be asked is whether or not it should be considered abusive to use animals within the movie industry. Because animals may need to be used in cinema, the abolishment of the use of animals in cinema would be unrealistic. Animal trainers, such as Birds and Animals Unlimited, will have to realize that they may have to limit animal usage in cinema, while PETA and other animal rights activist groups need to take into account the fact that sometimes animals will have to used in movies. In modern times, the concern for animals and their lack of respect or rights has been brought to attention and popularized through the media. For example, the growing popularity of vegetarianism and veganism prove that the animals and their rights have been brought to the TeMaat 2 attention, and has therefore decreased the number of people who consume animal products. There are countless numbers of groups and organizations that promote animal rights and oppose various animal cruelties. PETA is one that is arguably one of the most popular and well known groups. PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) is a nonprofit charitable organization that stresses the importance of the coexistence of the rights of both humans and animals. official website concludes that the only way to get attention for their cause is to make their gimmicks both and (Animal Rights PETA). This way, the organization has been able to receive national and even global attention, promoting their cause and leading to change, such as fur bans, increasing numbers of vegan options in food and clothing, and rescuing animals from experimentation. In society, many organizations and groups exist that advocate for animal rights, however, PETA has gained popularity in the animal rights world. This particular organization focuses on the treatment and abuse of animals in four different areas: the food industry, laboratories, clothing trade, and (most notably) the entertainment industry (About PETA). PETA views the the use of animals in the food industry as abusive and also environmentally devastating. In addition, they highlight the health benefits of going vegan. Next, animal experimentation in laboratories is described as inhumane; the website mentions the numerous animals that are tested on, leading to pain and loneliness due to isolation. Similarly, the fashion industry is said to be responsible for the death and suffering of many animals, particularly for the creation of leather, wool, and fur. Lastly, the entertainment industry is chastised for forcing animals to do tricks, often in fear of physical punishments. These animals are often separated from families and forced to travel in cramped cages. TeMaat 3 Animals and Birds Unlimited is a popular Hollywood animal training firm used to train dogs and other animals for movies. Popular movies that have used the training firm include Harry Potter Films, Games of Thrones, Benji, and Hotel For Dogs. In the past, they have received complaints from animal rights groups, especially PETA, for alleged animal abuse and mistreatment (Hollywood Reporter). For instance, pigs used in the movie, College Road Trip, were found to have overgrown hooves and bloody lesions, which sparked an outcry from PETA. In addition, dogs used for A Hotel for Dogs were said to have been forced to sleep outside in kennels without bedding in below 50 degree weather (Hollywood Reporter). Although popularly used in the movie industry, there have been numerous allegations of animal mistreatment for Animals and Birds Unlimited. PETA has constantly fired allegations at the training firm, suggesting that the practices are unjustful and cruel. Most of the allegations center on the kennels and cages used to house the animals when offset. PETA has reported that the cages had not been cleaned in weeks, as in the instance of birds of prey used for Harry Potter films. Other such allegations suggest the uncertainty and the questionable conditions that the animals face in Birds and Animals Unlimited. A recent clip for the upcoming movie, A Purpose, shows trainers who seem to be forcing a dog into turbulent waters. Thus, PETA thickened the situation with allegations of animal cruelty for forcing a dog to do something potentially dangerous. The video clip gained immediate attention as it was shared and reshared on multiple social media platforms. Due to the sudden unpopularity, the opening premiere was cancelled. In addition, Birds and Animals Unlimited produced a statement defending themselves and also explaining how the situation was greatly misinterpreted. The firm claims the video clip was to look TeMaat 4 as if trainers were forcing a dog into water against its will. In the video clip a voice can be heard saying, gotta throw him However, Bird and Animals Unlimited states that the person who voiced this statement is unclear and also irrelevant, as the animal training firm claims that this person had no authority towards the matter whatsoever. Lastly, they ensure that an American Humane Representative was in attendance the entire time, observing and approving every shot taken (Bird and Animals Unlimited website). The entity of the situation begs the question as to whether or not it should be considered abusive to use animals in the movie industry.