The topic of Global Warming has caused great controversy throughout the nation, as well as the world, especially in terms of politics. Global Warming has become such a huge factor within our political system because many people believe that the climate is rapidly changing. On one hand, these issues have been presented because of the way americans live their daily lives. While other groups believe that climate change is not a force that can be prevented. Groups like Heritage Foundation are strong believers that enforcing policy on a contribution of emission to the atmosphere make little to no difference to the Earth. By coming to this conclusion, other organizations like the NRDC (Natural Resources Defense Council) often find themselves at odds with those agencies structured like the Heritage Foundation. These two groups have taken opposing positions on properly rectifying how humans interact with the Earth. The solution however, is one that is needed for the sustainability of the human race; We must ensure that we are providing for the generations to come in the future. Both the NRDC and the Heritage Foundation must put aside all differences led by profit or namesake and understand the impact global warming is having in our world wide community. By doing so, this initiative will be the beginning to the reconstruction of how Americans go through their daily life. The fight against what is right can not be won by one man, or council- but as a people who must stand alongside one another to do best. The solution to the ongoing dispute is to join together as allies and compromise by coming to a middle ground for both parties. The Heritage Foundation is an institution that promotes the ideas of the conservative view, its goal is to america by promoting policies based on their research. Their opposition of enforcing public policies in the name of global warming has gained them a spotlight for openly denying contribution to the issue. However, the goal for all conservative policies are to Americans build a better life for The focus on the Global Warming issue is that the policies that are being enforced going to improve fluctuating climate. They believe policies set in place are putting unnecessary prohibitions on companies that are trying to gain profit, as well and the American family. By setting forth such invasive policies that regulate the emissions of natural resources, they believe Administration is stunting the potential of the economy. they have waged heavy costs on American families and businesses for decades. It is important that policymakers understand the full scope of the scientific debate on global warming and the appropriate role of government in (David Kreutzer et al., The State of Climate Science: No Justification for Extreme Policies, The Heritage Foundation) As expressed from this quote by members of the Heritage Foundations, it is their belief that policies, and reform have affected the average American household. In opposition to the Heritage Foundation, The Natural Resource Defense main goal to defend the Earth and all that it encompasses. This movement has focused specifically on rapid change in climate and increase of temperature. By promoting the prevention of companies emitting natural resources into the atmosphere, NRDC believes that it is saving the environment and ultimately ensuring sustainability. Issues like rising sea levels, droughts, and melting glaciers all bring forth concern on the debate. The council has recognized improvements on behalf of the US, but to prevent mass wipeouts of the Human race NRDC believes so much more work has to be done and set in place. As stated by the NRDC, the United States, the burning of fossil fuels to make electricity is the largest source of heat-trapping pollution, producing about two billion tons of CO2 every year. Coal-burning power plants are by far the biggest polluters. The second-largest source of carbon pollution is the transportation sector, which generates about 1.7 billion tons of CO2 emissions a Their plans for reform include cutting out the emission of all fossil fuels due the fact that they all aid in so much pollution. The solution to this ongoing issue will not be simple to accomplish because there are so many demands that both parties feel must be met. Nonetheless, what each party wants must come second to the greater good of society to preserve the resources that may be depleted in the near future. To propose that both the NRDC, and the Heritage Foundation set aside thoughts powered by profit, credit, and power will only be the first step in the process. The alliance between both stakeholders should call for a mutually beneficial outcome where both institutions give up the strong will against the others ideas and come to a middle ground. The proposed solution for this specific issue will include this alliance to give up specific terms that are held. The adaptation of relying on other, more efficient forms of energy will come into play. The heritage foundation will advocate for the reform of energy supply. Whereas the National Resource Defense Council, the original advocate for this reform, will find methods for its funding without directly reaching into the pockets of Americans. Funding options will come from other foundations, corporation, and/or fundraising. As this transition continues, fossil fuel plant will be lessened but not completely depleted. By taking on the steps, the beginning of reform will be put into action. According to the Mark Review of solutions to global warming, air pollution, and energy security, there many other forms of energy-related solutions; nine of these other proposed solutions are electricity based options. However, methods for this construction are not limited solely to electricity, but has proposed in forms of liquid fuel. With either of these methods being put into effect carbon emissions will deplete due to other forms of energy use. The conversion of our lives into this process will be costly but sacrifice must be made to ensure our survival as a race. Investing in methods that will inevitably destroy what both parties are working towards defeats the purpose of what both parties want. The separation of these groups allow room for them to target one another instead work toward the one common goal of sustainability and preparing the earth to be better living environment for all of inhabitants. While posing against one another, there will be the ongoing notion that reconstruction will never reach potential. However, by including one another and forming an alliance to create a system where both parties benefit, the world will be in a much healthier state. With the proposition of reform through lessening the amount of carbon emissions and converting to more concentrated solar power systems there is room for so much more improvement. These improvements are all possible upon recognizing that this battle is not one that can be fought alone, but alongside each other as Americans and beings of the human race that want to protect those things that are held dear. The fight of one against another only prolong the effects of the Global warming and will only be detrimental to the existence of life here on earth. Jacobson, Mark Z. Review of solutions to global warming, air pollution, and energy  Energy & Environmental Science 2.2 (2009): 148-173. Dunlap, Riley E., and Araon M. McCright. A widening gap: Republican and Democratic views on climate  Science and Policy for Sustainable Development 50.5 (2008):26-35. Byrne, John, et al. American policy conflict in the greenhouse: Divergent trends in federal, regional, state, and local green energy and climate change  Policy 35.9 (2007): 4555-4573. Kreutzer, David W., Nicolas Loris, Katie Tubb, and Kevin D. Dayaratna. The State of Climate Science: No Justification for Extreme  Heritage Foundation . Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. MacMillan, Amanda. Global Warming  Resource Defense Council , 11 Mar. 2016. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017.