Vladimir Shpilchevskiy Karen Hanson ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Video Games and Violence How did people entertain themselves a century ago? They could read a book, listen to music, go to the theater. But with the rise of technology people found a new way to spend leisure time - playing video games. Nowadays video games production is a multi-billion dollar industry with the customers all over the world. But if someone will take a closer look on the cover of a popular game, this person may notice such phrases as and and others. Those are phrases that Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) is using to describe the content of some games. The Pew Research Center reported in 2008 that 97% of young people in America in the age between 12 and 17 played video games and that two-thirds of them played action and adventure games that usually contain violence. According to another report more than a half of all games which ESRB rated contained violence and that more then 90% of those are rated acceptable for children of 10 years or older. Many people, including scientist, are concerned about with the problem of how violent video games could affect children and their character. American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) believes that there is a direct link between violent video games and children having aggressive thoughts, angry feelings, and reported aggression. Entertainment Software Association thinks that video games do not lead to violence, because for now there is no research that is proving it. Both organizations agree that video games should not harm mental health of the children.To limit any possible negative effect, video game companies should allow AAP to establish Evaluation Teams that will access new video games and put their own label of approval on games that they think are acceptable according to pediatrics standards. American Academy of Pediatrics is the organization that was created by pediatrics to address pediatric healthcare standards. Now it has 64000 members and runs medical education programs for pediatrics. Organization has the largest pediatric publishing program in the world, and some of this articles are dedicated to video games violence program. They have made laboratory and field based researched and came to the conclusion that video games lead to thoughts, angry feelings and According to their 2008 research of US and Japanese youth playing violent video games is significant risk factor for later physically aggressive Also they mention one of their experiments where research team randomly assigned to subjects to play violent and nonviolent games. Then, subjects were asked to administer pain in a form of unpleasant sound( fingernails scratching the blackboard, fire alarms, dentist drills) to another member of research team they did not know. Subject were allowed to choose the volume and length of unpleasant sounds. Analyzing the results, research team came to conclusion that subjects who played violent games tended to choose louder sounds and for a longer period of time. AAP thinks that there is no reason why subjects would not will to inflict pain in the real world outside the laboratory, considering awareness that their actions during the experiment were monitored. However, AAP admit that there is no research that proves the direct link between video game violence and real world violence. They state that such kind of research will never take place because making people become more violent while playing games and watch them commit violence towards other subjects is unethical. Still AAP mentions that the linkage between video game violence and real world aggression have been found. The recent study, that included parents changing their media diet by showing them more social programs instead of violent ones, showed the decrease in aggression and improvement of behavior. American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP) is a non-profit professional organization that offers psychiatric help to children and teens. Like AAP, this organization also believes that children who play violent video games may become numb to the horror of violence, can become more aggressive towards people around them. AACAP have run studies showing that children playing violent video games may use violence as a method of solving their problems. Also AACAP believes that such games may worsen behavioral and emotional problems. There is the opinion that ESRB rating system does not show all the types of violence that game includes, because much of the bad violence acts in the top-selling games are showed only after playing a significant amount of time. Andrew study provides us with the detailed description of the senseless acts of violence in the top-selling games, mentioning that such ESRB warnings as and represents only a little content, not the whole variety of brutal violence acts such as mass shootings, ripping the heart out of another person, and crashing human p.10). Those facts state several questions: firstly, if this kind of content appropriate for teenagers, secondly, if the ESRB rating is enough to portray all the violent acts, so that parents are sure what their child will face while playing a game. Entertainment Software Association (ESA) is the trade association of the video game industry that includes most of the top video game publishers such as EA, Konami, Capcom and others. ESA states that games that contain violence do not lead to violence in the real world. To support their position, they operate several facts. First of all, the direct linkage between those two sorts of violence is not yet proven. ESA also provides with statistic information, for example that violent crimes among young people has decreased during the early 1990-s while the video game industry was constantly increasing as well as the number of young people playing games, violent ones included. Violent video games are sold not only in the US, but the level of violent crimes there is much lower, and that makes ESA think that such aspect of US life as easy access to guns is much more important and suitable for understanding any violent crime. Such authorities as U.S. Supreme Court, U.S. Surgeon General, Federal trade Commission and Federal Communications Commission also have checked the scientific data and came to the conclusion that there is no evidence that violent video games cause violent actions. Christopher Ferguson, member of the Department of Behavioral of the Texas International University, and other professors have run studies examining relationship between violent video games and aggression both in the lab and in the real world. During the first experiment participants were either randomized or allowed to choose between playing violent and nonviolent video games. Experiment showed that although men were more aggressive than females, no difference in aggression between people playing violent and nonviolent games has been exposed. Another experiment examined correlation between trait aggression, violent criminal acts, and exposure to both violent games and family violence. Study showed that family violence, male gender and trait aggression led to violent crimes, while playing violent video games did not. Lawrence Kutner, child psychologist and a former member of the psychiatry faculty at Massachusetts General Hospital, address the overall concern about video games and violence, trying to find a connection between games and some shooting and murders that have occurred for the past years, and finds none. He believes that the of children becoming more violent just playing violent games are not proved by research. Kutner thinks that all the conclusions that video games lead to violence are from bad or irrelevant research, muddleheaded thinking and unfounded, simplistic news p.49). Analyzing both points of view and their supporting arguments, we see that they are quite different. But despite of having almost opposite opinions about video games violence both AAP and ESA are interested in children being mentally healthy and not suffering from any possible negative consequences of playing violent video games. That is why the compromise that meets both of interests is to establish independent Evaluation Teams within video game companies. Those companies will consist of professional pediatrics that will carefully evaluate games that the company produce and put their own label of approval or not approval according to the pediatrics standards. The perfect example of game evaluation company is ESRB, which assigns age and content rating for video games and mobile apps, so the sellers and parents would know for children of what age is the given game acceptable. However, Krantz research shows that ESRB ratings are sometimes not enough provide the full picture of all the violent actions that the game may include, and that makes the idea of Pediatrics Evaluation Teams, portraying the full spectrum of any senseless violence in game, even more credible. Video games violence has become a big concern nowadays, and although there is no evidence of direct connection between violent video games and real world violence, there are still measures to be taken to reduce any possible negative effects that players(children in particular) may face while playing violent video games. That is why Pediatrics Evaluation Teams are needed to provide the complete evaluation all upcoming games, with a detailed description of not only violence acts, but any acts of using drugs, racism and so on. By doing so, in the future parents would have an opportunity to find out about all the severe game content and decide if they want their children to play this game. Works Cited 1) American Academy of Pediatrics.July 2016. www.pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/early/2016/07/14/peds.2016-1298. Accessed 28 th January 2017. 2) Games and Children: Playing with American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. No. 91; June 2105. n-and-Video-Games-Playing-with-Violence-091.aspx. Accessed 28 th January 2017. 3) Krantz, Andrew, et al. Violent Video Games Exposed: A Blow By Blow Account Of Senseless Violence In  Journal Of Psychology 151.1 (2017): 76-87. SPORTDiscus. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 4) Facts About Games and Entertainment Software Association. www.theesa.com/article/essential-facts-about-games-and-violence/ Accessed 28 th January 201 5) Ferguson, Christopher J., et al. Violent Video Games And Aggression: Causal Relationship Or Byproduct Of Family Violence And Intrinsic Violence  Criminal Justice And Behavior 35.3 (2008): 311-332. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 6) Cantor, Joanne. Grand Theft Childhood: The Surprising Truth About Violent Video Games And What Parents Can Do - By Lawrence Kutner & Cheryl  Journal Of Communication 1 (2009): 199. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 7) Rating Entertainment Software Rating Board. Accessed 28 th January 2017.