Shaheen 1 Ferris Shaheen Karen Hanson ENC1102 28 January 2017 Intellectual Property and Liberty on the Internet In the age of data streaming through high-speed wireless internet highways protecting digital property can be a difficult task. With all the data whizzing through the air at every moment near impossible to tell if every download on every device is kosher in the eyes of digital property owners everywhere. So what can be done by these intellectual property (IP) owners to defend themselves from being taken advantage of? IP owners can copyright their property in order to ensure that their data is lawfully protected from illegal distribution. The Merriam-Webster dictionary defines as (as an idea, invention, or process) that derives from the work of the mind or intellect; an application, right, or registration relating to and as the exclusive legal right to reproduce, publish, sell, or distribute the matter and form of something (as a literary, musical, or artistic work). To infringe said copyright would be to distribute intellectual property that does not belong to one. Though copyright infringement occurs every day on small scales, large scale cases of copyright infringement can reach courtrooms and cost companies millions of dollars. In March 2007 Viacom International, Inc. filed a $1 billion lawsuit against Google and YouTube for what Viacom called copyright International, Inc. v. YouTube, Inc. ) . Viacom is a large multimedia conglomerate company and cable television provider. With Shaheen 2 networks reaching around 700 million people, Viacom hosts brands such as Nickelodeon, MTV, Comedy Central, and SPIKE In the case Viacom claims that YouTube has infringed their copyright by hosting video that contains intellectual property, and after winning a court ruling, Viacom demanded that YouTube hand over video viewing habits of who has ever used (Judge). The Electronic Frontier Foundation criticized this ruling, with concerns that individual users could be identified through IP addresses and usernames. The Electronic Frontier Foundation called the ruling a to privacy (Judge). Electronic Frontier Foundation committed to defending civil liberties in the digital world and advocates for free expression, innovation through impact litigation, policy analysis and grassroots activism to name a few ). Between protecting individual privacy or company profits, which should come first and foremost? Can a middle ground be reached? The Electronic Frontier Foundation was founded in 1990 by John Gilmore, John Perry Barlow and Mitch Kapor as a response to actions by law enforcement agencies that convinced the three that the government was unaware of emerging forms of online communication ). Gilmore, Barlow, and Kapor all believed that there was a need for increased protection of internet citizen liberties of New Media ). On their website, the Electronic Frontier Foundation describes themselves to user privacy and free expression on the internet ). With their involvement in many cases at all levels of the US legal system related to technology law -- including Century Fox v. Cablevision, Authors Guild v. Google, and v. eBay to name a few -- the Electronic Frontier Foundation has certainly earned this title. There was no way the Electronic Frontier Foundation would not get involved when Viacom demanded the release of viewer information from Google. Shaheen 3 Viacom, Inc. today is an American company based in New York City that hosts cable television and other media across multiple platforms to over 160 countries ). Some of their more popular channels include MTV, Nickelodeon, VH1, and Comedy Central. Though Viacom may seem like it has been around forever, humble beginning was as a television syndication of CBS Films, Inc. in 1952 ). The syndication would not be named Viacom until 1970, when the FCC made it illegal for television networks to own syndication companies ). That was when Viacom stood on its own two feet for the first time. Throughout the rest of the 20th century Viacom would host many popular TV shows, such as Love Twilight and Andy Griffith In 2007 Viacom filed a lawsuit against YouTube for exploiting the infringing potential of digital and technology to willfully infringe copyrights on a huge scale and profiting from the illegal conduct of others as ( International, Inc. v. YouTube, Inc. ). Viacom demanded that YouTube take down one hundred thousand videos containing copyrighted content from their website, and YouTube complied. Shortly after this case, numerous other media companies followed suit; filing class action lawsuits on YouTube for copyright infringement. In March 2010 the parties requested summary judgment, and a number of pro-internet liberty nonprofits led by the Electronic Frontier Foundation filed an amicus brief to urge the court not to undermine safe harbors set by the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in favor of the plaintiffs ). Title II of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act creates a or exception to the Act for online service providers such as YouTube to protect them from copyright infringement liability, provided that they meet certain requirements (DMCA). The judge filed in favor of YouTube and Viacom appealed the case to the Second Circuit Court Shaheen 4 of Appeals, where the Electronic Frontier Foundation would again file an amicus brief. April 2012 the Second Circuit Court of Appeals would reopen the case and rule in favor of YouTube again in April 2013. The case would finally be settled in March 2014 when the court favors YouTube for a final time (Cases). With ever faster advancing technology policies regarding the internet need to be updated more frequently in order for every party -- legislators, IP owners, and online service providers -- need to be on the same page. Though the court ruled in favor of YouTube, copyright infringement is still something to be worried about on the internet. There are many ways to profit on the internet and not uncommon to see copyright infringement involved in some of these. Perhaps the best solution to copyright infringement issues is for corporations to work together and profit mutually. For example, Viacom partners with YouTube and allows YouTube to host its copyrighted content, in exchange YouTube also hosts advertisements for Viacom and/or shares profits. This way both companies can enjoy the elbow space allowed to them in the same market on the internet. Intellectual property can be difficult to manage in this era but it impossible to solve these dilemmas. As long as corporations can agree amongst each other on how to treat each property and policy keeps the definition of what can be claimed as infringing copyright up to date, then this issue should disappear into the future. Shaheen 5 Works Cited Definition of intellectual property https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/intellectual%20property Definition of copyright Viacom International Inc., V YouTube Inc. Viacom http://www.viacom.com/about/pages/default.aspx Judge orders Google to give YouTube user data to Viacom https://web.archive.org/web/20100702111029/http://afp.google.com/article/ALeqM5gvF PgT3MNrzaN7r-Y37eFI-qv4bA Electronic Frontier Foundation https://www.eff.org/about Jones, Steve (2003). Encyclopedia of New Media. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications. ISBN 0-7619-2382-9 Broadcasting Magazine http://www.americanradiohistory.com/Archive-BC/BC-1968/1968-01-29-BC.pdf CBS transfers CATV to new public . Broadcasting: 48. 1970-07-27. Cases: Viacom V. Youtube DMCA