Rahman 1 Alexandra Rahman Instructor Martha Heiser ENC 1102 Section 068 27 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft: Legal Drinking Age in the US Alcohol consumption has been a large part of American culture for a long time. Years ago it was of the norm to see young adults drinking in public, oftentimes with older adults. Today, the scenery is considerably different. When one pictures young adults drinking they might imagine dim lights, loud music, large crowds, keg stands, and lots of heavy drinking. Questions have been raised regarding whether the current system is working efficiently or if it is imposing negative effects on young people. Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) is an organization that hones in their focus on maintaining the current legal drinking age of 21. In opposition, Choose Responsibility (CR) is an organization that aspires to lower the drinking age to 18. Both viewings on this controversial topic have the same desire to rid the negative effects of alcohol on young adults. Because the consumption of alcohol can aid in dangerous decision making and cause health-related issues for young people, MADD and CR can work to eliminate these risks by lowering the legal drinking age to 19 while maintaining the age of 21 to purchase alcohol. Continuing to enforce the current laws that set the legal drinking age of 21 is a method that some argue will decrease the hardships of alcohol in young adults. The idea here is that with more law enforcement and control, young people will have less access to these substances, therefore decreasing the likelihood of drinking before the age of 21. A big supporter of this is MADD, which is a non-profit organization that was formed by Candace Lightner when her Rahman 2 daughter was killed by a drunk driver. Due to this incident, the main purpose is to bring drunk driving to an end in reason to prevent future accidents. In David Strickland, Mahesh Shetty, Steven Benvenisti, and Barbara Brodt discuss the advantages of the present-day laws, generally stating that the legal drinking age of 21 reduces traffic crashes, protects young maturing brains, and keeps young people safer overall This educates the general public by providing information that is spoken in a way that is easy to understand. A supporter of MADD is Drew Saylor; he wrote an academic journal that focused closely on why the legal age shall remain the same. In Heavy Drinking On College Campuses: No Reason to Change Minimum Legal Drinking Age of Saylor advises that changing the law would shut down an extremely researched and proved-to-work-better system. He adds that and international experiences with a lowered MLDA [minimum legal drinking indicate there are serious social and public health In other words, he is expressing that the US should take notice of this and not make the same mistakes. On the other hand, some believe that lowering the legal drinking age would be of greater benefit for young people. An advocate of this is Choose Responsibility (CR), an organization that promotes the discussion and introduction of alcohol in an alcohol-central culture in which Americans live. This organization views the issue of alcohol consumption in a different manner then organizations like MADD. They see the current age as unfair and limiting, such in that one is officially an adult at the age of 18, meaning they will be tried as an adult and have the ability to go to war. It is limiting in that parents (in most states) do not have the right to properly introduce alcoholic beverages while they contradict themselves by drinking in front of their kids. According to John McCardel, CR that combines appropriate incentive and Rahman 3 punitive measures for illegal, irresponsible behavior (McCardel In short, CR aspires that changing the current system will induce positive results by decreasing binge drinking and other irresponsible acts by the usage of education and other unused techniques. Scholars are involved in this topic of discussion and process their thoughts and research through academic journals. In Lower drinking age? a complex issue: the forces driving the global epidemic of harmful youth drinking run far deeper than the age of majority for Savage explores the idea that research is hard to deny, stating impulse of those of us in the public health community to respond by citing data on increased drinking-related harm associated with a lower drinking age does not fully address them He is saying that even though the data is there, important aspects are still not being addressed, such as the fact that parents cannot be legally present when their kids are drinking. Closely linked to this, in Will Increasing Alcohol Availability by Lowering the Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking and Related Consequences Among , Henry Wechsler and Toben Nelson use research to create an unbiased overlook of the effects that are succumbed by the age in which alcohol consumption begins in minors. Provided is a graph that displays an increase in binge drinking of people of age 21-24 in the past 10 years, while those aged 18-20 have had no increase (Wechsler 9). With this evidence it is observable that younger age does not always entail higher risk of danger with alcohol usage. After discussing the different methods in which viewers opinionate themselves on the topic of the legal drinking age in the US, it is noticeable that both organizations have the same task. MADD and CR similarly work to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol on young adults. Since both argue polar methods of action, a well-thought out compromise can generate a solution that may even provide better results than both original plans. In Lower drinking Rahman 4 age? a complex issue: the forces driving the global epidemic of harmful youth drinking run far deeper than the age of majority for Savage says, cannot realistically evaluate the net effects of changing (or maintaining) the current drinking age unless both sides bring equal measures of science and moral and socio-cultural consideration to bear on their arguments His reasoning is very considerable; finding a fair compromise is the answer to this issue. Lowering the legal drinking age to 19 would be a good middle as it would leave extended room for the introduction period and the developmental maturity window. With alcohol being a part of American culture, it is important for this society to have the best-working law in order to secure and promote safe practices of consumption by young adults. Future generations will be leading the country one day as medical doctors, lawyers, and business managers. Therefore, if the US wants to have succession in the future, then social, mental, and physical health must not be disrupted during such a critical time. Health is a serious matter and needs to be dealt with correctly. Creating a method that works through compromise would be the smart thing to do, and if the plan fails, a new one should be made until it is a working law. Rahman 5 Works Cited McCardel, John. Choose Responsibility. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Saylor, Drew K. Heavy Drinking On College Campuses: No Reason to Change Minimum Legal Drinking Age of  Journal of American College Health 59.4 (2011): 330-333. PsycINFO. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Strickland, David, Mahesh Shetty, Steven Benvenisti, and Barbara Brodt. MADD Support 21. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Wechsler, Henry, and Toben F. Nelson. Will Increasing Alcohol Availability by Lowering the Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking and Related Consequences Among  American Journal of Public Health 100.6 (2010): 986-992. General Science Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Savage, Seddon. Lower drinking age? a complex issue: the forces driving the global epidemic of harmful youth drinking run far deeper than the age of majority for  New Hampshire Business Review 2008: 19. General OneFile. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Rahman 6