Greathouse, 1 Caroline Greathouse Dennis Composition II Section 3 29 January 2017 Sexual Education Methods in the United States How do we teach children about sex? The various methods of sexual education are widely debated. After 1996, a standard of sexual education was created with passage of Section 510 of Title V of the Social Security Act mandated that the US Government fund state-level abstinence-only-until-marriage education (AOE) in public (Jeffries, Dodge, Bandiera, Reece). Two groups are working to change this and create their own standard of sexual education. Advocates for Youth is an organization that aims to provide access to accurate information regarding sexual health for adolescents because they believe in promoting sexual health fairness (Advocates for Youth). Ascend is an opposing group which encourages abstinence because youths have more opportunities to improve their futures when they avoid the hazards and risk associated with premarital sex (We Ascend). The groups should combine under the shared mission to improve teen sexual health and create a comprehensive curriculum that provides accurate information on safe sex as well as the method of abstinence. Ascend was founded in 2007 and was formerly known as the National Abstinence Education Association (Ascend). Since then, the organization has raised nearly $500 million to support sexual risk avoidance (SRA) programs. These programs are not only but teach a holistic view of sex and sexual health (NAEA). The difference is that abstinence is considered the best method to avoiding sexual risk and this is told to the students Greathouse, 2 often. Ascend is led by Valerie Huber, who has worked in the SRA field across the nation, training sex educators and lobbying in Washington, D.C. (Ascend). This organization operates on the national level with their most senior staff communicating with the Ohio Department of Health; the Administration of Children and Families; and even the Federal Department of Health and Human Services (Ascend). In fact, their headquarters are located right next to the White House in D.C. on Pennsylvania Avenue NW. Recently, the organization published a paper titled Risk Avoidance which show the impact of SRA education through Ascend in these graphs. Overall, the group works to promote abstinence on a national level through lobbying, training sex educators, and widespread networking. The organization believes that adolescents are better prepared for their futures with they do not participate in pre-matrimonial sexual activity. On the other side of this controversial topic is the organization called Advocates for Youth. Their view on abstinence education programs is this: marriage programs are unethical, harmful, and stigmatizing. Young people deserve (Advocates for Youth). The organization has operated in the field of informing adolescents of their reproductive Greathouse, 3 and sexual health for over three decades (Advocates for Youth). According to Advocates for Youth, 95% of people have sex before they are married. In 2016 alone, the group distributed 1,200,000 condoms on college campuses and shared over one thousand abortion stories to reduce the stigma associated with it (Advocates for Youth). Their annual expenses last year totaled nearly seven million dollars, as shown in the charts below (Advocates for Youth). The group is in D.C., just like Ascend. Per Advocates for Youth, the SRA field promoted by Ascend abstinence as the only morally correct Advocates for Youth explains the difference between their views and the SRA approach to sex education in the chart below. The 3-R approach (used by Advocates for Youth) is this: Rights. Respect. Responsibility. This summarizes all of the global and local programs that they sponsor, Greathouse, 4 with the common goal of empowering youths to take charge of their health without societal backlash. Ascend and Advocates for Youth have opposing approaches to the same dilemma: keeping teens healthy in their choices. It is a fact that abstinence is the only 100% effective method to prevent pregnancy or the transmission of sexual infections. In order to benefit teens, Ascend and Advocates for Youth should combine their organizations and create a new advocacy group that teaches abstinence along with a comprehensive curriculum that covers all topics. The two groups should form a council filled with their leading curriculum writers and draft a new sex education program. Then, the groups will share resources and network connections to promote the new program. This should result in more effective sex education with a national standard that is realistic and truthful. With this compromise, both groups are enabled to continue their work with youth while also broadening the reach of their campaign through the shared network. Additionally, both groups give up their control over certain schools/regions, so it is a fair trade for both organizations. Greathouse, 5 Works Cited Advocates for Youth. Advocatesforyouth.org. N.p., 2008. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Ascend. Sexual Risk Avoidance Works. Publication. Washington, D.C: Ascend, 2016. Print. Chastity  Chastity Project. Stewardship, 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.  We Ascend. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://weascend.org/>. Jeffries, William L., IV, Brian Dodge, Frank C. Bandiera, and Michael Reece. Beyond abstinence-only: relationships between abstinence education and comprehensive topic  Sex Education 10.10 (May 2010): 171-85. EBSCO . Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Lerner, Justin E., and Robert L. Hawkings. Welfare, Liberty, and Security for All? U.S. Sex Education Policy and the 1996 Title V Section 510 of the Social Security  Archives of Sexual Behavior 45.5 (July 2016): 1027-028. EBSCO. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. NAEA - National Abstinence Education  NAEA - National Abstinence Education Association - FAQs. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.abstinenceassociation.org/faqs/index.html>. Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood Federation of America Inc., 2017. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.siecus.org/index.cfm>. Social Security Administration. Compilation of the Social Security  Social Security Administration. Social Security Administration, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.