Rainey 1 Kiersten Rainey 1/27/17 Ms. Basil The issue of the use of solar energy or fossil fuels has been going on for decades now, many different countries are trying to decide whether Solar energy is as efficient as it sounds. Two companies that have a stake in this topic are British Petroleum (BP) and Solarcity. BP is a company that produces oil and most people would know it as a gas station. Solar city is a company that was just recently purchased by Tesla and makes solar panels for many different day to day things. Many environmentalists and anyone that believes in global warming believes that fossil fuels like the company BP produces can be harmful to the environment and want only the use of solar energy or other forms of To keep these two companies up and running while keeping the planets healthy, they need to come to a solution like that idea of putting a cap on carbon emissions into the atmosphere dioxide that planes, cars, factories etc., produce, thought to be harmful to the (Cambridge Dictionary)) to prevent any further global warming, or at least slow the rate of it down. To explain this problem more in depth; the fossil fuel industry has been in high demand for decades now due to the advancement in technology. Due to recent world, economic success, the worlds Carbon dioxide (co2) emissions were at a record high in the year 2010, this economic success was seen as a good thing for the world, however environmentalists and scientists who studied climate change knew it was bad (Glen Peter 2). It was evident that when GDP rose co2 emissions grew even faster, and this problem has yet to stop. The reason fossil fuels are so appealing to consumers, is because they are significantly cheaper to purchase for everyday use. Rainey 2 Part of mission statement says that energy BP produces not only keeps America moving but it also helps drive the American (BP we So they do help the U.S. economy thrive by keeping the money flowing and providing for every American in a way but some think that there is a better way to keep the economy going. The first stakeholder that could be greatly impacted by the idea of getting rid of fossil fuels and switching to solar would be BP, they rely on the consumption of gasoline and oil to stay running and in business. BP is a major contributor to the global economy, and an even bigger contributor in the United States. BP is the largest oil company to the united states. day, BP sells 50 million gallons to our valued consumers via more than 7,000 BP-branded retail locations across the United (BP we If this company were to be shut down it would affect the U.S. economy in very many ways. The idea of a solar energy, renewable resources world sounds wonderful to many people, however there are many different factors that go into this more than just making solar panels. According to John Turner the author of A Realizable Renewable Resource Future he claims that many people think that alternative energy sources (renewable energy sources) are very expensive upfront and worth how much they cost. This mentality is the same for consumers, most of Americans drive cars and most of them run on gasoline, more than likely gasoline provided by BP. If that resource is taken away It would anger many of those car drivers and force them to get rid of their gasoline powered cars. The second stake holder is the Solarcity; they are the number one beneficiaries of this potential switch from fossil fuels to solar energy. This solar technology has had some of an effect on the world, and has been adopted by many as a source of energy in homes, businesses and even pools. Environmentalists would be very happy about this switch as well, their whole mission is the the and make the world cleaner, and solar energy is an all-natural source. Rainey 3 Solarcity and Tesla just combined forces to create a new product, solar cell roof shingles, This new product would provide enough energy for your home and pool and even your electric powered car. These shingles will not look like typical ugly solar panels; they will be new and improved shingles are solar cells embedded in tempered glass that incorporates a color louver From the ground, the shingles are opaque and look like ordinary shingles. But viewed from above, the shingles are transparent, revealing the photovoltaic electronics inside. goal is to have solar roofs that look better than a normal Musk (Tullo 2). A solution that would benefit the wants and needs of both parties would be to put a cap on carbon dioxide emissions per person. The capping method is already being used in the European Union (Yale e360) and is a really good idea that should be adopted by everyone especially the entire United States. Putting cap on the CO2 emissions would be the most realistic solution option to reducing the issues with global warming, it gives consumers the option to switch over to solar or keep their cars and just be more mindful of how much they drive. It will keep the fossil fuel industry like BP up and running without hurting their profits, outlawing fossil fuels would be far too drastic right now. Another way to prevent this potential law from being pushed aside like its nothing is demanding payment for any carbon overages, like phone companies demand money for data overages. It is not likely that fossil fuels can just be removed from our everyday lives, it is heavily relied of in homes cars and many different things. After careful examination of both sides of this issue, the dilemma of dangerous carbon emissions is to dangerous of an issue to ignore, this cap on CO2 emissions is the best option to keep both parties happy. BP is the oil and gas company that contribute significantly to the us economy, and would be detrimental to cut them off. Solarcity will benefit from this and possibly Rainey 4 sell more solar panels in the process, while making environmentalists happy as well. Both groups bring positive things to the world and more specifically the United States, and getting rid of one would be more harmful at this time. Compromising is an important aspect of life and everyone should know how to, even these large multi-billion dollar companies need to know the value of compromise. Work Cited: Carbon Emissions Definition in the Cambridge English  Carbon Emissions Definition in the Cambridge English Dictionary. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. For the definition of carbon Tullo, Alexander H. Tesla to launch solar  (2016): 15-15 This article was helpful to the writing process because it gave me knowledge on the company of Solarcity and their new approsch at solar roof shingles. This source is credible because it was from an alternative source about the company Solarcity and was written by Alexander Tullo who contributes to the Central Sciences Chemical notebook. Peters, Glen P., et al. Rapid growth in CO2 emissions after the 2008-2009 global financial  Nature Climate Change 2.1 (2012): 2-4. This one explained the issue with increased emissions of CO2 into the atmosphere, and how it is thought to be one of the main contributers to global warming. Rainey 5 This source is credible because it was written by many trained and experienced environmental experts, one of the authors was Glen Peters who has been involved with the carbon and many other studies related to climate. Piscitello, E. Scott, and V. Susan Bogach. Financial incentives for renewable energy development: proceedings of an international workshop, February 17-21, 1997, Amsterdam, Netherlands. Vol. 391. World Bank Publications, 1998.) Web Jan. 25 2017 Proceedings of an International Workshop, February 17-21, 1997, Amsterdam, Netherlands. This Source presented World Bank is providing technical assistance to the Government of China (GOC) to help develop recommendations for changes, where necessary, to present system of financial incentives for commercial renewable energy This source is credible because it was a workshop performed by goverments of leading world powers of the world. Putting a Price on Carbon: An Emissions Cap or a  Yale E360. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. This source was helpful because it explained the idea of the cap and how it could work if implemented correctly. Experts on the issue give their input on the cap idea. These authors are experts in there field and had good reasoning for all claims made.