Aye Aye Sint ENC-1102 29 th January 2017 Is that possible to build solar energy everywhere? In the twenty-first century, energy requirement has increased around the world significantly. People are using fossil fuel to produce energy that has disadvantage of being non- renewable. Considering about the limited fossil fuel available in the world and the increasing uses of energy it is important to find an alternative way to produce energy. An alternative source, solar energy is another form of venue to provide clean and affordable energy from the sun. According to the Solar Energy Industries Association, it states that solar energy is a energy which means that solar plant or solar panel can be built as a distributed generation, utility-scale solar power plant and central-station. But based on the Union of Concerned Scientists organization (UCS) it states that although solar energy uses energy from the sun there are still many factors to consider before building the solar panel which include land use, hazardous materials and causes of the global warming emissions. Therefore, renewable energy, solar energy provides clean and affordable energy there are many factors to consider before building it depending on the climate and the nature of the surroundings. Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) belief that spreading the different uses of solar energy around the world would help to reduce global warming. They belief that it can be done by enlarging the industry and educating the public about the pros of solar energy would help the world to produce clean and low cost energy. The motto of the organization is that a strong solar industry to POWER The organization tells that building solar energy around the world is possible because building solar heating energy is affordable to all the families as well as it helps commercial systems to handle their energy bills. Not only in the hot climate but it can also be built in the colder climates by using an indirect system and system. Properly designed and installed solar water heating system can provide approximately 40% to 80% of the needs. In the article written by Kale, Joshi and Menon (2016) mention that with the uses of solar panel in buildings can saved about 54.64% of the total electricity cost over span of twenty-five years with minimum initial investment. Therefore, the energy consumption can be lower by using solar energy as well as using modern techniques. On the other hand, Union of Concerned Scientists organization mention that solar energy can be used for different purposes and reduce electricity cost. They belief that although building solar energy in a large scale is good, there should be a solution to the problems causes when building solar energy. The mission statement listed on the website is that combine technical analysis and effective advocacy to create innovative, practical solutions for healthy, safe and sustainable Based on the article written by Chung, Park, Ko (2015) it states that the roof of the solar panel has radiative properties. The roof materials when building the solar panel reduces the urban temperature due to its radiative properties. Also, it tells that building energy efficient and good design building uses huge amount of energy which causes approximately 40% of the global warming. Not only the article, the organization states the possible negative outcomes when building the solar energy which included land use, water use, hazardous materials from the PV cell manufacturing process and the life-cycle global warming emissions. Building solar energy in a larger scale can raise concerns about habitat loss and land degradation. Unlike other renewable energy, solar energy has less opportunity to share the land area with the agricultural uses also. Solar thermal plants that uses wet-recirculating technology depends on water for the cooling system. These solar thermal plants uses about 650 gallons of water to produce one mega-watt of electricity. The PV cell uses in the solar panel include many hazardous materials uses to clean and purify energy include, hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, acetone, trichloroethane and hydrogen fluoride. Last but not least, the life-cycle global warming emissions for the photovoltaic systems between 0.07 and 0.18 pounds of carbon dioxide produces kilowatt per hour which harm the environment. Union of the Concerned Scientist tells that solar energy is not very useful in cold and cloudy climate because it has less chance to produce enough energy. Therefore, the two organization agrees that solar energy is a renewable source which uses energy from sun is needed in the world to sustain the resources on the earth. As solar energy uses heat from the sun people can consume pure, clean energy from the sun and also reduce the collective dependence on using fossil fuels. Solar energy also benefits people because it can be used for various purposes such as heating, cooling, for electricity. Solar energy reduces the cost to supply. The energy is consistent and produce constant power source and can even be used to harness in remote locations. Unlike other renewable resource, solar energy can be installed easily. The compromises between the two organization is that before building the solar panel or solar plant they should make sure that it affect land, water and make sure that the roof quality is good enough to reduce the hazardous emissions. Moreover, solar energy should be built in only suitable climate (hot and sunny climate) to obtain enough energy to consume. In my opinion, this compromise would work because according to the article written by Giuseppe, Angelo, Michele and Antonio it explains the possible causes when building the solar energy in cold climates. Yes, the scientists agree that solar energy can be built in cold climates also but there are factors to consider before building it. The heat exchangers draw out energy from the ground when the heat pump works and the ground is not recharged with the heat in cold climates. In this situation, it can affect the land and some of the habitat. In addition, the heating temperature can also affect to lower the solar collector field efficiency and the rejection of heat to the ground can cause heat losses in the which produce much lower energy than in hot climates. In conclusion, solar energy brings benefits to the environment and surroundings as it helps to sustain the natural resources as well as it provides pure and affordable electricity for all the uses including industries, homes and schools. But there are still disadvantages when building solar energy due to the climate, land and water use. So to get more advantages from using solar energy we must consider the effects and causes before building it. References: Chung, Min Hee, Jin Chul Park, and Myeong Jin Ko. of the Solar Radiative Properties of Existing Building Roof Materials on the Energy use in Humid Continental Energy & Buildings (2015): 172. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Nilma N., Kale, Joshi Deepa and Menon Radhika. Cycle Cost Analysis of Commerical Buildings with Energy Efficient Perspectives in Science, Vol 18, Iss C, Pp 452-454 (2016). Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Emmi, Giuseppe, et al. Analysis of Solar Assisted Ground Source Heat Pumps in Cold Energy Conversion and Management 106. (2015): 660-675. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan.2017 Union of the Concerned Scientists Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA)