Dor Lotringer Karen Hanson, PhD Composition 2 1.29.17 Drug Testing in the Workplace As society modernizes, humans tend to speculate many issues regarding what is wrong with our daily life as a community, as a city, a state, country and as a fast pace growing world. Today, talking about fragile subjects can trigger many opinions from a wide range of people. Everyone has an opinion, which is why it is so important that each one of us is steadily ready to make an impact on our community based on the social issue that relates to us. In some cases, the environment in which you were raised in can be the deciding factor regarding which social issue you will be fighting for. With this idea in mind, many organizations arise to form an impact on the world. Some organizations have a specific goal in mind. If its helping the impoverished, cleaning up the oceans, fighting towards equal rights, or just trying to save our planet, humans are created to help each other in rough times. Some people are also attempting to solve small, yet impactful problems such as drug testing in the workplace. The International Labour Organization (ILO), which is an United Nations organization dealing with labour issues, international labour standards, social protection, and work opportunities for all, has set a main goal of furthering the rights of employees at work, as well as encourage decent employment opportunities, and enhance their social protection. The ILO organization contains a core belief that the rights of the employer over the employee do exists, and there for can be used to test against drugs. In their published academic journal, this organization points out the positive effects of drug testing in the workplace, and its influence on the employees, their performance on the job, and the company itself. On the other hand, an organization named National Criminal Justice Reference Service (NCJRS), which is a federally funded resource that is offering justice and drug-related information to support research, policy, and program development worldwide. In efforts to fight drug screening of employees, this organization provides services, statistics and resources that support the claim that the use of mandatory urinalysis testing in the workplace is a violation of the privacy rights of subject employees under the fourth amendment. With these two valid organization and their opinion lies a controversial topic of wether or not drug testing is an invasion of personal privacy in the workplace. With the visualization of a bright future ahead, these two organization has supplied its readers with a range of statistics and resources which showcase their probable reasoning of why their stance on this issue is correct. In this paper, the journey towards the equal and fair compromise is at stake, and it can solve more problems that it caused. Is the mandated employment drug tests forced upon employees by their employers and by the law has an impact of infringing on personal privacy rights? The International Labour Organization has a rich history of making its case towards the campaigning on pro drug tests, especially in the workplace. On one academic journal entitled, clean: Drug and alcohol testing in the ILO discusses the importance of satisfying the regulations of testing employees upon their acceptance of the job, and on a month to month bases. They write that the policy over the last decade has focused on a shift toward prevention of workplace substance abuse and defines alcohol- and drug-related problems as health problems to be dealt with in the same manner as other health With this focus on hand, ILO is targeting specific crowds and organizations that can help legislate their words and actions into laws and regulations all around the United States. The ILO contributed a WDT drug testing regulation form, which declares the specific rules in which they believe can make every workplace into a better place. This regulation form consists of policies that decline employees towards testing monthly, regulate employers to consistently monitor their policies to develop a professional principle towards drug testing, as well as explain the exact procedure of what will occur when, and how everything can be improved by following their steps of when to test, how to test, what happens if an employee refuses to test, and more. For example, if an employee decides not to test, their policy states that must be a written policy document, the content of which is known to all concerned. The policy should include prevention, identification, counseling, treatment, rehabilitation, and details on at what stage disciplinary action will be (ILO 1). Currently, the ILO does not posses the power to regulate these laws in the United States, however, that is their main goal, which can be achieved over an amount of time, money and lots of effort. The National Criminal Justice Reference Service (NCJRS) organization currently holds a different stance on the issue. According to their publication of Urinalysis Testing and the Privacy Rights of Subject Employees: Toward a General Rule of Legality Under the Fourth this organization possesses the view that how the employer, employee, and public interests implicated in employee drug testing (urinalysis) can be reconciled under constitutional (Miller 1). As their publications states, this organizations stands with the rights towards fighting invasion of privacy rights, which has a positive correlation to this issue. The NCJRS believes that must abide by constitutional limitations on state and therefore cannot mandate any potential or currently existing employee to abide by regulations and take the drug test. The only occurrence to when employers can enforce their employees to take a drug test is when the testing can be predicated on an objective, observable manifestation of the on-the-job impairment; i.e., tests can be used only to confirm a reasonable belief that the employee is under the influence of drugs or alcohol at a time when such impairment presents a clear and present danger to himself or (Miller 2). Due to this situation being the one loophole, the proposed compromise has come to save the day. The compromise, which is influenced by EHS (Environment, Health and Safety in the Workplace), has been heard and accepted by both parties. This compromise states that a drug test can be enforced upon an employee only if the employee is being promoted to a higher position than the one they were in before, or if the employee has come to work under the influence, or if the employee has had a bad history of visual representation of drug abuse and can therefore save their life. I believe in this compromise because it provides a solution to both the ILO and the NCJRS. By decreasing the amount of drug test, the NCJRS organization has successfully stood by their people by supplying a service that lessened regulation towards monthly drug tests. And it is also satisfying ILO by providing them with possible options towards drug testing employees and providing everyone with a safe, yet enjoyable policy. In the end, both parties have reached their main goal, which is putting a smile on face. Work Cited Coming Clean: Drug and Alcohol Testing in the  Coming Clean: Drug and Alcohol Testing in the Workplace. International Labour Organization, 01 Sept. 2006. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Miller, David A. Mandatory Urinalysis Testing and the Privacy Rights of Subject Employees: Toward a General Rule of Legality Under the Fourth  U. Pitt. L. Rev. N.p., 12 Dec. 2002. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Current, William F. Drug Testing: How Both Employers and Employees  N.p., 12 Dec. 2002. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.