1 Caitlin Truong Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 29 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft: Death Penalty The death penalty is the punishment of execution given by a court of law to a defendant who has been convicted for very serious crimes. There is an ongoing debate on whether the death penalty is an effective form of justice and whether it should still be use. The argument made by many religious groups against it is that it is not morally right, while many states believe it is justifiable. The American Baptist Church is one of the religious groups that are vehemently against it. In order to create a compromise, the U.S. government could pass a law that would make it harder for someone to receive the death penalty and that it would only be reserved for the worst serial killers and/or rapists. The American Baptist Church believes in the abolishment of capital punishment. Their main statement policies are right to human dignity, to be respected and treated as a person, and to be protected against discrimination without regard to age, sex, race, class, marital status, income, national origin, legal status, culture or condition in and right to be free from arbitrary arrest and detention and torture; the right to a just and open trial with the opportunity to confront accusers and the right to humane treatment if (American Baptist Churches). The biggest problem with the death penalty is immorality and injustice 2 of capital punishment for persons later proven In recent years, new technology using DNA evidence has cleared the names of many people that have been innocently put to death. It is awful how many defendants have been coerced into submitting a guilty plea to crimes they have not committed. (Capital Punishment). Also, not everyone is equal under the law. Those of higher status and power have money and resources, and are able to hire better lawyers to avoid their death sentence. Statistics have shown that the majority on death row are poor and lack an education. Nearly half are minorities, so this has now become a race issue according to the of evidence indicating racial disparities in the charging sentencing, and imposition of the death (Federal Accounting Office). Thousands of prisoners nationwide are facing possible execution by hanging, gas inhalation, firing squad, electrocution, or lethal injection. Under the 8 th amendment of the constitution, some would view it as or unusual Some argue that the death penalty deters crime, but there is no actual evidence of reduced murder rates. It is hard to prove because there could be many other factors that contribute to the homicide rates in an area including gangs, poverty, drugs, poor parenting, increased availability of guns, and the release of offenders from correctional facilities, etc. More often than not, in states such as Florida and Oklahoma, it is usually a physician that performs the execution. This violates the Hippocratic Oath that doctors swear by to protect lives. do no because physicians are seen as healers and it goes against their ethical obligations to medicine. (American Medical Association). Still, many believe that killing is necessary because it provides closure for the families. No one can blame a family members and loved ones for wanting retribution, even if it comes in the form of the death 3 penalty. Religious groups look down on this because they believe they believe in revenge or eye for an One of the most common misunderstandings about the death penalty is that it is less costly because the defendant who has been executed no longer has to be cared for at the expense using hardworking dollars. This is a major misconception because capital cases are very expensive and it is a lengthy process before a sentence is even carried out. It requires time to hire experienced prosecutors and attorneys, and to select members of the jury. always a prolonged period of investigation and hearings. Many cases have a of This could consume up to years of time and an exorbitant amount of money before even reaching a guilty verdict. This is why some believe it is better to just carry out the maximum sentence of life in prison. Each state has their own laws about capital punishment. There are currently 31 states that use the death penalty, including the jurisdictions of the US government and the US military. The other 19 states have abolished it including the District of Columbia. Some states have higher murder rates than others, and the forms of execution varies by state. The majority of states have not carried out an execution in at least 10 years (Death Penalty Information Center). Executions are already rare enough as it is, but to make it even harder to receive the death penalty, more states would probably be willing to pass a state law to abolish it. For this year 2017, only 3 states (Texas, Ohio, and Washington) have upcoming executions scheduled (Death Penalty Information Center). 4 The death penalty has always been a big topic for debate in our country. It really comes down to two stakeholders: religious groups, such as the American Baptist Church, and the states. Many have argued that capital punishment is immoral, unconstitutional, and ethically wrong. Others believe it is necessary to deter crime and provide closure for families. To compromise more states are willing to pass laws to abolish it. Capital punishment is being used less and less every year, with it being saved for the worst of the worse criminals. There is overcrowding in our prison system. For some, it is good news because it means early release for good behavior while for others it means their are fast forwarding with their execution dates hovering right on the horizon. Word Count: 1074 Works Cited Top 10 Pros and Cons - Death Penalty -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://deathpenalty.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=002000>. Capital  SpringerReference (n.d.): n. pag. Web. American Baptist Churches  American Baptist Churches USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.abc-usa.org/>. American Medical Association  American Medical Association AMA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.ama-assn.org/>. U.S. Government Accountability Office (U.S.  U.S. Government Accountability Office (U.S. GAO). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.gao.gov/>.  DPIC Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/>.