BARNETT 1 Payton Barnett 28 January 2017 Composition 1102 Section 106 In the time from 1960 to 2000 the world population increased from 3 billion to 6 billion people. Global food production and drinking water supply increased, and consumption of timber products rose by 50%. The continual rapid growth of the population led to increased consumption of food, water, and timber, while the expansion of agriculture, animal husbandry, and cities reduced forest space. 34% of the forest is used for producing timber and non-timber forestry products and forestry product structure has essentially formed in all regions of the world, In 2011, the timber yield of the world reached 3.435 billion meters cubed, logs for industrial used reached 1.557 billion meters cubed, and sawn timber was at 400 million meters cubed. (Yong Chen, et al. 100). In the beginning of the 21 st century, countries formulated or adjusted forest policies, and 69 countries (mainly European and African countries) revised laws on (102). This means that over 1.5 billion squared hectometers of forests have been provided with forest management programs in order to actively implement sustainable forest management. Those revised laws mainly included: nation forestry development and key forestry engineering on key and priority fields of climate technologies favorable for and and improving policies and relevant incentive measures favorable for (102). With all of this information it is clear to see that forests around the world are incredibly important, not only to the 1.6 billion BARNETT 2 people who directly rely on forests for survival (100) but also people who get many resources from them. This paper will specifically focus on how forests are important to the International Partnership for Forestry Education (IPFE) and the American Wood Council, for a variety of reasons that include REASONS REASONS REASONS . The International Partnership for Forestry Education was started when on the status of global forestry education and the lack of an international forestry education forum gave rise to the idea of creating an entity that would link forestry institutions through curriculum development and in 2001 (IPFE background page). After being established, nation and global challenges were identified pertaining to gaps in forestry education programmes in many part of the (IPFE background page). The discussions the IPFE emerged from were ones at the Meeting of International Forestry Education Leaders, hosted by the University of British Columbia in December of 2001. vision, as stated on the main page of their website, forestry education that is contemporary, locally-relevant and globally connected, and responsive to the global development IPFE worked towards their vision by sending out newsletters in the years 2008, 2009, and 2010. They also attended events held by organizations such as FAO the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations and UNFF the United Nations Forum on Forests. IPFE has virtual studies from four different member universities; Oregon State University, Oregon State University Extended Campus, University of British Columbia, and the University of New Brunswick, Faculty of Forestry. Their mission is to assist university-level forestry education to meet needs, to teach people about forestry and how it works including the minor and major connections around the globe. They also BARNETT 3 partnerships between university forestry educators and other relevant instructions to jointly improve the quality and relevance of forestry education The American Wood Council is one of the youngest and one of the oldest major trade groups in the (AWC about us page). The ACW was in June of 2010, and it serves the modern wood products industry with a far broader mission to address a far wider set of challenges than it did as the National Forest Products Association (NFPA) back in 1902. AWC has emerged as the leading voice for the wood products industry, it is an active presence whenever a matter of major concern relating to the industry surfaces at the state, national, or international level. AWC is gaining recognition as one of the most powerful and effective trade (AWC about us page). It represents over 75% of an industry (wood product manufacturing) that provides almost 400,000 people in the United States with jobs. The AWC publishes an Industry Progress Report available online to anyone who wants to see it, and their current Report shows that have been significant improvements over the last decade in the areas of environment, energy and safety, despite the economic downturn that caused a drop in wood products manufacturing in It also shows economic and employment data for the last decade. They reason that this data is important on their website, factors influence individual parameters so it is important to look at longer term trends rather than changes between BARNETT 4 WORKS CITED American Wood Council. 2016. http://www.awc.org/home Yong Chen, Yankie Hu, Shuirong Wu, Bin Xu, Decheng Zhang. Issues and Trends of Global Forestry Asian Agricultural Research. Vol.5 issue 10, Research Institute of Forestry Policy and Information, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Beijing 100091, China. 2013. p100-105. International Partnership for Forestry Education. 2014. http://www.ipfe.fi/index.htm