Comeskey 1 Matthew Comeskey Instructor: Sarah Basil Composition 2 29 January 2017 Uber v. Taxi Companies With the rise of technology throughout the twenty first century, many new apps or mobile applications have been created. Of these apps, Uber has been one of the most controversial and powerful apps to take over a market. Uber is a company that strives to promote transportation through their mobile application app. The convenience behind Uber is that drivers can drive on their own time and are payed based off the base pay of the ride, the cost per mile, and the cost per minute. These variables are all dependent on the city that a driver is working in and the amount of traffic the app is experiencing. Traditional taxi cab companies have been struggling heavily due to competition in the market place. Taxi lobbyists are coming together to sue Uber on the basis that the app is unconstitutional. Therefore, the contention between Uber and traditional Taxi companies is that Uber is stealing competition for an app that is legally in question; the compromise between the two should be for the merging of traditional taxi companies and Uber. The taxi cab industry is getting increasingly fed up with Uber driving out customers and dropping competing prices so low that there is no room for taxi companies to make a profit. Many might wonder how Uber is doing this? Nancy Trejos, a seasoned traveler and writer for USA today weighs in on the impact that Uber has had on her travel experiences. Trejos explains that when she travels she simply uses Uber because of the comfort factor. found that normal cabs have an awful quality of (Trejos 1). This explains Ubers rapid takeover of the industry due to the simple quality of service that Uber holds standard to their drivers. Ubers big Comeskey 2 claim that gets so many drivers to convert to their company is that you can work at your own schedule. Uber states that looking for an easy sign-up process, a fast-growing opportunity, and a way to get paid whenever you want for driving your own car, then consider partnering with 2016). The rapid growth of the company and creating your own work schedule is drawing many drivers in and away from taxi companies. Taxi companies have been outraged with Uber as stealing their customers and driving market prices so low that there is little to no room for profit. The AATC or American Association for Taxi Cabs is a lobbyist group been fighting for taxi cab rights since 2013; about the time Uber was beginning to take off. The AATC addressed the issue of Ubers destructive competition in a public statement released on Facebook. competition definition: In dictionary.com, the American New Dictionary of Cultural Literacy, third Edition defined destructive competition as competition that forces several producers out of the market. Destructive competition usually occurs when there are so many producers of a product that prices are driven down to the point where no one makes a profit. It can also happen if a single producer is significantly wealthier than other producers and can afford to cut prices drastically until the other producers are driven out of (AATC 2016). Essentially, Uber is stealing drivers, and becoming a monopoly of the industry and running taxi cab companies out of business. The AATC is working to give increasingly more rights to cab drivers to prevent the extinction of taxi companies. Uber is destroying the jobs of taxi companies and the article Uber The Job Destroyer by John Liss explains that Uber is simply stealing taxi company customers by offering considerably better customer service. Not only that but the rapid expansion of Uber has provided little to no service for taxi companies to provide. drivers whom I know see effect on a daily Comeskey 3 basis: in the greater Washington area, UberX drivers flood the streets on weekends and in the evening when day jobs end. At other times, cabs sit on company lots because of decreased (Liss 1). Ubers plethora of drivers in popular and heavily populated cities means drivers flood the streets during busy hours to gain the higher pricing available to customers. This has been leaving taxi cab companies with cripplingly low profits and causing many to close their doors. While the two companies seem drastically different, they are very similar. The end game for both taxi companies and Uber is for drivers to get their customers from point A to point B with a quality service. Similarly, both companies also need the public to have a high demand for ride services. Uber and taxi companies are not even located in some cities due to the lack of profitability. Lastly, the two companies are relying on customer service to gain and continue to get repeat customers. When a customer becomes unhappy with one service they are more likely to result in heading to the competing companies. Each heavy reliance on customer service is driving both ability to succeed or fail. The proposed solution between the two groups would be for Taxi Companies to become more like Uber to provide the best possible services and regain customers. Heather Mallick writes about the possible technology upgrades that could make the two companies very similar. cabbies and Uber not work on the same technology, making booking, paying, and fare- splitting easier and faster? Or cab companies could create their own (Mallick 1). If cab companies were to improve their technology, and create their own interface this would improve their ability to keep up with Uber. Uber would also gain in this compromise as it would create a fair market place and drive away the lawsuits that are trying to accuse Uber of becoming Comeskey 4 a monopoly. Now, Ubers only competition is taxi companies and Lyft. Each of which are slightly damaging Ubers marketplace. Between the two companies, there are currently many differences. Taxi companies are struggling due to a lack of customer service and a technological interface. Uber is borderline considered a monopoly due to their extreme control on the market. If taxi companies were to gain a technological interface like Uber, and drivers were subjected to better conditions and personal vehicles, Taxi companies would be able to keep up in the growing industry. Uber would then gain competition and be turned from the route of becoming a monopoly. Each company would gain from these upgrades and very possible to create an interface for taxi cabs to uniquely use. Comeskey 5 Works Cited Driving Jobs vs Driving With  N.p., 2016. Web.  UBER - LYFT: A Distraction for States,... - AATC - American Association For Taxi Cabs Facebook. AATC, 24 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. LISS, JON. Uber The Job  Nation 300.7 (2015): 16-21. Academic Search Premier. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Mallick, Heather. a Middle Ground between Uber and Taxis:  Thestar.com. N.p., 11 July 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Trejos, Nancy. Uber, Lyft overtake taxis for business travel  USA Today 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.