Copper1 Corey Copper Sarah Basil ENC 1102 Jan. 28, 2017 Selling Violent Video Games To Kids The distribution and selling of violent video games to kids has become a problem in society. The Parents Television Council only wants to stop popular video game industries from selling or advertising their most violent games to kids. The popular video games industries main interests are to satisfy their consumers, and to make a huge profit of their sale on the video games they have made. The main problem is that kids or have easy access to buying video games that are way too mature for them. If the Parents Television Council and the popular video game industries were able to work together rather than fighting about their civil rights, then minors would have a safer and more entertaining environment. Also, the video game companies would most likely earn more respect by parents, and adult consumers alike for respectively not selling violent video games to kids. The two main stakeholders have to agree on everything, but they should agree that kids should not be allowed to buy violent video games that are mature rated. The first stakeholder that I would like to introduce is called the Parents Television Council (PTC). The PTC was founded in 1995 by L. Brett Bozell III, and served as President of organization until he was replaced in 2007 by Timothy F. Winter. The PTC is a non- partisan education organization advocating responsible entertainment. Statement: To protect children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the media, because of their proven long-term harmful (Parents Television Council) To provide a safe and sound entertainment media environment for children and families across (Parents Television Council) They fear that the violent video games would cause the kids to become more violent or aggressive. The problem that the PTC is trying to fix is that they want the retailers to be held more accountable for selling mature and adult-only rated video games to kids irresponsibly. The PTC article, Applauds Video Game Bill Requiring Increased Accountability for Adult Game talks about the Parents Television Council praising two congressmen (Jim Matheson and Lee Terry) on increasing their efforts on retailer accountability sales of adult video games. The two congressmen revealed a bill that requires all retailers to check identification for all customers buying any mature and adult-only video games. PTC President Tim Winter said, game ratings supposedly exist to protect children from material that is created for adults, but there is no consequence for irresponsible retailers who repeatedly sell these games to The President of the PTC only wants to stop retailers from selling minors any mature and adult-only video games irresponsibly. Recently, the PTC has done a secret shopper campaign for the research of retailers selling video games to minors. The PTC President said, research shows that nearly one out of every five underage children in America is still able to purchase a Mature-rated video game from a retailer. This failure rate, while not as bad as prior years, demonstrates the continued reluctance or refusal of some retailers to serve the needs of The distribution of mature games is still a relevant issue that needs to be handled. Copper3 The second stakeholders that I would like to introduce are the Popular Video Game Industries (e.g. Rockstar Games Inc.). Rockstar was founded in December 1998 by British video game producers Terry Donovan, Sam Houser, Dan Houser, Jamie King and Gary Foreman. The main goal for Rockstar Games Inc. is to create the most innovative, progressive, and interactive entertainment. The reason I chose Rockstar Games Inc., because Rockstar is the most successful video game company to sell violent or mature rated video games. For Example, the Grand Theft Auto video game series is most successful video game series, because it the most violent game they have made. The reason the most violent because it allows you drink alcohol, shoot people, do drugs, and etc. A website article from the Entertainment Software Association has three facts that contribute to the argument of video games not causing violence. The first fact states, violent crime, especially among the young has decreased immensely during the early During that same period of time, the popularity of video games started to Software Association) The second fact states, analysis by The Washington Post of the 10 largest video game markets across the globe found no connections between the consumption of video games and gun-related Software Association) The final fact states that, the U.S. Supreme Court, U.S. Surgeon General, Federal Trade Commission, and Federal Communications Commission have examined the scientific record and found that it does not establish any casual link between violent programming and violent (Entertainment Software Association) Also, the ProCon.org website discusses the controversy of violent video games contributing to youth violence. many as 97% of US kids age 12-17 play video games, contributing to the $21.53 billion domestic video game industry. More than half of the 50 top-selling video games contain (videogames.procon.org website) All of these facts prove that there is no correlation between youth violence and violent video games. There was never any history of working together between these two stakeholders. The Parents Television Council always opposes the selling of violent video games to minors, but the Popular Video Game Industries argue that they have the right to sell whatever they want. Also, the consumers must decide that if they want to purchase the video game or not, so the companies feel responsible about a kid buying a mature rated game. The only common ground they had was that both stakeholders always try to satisfy the public. The compromise between has been attempted before by the Parents Television Council, but was rejected by the Popular Video Game Industries. A PTC article called PTC Urges Supreme Court to Empower Parents and Protect Children by Upholding California Violent Video Game Law talks about the Parents Television Council getting involved with the Supreme Court in California in 2005. In 2005, The Parents Television Council encouraged the Supreme Court to enforce a California law to punish retailers that sell or rent violent video games to kids that are underage. The law passed, but the video game industries lawyers overturned the law later. Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger became involved with this law and he appealed for the law to be overturned again. PTC President Tim Winter argues that mature and adult-only rated games are easy for minors to get their hands on without the company any backlash that comes from this. The PTC President only Copper5 wants the California law to prevent children from buying any mature rated video games. The law stop the companies from creating the ultra-violent video games, nor does it stop the marketing or distribution of games to the older consumers. The compromise will benefit the video game industries because they gain more respect from the public eye and from their more mature consumers. The concession for the companies is that they will lose a good chunk of their consumers because most of them are to young to play the violent video games. The compromise will benefit PTC because they have completed their mission to protect families and children from graphic violence in media. The only concession for PTC is that the organization has to move on from going after the violent video games. Work Cited and Cons: Do Violent Video Games Contribute to Youth ProCon.org. N.d. Web. 28, January 2017 Applauds Video Game Bill Requiring Increased Accountability for Adult Game Parents Television Council. N.d. Web. 28, January 2017 Secret Shopper Campaign Reveals Retailers Are Still Selling Mature-Rated Video Games to Parents Television Council. N.d. Web. 28, January 2017 Urges Supreme Court to Empower Parents and Protect Children by Upholding California Violent Video Game Parents Television Council. N.d. Web. 28, January 2017 Essential Facts About Games and Entertainment Software Association. N.d. Web. 28, January 2017