Gregory Portner Adam Carter ENC 1102 January 26th 2017 Lowering the Drinking Age in the United States Alcohol has been around for hundredths of years and is mostly consumed in social situations around the world. The United States of America has on of the highest drinking age along with 12 other nations around the world 2017). The United States changed its legal drinking age from 18 to 21 by passing the National Minimum Drinking Age Act in 1984, which forced every state to change their legal drinking age to 21 or they would lose 10% of their federal highway funding. There are multiple stakeholders in this debate over the legal drinking age such as governmental officials, the National Highway Safety Administration, parents, adults ages 18-21, college presidents and chancellor, However, two of these stakeholders are the driving factors for this debate: college/university presidents and the National Highway Safety Administration also referred to as the government. The first stakeholder, college presidents, believes that the drinking age should be lowered as it encourages a binge drinking culture on college campuses. On the other hand, the National Highway Safety Administration imposed the National Minimum Drinking Age Act in 1984 because of the correlation between drunk driving accidents and adults ages 18-21. A comprise that would benefit both the National Highway Safety Administration and College presidents would be implementing drinking laws similar to Switzerland by legalizing the consumption of beer and wine at 18 and liquors/spirits at 21. The first important stakeholder is the college and university presidents who believe the current drinking age encourages the binge drinking culture on their campuses. As a result, over 130 college presidents started a petition called Amethyst Initiative to spark a public debate about lowering the drinking age (Amethyst Initiative 2008). Colleges as small as Davis and Elkins College and University as big as Colorado, signed the petition because they believe it is unfair that adults at the age of 18 have the right to vote, sign contracts, serve as jury member, enlist in the military, are told they are not mature enough to have a (Amethyst Initiative 2008). College students are not going to stop drinking before 21 and as the petition says, college make ethical compromises that erode respect for the by purchasing fake leaving 18-20-year-olds with the risk of being charged with a felony if they are caught (Amethyst Initiative 2008). Furthermore, as Henry Wechsler and Toben Nelson, both experts in public health, pointed out that even after the drinking age was changed to 21, alcohol usage among 18-20 year old greatly declined, but there was no change in the percentage of college students who drink illegally (2010). As a result, college president believes that because it is illegal for college students to drink before 21, they do not drink as often but when they do drink, they binge drink. Furthermore, the article points out higher minimum legal drinking age was associated with lower rates of alcohol consumption and other alcohol- related (Wechsler and Nelson, 2010). University and College presidents agree that college students should have the right to have a beer at the age of 18 because it will help reduce and hopefully eliminate what is know as the college binge drinking experience. On the other hand, The National Highway Safety Administration imposed the National Minimum Drinking Age Act, which statically has shown an enormous decrease in fatal car crashes among the 18-21-year-olds (NHSA 2014). They have multiple graphs and statistics on their website showing that from 1984 to 2007, the percentage of fatal car crashes due to alcohol for 18-21-year-olds went from 45% to almost 20% (NHSA 2014). Furthermore, it also shows that most of the fatal car crashes due to alcohol come from the ages above 21, the current legal age of alcohol consumption (NHSA 2014). The government also believes that by lowering the drinking age, it will leave high school students more vulnerable not only to death and injury also risky sexual behavior, increased risk of physical or sexual assault, and violence (Saylor 2011). Their are statistics and research publicized proving that the 21 minima legal drinking age has shown an enormous decrease in fatal car crashes and alcohol-involved assault and violence among the population under 21. The government believes that if the drinking age were to be lowered, the population under 21 would worsen the binge drinking culture as would be no law punishing the irresponsible use of alcohol (Saylor 2011). Overall, because the government has statistics and studies showing that a 21-year-old minimum drinking age has reduced alcohol-related accidents, they do not believe it would benefit the nation to lower the drinking age. Both stakeholders have their reasons to believe that lowering the drinking age could either hurt or resolve the binge drinking population in America. It has been shown through studies and reviews of interventions that aimed to decrease alcohol in college populations have found that alcohol education and awareness programs are not effective when used alone and often fail even when used in combination with other (Saylor 2011). It is understood that drunk driving accidents among American college students is a problem but as Fennell, Reginald said, we need new laws that would prevent drunk drivers from operating motor vehicles, not laws that prohibit legal adults (those aged 18 years and older) from drinking alcohol, although I would not be opposed to a system similar to that of some European countries where the age is even (2007). As a comprise, I propose America uses similar drinking laws to Switzerland by lowering the minimum drinking age of beer and wine to 18 and liquor/spirits remain 21. American college students need to learn how to enjoy a beer or a glass of wine before being exposed to the college binge drinking culture. This would reduce the amount of changes for Minor In Possession (MIP) and give young adults a chance to be treated like adults. Instead of cracking down on the consumption of alcohol among the youth and spending millions of dollars from stopping 18-year olds from drinking a beer, the government should spend more money on checkpoints, drunk driving educational classes, to prohibit drinking and driving. This compromise would both benefit the National Highway Safety Administration, the government, and college presidents by giving young adults the right to legally enjoy a beer, instead of chugging liquor not to get charged with a MIP or fake ID felony. America is one of the only countries in the world with a drinking age as high as 21 but is also one of the only countries with a binge drinking culture. After the 1984 National Minimum Drinking Age Act in 1984 was put in place, states without a 21-year-old minimum drinking age would lose 10% of their federal highway funding leaving 18 year-olds to drink illegally. Both college campuses and the government want a safe and responsible drinking culture in America but both stakeholders have different views on how to attain that goal. As a result, I propose to use a Switzerland laws as a template to shape future drinking retraction in America, because as shown throughout the country, the binge drinking culture does not exist. Both sides do not want drunk driving fatalities or a binge drinking culture and the only way to achieve a mutual goal is by changing the laws of the legal drinking age. Work Cited WebMD, Sept. 2007, http://www.theamethystinitiative.org/statement/A. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. This is a petition started by college presidents to lower the drinking age. Over 130 presidents and chancellors have signed the petition that lowering the drinking age should become a topic of discussion in this country. This is a short petition but they argue that because the drinking age is so high, it is contributing to a binge drinking culture. Colleges understand that students are not going to respect the law and therefor choosing to illegal purchase fake which is a felony, instead of waiting until being of age. This is a reliable source as this comes directly from one of my stakeholders. They believe that lowering the drinking age will only benefit college students by making them more responsible and correctly educated on how consume alcohol. Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS). 2014. Washington D.C. https://www-fars.nhtsa.dot.gov/Crashes/CrashesAlcohol.aspx. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. This website consist of multiple charts and statistics regarding motor vehicle accidents. More specifically, it has graphs showing that fatal drunk driving accidents are much higher among the population of 21-24 year olds then the 16-20 year olds. Government officials and National Highway Safety Administration both believe that this is due to the current high drinking age and that it should not be lowered. This is a reliable source as it comes directly from the governmental statistics. This is a source directly related to one of my stakeholders as it shows statical information not to lower the drinking age. are a lot of other numbers and figures that can be used for my essay to not lower the drinking age. Minimum Legal Drinking Age (MLDA) in 190 Countries. 2016. Santa Monica, CA. http://drinkingage.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=004294. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. This is source listing all the drinking ages around the world. It shows what types of alcohol can be consumed at what age. It states that the drinking age for Switzerland is 16 for alcohol under 20% and 18 for alcohol above 20% This source is beneficial for my paper as my comprise is based off the laws in Switzerland. It is a reliable source as the website is government funded. Wechsler, Henry, and Toben F. Nelson. Will Increasing Alcohol Availability By Lowering The Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking And Related Consequences Among  American Journal Of Public Health 100.6 (2010): 986-992. Business Source Premier . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This is a publication written by two authors analyzing if the drinking age should be lowered. They use a variety of different angles to prove that 21 is too high for a drinking age. They also explain the reasoning why the drinking age is so high as well as why it should be lowered. They mention how other nations around the world do not have binge drinking cultures because the drinking age is 18. They use case studies to prove that the one of the main reasons are a lot less drunk driving fatalities for adults ages 18-21 is because car have better safety not because the drinking age is 21. They mention the Amethyst initiative signed by college presidents, use other expert opinions on the lowering the drinking age and use visual images to further their points. This is a reliable source as both writers have an extensive work cited and Fennell, Reginald. Drinking Is  And Nothing You Can Do About : The Problem With The 21-Year-Old Minimum Drinking  Journal Of American College Health 56.3 (2007): 213-216. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This is an article about a professor that went through college when the drinking age was 18. He moved to Europe after college and studied the European drinking culture. He noticed that Europe does not have a binge drinking culture and that young adults know how to responsibly enjoy alcoholic beverages. He believes that the United States should implement similar drinking laws as Europeans. This is going to be part of my comprise that the Untied States should use European laws as a template to changed the binge drink ing culture on college campuses and lower the number of underage drunk driving accidents. Saylor, Drew K.1. Heavy Drinking On College Campuses: No Reason To Change Minimum Legal Drinking Age Of  Journal Of American College Health 59.4 (2011): 330-333. Education Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This is a Journal written about the current drinking age in America and its binge drinking culture. This journal believes that the only way to stop the binge drinking culture is by keeping the legal age as 21 and enforcing the rule. Since the legal age changed to 21, their has been a dramatic change in the alcohol composition of the young adults from 18-21. From 1960-1999, figures show that has been extensive improves in the reduction of fatties involving both alcohol and teenagers. The author believes that by lowering the drinking age it will legally allow college to abuse the binge drinking culture without consequences. This is a good source for my stakeholders that does not believe lowering the drinking age is going to solve the binge drinking issues in the US. This is a reliable source as it was peer review and written by an expert on college pubic health issues.