West 1 Floyd West Adam Carter ENC 1102.034 29 Jan 2017 The Problem of Smoking Smoking has been an important issue throughout the years, doctors and many parents have petitioned for the harmful vice to be abolished. They want a healthy future for the population and future generations. The Truth Campaign represents those who want to end smoking in America. (The Truth). Many wonder how smoking has continued to still be allowed legal by the government even though over the years an increasing amount of facts and human evidence of what smoking can potentially do the consumer have been brought to light and flooded the world. Current smokers, on the other hand, do not want to be forced to give up their habit and calming pass time nor do they want their freedoms to be taken away from them. They believe that they have a right to do whatever they want to their bodies without the government having any say, even if what they want to partake in might be killing themselves slowly. Citizens Lobbying Against Smoker Harassment or represent this group of people, those who just want to enjoy their freedom to smoke in peace. (C.L.A.S.H.). Both health advisors and current cigarette smokers will have to find a middle ground in order to prevent future generations from participating in the harmful vice; a ban on purchasing cigarettes for those born past the year 2000 would allow current smokers with addictions continue their habit and satiate those who are trying to protect the population from deathly health issues that could easily be avoided. West 2 Citizens Lobbying Against Smoker goal is to, the constitutional rights of all-- to free assembly, equal protection, and equal access to public (C.L.A.S.H.). They want others to stop dehumanizing humans for smoking, to stop trying to ban smoking from public establishments and public areas, and to keep their right to do whatever they want with their bodies including smoking. C.L.A.S.H. believes that banning smoking is a violation of rights at that it is un-American for certain groups to make others feel bad about their life decisions just because they do not agree with them. They believe that at first it will just be cigarettes but then it will turn into banning much more. (C.L.A.S.H.) Current smokers just want their rights to continue to smoke and are afraid of their liberty to do so becoming smaller and smaller as bans in public places continue to happen. The Truth Campaign wants to expose to truth about cigarettes and keep future teens from falling into an addiction concerning smoking. Their website states that their goal is not to make current smokers feel bad or force others to give up their addiction but to educate young people and give them tools to help them not start smoking and tools so that smokers can make the change to a healthier living if they care to. They call themselves because they want expose the truth about cigarettes and share facts with teenagers so that they can know the real dangers of smoking and will hopefully stray away from the harmful habit. The Truth Campaign states that currently only six percent of teens still smoke but they are not happy with that number and want to continue to educate others in order to drop that number to zero. (The Truth). In order for both parties to get what they want, a healthier future and protected rights, a compromise must be made. My compromise would have the government ban the purchasing of cigarettes for people born in the year 2000 and after. This would allow current smokers to keep their right to smoke that they desperately need because they have addictions. But the West 3 compromise would also allow for the Truth Campaign to accomplish their goal of reducing the amount of teen smokers to zero. But the government would need to stop trying to tightly restrict the areas where current smokers are allowed to enjoy their vice in order to satiate C.L.A.S.H. and their goal to end harassment of smokers and protect their freedom to continue to do so. If both parties could come together and agree to make this compromise future generations will be healthier and those who have addictions or enjoy smoking can continue to do it. West 4 Works Cited: About  Truth. Truth Initiative, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. NYC  NYC C.L.A.S.H. Audrey Silk, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.