Loos 1 Megan Loos Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 1/29/17 Animal Testing Numerous debates have gone on for years over the rights of animals during animal testing and many organizations have fought for the rights of animal while some companies have been the ones doing the harmful testing. Organizations have been trying to prevent any type of suffering for animals during testing but numerous companies continue to ignore these organizations because they believe they are not doing anything wrong. Although companies might stand for different things, there is always a way that a compromise could happen to make things better for both companies. People for the ethical treatment of animals (PETA) is an organization that stands for rights. They put most of their focus onto four areas the largest number of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of About These four areas consist of the food industry, the clothing trade, labs, and the entertainment industry. PETA believes that are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in and they work together to try and figure out ways to make testing safer for animals About PETA talks about why they do what they do and asks question is not they nor they but they Animal Peta believes that animals do not need to speak, or act the way humans do to be free from animal testing; they believe that if they can suffer, they deserve to have rights and to be free from the suffering that animal testing can cause them. Peta states that it comes to pain, Loos 2 love, joy, loneliness, and fear, a rat is a pig is a dog is a boy. Each one values his or her life and fights the Animal Peta wants to voice that just because an animal cannot say they feel these things, does not mean they have no rights; animals will fight for their lives just like humans do because they value what it is to have a life, this value and fight the animals have is what leads PETA to feel so strongly about animals having their own rights. Peta not only targets adults who are able to donate and help make an impact but they also target kids. The website lets kids know the basics of what is happening to animals without showing the gory and disturbing pictures and videos that the main site has. They provide the kids site so that the kids can learn early on how to make a change and it lets them play games and take quizzes to help teach them in a fun way that animals are just like humans and deserve rights. Aveeno is a company that sells hair and skin products and focuses on being natural and healthy. Aveeno believes that has the power to make life nourish, soothe and even They wish to discover natural ingredients and develop products that will help customers have healthier hair and skin. Aveeno promises their customers that they will not on the of their products and that they will sometimes need to use alternatives to that their products will meet the quality and safety They want to give back to the people and their communities by using recyclable material for some packaging of products and wish to leave world a better They are proud of their company because they use only natural which they believe will be most beneficial to their customers skin and hair needs Naturals Although these companies are completely different, there is some common ground that can be reached between the two. Peta stands for animal rights and believes that animal testing Loos 3 needs to stop and that forcing them to suffer for the safety of a product is not right and there are other ways to test their products. Aveeno does test on animals but they stand for making the world a better place and stand for using natural ingredients to keep customers skin and hair naturally healthy and naturally more beautiful. Since Aveeno stands for making the world a better place, it would seem correct to believe that they would be interested in improving the safety of the animals they use during testing. Also because Aveeno stands for using natural ingredients, it might be easier for them to come to a compromise with Peta because all natural ingredients really should not cause much harm on animals during testing because supposedly natural, so an agreement with Peta might actually improve sales because it might prove to customers that products really are natural and safe and they have no need to harm animals for the testing of their products. So a compromise that could be proposed between the two could possibly be that Aveeno agrees to either continue testing, but not on animals or something that could suffer. They could either use human tissue to test if a product is toxic which more accurate than the animal to Animals in Toxicity testing on animals animals to ingest toxic and lethal substances to the endpoint where fifty percent of the animals in the study to Animals in Another option for Aveeno could be that they continue testing but instead could possibly use a computer model that would aspects of the human and they could make virtual experiments to test their products. One last testing option that is safer than testing on animals could be to do a cell culture. This means that Aveeno would grow cells in the lav or cells to grow into 3D structures, such as miniature human organs, which can provide a more realistic way to test new to Animal Cell cultures are believed to have been key developers in assisting with cancers, Loos 4 kidney disease and AIDs and are used in chemical safety testing, vaccine production and drug to Animal These are definitely different ways of testing but as long as Peta agrees that testing is something that has to happen for the safety of products for humans, then Aveeno would hopefully agree that there are safer and more natural ways that they can test their products then by testing on animals. Peta stands for the rights of animals and believes that there are other ways to test products for the safety of humans. Animals can suffer and they deserve the right to not be tested on. Aveeno stands for natural products that make their customers skin and hair naturally more beautiful. With both companies striving the make the world a more natural, beautiful place, it seems like a compromise between the two would very well be possible. Different testing options with pros and cons would need to be discussed between the two but there are many valid options out there like cell culturing, online simulations, and human tissue that could do just as well as testing on animals and maybe even better. Loos 5 Works Cited Peta PetaKids. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About Peta. N.d. Web. 29 Jan, 2017. to Animals in Neavs. N.d. Web. 29 Jan, 2017. to Animal Cruelty Free International. N.d. Web. 29, Jan 2017. Aveeno. J&JCl, 2016. Web. 29 Jan, 2017.