Herman 1 Madison Herman Erika Staiger ENC 1102 1/28/2017 Professional Bodybuilders and Anabolic Steroid Use Anabolic steroids are nothing new to professional athletes and bodybuilding, however the ultimate controversy on the topic continues to grow tremendously. There are several different bodybuilding federations an athlete can choose to join when they compete and because of the controversy with steroids, some federations are tested and others are not. The American Natural Bodybuilding Federation and the National Physique Committee are two large bodybuilding federations with one big difference; ANBF tests for banned-substances and NPC does not. Steroid usage has become increasingly popular among bodybuilders and with popularity comes raging disputes. important to keep in mind, however, that federations do not cross-compete and using steroids for an advantage is a completely personal decision. The American Natural Bodybuilding Federation, or ANBF, is an all-natural bodybuilding federation where athletes can compete in bikini, figure, fitness, physique, physique, or bodybuilding. The ANBF is a 100% drug-tested organization that uses the most up-to-date version of the WADA list, or World Anti-doping Agency list, with a complete packet of all banned substances (ANBF). The ANBF aims to the ultimate natural bodybuilding experience for the (ANBF). The ANBF wants to give all audience members, competitors, and vendors an enjoyable experience and leave a lasting impression of how hard an athlete can work and what they can become without using gear. All ANBF pros and amateurs qualified to become pro are subjected to drug testing before Herman 2 competing in a show (ANBF). This ensures there is no usage of illegal substances and the athletes competing have not been the or having unfair advantages. The ANBF sincerely believes in the banning of anabolic steroids, as there are many risks and dangerous side effects that come with the usage of anabolic steroids. While not necessarily uncommon for body builders to use anabolic steroids during the peak of their careers, ANBF wants to provide their audience and competitors with a drug-free show and see what is humanly possible for the body without the use of steroids. In a study done by Gisella Santos and Ross Coomber, steroid users were interviewed and recruited from a local safer injecting service. There were twenty-two users interviewed and from these individuals, not all users had any knowledge of steroids before they started using (Gisella, Coomber). Steroids are not a light drug and there are many dangergous side-effects, some even fatal, that can occur with steroid abuse or incorrect assumption of injections. Some of the side effects those in the study experienced include feeling angry quite often, increases in acne, boils, decreased sex drive, and changing facial features (Gisella, Coomber). Some also felt very irritable and emotional while using steroids, often fighting others and feeling intense anger. To settle the anger some athletes even used other drugs, such as valium, to cope and be relaxed (Gisella, Coomber). The side-effects explained are for the most part reversible, however some of the more permanent side-effects are also much more dangerous. Steroid use is illegal in the United States and has been since it appeared in athletics in the twentieth century. Steroids can be fatal if an overdose occurs, or for those who are lucky they may only live with lasting effects. Steroids can cause gynecomastia, or where breast tissue begins to form over the pectoralis muscle in men (Gisella, Coomber). Women can also be subject to masculinization with the changing of jaw structure, enlargement of the clitoris, Herman 3 decreased breast tissue, and intensified facial structure. Health risks also include serious organ damage of the heart, liver, and reproductive organs. Because of permanent organ damage, one may experience reduced fertility in both men and women as well as sudden cardiac death (Gisella, Coomber). The health risks associated with anabolic steroids in accordance to the study done by Gisella and Coomber highlights some of the main points as to why steroid use is illegal and what those choosing to use steroids should be concerned about. The ANBF wants the best for their athletes, as do all other bodybuilding organizations, however they believe not using anabolic steroids is a much healthier, safer, and more fair way of becoming the greatest athlete you can be. The National Physique Committee, unlike ANBF, does not test for banned-substance use of their athletes and is not considered an all-natural federation. NPC is the amateur physique organization in the (About). Starting in 1982, the top male and female athletes in bikini, figure, fitness, physique, and bodybuilding have worked their way through amateur NPC to IFBB-professional league athletes. There have been 24 Olympia winners and 38 Arnold Classic winners that began their careers in the NPC (About). Those who compete in the NPC are not subjected to steroid or banned-substance testing in any way at any point in time. There is no regulation of anabolic steroid use and several of the athletes in the NPC have been cycling steroids for years with little or no consolation. While not every athlete in the NPC is using anabolic steroids or illegal hormones and while these results are not publicized because of the legality issue of steroids in the United States, humanly impossible for the human body to grow to the size and capacity of a 250lb man with only 4-6% body fat without the use of performance-enhancing drugs (About). Athletes in the NPC are of course concerned about negative side-effects, however most athletes at the amateur and professional level in Herman 4 bodybuilding if competing NPC or IFBB are doing so under the advice of patient supervisors and professional care. Athletes competing in bodybuilding want to get the biggest, most defined, strongest muscles they can grow. The National Physique Committee does not test for the use of anabolic steroids, which can greatly increase the chances of growing the perfect physique several bodybuilders strive for. By using steroids and winning national competitions the athletes reap the benefits they seek. The use of steroids has increased in popularity, both for recreation and for sport (Yu, et al). The intention of steroids is to increase muscle size and improve muscle strength. Studies reveal steroid use is associated with significant gains in both of these areas. Short-term use with anabolic steroids has been shown to induce strength (Yu, et al) and this increased strength thus leads to increased muscle mass and hypertrophy of the muscle fibers. Hypertrophy is an increase in cell size of a muscle (Crowley, 24). The study has shown cycling testosterone for twenty weeks increased muscle mass, leg strength, [and according to administered dosages (Yu, et al). Compared to athletes who were or not using steroids, doped athletes were not only proven to have more muscle mass, they also reported higher lean leg mass, meaning the area taken up by the muscle was also composed of less fat than the same area taken up by muscle from a clean athlete. Doped athletes were found with 15% larger muscle fibers and a larger variation of fibers and fiber sizes attributing to the extreme muscle strength and growth (Yu, et al). Although steroids have several health risks and side-effects from short-term or long-term use, NPC athletes often disregard these warnings because to win and test humanly possible, steroids are often the answer to predicaments. Among adults and athletes alike, physical appearance is more often than not of utmost concern and individuals would go to great lengths in order to look what they feel is presentable Herman 5 in the presence of friends and strangers. In bodybuilding especially, where athletes are being judged and criticized solely on their looks, muscle definition, and stage composition, appearance is extremely important. Some athletes, up to 78% of bodybuilders (Peters, Anthony, Phellps) shy to using anabolic steroids in order to achieve unreal muscle mass and definition. steroids are illicit drugs used to enhance muscle development and exercise (Griffiths, Murray, Mond). Within the bodybuilding world there are federations and organizations in which athletes compete; some federations are tested for substance abuse and others are not. The ANBF, a banned-substance tested organization, and the NPC, a non-tested organization, want their athletes to become of the very best version of themselves that they can be. The ultimate physique competitors compete around the world for one sole purpose and one sole passion- the art of building the body as big and beautiful as possible, and winning the biggest trophy. Unfortunately, the topic of steroids can be a sensitive one when discussing ANBF and NPC alongside it because there are hard-set opinions for both sides of the controversy. Athletes who use anabolic steroids often criticize those who do use of cheating the system and cheating the game. Athletes on steroids have an unfair advantage that those who do not use can never live up to, because physically impossible to get as big as some of the professionals do without using steroids. The choice of the matter is up to discretion of the athlete only, and those who want to use steroids should compete in non-tested organizations whereas those who remain clean have the ability to compete in tested competitions and federations. In a study done by Mark Anthony Peters and Leadelle Phelps, there are pros and cons to steroid use that only the athlete taking the drugs can determine the long-term effects and benefits to them. Bodybuilders using steroids were found to have significantly drives for and the reduction of body fat, meaning they wanted to get bigger faster and lose as much body fat as Herman 6 possible in the same time as compared to those who were not using steroids and also note binging and purging as much as other athletes (Peters, Phelps). Many bodybuilders begin to use steroids because of low self-esteem and body image issues. Male participants using steroids were found to have a lesser problem with self-esteem whereas female users did not see a change in body-image perception. It was also found that weightlifting itself appear to generate positive comments of body, instead that individual proposes higher and higher goals for themselves that would be in place whether or not steroids were involved. Steroid use verses non- use not have a significant impact on body image (Peters, Phelps). Steroid dependence is completely up to the athlete and what he or she deems appropriate. The American Natural Bodybuilding Federation and the National Physique Committee are two bodybuilding organizations with the same goal in mind: Introduce incredible athletes to other top competitors and allow them to grow as much in both muscle mass and personality as they can. ANBF is an all-natural federation where their athletes are tested regularly and use no banned substances in accordance to the full WADA World Anti-doping Agency list. The NPC on the other hand is not considered an all-natural federation. Their athletes are not tested and there is no reprimanding of steroid use. When it comes to steroids there is often intense controversy and dispute over athletes with steroids and out-competing other athletes with advantages those who are clean will never have or live up to. As a compromise to all all-natural and tested federations and non-tested federations, a simple solution would be to refuse to cross- compete athletes, and each athlete stick to their prospected federation. Typically, each organization does not run competitions with another bodybuilding federation; all competitions and shows are run within their league and area of expertise. Each federation has their own set of rules and regulations. If an athlete wants to continue competing naturally, he or she may compete Herman 7 in the ANBF, World Natural Bodybuilding Federation, International Natural Bodybuilding Association, and that of the like. If they would rather chance competing against those who are using steroids, or who use performance enhancing drugs themselves, he or she may compete in NPC, IFBB, Organization of Professional Bodybuilders, and other federations who do not test for banned-substances (NPC, NANBF, IFBB??? Federations Explained). no argument that anabolic steroids or performance-enhancing drugs have dangerous side effects. Short-term and permanent, acne, roid rage, gynecomastia, cardiac arrest, and liver damage are just a few of the damages steroids can cause, and ANBF or the American Natural Bodybuilding Federation try to avoid (Gisella, Coomber). By testing their athletes often, the ANBF ensures their athletes are all-natural and completely clean. Although steroids pose many health risks, there are also some benefits that athletes in the NPC (National Physique Committee) and other non-tested federations attempt to reap. Steroids have been proven time and time again to increase muscle mass, lean muscle mass, muscle growth, and muscle size in athletes who cycle correctly and use anabolic steroids both long and short-term. To be the biggest and win extreme titles such as Mr. Olympia, many athletes choose to use anabolic steroids in order to win and look their best. While the controversy continues after being around for decades, an easy solution is for athletes to compete only within their specified organization. Bodybuilding federations will not cross compete, therefore athletes who are all-natural must not compete against those who may have an advantage. Each athlete has the ability to make their own decisions when it comes to steroids use because it is their body, and for federations who do not test for banned substances there are no repercussions. Steroids may cause dispute against those who disagree, but at least within bodybuilding and competitors, dispute has the ability to be diminished thanks to separate bodybuilding federations. Herman 8 Works Cited  NPC News Online. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://npcnewsonline.com/about/>. Crowley, Leonard V. Chapter  Essentials of Human Disease. Sudbury, MA: Jones and Bartlett, 2011. N. pag. Print. NPC, NANBF, IFBB??? Federations  Get Fit. Go Figure! N.p., 13 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Peters, Mark, and Leadelle Phelps. Body Image Dissatisfaction and Distortion, Steroid Use, and Sex Differences in College Age  Peters - 2001 - Psychology in the Schools - Wiley Online Library. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/pits.1018/abstract>. Santos, Gisella, and Ross Coomber. The Risk Environment of Steroid Users in the UK: Examining Motivations, Practices and Accounts of  Science Direct. Drug Policy, Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0955395916303401?np =y&npK ey=3552cb840d703dab366d10f293cae532f18b3889df85d5f088048712e211328d.>. Unleashed, Physiques.  American Natural Bodybuilding - Physiques Unleashed. N.p., 23 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.anbfnatural.com/mag/>. Yu, Ji-Guo, Patrik Bonnerud, Anders Eriksson, PerS Stal, Yelverton Tegner, and Christer Malm. Effects of Long Term Supplementation of Anabolic Androgen Steroids on Human Skeletal  Ebsohost.com. PLos ONE, 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=4&sid=0438105a-cde2-4681-8813- Herman 9 eb0801c18e9c%40sessionmgr4009&hid=4111&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d #AN=edsswe.oai.DiVA.org.umu.93191&db=edsswe>.