1 Richard Marin Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Against Zoos vs. For Zoos Over the recent years, animals have been acquiring the attention of the American citizens in terms of how they should be treated. Some believe that humans do not have the right to keep animals away from their natural habitats regardless of the reasons. Others believe that it is okay to keep animals in zoos/sanctuaries so long as it is for research purposes. The evident conflict is that these groups have different approaches in terms of providing care for wild animals. According to PETA, zoos should be closed down due to the unethical practice of keeping animals in artificial environments. In contrast, the Saint Louis Zoo believes that zoos/sanctuaries are important given how they are able to provide protection towards endangered species. The compromise between the two groups would be restructure of the system. The two groups would have to agree that those animals that are being kept can be only be animals that were previously rescued or be considered an endangered species. The ultimate goal for those animals would be to rehabilitate them and be released to the wild. As an animal rights organization, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals otherwise known as PETA for short was created with the goal of drawing attention towards animals that are being kept in zoos rather than their natural habitats in the wild. As an organization that is against keeping animals in captivity, zoos are often the main establishments that are targeted due to how said animals are deprived of everything that is considered natural for their species. As a result from this deprivation, the animals tend to develop an abnormal condition called The 2 condition often leads the animals to exhibit abnormal repetitive behaviors such as constant pacing, swaying, and/or biting bars (BornFree). As a result, animal activists have begun to rise and protest against the very idea of animal captivity claiming that everything the zoos stand for can be better achieved by simply watching nature documentaries or by observing the animals in their natural habitats rather than in cages (Rumbaugh). An important claim amongst animal activists is that keeping animals within artificial environments is the equivalent of imprisonment that often lead to the development of debilitating physical conditions. For instance, a particular elephant from a zoo in Edmonton has developed arthritis as a result of being kept in cramped environments during cold winters (PETA). Due to the conditions that the elephant is exposed to on the Edmonton zoo, animal activists have begun to question whether zoos are truly capable of handling the needs of their captive animals. PETA believes that the general public should begin to boycott zoos/animal sanctuaries and demand freedom for the animals locked up in captivity. On the opposite side of the spectrum, the Saint Louis Zoo means to convey how zoos mean to conserve and care for their animals so that the public can enjoy rich first-hand experiences from nature. Their goal is to conserve species that are facing extinction and to conduct research that allows the better conservation of wildlife through programs such as Species Survival Plans. A program that means to create optimal breeding conditions for animals that are endangered (Saint Louis Zoo). As a more optimal method of promoting the conservation of wildlife, the Saint Louis Zoo actively works with conservation hotspots are over the world by providing assistance in the maintenance or restoration of the ecosystems that the animals depend on. With such a goal, the zoo established the WildCare Institute in 2004, an institute that has been able to reintroduce endangered species such as the American Burying Beetle back into its 3 old habitat in Missouri, establish protected environments for the survival of the Armenian vipers (Saint Louis Zoo). Aside from being part of programs that promote conservation and restoration of wildlife, the Saint Louis Zoo is able to provide means that the public can use to learn about the animals. Means that include programs such as Camp KangaZoo, in which approximately 450,000 children and adults participate every year that more often than not results in getting a rating of 9.1 on a scale of 1 to 10 from the visitors the zoo gets (Saint Louis Zoo). Through their conservation and education programs, zoos have had great achievements in the conservation of the biodiversity of nature. At a glance, these groups appear to be on opposite ends on the issue of keeping animals out of their natural environments. However, it is evident that both groups share the goal of conserving the species of wildlife in the best way possible. Both the activists and the zookeepers can essentially agree that every animal deserves to be treated as fair and just as a human would be usually treated. Furthermore, both groups hope to educate the public on how they can enjoy the wildlife that surrounds their globe. Since PETA and Saint Louis Zoo share the goal of ensuring that the species of wildlife lead a fair and natural life, a good compromise between the two would be allowing zoos to only have animals that were rescued with the sole purpose of rehabilitating them and eventually have the animals return to their respective habitats. More than often, animal rights activists generalize all zoos under the notion that they all mistreat their animals and tend to ignore how useful the conservation work that zoos do are for the restoration of the different species (Pickrell). By creating such a restriction on zoos, the animals would not be held in captivity for their entire lives and researchers would still be able to come up with ways to promote conservation within their establishments. Furthermore, PETA would have to refrain from depicting zoos as 4 establishments that only care about making money off their animals but instead support their conservation programs. As a mass organization that has the power to greatly influence the opinion of the public, PETA can easily change the way people feel about zoos by creating an emphasis on the restrictions that zoos have in terms of how long their animals can be kept in captivity. Instead of promoting the idea of boycotting zoos as a whole, PETA should encourage people to visit zoos so that the establishments acquire bigger funds that would be used to better the care for the animals. Under such compromises, zoos such as the Saint Louis Zoo would be able to thrive in their efforts for conservation by receiving direct support from important animal rights organizations such as PETA. In conclusion, the argument of whether zoos are important or not should come to a peaceful halt. Although these two groups have different ideologies on how zoos actually treat their animals, they both mean to achieve the same thing; to preserve and fairly treat the different species of wildlife. Zoos such as the Saint Louis Zoo would have to be restricted on simply having animals that were rescued and would have to release them back to the wild once rehabilitated. PETA would have to refrain from placing zoos under a negative light due to the actions of the zoos that do not meet the right standards for animal treatment. Under such compromises, both PETA and establishments such as the Saint Louis Zoo should work together towards the betterment of animal treatment around the zoos of the world. 5 Works Cited Carr, Michelle. The Reality of  PETA. 2013. Web. 22 January 2017 Pickrell, John. How zoos are saving our  ABC Environment. 3 August 2010. Web. 22 January 2016 Rumbaugh, Andrea C. Do We Need  Animal Rights Articles. n.d. Web. 22 January 2017 Saint Louis Zoo. Why Zoos  Saint Louis  2003. Web. 22 January 2017 Travers, Bill. Abnormal and Stereotypical Behaviour in Captive Born Free Foundation. n.d. Web. 28 January 2017