Omar Ajlouni Ajlouni 1 Mrs.Gottlieb ENC 1102 February 1 st ,2017 Lowering the Legal Drinking Age The laws and rules regarding the consumption of alcohol differ from country to country and for the most part, are somewhat related to the general culture within a specific society. Most countries allow for the consumption between the age eighteen and twenty-one, with some exceptions at the age of sixteen. The main issue with permitting the consumption of alcohol at the age of twenty-one has been linked with causing binge drinking in teenagers. As a result, the age laws regarding drinking may be causing binge drinking in teens and young adults, and thus should the drinking age be lowered. There are two stakeholders regarding this predicament, those who believe the drinking age should be lowered from twenty-one, and those who believe it should remain twenty-one. The first stakeholder is Gallup which is an organization that believes that the drinking age in the U. S should remain twenty-one. On the contrary, the other stakeholder, Students for Sensible Drug Policies, believe that the drinking age should be lowered. Despite their differences both stakeholder share a grey area. The most lenient solution is to introduce soft liquor at eighteen. The current issue is that whether the drinking age is correlated with binge drinking and other alcohol related worries and predicaments. Gallup is an organization that believes that the Ajlouni 2 current drinking age in the U.S is beneficial and should not be lowered. Through many surveys that they have conducted, they conclude that seventy four percent of American oppose lowering the drinking age. In addition, they believe that having different drinking age laws across different states is hazardous. Due to ranging legal drinking age across the U.S some individuals who were old enough to drive but not drink, would drive to other states and purchase alcohol. This is a major ordeal because, it increases the overall risk of encountering a drunk driver. Another major concern is binge drinking. The issue of binge drinking is a highly controversial issue, some believe that having the drinking age at twenty-one is increasing the binge drinking in teenager, whilst others believe it aids in reducing the likelihood of binge drinking. From surveys that this organization has conducted, it is apparent that most of the people who conducted the survey believe, that it is more beneficial to keep the legal drinking age at twenty-one rather than lowering it. An important factor about these surveys is that most the participant are twenty-one and over, thus they are more experienced when it comes to handling alcohol. Also, the organization claims One proposed solution to the problem is to lower the drinking age to eighteen. Although such a move could be seen as giving in to law- breaking, it may also encourage those under twenty-one who drink to do so in public settings where their alcohol intake can be better (Gallup 1). This quote illustrates that the organization believes that lowering the drinking will in fact harm the teenagers. Many organizations and scientists believe that lowering the drinking age is much more beneficial than having it at 21. It is more beneficial in the sense that it eliminates many constant threats from drinking in general, such as binge drinking. The Students for Sensible Drug Policies Ajlouni 3 is an organization that believes that the drinking age should be lowered and that by doing so many harmful factors associated with drinking may possible be eliminated. One of the main causes of binge drinking, is the thrilling feeling of taking part in something forbidden. Many scientists believe that because drinking is a somewhat of a that is influences young adults to experiment with alcohol and overall increases the likelihood of binge drinking. This is illustrated by an article written by a professor at Indiana university where she This is because drinking by these youth is seen as an enticing forbidden  a badge of rebellion against  and a symbol of (Indiana.edu 1). Also, The SSDP claims 90% of the alcohol consumption by individuals between eighteen -twenty years old is done while engaging in binge drinking (SSDP 1). This illustrates that due to alcohol consumption being illegal before the age of twenty-one, younger individuals still have access to alcohol and take part in binge drinking. The organization believes that this is due to the attraction of young adults to take part in something rebellious. Furthermore, the SSDP believes that by lowering the drinking age parents will be able to properly begin educating their children at an early age, enforcing safe habits early on. In addition, the age eighteen to twenty-one are crucial turning points in an life, and thus instilling proper habits is quite important, and must be done correctly. This issue has and must be given extreme attention and caution. For binge drinking, drunk driving, and other alcohol related incidents are too common and can be avoided. Both stakeholders share common ground, they both in the end want people to drink responsibly and in a safe environment. The best way to ensure such actions are taken is through exposure and Ajlouni 4 education. Furthermore, the most beneficial and adequate compromise would be to introduce soft liquor at the age of eighteen and then allow for the consumption of hard liquor at the age of twenty-one. In addition, when some individual turns eighteen they must take a course that effectively educates them about alcohol abuse, consumption, and safe handling. Soft liquor consists of beer and wine, and thus it as easy to get uncontrollably intoxicated from them. This is beneficial because this way you will be learning about how to drink responsibly in a safe environment due to the mandatory precautions and courses.in addition, the fact that teens will still be allowed to legally drink removes the factor. This claim is supported by the Health Research Finding organization when they In the critical eighteen to twenty age bracket, there are often binge drinking episodes simply because it is a thrill to break the law. Eliminate the thrill by lowering the drinking age and the taboo will be gone as well, encouraging normal alcohol consumption in the critical age (HRF 1). Furthermore, they have the urge to be rebellious if they are directly being handed the substance. Since it is soft liquor it takes much more to leave an individual uncontrollably intoxicated. The issue of drinking whether the drinking age should be lowered in the U.S has been argued for a while, ultimately taking part in this compromise will in fact lower the likelihood of binge drinking, drunk driving. Both stakeholder have convincing and strong points of view. Some believe that the current drinking age cause binge drinking and influences drunk driving angst teenager. On the contrary, many believe that lowering the drinking age may physically and mentally harm the individual.in the end both stake holders have adequate points and both must be taken into consideration. Ajlouni 5 Works Cited Gallup, Inc. Americans Still Oppose Lowering the Drinking  Gallup.com. N.p., 24 July 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Legislation Could Lower Legal Drinking Age in  TommieMedia. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Lowering the Drinking  Students for Sensible Drug Policy. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Why Drinking Age Should Be Lowered: Dr. Ruth  Why Drinking Age Should Be Lowered: Dr. Ruth Engs. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Wpadmin. Pros and Cons of Lowering the Drinking  HRFnd. N.p., 03 Apr. 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.