Rudderham 1 Stephen Rudderham Professor Karen Hanson ENC1102 January 29, 2017 Outsourcing Outsourcing has become a problem in globalizing world. Businessmen and women have been taking advantage of the loose labor laws in developing countries, especially those in South Asia. By doing this the economy of both countries are hurt as well as the lives of the workers that are employed in factories or sweatshops. The conditions they work are often long hours for little pay in extremely harsh conditions with excess heat or little time for breaks if any. With that being said organizations like the US Department of Labor have been trying to restrict corporations from employing these people with laws of their own. Other organizations, like SOLIDAR, based in Europe have actually been encouraging the development of these nations by building schools and teaching people. Both sides have different views but, in the end they are trying to protect the people and help the people of these developing countries and their own countries succeed. To bring both opinions into the equation, these companies should work together to create laws about teaching people in developing to lead businesses and be incorporated in the success that can occur. The United States Department of Labor is encouraging making new laws that restrict corporations from imposing on other countries that need help with their economies. Inside the Department of Labor, they have the Bureau of International Labor Affairs. The bureau oversees foreign policies like negotiating labor provision in trade agreements, and the capacity of other countries to enforce and improve labor (Trade Negotiation & Enforcement) Rudderham 2 This means that they are looking over trade agreements between different countries and making them fair or equal for each party. Next, our nation is struggling still from the Great Recession and by taking away jobs from our middle class Americans it is leaving them with little opportunity to contribute to the economy. (Hux, and Joseph) While it is necessary for businesses to cut expenses in some areas, they have chosen to take job away from the American people and employ others, unethically, around the world for cheap wages that bring harsh condition. The nation needs to recover from this economic crisis that started nearly a decade ago. To start this movement of recovering from the economies the US Department of Labor has begun to implement new laws in order to keep jobs in the United States. The Department of Labor believes this will allow the economy to turn around and produce more jobs in the United States. SOLIDAR is an organization based in Europe that is working to improve labor laws and restrictions in South Africa. They are trying to the education of South Africans through schooling. By doing this they are trying to raise the standards of developing nations instead of just employing the people to work in their companies. This company is trying to promote social justice around the world. (SOLIDAR) This is shown because they are trying to offer education to all people and provide equal opportunities to them. SOLIDAR is looking for between countries and is really looking out for the greater good of each society. As mentioned in the article, Colleges Become A Force In Developing Nations community colleges are becoming an important part to higher education in developing nations. But even then, these countries find the United States community colleges appealing because of the open enrollment and the ease to make school fit with a working schedule. Rudderham 3 In order to bring both sides into a solution, these two companies could work together. They both have a common goal in stopping the negative parts of outsourcing and improving not only other countries but also their own. Small business struggle to survive when big, outside corporations come in and begin working. (Yusuf, 1995) In order for these small businesses to succeed while incorporating both stakeholders would be to make laws that require businesses to employ the native people of the countries they go into as interns or managers. This would allow for both the business to work in another country but also the people of the country to be more invested within their place of work. By having interns in the companies the natives will understand how the business world works and they will easily transition into owning their own companies eventually. Now these unskilled workers will become skilled and the high labor costs with low wages will disappear. Therefore, this will attract appropriate business to developing nations. While outsourcing products and services can be beneficial to the business and account for profits, the negative sides of putting people in sweatshops and giving them little pay is dangerous and unnecessary. Therefore, in order to set this aside, companies need to hire or intern native people into the management spots of their business. This was tried before in 1961, with the Lebanese people with the development of the Beirut Management College. (Guenther, 1963) When countries come into a new country and try to help out the native people it is often a high risk encounter. Risks like the businesses losing money from employing people for higher pay or even just being unsuccessful in a foreign land. Another possible encounter could be community understanding and enthusiasm. (Guenther) This possible draw back was mentioned in the experiment that took place in the late 1960s. with all that has happened and the terrible conditions that native workers have been put through, they may not look at this as a beneficial Rudderham 4 thing that is happening. But, if everything is done well and a plan is made then this possibility has a great chance at success. If the countries partaking in this look past their differences and work toward a common good, then a lot of positives could come out of this. With everything happening accordingly the developing nations will have a real chance at being a developed nation. And this could be because of the help from countries like the United States, Great Britain, Germany and other stable nations. With everyone working together, the world could accomplish much more and make it a safer more enjoyable place to live everywhere. Rudderham 5 Works Cited Community Colleges Become A Force In Developing Nations  The Chronicle Of Higher Education 37 (2001): Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Guenther, H. P. Beirut Management College: An Experiment In Management Training For A Developing  Middle East Journal 17.(1963): 368-382. Humanities & Social Sciences Index Retrospective: 1907-1984 (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hux, Annette R., and Joseph R. Nichols. The Financial And Political Impacts Of Labor- Outsourcing In Rural School  Education 3 (2016): 275. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. SOLIDAR - Advancing Social Justice In Europe and  SOLIDAR - Advancing Social Justice In Europe and Worldwide. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Trade Negotiation &  United States Department of Labor. N.p., 18 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Yusuf, A. (1995). Critical success factors for small business: Perceptions of south pacific entrepreneurs. Journal of Small Business Management, 33(2), 68. Retrieved from https://search.proquest.com/docview/221005097?accountid=14745 Rudderham 6