Hadeel Ali ENC 1102 Prof. TJ Murray 1 Edible Insect Repellent We are surrounded by insects. Everywhere you turn there could be an ant almost miniscule or a tarantula as large as your palm, depending where you are in the world. But, it is certain that we share this world with over a million different species of bugs. Even though they are vital to us, breaking down wastes, dead animals, and plants, to keep Earth cleaner they can be dangerous. Many insects are poisonous and venomous and since they inhabit what we also inhabit crossing paths is a high possibility. There could be a way however to lessen the chances of being bit by these creatures. With modern technology and science expanding its knowledge with persistence and dedication an insect repeller susceptible to the human body can be invented. With this edible bug spray safety for children, convenience for restaurants, and outdoor adventures can be easily achieved. In a household there could be children running around, knocking down things, and opening cabinets. In cabinets there are usually chemicals and one of those chemicals could be bug spray. If a child decides to drink it because children have common sense, then their decision could lead them in a predicament. A predicament that can be lethal in some situations. Sometimes the wrong things get in the wrong hands and to avoid freak incidents like the one described precautions should be taken. With a bug spray that is harmless when ingested the death of a young child could be avoided. Imagine this. It is a nice summers day and the breeze is just right. You decide to take in this weather since it is rare. You go with friends or family to a restaurant on the beach with the clear sky and crystal blue water just a short walk away. The food arrives and you all dive in until suddenly there is one no, wait two now countless flies surrounding you and your delectable meal. If only there was a way to repel the insects so you, along with other customers, can enjoy the sunrise in peace. Well, with edible bug spray that dilemma is solved and the rest of the evening can be enjoyed with laughs and delight. Hadeel Ali ENC 1102 Prof. TJ Murray 2 The outside is filled with possibilities and adventures. Skydiving, camping, hiking, and other activities many can experience. It can bring people closer together and even realize things about themselves they never would have discovered like laying in your sleeping bag gazing at the stars after a long day of hiking and horse riding. But those happy memories can be tainted by the unfortunate events that also played out. Tropical areas are well known for people finding discoveries however they are notorious for vector borne diseases are a major threat to the public health but also in European countries where the presence of mosquitoes can be nuisance. Malaria and dengue fever are well known diseases that cause a lot of deaths in the world today. Also, when staying in the outdoors it is common for some foods to be contaminated by neighboring creatures so seeing your food supply for the next couple days being devoured by insects your trip could be cut short. You never know if the next morning you wake up and see your food infested with aphids, mealy bugs, scales or whiteflies and not knowing you eat it. This situation could end like the situation with the child previously described. Your trip and body could be saved with edible bug spray. Even though edible bug spray has the potential of saving lives and making it safer for humans there is a reason why this product has yet to surface for public use. The chances of this bug spray killing you is very high considering you are ingesting severe chemicals. The balance between edible and non-edible is far from equilibrium because the chemicals used to kill bugs can kill us too. So, to make this dream a reality, chemists must decipher what chemicals could be replaced but still effective to rid insects but only insects. Insects are important and their existence is crucial to the growth and productivity of Earth. But they are a nuisance and if not contained they can be dangerous and harmful. To enjoy life but have insects co-exist and due their duties an edible insect repellent would make this ideal situation come to life. A product though is not on the market but we are one step closer to that dream. In the 90s a patent was placed on a repellent for fruits, vegetables, and plants where two basic ingredients comprising filtered water and garlic juice which is extracted Hadeel Ali ENC 1102 Prof. TJ Murray 3 from a given batch of fresh frozen garlic puree. This patent is lapsed but if this was brought back to scientist attention and with new technological advancements changes can be made and the possibility can be widened. Hadeel Ali ENC 1102 Prof. TJ Murray 4 Cited 1. Ciera, Lucy Wanjiru, Vincent Nierstrasz, Karen De Clerck, et al. BUG: Biobased Mosquitoes Repellent Training School of Hybrid Organic-inorganic Nanoparticles for Innovative Nanostructural Abstracts. Ed. Francesco Branda. 2011. Print. 2. Bugs That Leave Clear Sticky Liquid on Plants &  Home Guides SF Gate. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. 3. Who Let the Bugs Out? Purdue entomology insect collect supplies specimen mounting identifying displaying preserve  Who Let the Bugs Out? Purdue entomology insect collect supplies specimen mounting identifying displaying preserve labels. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. 4. McKenzie, John. Insect repellent for fruits, vegetables and  U.S. Patent No. 5,429,817. 4 Jul. 1995.