Bastis 1 Courtney Bastis Ms. Hannah Lay ENC 1101.006 20 January 2016 Dial M for Murder or Medicine Imagine traveling on a windy road, dwindling down and coming to an end, that is called End of Life Care. It splits into two paths, both passages possess many obvious differences, yet share many similarities that are not seen at first. The paths may start off going in different directions, but nonetheless will meet up together once again to what is known as a compromise. One path represents the National Association for Home Care and Hospice (NAHC), which is for continuance of Hospice care, and the other, Hospice Patients Alliance (HPA), which is for a closer look at the care being offered. Looking at the two paths, the prominent differentiation between the two stakeholders is slim. The NAHC believes that the care of patients under Hospice protection are receiving top of the line care within their respectable branches, contrarily the HPA believes that employees in Hospice care are mishandling the drugs given to the patients. The care of patients in Hospice is viewed so asymmetrically amongst selective patient and home care stakeholders that both organizations should be willing to compromise regarding the safekeeping and protection of the enrolled. Believing that a needs and necessities for what they want in regards to their healthcare is how the NAHC functions. The goal of the NAHC is to bestow proper and affordable health care for the elderly and disabled individuals, regardless of their position in life. Their mission statement is meant to stand for . . . described as being on the Bastis 2 of elderly and terminally ill facing compound problems of illness in the twilight of life, millions of fragile children with major health problems in the dawn of life, and the disabled and sick, who are too often relegated to the shadows of (Chuck). Not only does the NAHC wants to help provide and promote elevated standards of patient care in Hospice nationwide, but to also go against the myth that . . . that dependence is a necessary state for the aged and disabled in (Dragolis). The organization sponsors many educational events that promote the awareness for families and individuals that know or have loved ones that are in need of home care the only could a Hospice provide. Many of their purposes also try to include the new developments of medicine that could potentially aid in the slow process of death. With this in mind, the NAHC and HPA do share many similarities. With large interest in making sure Hospice workers do not take advantage over patients, the HPA aims to inform the public and employees about the misuse of drug treatments. The HPA is a newly founded organization that has been created on a self awareness platform. Their mission statement is aimed towards . . . increasing the knowledge of the public and help shine light on what is not talked about behind the harsh reality of what and where we are sending our loved ones (Munks). Though there has not been numerous cases reported on the topic, the seriousness of how patients are treated is what this organization takes into high regards. Not only does the HPA protect a well being, they also do help a widespread of other healthcare individuals in differing branches that are going through a similar process (Hiens). The main overall goal is to make sure that the public has the proper knowledge before sending their loved ones into care. Regardless of the HPA and NAHC goals, both their mission statements is focused on the overall well being of the patients. Bastis 3 The reason why the NAHC and HPA cannot compromise this issue is that since the HPA is so newly founded, there has not been much talk about how and if both of these companies could resolve their differences. A compromise that seems like it could best resolve these differences, is that Hospice facilities should let their employees go through an extensive training as how the HPA sees fit (Lerry). This compromise could allow these two large organizations to meet amends and see each point of view in where which stakeholder stands. It is also beneficial patient and family wise, knowing that their loved one is in being taken cared of in wonderful and trusting hands. Overall this is what these two stakeholders should consider at this point of their actions. Bastis 4 Works Cited Lerry, James. The