Kendall Zierten Composition II January 29, 2017 The Earth as humans know it is a ticking time bomb. Day by day the home to billions of people becomes more and more deteriorated and polluted slowly killing off the only place in the entire solar system as scientists know, sustainable for human life. Drastic measures must be made or else the planet will eventually become fully rotten and not provide enough resources for life to continue. One of the leading pollutants causing these problems is automobiles, releasing harmful chemicals into the air creating breathing almost impossible. A solution proposed to this issue would to take the over population of deer, and use them for transportation within countries. Using deer as a new form of transportation will help save money on buying cars, decrease the rate for having to hunt deer, and cease the emission of fossil fuels from cars. Obtaining a car is a huge expenditure within modern households, which is why using animals instead would become extremely cost beneficial. According to the United States Energy Information Administration website, the average American spends roughly $2,000 a year alone on gas, not even including car insurance, down payments, etc., (EIA 2014). Aside from money, the deer population is unmanageable as the only alternative yet is to hunt and kill them. With the proposed solution of using deer as transportation, there would be no need to kill these animals and in return the population would not be unobtainable, as the animals would become domesticated. For this plan to enact, the president of the United States would need to ban all automobiles to graphically make a change. Then wild life patrol and specialized trainers would need to begin immediately on domesticating and training the deer. It would take a few weeks to domesticate and train the animals, but the outcome would be extremely beneficial to the planet. A statistic displayed by the Association for Safe International Road Travel provided the information that 1.3 million people die in road crashes each year, on average 3,287 deaths a (ASIRT 2002-17). That is the statistics globally, the United States alone is estimated to 40,000 deaths a year. Using deer instead of cars would almost entirely rid car accidents, saving thousands of lives each year. Pertaining back to the leading cause of the much- needed change in transportation, automobiles create difficult living conditions by polluting the air and releasing harmful chemicals. Historian Martin Melosi conducted research on just how harmful these machines are. iron ore, bauxite, petroleum, copper, lead, and a variety of other raw materials to process steel, aluminum, plastics, glass, rubber, and other products necessary to construct automobiles consumes limited resources, uses great amounts of energy, and has serious environmental (Melosi, Automobile in American Life society). If the United States created the first change, the positive impacts could influence other countries, then eventually the world. Along with introducing a solution to such a topical issue, there is always dilemmas presented on the side. The first issue presented with switching out of cars is time efficiency. Deer only run up to 30 mph, therefore it would take longer to reach destinations than before, however when weighing the pros and cons, taking a longer amount of time to reach destination is favored over losing hundreds of thousands of people to car accidents and a cleaner ecosystem. Another issue presented is people now need to care for and support deer in their homes where a car does not need constant care and is not an actual living organism. Across America, hunting is viewed as a sport and taking away the most common animal in hunting will be sure to create anger in hunters, but it is expected they respect the overall beneficial outcomes to not only to them but their economy. Also taking deer away from their ecosystem will create an imbalance in the food chain as deer are a primary food source for most predators, humans included. Although a study conducted in the Journal of Medical Virology supports information that transmission of hepatitis E virus (HEV) to humans from deer (Tei 2004). Eating deer are now a health risk that people need to become aware of and should use them as traveling methods instead of a food source. However, with animals they are unaware of health risks and there will still be a devastating gap in the food chain without deer. Concluding this new proposition to better the environment, save people money, and save deer from being hunted, using deer instead of cars is an efficient alternative, Yes, some people have used smart cars, but the change has not been drastic enough to better the environment. That is why critical measures must be taken by the president of the United States and possibly soon other leaders of the world to ban cars and use animals like pre-existing times. The planet is crying out to help while thick blankets of smog rest upon some of the most famous cities and soon every city known to man. Works Cited Melosi, Martin V. The Automobile and the Environment in American History by Martin V.  The Automobile and the Environment in American History by Martin V. Melosi. Autolife UMD, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Road Crash  Road Crash Statistics. Association for Safe International Road Travel, 2002-17. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tei, Suchin. Consumption of Uncooked Deer Meat as a Risk Factor for Hepatitis E Virus Infection: An Age- and Sex-matched Case-control  Medical Virology 74.1 (2004): 67- 70. Wiley Online Library. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. United States. Energy Information Administration. Today in Energy. Ed. Tom Duggett. By Russ Tarver. United States Government, 16 Dec. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.