Nikhita Lal 1/29/17 ENC 1102 Proffesor Cainas What is the Official Language of America? Communication is key. This is a statement that is used quite frequently throughout society. no doubt that whether you are talking about businesses, politics, doctors, or even artists, the best ones are the ones that can communicate best. Communication is an outlet for us to express how we truly feel. Fred Rogers explains it like, human is mentionable, and anything that is mentionable can be more manageable. When we can talk about our feelings, they become less overwhelming, less upsetting, and less scary. The people we trust with that important talk can help us know that we are not Well what about the United States of America? In a country filled with a diverse population, communication is essential to peace and success. A main component of communication is language. The United States of America till this day does not have an official language. This is a common debate across the country and its citizens because it effects many people and factors. Two groups that it effects the most are native English speakers and non-native English speakers. These stakeholders have the point of contention with whether America should make the official language English or not, however, the best proposed compromise for this situation is not changing anything to avoid chaos. For native English speakers, they would want to change the official language to English because it would bring unity across the country, reduce federal costs, and overall not much would change because most people already speak English. The United States is a country made up of many immigrants till this day there are many citizens that cannon speak English. This is simply not practical because how are people supposed to communicate then? English speakers Nikhita Lal 1/29/17 ENC 1102 Proffesor Cainas believe that every citizen should be able to speak English because it provides a sense of unity and similarity between all citizens and will allow communication to go more smoothly. This way all people of different cultures can communicate and interact with others allowing them to be active and participate in the country. It essentially promotes peace. If citizens at least all had the language of English in common, then it would hopefully set aside some differences and give everyone an opportunity to get a long and feel like a true American. However, this is not saying English should be the only language spoken in America. very important for citizens to keep culture and their original language, but in order for communication to run more easily throughout America, having English as the main language would help. There would also be many savings. According, to the Washington Post, Brandon Brice said as the official langauge would save billions in federal spending. The direct cost of translators and bilingual education alone are billions, and many of these costs are born by local Los Angeles in 2002, $15 million, or 15 percent of the election budget, was devoted to printing ballots in seven languages and hiring bilingual poll workers. Los Angeles county hires over 400 full-time court interpreters at a cost of $265 per day. In 2000, President Bill Clinton signed into law Executive Order 13166, which forces health care providers who accept Medicare and Medicaid payments to hire interpreters for any patient who requires one, at the own Clearly, we can see that there are billions of dollars spent each year that America can save just by changing the official language. Another thing to remember is that the native English speakers believe that nothing would really change. English is predominately the most spoken language in the United States already it just official. Nikhita Lal 1/29/17 ENC 1102 Proffesor Cainas Non- native English speakers tend to have the opposite view. By making the English language official America would have to deal with language barriers and assimilation of immigrants that would endure difficulty. Immigrants cannot learn to read and write in English in one day. It takes a lot of time and practice for people who have no learned English as their first language to suddenly become fluent in it. This may require classes and that is an extra expense for non-English Speakers. However, more than just learning the actual language, also about feeling comfortable with how they communicate. If people are learning language because they are forced to and not because they adapted to it naturally, then it can cause conflict of interest. America is unique country due to a high diverse population filled with immigrants, so this would be a decent amount of the population that would have to go through this. It is simply unfair to make citizens rely on speaking a certain language to function in a place they are trying to call home. James Crawford talks about English practice. He says is no accident that attempts to restrict languages other than English occur at a time of rising immigration and empowerment by racial minorities.4 While explicit racial politics are no longer acceptable in American life, language politics remain legitimate. For many supporters of Official English, there is no sinister, hidden agenda. But for others, the campaign for Anglo-conformity functions as a surrogate: a way to vent racial hostilities, to limit immigration from the Third World, to preserve the supremacy of white Americans, and to do all these things while wrapping themselves in the This elaborate yet powerful quote describes how making English the official language would be ripping the culture out of the non-native English speakers. There is a true debate with this topic within the United States. However, a compromise can be given. Why change anything? America has survived this long as a developed country Nikhita Lal 1/29/17 ENC 1102 Proffesor Cainas without having an official language that it truly effect anything. It may provide unity, but that can be achieved through many other ways. There is no point changing anything if it will cause controversial and chaos in the country amongst citizens. Nikhita Lal 1/29/17 ENC 1102 Proffesor Cainas Works Cited Page Why English Should Be the Official Language of the United  The Washington Times. The Washington Times, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Effective Language Education  Language Freedom and Restriction. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. PBS. PBS, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.