Shari Sahadath ENC 1102 Karen Hanson 01/29/2017 Animal Testing on cosmetic companies Controversy has always been associated with animal testing. Many people are unaware of this issue all over the world, but a clear decision cannot be made on this matter. (The majority of cosmetics companies use animals to test their products, and some people are against this because this is considered an act of cruelty. The rest of the people are either undecided or approve of animal cruelty, largely due to their own shareholding in the cosmetic companies.) Animal testing is performed on majority of cosmetics with some people against this act, and some who have no interest or want to continue with testing. Most of the academic research done on animal testing shows that cosmetic companies are trying to decrease tests done on animals, and exploration to find alternative methods to animal testing is evident. However, the problem is whether or not to cease the testing on animals for cosmetic products. The Humane Society of the United States(HSUS) believes that animal testing should be prohibited, as they are committed to protecting and helping animals in laboratories while Johnson & Johnson believes that the testing of animals is needed sometimes to assure safety and effectiveness on their cosmetic products. With Johnson & belief in animal testing, they do try to decrease the percentage of animals used. However, despite this controversy between these two organizations, they do have a common goal; which is to decrease animal testing. In order to consolidate this issue, animal testing should be diminished until alternative methods are found. The Humane Society of the United States is an organization that projects the most effective animal protection. This organization is in the lead for animal advocacy. They are devoted in helping animals in laboratories, as well as pets at home. The goal of this organization is to protect animals and battle animal cruelty. The Humane Society try their best to make more humane place for This organization believes that animal testing should not be conducted. They believe animals should have a fair chance at life, attain the best care and not have to face any sort of cruelty. They believe this can be done, by taking more interest in the issue of animal cruelty and by learning more about their care centers. Also, they allow people to meet the rescued animals that they save each year. This non-profit organization provides a list on how people can act, to help animals used in experiments. In regards to animal testing, they are currently working decreasing and eventually abolishing testing on animals. Developing alternative testing methods is their mission to promote. They would like to make animal testing illegal but not by the means of any violent or harmful acts. Johnson & intentions are identical when it comes to animal testing. This cosmetic company believes in testing animals for the safety of humans using their products. Even though they believe in animal use, their policy is to strive to decrease and minimize testing on animals. They have mentioned they have decreased animal testing on their products by over sixty percent in the last twenty-seven years. They state that in order to bring their new products on the market, they need governmental agencies approval. However, in aid to stop testing on animals, they resort trying alternative methods such as vitro methods, but this method does not bring in all the pre-clinical data that is needed for consent. Continuous stress as to why they test on animals remains strictly for the safety of humans when using their products. Also focus strongly when it comes to certain medical products. They state that the current non-animal alternative methods simply just do not meet their needs; the safety of the products. They also state that they keep on common ground with the Animal Welfare Act and the international regulatory requirements to assure they are following the instructions of the law. They clearly state that their experiments are not done illegally and are accredited or in the process of accreditation, and that when animals are used they have the approval and license from Institutional Animal Care and Use and regional government agencies. The Humane Society of the United States and Johnson & Johnson both share a common objective, to decrease animal testing as much as possible. Both of these stakeholders show clear evidence on this goal. They each are doing their best to strive to lessen the use of animals for cosmetic products. Even though, in reality, they may not be able to abrogate the use of animals completely, they both have idea of trying to decrease this act as much as possible. Another interest that they both believe in is trying to source alternative methods to animal testing. The difference between the two is that The Humane Society of the United States believes that animal testing should be completely abolished while Johnson & Johnson believes that the use of animals is sometimes essential for the safety of their products. However, as much as The Humane Society of the United States wants animal testing banned or illegal, they face with the conflict, trying their best to make the issue known and also trying their best to decrease the problem. Many people have their own opinions on this topic, but these two stakeholders are a great insight on the controversy correlating animal testing. With this conflict of interest, a solution can be made by decreasing animal testing to a great extent until the alternative techniques or methods are properly effective. Scientists are working on these alternative methods to animal testing, it would just take longer than expected. This being about five years. An example of an alternative approach is the use of a skin sensitizer creation. With this solution, both of these stakeholders can come to an accord. Johnson & Johnson would have to try to find an alternative approach in order to ensure that their product is safe, without the use of animals. This solution can be a benefit to society as the reduction in the use of animals would cease all conflict and campaigning of this controversial issue. It would also cease the arguments organizations have against animal cruelty. Animal Testing arises many conflicts with people, whether it being right or wrong. According to article published by Gregory Mone, vitro and silico testing will play a much larger part in how we assess chemicals in the This meaning that animal testing can be eventually abolished when further research is done to complete these alternative methods. This being said, the common goal, where both stakeholders can come to compromise. Both The Humane Society of the United States and Johnson & Johnson want similar approaches, which is decreasing animal testing and to source for alternative methods. The development of these different approaches can benefit not only society but animals as well. To alleviate any conflict between the two stakeholders, a common ground would be decreasing the use of animals greatly, until alternative methods or techniques are readily available for use. This compromise is reasonable and both stakeholders can come to a common ground by the reduction in animal testing. This can also be considered an acceptable and positive approach as it has benefits. With the decrease of animal testing and the application of alternative methods to animal testing, we can be one step closer to a harmonious society. Works Cited Mone, Gregory. Models In Cosmetics Replacing Animal Communications Of The ACM 57.4 (2014): 20-21. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Agell, Laia, Vanessa Soria, and Mar Carrio. Role Play To Debate Journal Of Biological Education (Routledge) 49.3 (2015): 309-321. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web 29 Jan. 2017. Ezendam, Janine, Hedwig M. Braakhuis, and Rob J. Vandebriel. Of The Art In Non- Animal Approaches For Skin Sensitization Testing: From Individual Test Methods Towards Testing Archives of Toxicology 12 (2016): 2861. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Garattini, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi. Article: Animal Testing Is Still The Best Way To Find New Treatments For Patients. Journal Of Internal Medicine (2016): ScienceDirect. Web 29. Jan 2017. and Product The Humane Society of the United States, Accessed 29 Jan 2017. The Humane Society of the United States, Accessed 29 Jan 2017. Johnson & Johnson, http://www.jnj.com/caring/citizenship- sustainability/strategic-framework/animal-testing. Accessed 29 Jan 2017.