Al Mamari 1 Waleed Al Mamari ENC 1102 Professor Penuliar January 29, 2017 Should Marijuana Be Legalized Cannabis has been criticized by politics and global trade for many years. Cannabis has different impacts on humans and societies. Thus, People have been argumenting regarding the impacts of the cannabis and how they should deal with the using cannabis. Cannabis is known as Marijuana and it is dried leaves of the hemp plant (Anderson, 2016). It is used for spiritual aims and it can be used as mind altering. Marijuana has many active chemicals that work to reduce the connection between mind and body. There are different methods to consume Marijuana, it can be taken by rolling papers, smoked by a pipe, or it can be eaten by as edibles (leafscience, 2016). Marijuana works to change the physical and physiological situations of users. According to the National Institution of Drug Abuse (NIDA), the Physically effects of Marijuana include increasing heart rate, daily cough, bronchitis. Besides, there are physiological impacts can be noted on users. As mentioned by the National Institution of Health(NIH), Marijuana has the ability to change the mood, for instance, users can feel anxiety, fear, asleep and so on. On the contrary, some people including doctors and pharmacists believe that Marijuana has many benefits for user. For instance, it helps to lose weight and reduce depression (Whitley, 2016). In addition, Marijuana is related to diagnose and treat several illnesses such as Cancer, Autism, Seizures and Diabetes (Whitley, 2016). Therefore, there is controversy and disagreement whether Marijuana should be legalized or not. In this case, there many stakeholders Al Mamari 2 that interesting to stand for or against Marijuana. NORML organization is a stakeholder that works for legalizing Marijuana for adults because they believe that Marijuana can benefit people and boost economic growth. On other other hand, SAM organization stands against legalizing Marijuana because it has the ability to destroy human health and societies. Although, NORML organization believes that marijuana should be legalized and SAM organization believes that Marijuana should not be legalized, they both share that Marijuana has positive and negative impacts on human life in common, however, NORML organization sees the issue from economic aspect and SAM focuses on the human health side. This can compromise by legalizing only medical Marijuana in order to help patients and generate economic growth and apply legal age for those patients but other Marijuana productions should be prohibited in order to avoid the negative impacts on human health and societies. NORML is the National Organization For Marijuana Legalization and it is non-profit organization that founded in 1970 by Keith Stroup (Driver, 2016). This organization stands to legalize medical and non-medical Marijuana for adults. This organization uses social media in order to express and show their goals. It represents the interests of many Americans who have responsibility to smoke Marijuana. There is a sister organization which is NORML Foundation and this organization works hand by hand with NORML organization to educate the public about Marijuana and tries to reform many laws. These organizations have explained the principles of responsible Marijuana use. Those principles include adults only, no driving, set and setting, and respect rights of others(NORML Board of Directors, 1996). Legalizing Marijuana can help to boost economic growth as well for the states. There are many writers who believe that Marijuana should be legalized for many reasons. For instance, Matt Ferner indicates to the outcomes of Al Mamari 3 legalizing Marijuana legalization would produce hundreds of new jobs, raise millions for the construction of Colorado public schools and raise around $60 million annually in combined savings and revenue for budget, the report SAM is the Smart Approaches to Marijuana which works to stop using and trading Marijuana and it is launched by David Frum and liberal Patrick Kennedy, Sabet This organization tries to educate the public about the impacts of using Marijuana other words, going to rehab whether you need it or not. You may not have a problem with marijuana use, but SAM thinks you might someday, so you need to be forced into rehab before it gets that bad or should we call it This organization recognizes the negative impacts of Marijuana on human health and society. There are several researches that support the ideas of SAM. John Hawkins believes that should not be legalized because of different reasons. extremely addictive for some people, Marijuana is terrible for your mental health, Marijuana is terrible for your physical health, The drug decimates many as John Hawkins said. The two stakeholders- NORML and SAM- have many disagreements and agreements. Both stakeholders agree that Marijuana has negative and positive sides. However, the question is how to get benefits from Marijuana and avoid the negative impacts and who will support or oppose legalizing Marijuana. Both stakeholders have common underlying goals to be achieved. For instance, both stakeholders try educated the public about using Marijuana and why people are argument about use it. In this case, since there are disagreements and common goals for both stakeholders, it is possible to collaborate and be on the same page. Al Mamari 4 NORML and SAM organizations can reach to common goals because they realized that impacts and outcomes of using Marijuana. However, they still have some disagreement about using Marijuana in public. For example, they should consider the legal age for using Marijuana but since Marijuana has disaster impacts on human health, it should not be allowed for everyone because it will harm everybody. In this case, both stakeholders should make some concessions. NORML should recognize that Marijuana should not be allowed for the public without exceptions. On the other hand, SAM should recognize that Marijuana can be helpful for some people and they should allow them to use Marijuana. For example, Marijuana is a great solution to be used as treatment for PTSD (posttraumatic stress disorder) which face some soldiers that joined in wars. As stated by Bailey Rahan, Researchers found that people with PTSD had lower levels of anandamide, an endogenous cannabinoid compound, compared to those who did not show signs of Lee wrote, to all mammals, anandamide (our inner cannabis, so to speak) triggers the same receptors that are activated by THC and other components of the marijuana there are several medical researches that prove the importance of using Marijuana because related to diagnose and treat several illnesses such as Cancer, Autism, Seizures and Diabetes (Whitley, 2016). In conclusion, study the impacts of using Marijuana is an appropriate way to decide whether it should be legalized or not. The problem is some stakeholders see the issue only from one side and ignore the other sides. NORML and SAM organizations are an example for those stakeholders which focused only on one aspect. There are several aspects can be affected by legalizing Marijuana for the public such as human health, society and economy. In this case, the stakeholders should works on the disagreements between them and share their underlying Al Mamari 5 agreements in order to reach common goals. However, even if these two stakeholders worked hard to achieve common goals, they cannot satisfy everyone because every person has different view and opinion. therefore , these two stakeholders should work to make the majority feel satisfied about their decisions. Thesis Statement: Although, NORML organization believes that marijuana should be legalized and SAM organization believes that Marijuana should not be legalized, they both share that Marijuana has positive and negative impacts on human life in common, however, NORML organization sees the issue from health economic aspect and SAM focuses on the human health side. This can compromise by legalizing only medical Marijuana in order to help patients and generate economic growth and apply legal age for those patients but other Marijuana productions should be prohibited in order to avoid the negative impacts on human health and societies. Al Mamari 6 Work Cited Anderson, Leigh.  (2016): n. pag. Web. 13 Nov. 2016. Retrived from Boxe, Agata . History: How One Plant Spread Through the (2014): n. pag. Web. 17 Oct. 2014. Retrieved from http://www.livescience.com/48337-marijuana-history-how-cannabis-travelled-world.html Demick, Danielle. It Is Okay To Expect The Unexpected With Medical  Huffington Post (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Retrievd from Driver, Brittany. What is  High Blog (2016): n. pag. Web. 24 Oct. 2016. Retrieverd from Pyke, Alan. $2.4 billion impact in Colorado is a lesson for 5 states considering  (2016): n. pag. Web. 28 Oct. 2016. Retrieved from https://thinkprogress.org/5-states-weighing-marijuana-legalization-would-reap-enormous-econo mic-benefits-study-suggests-cb06831d154b#.bpieiz240 Rahn, Bailey. Cannabis and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder  (2012): n. pag. Web. 5 Jan. 2012. Retrieved from https://www.leafly.com/news/health/cannabis-and-post-traumatic-stress-disorder-ptsd