Chauhan 1 Ayush Chauhan Prof. Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102 011 29 January 2017 Future of Education Education is the backbone for early childhood development. It provides future generations the opportunity to explore new worlds and new ideas. In 2002, under President George W. administration, No Child Left Behind (NCLB) was passed with majority bipartisan support. NCLB required all states to adopt curriculum standards to close gaps in academic performance. However, all NCLB really did was create a narrative of failure for all schools that meet the fairytale standards set by the Federal Government. From this wreckage came the emergence of the Common Core State Standard (CCSS) which called for dramatic national education reform. Currently, there are organizations that support CCSS and those that believe CCSS has plagued public education. Two of these leading groups are National Education Association (NEA), dedicated to making America the pinnacle of K-12 education, and Freedom Works, a group determined to rid public education of the Federal Government. At first glance, these organizations appear to be working against each other, however, they do have an underlying theme; Both organizations have an interest in giving every child in America the best education possible. They can reach a compromise by developing customized standards of education that put students first. One of the leading organizations dedicated in making America the pinnacle of K-12 education by continuing to incorporate common core in schools across the country is the National Education Association (NEA). The mission is to for education professionals and to unite our members and the nation to fulfill the promise of public education Chauhan 2 to prepare every student to succeed in a diverse and interdependent (nea.org). NEA believes that Common Core increases rigor in the classroom by allowing more critical thinking for students and making them competitive on a global scale. NEA also claims that Common Core advances in the fight for equality. If all students are held to high standards that will promote equity and the quality of education will increase. These claims are supported by Porter et article published in the Sage Journals, titled Core Standards: The New U.S. Intended This study concluded that with a single set of standards there is more opportunity and motivation. aligned standards and curriculum create a change for the (Porter et al. 115). This research shows the benefits the Common Core State Standard has to offer. The other leading organization in the debate whether Common Core should be incorporated within schools is Freedom Works (FW). FW claim that Common Core standards prevent teachers from doing their job effectively. FW state that Core was not designed by teachers, but rather bureaucrats who do not understand the (freedomworks.org). Freedom Works outlines that all students need individual attention and that no two children are alike. FW continues to believe that having a curriculum that is given to a wide variety of students who all have different ways of learning, is not fair. FW claim that the Federal Government has no role to be part of education and that teachers and parents should decide standards. Their claim is backed by an article that was published in Rethinking Schools and is titled Problems with the Common This article was written by Stan Karp in which he states that individuals charged with drafting the standards, 14 were from testing 0 teachers were in the (Karp 4). This proves the claims made by FW that bureaucrats designed Common Core. Chauhan 3 There is a clear disagreement between NEA and FW; NEA wants to continue with the incorporation of the Common Core State Standard, while FW wants to dismantle Common Core and give the power to choose back to the teachers and parents. NEA believes that to keep America at the pinnacle of education, a common core standard must be implemented in order to allow the success of students all across the country. At the other end, FW is pushing for the government to get out of education entirely. To give the power back to those who know how to teach and take it out of Washington. These organizations appear to be on completely opposing sides, but they have a similar goal: Provide students with the best possible education. NEA wants a federally controlled standard while FW believes it should be handled by state and local governments. However, by working together, these organizations can push to achieve their common goal. Instead of fighting who should dictate standards for public education, NEA and FW should work together in finding the best solution in giving students the opportunity to learn and succeed. NEA is publicly known for the favor of keeping with Common Core because their mission statement outlines their dedication to providing top quality education. FW is working on breaking down Common Core and moving to a more individualized standard of education. Per an academic journal entry from The Gale Group titled Common Standards the Anne Stone writes current standards of Common Core are not high We are never going to achieve universal excellence in education unless we grant all teachers the same intellectual freedom enjoyed by those educating the children of the (Stone 2). Stone clearly believes in having set standards but also thinks that teachers should have the freedom to teach the students. This evidence suggests that leaving teachers to work on their own accord allows for the best results for students. This compromise of creating higher standards and Chauhan 4 allowing teachers to teach freely is very promising. Although it is not free of problems, NEA and FW will be able to adjust as it meets both of their interests. In conclusion, NEA and FW do not align with their ideals. NEA favors Common Core, and FW is against the idea of having the Federal Government involved in education. After looking at both these goals and missions, common ground is found by creating higher standards and allowing teachers the intellectual freedom to educate their students. NEA wants America to be the pinnacle of K-12 education and FW wants the power of education to be given back to teachers and parents. By coming together in support of this compromise, both parties can work together to reach their common goal and make education in America what it should be, the best. Chauhan 5 Works Cited Works FW. N.p. n.d. Web. 27 January 2017. Karp, Stan. Problems with the Common Rethinking Schools, vol. 28, no. 2, 2013, pp. 1-10. Education Association NEA. Np. nd Web 27 January 2017. Porter, Andrew, McMaken, Jennifer, Hwang, Juan, Yang, Rui. Core Standards: The New U.S. Intended Sage Journals, vol. 2, no.1, 2011, pp. 103-116. Stone, Anne. Common Standards the The Gale Group, vol. 2013, no. 5, 2013. pp 1-4.