Brandon Guzie Kristin Rouisse ENC1102 29 January 2017 Legalizing the Herb Until the past decade, the legalization of marijuana was never even considered as a plausible option. The emergence of the issue began when health benefits were discovered. Leafly is a company that is doing all they can to end the prohibition of marijuana. The company seems at odds and their opinion goes against what used to be popular opinion. The DPA (Drug Policy Alliance) along with NIDA (National Institute on Drug Abuse) continue to fight for marijuana to remain illegal. This issue is not going under the radar. An increasing amount of states are legalizing marijuana for medical purposes, and its recreational use seems inevitable. Even the presidential nominees were asked about their opinions on the subject multiple times. Leafly and companies like the DPA and NIDA should do their best to reach an agreement by legalizing medical marijuana while enforcing laws regarding the recreational and abusive use. The DPA and NIDA are two anti-marijuana companies who represent a mass amount of people who do not believe that marijuana should be legal. NIDA has released many articles stating many factors that support why marijuana should remain illegal. First off, marijuana users are more likely to consume nicotine. This eventually leads to an addiction of nicotine which is extremely unhealthy for the human body. Studies have also been shown to display that driving while under the use of marijuana is more dangerous than drunk driving. A device also shows that marijuana is still detected in a breath two hours after their use. NIDA also published work regarding the issue of memory recognition after the use of marijuana. The experiment showed that monkeys who given THC had better recollection of a location after a delay. Another study shows that marijuana users have a smaller orbitofrontal cortex, making it harder for users to stop addictive behavior. NIDA also questions whether the use of marijuana lowers the users IQ. No direct causation has been proved, but the correlation seems obvious Notes Article). NIDA the only anti-marijuana company out there. Pharmaceutical companies despise legal marijuana because it takes away from their business. For example, Insys Therapeutics is a pharmaceutical company in Arizona that has sponsored an Arizona anti- weed organization because marijuana takes the place of Dronabinol, which is a popular drug they sell. Insys along with other medical companies are angry since medical marijuana can take the place of multiple drugs they sell, thus destroying their commercial trade and business (Berke). The DPA has a different stance. Their problem the legalization itself, but rather how people abuse the drug after legalization. 2015, an estimated 2,139 people were jailed for marijuana offenses in California and another 4,389 people were jailed for Marijuana  offenses where low- level marijuana crimes were included in the sentence. a total of 6,537 jailed for marijuana in 2015, according to the DPA This goes to show that legalizing marijuana for medical purposes will not stop the abusive treatment of users. Young kids will always use the drug for non-medical purposes, but the real problem is, what can be done to stop the abuse of the drug? On the other hand, the biggest pro-weed organization is Leafly. Knowing a major target for anti-weed companies, Leafly has many reasons for why they believe in the legality of marijuana. Medical marijuana has been a reason to a reduced number of sickness absences. This means that less people call out from work for sick purposes due to medical marijuana being on the market. Also, since the legality of marijuana, alcohol consumption has decreased as well as car accidents. These may not be directly because of weed, but people deny the coincidence. Another key factor that Leafly explains is that medical marijuana takes the place of many prescription drugs. Marijuana has many health benefits that makes it capable of acting as an alternative for several drugs. quite astonishing to think about how a plant can do so much. Another interesting fact that Leafly shows is that the amount of teenage marijuana users has not increased, but the use of alcohol and other drugs has decreased. This is weird to think about because this goes against the popular idea that legalizing marijuana will give incentive for more teens to start using. Cited Page Berke, Jeremy. an alliance fighting to keep marijuana  Business Insider. Business Insider, 04 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.businessinsider.com/companies-funding-anti- marijuana-legalization-2016-11>. Https://www.facebook.com/NIDANIH. NIDA Notes Articles:  National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.drugabuse.gov/news-events/nida- notes/articles/term/135/marijuana>. Jikomes, Nick. 4 Promising Cannabis Studies and Research from  Leafly. N.p., 01 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.leafly.com/news/science-tech/promising-2016-cannabis-research>. Loria, Jennifer Welsh and Kevin. 23 Health Benefits Of  Business Insider. Business Insider, 20 Apr. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.businessinsider.com/health-benefits-of-medical- marijuana-2014-4/#it-can-be-used-to-treat-glaucoma-1>. Marijuana Legalization and  Marijuana Legalization and Regulation Drug Policy Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. regulation>. Word count-840 but not done