GROSSER 1 Jake Grosser Bob Botkin ENC 1102 099 January 28, 2017 We Are Watching A police officer on patrol reports to a viscous crime of an elderly women being beaten and robbed by 3 suspects. As the officer and his partner arrive on the scene the suspects take off in a full sprint, leaving the officers no choice but to tend to the injured women. Even though the suspects fled the scene, the camera on one of the officers uniform and the camera in their squad car had made out the faces of the 3 suspects who were later convicted. This paper investigates weather police around the world should agree on letting officers wear body cameras on their person to help aid them in situations like this. Equipping all police personnel with a camera the size of a stick of gum would greatly benefit the community by having trustworthy law enforcement as well as enhancing the feeling of safety to the people in who they are protecting. The cameras on their person would pick up what the officers see and hear keeping them accountable for all of their actions as well as the actions of the people they encounter each and every day. It would instill trust in the people that these police officers are protecting. It would eliminate complaints about how police are being inappropriate or using excessive force with the public. Police Foundations Executive Chief Tony Farrar wanted to see just how effective these cameras were. He distributed them to all police officers of the California Rialto police department to put these cameras to the test and see how they would preform. findings suggest more than a 50% reduction in the total number of incidents of use-of-force compared to control-conditions, and nearly ten times more GROSSER 2 complaints in the 12-months prior to the says Chief Farrar (Pagliarella). Not only was the chief impressed, he then decided to distribute more body cameras to police around the United States. He was very well assured that these cameras would provide a tremendous amount of positive feedback and a warm feeling of security to the public. Police around the country should be required to wear a small camera on their uniform for a number of reasons. One of the greatest main points of having this amazing technology is to have better evidence in the case of an arrest and prosecutions. having the camera on while on duty, officers can document incidents as they occur, and if a shooting takes place, juries will have evidence of these interactions on tape. Body cameras may also encourage police to be more consistently conscious and diligent toward their responsibilities, as their every move will be said a law enforcement agency in San Diego, California (Lippman). When a case is brought to a judge, the film from the police officers camera can be used as evidence to help aid in the case. The judge can now hear and see everything that happened during the time of arrest, which could possibly aid the suspect to see if they went calmly and respectfully. Also, officers could use the footage taken by the cameras on their person to assist them in writing reports on arrests. There are a number of organizations such as the Anti-Violence Project who come in contact with police and make false accusations regarding the condition in which they were treated. With a body camera on all police personnel, this problem of false accusation would be eliminated due to the fact that there is physical proof of the actual event. One major controversy on having police be equipped with a camera is the privacy of the citizens and the privacy of the police officers. Coming in contact with the police could be quite embarrassing and humiliating for some people. Some people do not want a recording of them being arrested or having any interaction with police that is documented. On the other hand, GROSSER 3 police officers also do not want to be wearing them for privacy reasons as well. They want to preform their job without having to be worried that there is always someone watching them as well as listening to every word they utter. There is an organization called Watch Dogs that collect police body camera footage to look for any police brutality. The police department must give the video up if there is a complaint of any misconduct or any possible police brutality. When the Watch Dog group does get their hands on the tape, they could possibly do anything they want with it, even post it to YouTube where there is many other body camera footage of police officers. Also, a body camera does not record what goes on before the police arrive on the scene, or what is happening behind the camera. Videotape is a very crucial piece of evidence in a case and many people think it is not fair to use what is on the video as evidence regardless of the circumstances. Many things could have lead up to the footage or even happening where the camera is not recording. Police body cameras can revolutionize law enforcement forever by aiding police in eliminating false accusations of police brutality and ensuring the safety of the citizens in which they protect. On the other hand police officers are worried about the privacy of the citizens and themselves while the camera is rolling as well as what goes on before the cameras footage and what the camera cannot see. There are some ways to fix some of the problems that police officers face regarding body cameras worn on their uniforms. For one, police officers could be recording at all times, but with no sound. sound from the video does assist in the privacy of the police officers due to the fact that there will communication from the officer that will be recorded, which will put all the attention on what is actually (Kampfe). To help ensure the privacy of the citizens, police could stop the recording when speaking to a person who does not want to be recorded. For example, an incident where a person is seriously injured or a GROSSER 4 sex related crime can not be recorded for the privacy of the victim. This will limit the range of what police can and cannot record while working. Police cameras can assist officers and the citizens they encounter by providing crucial evidence that can only help the suspect who is interacting with the officer. Body cameras will not stop horrible things from happening from a police officer and citizens viewpoint. But it will aid them in providing evidence in the case of an arrest as well as providing security to those who they encounter. There are many cases that have happened in the past that could have been solved if there were a body camera on the police officer. Many incidents where police officers would have paid the price of police brutality if there was only footage of the incident. Police body cameras will revolutionize the future of policing and help aid everyone that comes in contact with them. GROSSER 5 Work Cited Americans Strongly Support Police Body-Worn  Security: Solutions For Enterprise Security Leaders 53.2 (2016): 12. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. As Police Body Cameras Increase, What About All That  All Things Considered (2015): Literature Resource Center. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Freund, Kelly. When cameras are rolling: privacy implications of body-mounted cameras on  Columbia Journal of Law and Social Problems 2015: 91. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kampfe, Karson. Police-Worn Body Cameras: Balancing Privacy And Accountability Through State And Police Department  Ohio State Law Journal 5 (2015): 1152. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lippman, Gary E. Will Police Body Cameras Be A Mandatory Subject Of Bargaining In  Florida Bar Journal 90.10 (2016): 57-61. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pagliarella, Chris. Police Body-Worn Camera Footage: A Question Of  Yale Law & Policy Review 34.2 (2016): 533-543. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. GROSSER 6