Mia Schilling The Use of Animals for Experimentation The controversy over animal rights has been going on for quite some time. The concept of animal rights is based on the belief that animals have interests and rights similar, and in some cases equal, to those of humans. In practical terms, animal rights would mean that animals could not be used for food, clothing, entertainment, or experimentation. However, opponents of animal rights argue that animals lack both the mental and moral capacity to be granted these basic rights. According to the United States Humane Society, approximately 25 million animals are used for experimentation, research, and education each year. (The Humane Society of the United States, About Us) The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments (ECEAE) is working hard to eliminate the use of animals in any laboratory testing. This organization believes that subjecting animals to cruel and painful procedures in the name of research is scientifically unsound and morally (ECEAE, About Us) On the other side of this debate stands the organization known as Pro-Test. This organization aims to up for and support human progress through the continuation of animal testing. (Pro-Test, Welcome) Both organizations strive for best for human safety, but have a different idea in mind of how to obtain this goal. To accommodate both organizations, the Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing (CAAT) aims to provide a more humane future for people and animals by finding new ways to reduce the numbers of animals necessary, or refine methods to make them less painful or stressful to the animals involved. (Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, CAAT) The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments (ECEAE) is leading alliance campaigning on behalf of animals used in laboratories. According to their website, 12 million animals are used in European laboratories every year which is equivalent to 137 animals suffering in cruel and painful experiments every 10 minutes. (ECEAE, Welcome) Animal experimentation is often hidden so the world cannot see what goes on behind the closed doors of these laboratories. Through undercover investigations, uncovering evidence in scientific journals and monitoring official statistics, the ECEAE and its members are committed to exposing the truth about animal testing. (ECEAE, The Truth About Animal Testing) They draw on political, legislative, and scientific expertise to campaign tirelessly for the rights of these animals. The animal rights movement supports the ECEAE and seeks to include animals in the so-called moral community that humans belong to, by encouraging others to respect their basic interests as they would the interests of a human. (Wagner, Animal rights Debate) Also, the organization of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) advocates complete abstention of the use of animals for experiments any other human purposes. (Wagner, Animal rights Debate) The ECEAE states that research found through animals is scientifically unreliable and humane alternatives can be quicker, cheaper and more effective. (ECEAE, About Us) Pro-Test is an organization in the UK campaigning in favor of continued animal testing for the benefit of scientific research. They aim to encourage people to stand up for science and human progress, rather than the ideals of anti-vivisectionists. (Pro-Test, Welcome) In which, a vivisection is the practice of performing operations on live animals for the purpose of experimentation or scientific research. (Google, Vivisection) It is said that experimental research is one of the primary ways by which science advances. (Wienclaw, Experiments) Pro-Test aims to fight the arguments of anti-vivisectionists by raising public awareness of the benefits of animal research and creating an environment where scientists can speak out about their work and be proud of the contributions they make. (Pro-Test, About Us) Pro-Test exists to defend scientific research as a necessary tool of human progress by supporting animal testing as crucially necessary to further medical science. (Pro-Test, About Us) The organization Speaking of Research partners with Pro-Test to provide accurate information about the importance of animal research / animal testing in science. (Speaking of Research) According to Pro-Test, animal research, medicine as we know it today exist. Animal research has enabled us to find treatments for cancer, antibiotics for infections, vaccines to prevent some of the most deadly and debilitating viruses and surgery for injuries, illnesses and (Pro-Test, Facts) The European Coalition to End Animal Experimentation and Pro-Test seem to have very differing opinions. However, Pro-Test does not aim to harm animals, they just want what is best for human advancement. If another way to test products was brought into light, everyone would win, as no animals would be harmed but humans could still get the research they need. The Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing (CAAT) aims to do exactly that. believe the best science is humane science. Our programs seek to provide a better, safer, more humane future for people and (Speaking of Research) This organization is seeking the best results for human advancement while also minimizing the risks brought to animals, thus pleasing both the ECEAE and Pro-Test. CAAT seeks to effect change by finding new ways to replace animals with non-animal methods, reduce the numbers of animals necessary, or refine methods to make them less painful or stressful to the animals involved. The process of mimicking animal testing takes time and may be more costly, but in this situation, both parties would have a virtuous outcome. While animal experimentation has been going on forever, it has always been a controversial topic. Animal rights are based on the belief that animals should be treated equal to humans and given the same rights that we give one another. When discussing animals used in experimentation, many different views can be brought into light. The European Coalition to End Animal Experimentation fights for the rights of animals to be treated just like humans, which means no torture through experimentation. On the other hand, Pro-Test wants what is best for human advancement, and believes in the use of animals if it will get the most accurate results. To please both organizations, a middle ground can be found by organizations such as the CAAT. New research is being developed to mimic the tests done on animals without causing any harm. In the long run, this option may be more costly (although still undetermined), but it will appease the viewpoints of both the ECEAE and Pro-Test. Works Cited About  ECEAE, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.eceae.org/ About The Humane Society of the United States, Web. 29 Jan. 2017, About  Pro-Test, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.pro-test.org.uk/index.php About  Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Web. 29 Jan. 2017, http://caat.jhsph.edu/about/index.html Center for Alternatives to Animal  Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Web. 29 Jan. 2017, http://caat.jhsph.edu/  Pro-Test, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.pro-test.org.uk/index.php Rich Wagner, Alex K. Geraldine. Animal Rights  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2015): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Speaking of  Speaking of Research, Web. 30 Jan. 2017, https://speakingofresearch.com/ The Truth About Animal  ECEAE, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.eceae.org/  Google, 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.google.com/webhp?sourceid=chrome-  Pro-Test, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.pro-test.org.uk/index.php Welcome To The  ECEAE, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.eceae.org/ What We  ECEAE, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.eceae.org/ Wienclaw, Ruth A. Experiments  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.