Tiana 1 Tiana Spikes Professor Lay ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Gun-Control Gun violence has been prominent in the United States for over the past 3 decades. It seems to the public though, as time elapses that gun-control gets more lenient and incidents of shootings and mass shootings happen more frequently. The issue at hand is some American citizens believe there should be more restrictions placed on guns and gun access (Brady Campaign) while other citizens believe there is no need for gun control and that every American citizen has the right to own a concealed weapon (National Rifle Association). There is no right or wrong opinion on the issue, for every citizen is entitled to their opinions and views according to their rights. So, with that said, the appropriate approach to take is always to review the mission and goals of each side. With the information gathered from reviewing, one can map out what it is each stakeholder aims to accomplish in their efforts. It is not possible to give both positions exactly what they want in efforts to please both sides. Therefore, one must find common ground between stakeholders and propose a compromise that aims to satisfy and benefit both parties in their missions. Now, although it seems that the Brady campaign who is in favor of gun control and the NRA who is in opposition to gun control are at odds, there is surprisingly some common ground between the two ... They both believe gun safety should be taught to all citizens and that firearms are to be accessed only by those who are mentally and physically capable of using them in an appropriate and proper manner. With that said a reasonable compromise amongst the two Tiana 1 would be; one, to conduct stricter and more in-depth background checks as well as review screenings of a mental health before granting access of concealed weapons. In addition, offer gun safety classes to the public and require gun-safety classes for those who wish to carry firearms on their own person. The mission statement of the Brady Campaign is to gun control in their association and perform efforts to make America by cutting firearm casualties down by fifty percent by year 2025 (Quinn 3). According to Jill recent journal the plans focus on weapons out of the wrong hands through three effect driven, extensively captivating efforts Number (1) a strategy center to Complete the  so that Brady personal investigations are connected to all firearm deals; (2) to stop Gun the 5 percent of firearm merchants that supply 90 percent of all wrongdoing weapons; and (3) to promote change in social standards around and in the home regarding firearms, to keep the crimes, suicides, and accidental shootings that happen each day at bare minimum. Built up in 1990, The NRA Association, is in full support of an extensive variety of gun related open intrigue exercises of the National Rifle Association of America and different associations that guard and cultivate the Second Amendment privileges of all decent Americans. Board member William Church explains in NRA Fights for Gun Freedom that these exercises are intended to guns and chasing security, to upgrade marksmanship abilities of those taking an interest in the shooting sports, and to teach the overall population about (25). When considering the goals of both the Brady campaign and the National Rifle Association obvious that their overall goals match, but when you take into consideration their values there is some common ground! Neither side supports the killing off of other American citizens nor are they for harming innocent people. So, what does this mean? There will Tiana 1 never be a time where the second amendment is abolished and there will never be a time where no citizen can have the right to bear arms, but both parties could work together to educate the public and prevent gun violence in the United States. It is very simple, a reasonable compromise for both organizations would be to raise awareness and educate the public. The Brady campaign is fed up with gun violence and innocent killings but that mean that the NRA or the National Rifle Association is exactly for those things. They all have family members and loved ones whom they cherish dearly so why would they want ? They Like every other US citizen, exercising their rights, both parties are. So, a reasonable compromise would be for both associations to educate the public on gun violence and safety and also petition for stricter background checks and mental health screenings. A group of firearm related administrative recommendations have been according to Jerome P in his journal of law dating back to late (62). He explains in depth how they fall into two classes: (1) limitations or points of confinement on authorizing of specific firearms; (2) changes in detailing necessities for historical verifications, including the prohibitor criteria; and expanded emotional well-being screening and administrations. On 5/21/16, NCSC Government Relations Office staff met with agents of the DOJ Policy and Legislation Office and examined elected guns prohibitors, including metal wellbeing settlings. DOJ staff have been holding discussion sessions with a scope of partners. The discussion endeavors brought about a paper that analyzes current prohibitors to a citizen having the opportunity to carry a gun. Stricter background checks and health screenings and raising awareness on fire arms would definitely work in favor of both organizations. With harder Analysis of citizens, it be as easy for them to access guns, it would be a harder process than what it is now. This method Tiana 1 will put a lot of unauthorized gun dealers out of business (which is one of both organizations goals). Therefore, if a person who wanted a gun and for all the right reasons of course, they would have to go through the legal process of purchasing one. Most often when illegal activity is involved, shooters avoid this method being that purchasing the gun for wrongdoings. To conclude, yes, the NRA and the Brady campaign are two different stakeholders on an issue, but after analyzing them closely their values are quite similar. They value the same things; the people of their country. Above all, life is more important than anything. So, in considering the future, if both stakeholders could compromise with the presented suggestions in the end they both will be somewhat satisfied in their mission to create a safe America. Tiana 1 Works Cited Church, William. Fights for Gun National Journal 7 (2013): NRA, National Rifle Association. Web. 22 Aug. 2016. Kassirer, Jerome P. Under Fire: The NRA And the Battle for Gun  The New Hampshire Journal of Law 5 (1994): 373. Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Lawrence, Jill. Gun-Control Success Is in Sight for the Brady  National Journal 2013: Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Quinn, Kevin. Campaign to Prevent Gun Keep Crime Guns Off Our Streets: Brady Campaign. Web. 7 Oct. 2016. Rostron, Allen. Cease Fire: A Strategy on Gun Policy for The Obama  Harvard Law & Policy Review 3.2 (2009): 347-367. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 2 Feb. 2017.