Zaid 1 Yossef Zaid Professor Karen Hanson ENC1102.084 29 January 2017 Exotic Pet Ownership Pets are a normal thing in most households, in fact around 71.5 percent of households in the United States have at least one pet (Avma). When we think of pets usually dogs, cats, and even fish come to mind, however, a pet is defined as domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than (Merriam-Webster). Now Imagine how surprised would you be to go over to a house to find that their cute cat always been telling you about was actually a tiger. This could be a reality in 20 states which allow a person to own exotic pets, six of this states do not have laws that would require owners to receive a permit or documentation to be allowed to own these animals (Born Free Usa). There are many people who find this alarming due to the many safety issues this can cause for the owner, animal, and bystanders. People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals (PETA) and PAWS (not an acronym for anything) are organizations that fight for the safety of animals. PETA is aggressive in their approach to every topic they deal with, exotic pets is not excluded from this. PAWS is more passive in how they deal with spreading information on exotic pets. Both organizations agree that the ownership of exotic animals is wrong, but they differ on how they should tackle the issue, a compromise is possible. To come to a compromise both organizations will need to join hands and find a middle road between how they deal with the ownership of exotic animals. Zaid 2 PETA is the largest nonprofit animal rights group, they do work to increase rights for all animals so one day there will be no animal suffering. core beliefs can be that animals be eaten, worn, experimented on, used for entertainment, or abused (Peta). They have the same level of enthusiasm whether they are fighting for the rights of pigs or tigers. Their work includes passing out leaflets, organizing protests, running shelters, posting to social media, running campaigns, and pulling outrageous stunts (Peta). PETA does this they say because it allows for anyone who wishes to join the organization to act in a way they see fit and allow for many ways to spread information (Peta). In truth this is an effective method of spreading information and trying to get people to act. A study done in 2011, published in the New Journal of Physics, studied the most effective methods of spreading information They found that thanks to the online system information can spread faster than ever, and they found some variables that increase the spread of the information They found who is spreading the information, what information they are spreading, and how often people hear the information in a short amount of time all affect how far and fast the information will spread The way PETA spreads information is through many different sources, the information they spread ranges from extreme to conservative, and they try to get people to see the information often. This is what the researchers found could be one of the fastest ways to spread information. They also hypothesize that spreading information this way allows for the most effect spreading but a bad retention rate of the information because it will spread to people who have strong ties with it PAWS is a smaller nonprofit animal rights organization located in Lynnwood, Washington (Paws). Paws works so that one day all people will recognize the intrinsic value of all animals. PAWS works directly with animals saving them, taking care of them in shelters, and Zaid 3 finding new families for them (Paws). Other than their direct work with animals they also work to spread information about about animals and animal safety, they believe that the most effective method of public outreach is through and non-confrontational (Paws). The majority of their work with exotic pets is educating the public about the dangers and what authorities to contact in case of different issues (Paws). They believe that this is enough with the resources that they have (Paws). A scholarly book was written on how to raise awareness, in their case about engineering, that supports methods. They wrote saying that to effectively raise awareness one has to meet certain guidelines or it will not successful (Davis). The main guidelines was to make sure that the information was credible, that they were getting the information to the targeted group, and that you have support (Davis). The book takes the educating to a level PAWS is unable to meet because they are not a large enough organization, how it says that what they are doing is correct (Davis). This is the most effective method to allow the information to sink in and cause change (Davis). Neither PETA or PAWS runs their campaign incorrectly, both spread information the way they wish to, however, each does something the other PETA is much larger so they can do more things. While PAWS can only reach a small amount but most of the people that they do reach are affected by the information they receive. They can make a campaign together using the most effective methods from each of their campaigns. As stated earlier PETA reaches a lot of people with their campaigns, this has had some negative effects on them. In particular, it has earned them many haters, people hate PETA for being as they call The opposite can be said for PAWS because they reach many people they have many haters. So by joining forces and giving it a name like Exotic Pet Safety Team (EPST). By making a third group Zaid 4 with a specific goal many things become possible. If you noticed throughout this essay when mentioning exotic pets other animals were also being spoken about, that is because the suffering of exotic pets is only a small amount of the total suffering of all animals so neither of them was able to have a group which solely focused on exotic pets. By having a third group which focuses on exotic pet ownership made up of members of both organizations neither of them will lose any major force and will be able to continue what they are doing while better tackling the problem. By making this third group there could be less resistance by the public that dislikes PETA because it will be under a different name, and if they dive deeper and find out that PETA has a hand in this operation they can have peace of mind knowing it only PETA. This third group could follow the guidelines set in Of Social Issues, which is a middle ground between their methods of spreading information, to have a level head yet wide reaching method of fighting the ownership of exotic animals. The Of Social Issues made set a guideline of how to start an effective campaign after testing several methods of doing so, they found that a wide-reaching, credible, specific, and interesting campaign is the best way to persuade people (Bator). The safety of people and animals is very important, and by spreading information about the dangers of exotic pet ownership effectively more lives may be saved. Having this information can also allow normal pet owner better take care of their pets and allow soon to be pet owners decide whether they can handle the responsibility of owning a pet. Approximately 7.6 pets go to shelters each year and around 31% of dogs that go to shelters are euthanized (Aspca). If this is successful it could lead to greater accomplishment by both organizations, after solving the problem with exotic pet ownership they could focus their efforts on different things maybe Zaid 5 they could continue to work together and solve more problems. This could be an example for other organisations to change their tactics and work together to accomplish great things. It may not seem like much, how could changing how an organization relays information or how they campaign really change anything. One small change may not seem like much but one after another they can add up and increase the total quality of life for everyone. Zaid 6 Work Cited Deluxe Dictionary: Tenth Collegiate Edition . New York: Digest Assn., 1998. Print. Pet Ownership , 27 Jan. 2017, http://www.avma.org/KB/Resources/Statistics/Pages/Market-research-statistics-US-pet-o wnership.aspx#exotic of State Laws Relating to Private Possession of Exotic Free Usa, 27 Jan. 2017, Animals as 27 Jan. 2017, http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/exotic-animals-pets/ Rights Uncompromised: 27 Jan. 2017, http://www.peta.org/about-peta/why-peta/peta-tactics/ 27 Jan. 2017, https://www.paws.org/get-involved/take-action/explore-the-issues/exotic-animals/ Is 27 Jan. 2017, https://www.paws.org/about/paws/ Linyuan, Duan-Bing Chen, and Tao Zhou. Small World Yields The Most Effective Information  (2011): . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bator, Renee J., and Robert B. Cialdini. The Application Of Persuasion Theory To The Development Of Effective Proenvironmental Public Service  Of Social Issues 56.3 (2000): 527-541. Search Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Intake And 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.aspca.org/animal-homelessness/shelter-intake-and-surrender/pet-statistics Zaid 7 Davis, Lance A., and Robin D. Gibbin. Public Awareness Of Engineering / Lance A. Davis And Robin D. Gibbin, Editors ; National Academy Of Engineering Of The National Academies . n.p.: Washington, D.C. : National Academies Press, c2002., 2002. Library Bibliographic Dataset . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.