Khlebnikov 1 Oleg Khlebnikov Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 January 24, 2016 Gender Roles in Video Games Nowadays video games have such a huge impact on our lives. Unfortunately, it is a place where violence is a hot topic, at least that is what media says. But, gender stereotypes and sexism in video games also make a controversy. There are a lot of people affected by this dispute. However, feminists and game developers are once that mostly important. Feminists usually raise awareness about the trend of gender issues and women stereotyping in games, they do not want to see games featuring violence against girls and women. On the other side, designers, developers and marketers, people who actually create video games and advertise them to the market, use sexualization to sell as much copies as possible, since it actually works. There is a major controversy about gender roles in video games that must be explored. Feminist Frequency disappointed in the bounded ways women are represented. They raise awareness and take stances against degradation of women in video games. Meanwhile, Rockstar North employs a varying image of women in their games, using a recurring theme of gender stereotyping for products to sell to the market. A compromise must be established between the two. For social media it is common to use sexualization as a hook for a male audience. Video games are not an exception. Even more, video games are known to use women in advertisements. For example, an ad for the game (2002) include almost nude female character, covered only by seashells. However, she does not even play a part in the Khlebnikov 2 game. rights group Feminist Frequency get involved in debates that promote of women in video games by raising awareness and taking positions against it. Basically, they strongly advocate for the just treatment of all people online and believe that media is an essential tool for eradicating injustice. are to explore the tropes, stereotypes and patterns that are most often associated with female characters in mass media. Not all tropes are problematic, of course, so we focus specifically on deconstructing recurring patterns that tend to reinforce or amplify preexisting regressive notions or attitudes about women and roles in our larger (Anita Sarkeesian, 2). Feminist Frequency does not want to see games featuring violence against girls and women. Anita Sarkeesian, executive director of Feminist Frequency, created a project on KickStarter called vs. Women in Video Since they believe that for men, it is not clear what role people can or should play in working towards an end to sexism, this project has been created. video project will explore, analyze and deconstruct some of the most common tropes and stereotypes of female characters in (Carolyn Petit, 1). In this way, feminists show that gender problem in video games is very serious. They believe, that getting rid of sexism in video games will create richer, healthier and more complex gaming experience for people of all genders. Designers, developers and marketers are people who create video games and advertise them to the market. Their goal is to sell as much copies as they can, and it is not a secret that sexualisation sells. According to David Gaider, of all gamers are (8). Therefore game companies use recurring theme of gender stereotyping for their games to attract main audience - males. Rockstar video game Theft Auto (2013) shows that sexualisation could be very attractive. According to Wikipedia, marketed and Khlebnikov 3 widely anticipated, the game broke industry sales records and became the fastest-selling entertainment product in history, earning US $800 million in its first day and US $1 billion in its first three It is not surprising, that one of the best-selling video games of all time caused controversies about images of women that developers used. However, Rockstar North achieved their main goal, to sell as many copies of the product as possible. Statistics show, that the cost of making games is increasing, and the number of units that a AAA-game needs to sell just to break even is getting into the millions (David Gaider, 9). If game company takes unproven risks, their game fails, and it does not matter what their good intentions are. Gaming now is very big industry, alike as cinema or music industries. Cindy Mehallow mentions in her article Teaching Sustainable Values through Serious , that million gamers globally and 22 million hours spent globally on gaming - each (4). All of this shows, that it is very hard to achieve success under such a big pressure, so game developers, including Rockstar North, would do anything to be successful. Even though two stakeholders seems to have absolutely different opinions on how gender roles should be showed in video games, a compromise must be established between two. dynamics of who is gaming has steadily changed in the last five years, as women increasingly flock to video (Kim Gittleson, 4). Rapidly growing amount of women players is the opportunity to find a common ground between feminists and game developers. Female characters used on advertisements or in video games are usually so unrealistic, and designers make them look unproportional. However it is not the only way to show the sexuality. Developers can rethink what it means to be a sexy woman. In real world, people find women sexy for being intelligent, competent and tough. In the article is Dana Khlebnikov 4 Dovey states, and again men report that is one of the top qualities they look for in a woman. From a this makes sense; smarter women would be better able to look after a children and more likely to pass along these smart genes to (1). However, visual design is also important, but designers can observe the proportions of real women and strive to create female characters who represent a more normative look that would resonate with the majority of women. According to Ian Miles Cheong, ESRB has very strict restrictions on the promotion of Mature-rated games, making them more difficult to promote and (3). That is another opportunity for the game developers. If they make women look more real, ESRB will not mark the game as for since restrictions have been lifted. Therefore, realistic look and rich inner world of a character could be a solution for the both sides. There is almost always a compromise that could be found between stakeholders. For game developers, such as Rockstar North, going to the extreme opposite of what have been suggested by players is completely wrong. There is no way for any game to be all things to all people. However, simple rethinking of what makes a woman attractive can put an end to the controversies how video games promote degradation of women. Khlebnikov 5 Work Cited Sarkeesian, Anita. 5 Ways Men Can Help End  Frequency . Feminist Frequency, 2 Dec. 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Carolyn, Petit. Tropes vs. Women in Video  . Feminist Frequency, 17 May 2012. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Dovey, Dana. Intelligence Is Sexy, But Only In Theory: Male Ego Too Intimidated By Smart Women To Date Them, Says  Daily . N.p., 22 Oct. 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Gaider, David. Sex in Video  Vault . BioWare EA, 3 Mar. 2013. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Gittleson, Kim. Why Does Sexism Persist in the Video Games  News . BBC, 13 June 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Grand Theft Auto 5. Rockstar North. 2013. Video game. Grand Theft Auto  The Free Encyclopedia . Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Mehallow, Cindy. Teaching Sustainable Values through Serious  Pundit People Planet Profit . N.p., 09 Nov. 2010. Web. 31 Oct. 2016. Neverwinter Nights. BioWare. 2002. Video game. Khlebnikov 6