As human beings, it is instinctive to be afraid of the unknown. We are constantly asking questions to feed our starving wonders about the endless unfamiliar. So there is no surprise when organizations are formed that ask these questions, and demand answers. A pressing concern in our society is the uses of Genetically Modified Organisms. Genetically Modified Organisms, or are a new innovative way of producing a larger, richer harvest, at the price of re- structuring (or tampering), and adding to their genetic makeup to create a more pest, and disease resistant crop. There have been speculations that these food products that have been could harm our population. Organizations such as Biology Fortified, are fighting for their right to know what exactly is in these Although many are questioning the supplements, organizations such as the FDA are not doing much to keep the public at ease. Biology fortified is an organization whose mission is to create a more knowledgeable public when it comes to issues involving biotechnology in food and agriculture by providing scientific data, resources, and by maintaining communication with the public in a more credible mode. To encompass all of these aspects their moto is Plants, Stronger Science, and Stronger Biology fortified discusses the very little knowledge that consumers really have about the agriculture they are eating then, they had not published any basic research which could indicate that genetically modified plants constituted an elevated risk to the environment or human and animal health. 2006 marks the point at which Thomas Marek Cuhra and quite a few water fleas entered the (Biology fortified). A village in the Philippines, close to an area where Bt corn, a genetically modified strand of corn produced by Monsanto was growing, had an outbreak in a mysterious disease, believed to be caused by inhaling the Bt pesticides. Biofortified believes there was not an adequate amount of testing done on these plants to be feeding them to the public, or farming them in a populated area, without informing the public of the risk. Teaching the public about these health risks could better prepare them for potential risks, and even fighting for their right to be able to know more about this topic. The Journal of Commercial Biotechnology discuss the different degrees of labeling on US stance on GM labeling is based on (SE) novel food should be considered the same as, and as safe as, conventional food if it demonstrates the same characteristics and composition as the conventional (Premanandh p.38). SE is essentially a loop hole for unlabeled food that is genetically modified because the concerns of the public are about the safety, not the manufacturing process. For mandatory GMO labeled items requirements exist for labeling to indicate the breeding technique applied to produce consequently another way that GMO companies are getting out of telling the public what they really want to know. Main concerns have risen because all though there is no clear life- threatening, short term risk from the long term effects are unknown, and alarming. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) responsible for protecting the public health by ensuring the safety, efficacy, and security of human and veterinary drugs, biological products, and medical (FDA). Much like Biology Fortified the main concern is the public. In November of 2015, the Guidance of Industry, provides a guide to non- GMO and GMO regulations general, an accurate statement about whether a food was produced using bioengineering is one that provides information in a context that refers to bioengineering Genetically engineered product contains cornmeal from corn that was produced using modern of our growers plant soybean seeds that were developed through modern biotechnology to be drought kinds of simple statements that a food was developed using bioengineering are not likely to be (FDA) the FDA believes that statements like these are sufficient to warn, and educate the public on the process used to create the crop. As long as the food passes safety regulations and is correctly labeled as biotechnology engineered, the FDA views this product as publicly acceptable. Monsanto, a company, concerned about the community has a goal to improve their business, by becoming more aware of their actions broadly, and to establish leadership to make their company the superior. They believe in the safety of their products, and also the bipartisan national legislative agreement on GMO labeling that passed approval in the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives in July (Monsanto). As a business who is directly affected by this piece of legislation, they are not required to spread awareness of process used in biotechnology engineering, or list health and safety information. However we must find a solution, the public deserves to know what the risks are yet the corporations deserve to keep their creation from replication. All organizations and stakeholders of the GMO fight are mainly concerned with the safety of the public over everything else. Recently a state-by-state mandatory labeling law, known as Proposition 105 was created to allow each state to set their own food labeling laws, and going against this seems to be the only thing everyone can agree on. Having a state by state labeling law will serve no information about safety or nutrition and will up prices on all produce that has to be re-labeled for each individual. As well requirements be determined by political campaigns driven by special interest groups or local (Monsantoco) so who is to say consumers are really protected by this proposition. U.S. Senator Pat Roberts, R-Kan., Chairman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry reassured the consumers that all will be settled as this is a pressing topic. As of now Agriculture Secretary, in coordination with other federal agencies, to engage in a consumer education and outreach effort. Information will be science-based and related to environmental, nutritional, economic, and humanitarian benefits of agricultural (Roberts 30). Detailed, credible education on to the general public is a step in the right direction, consumers will feel more aware of what they are feeding their families and companies will not have to provide exact information about their product, just knowledge that consumers deserve to know. At the moment, with agencies like the FDA not creating mandatory labeling laws on companies, and organizations like Biology Fortified not giving into keeping the public educated and their food safe is the most balanced compromise. The safety of the public is at hand and it is time they are given the opportunity to do something about it. Works cited. Pam Jensen, Ph.D. Food and Ingredients Developed from GM Monsantoco. http://www.monsanto.com/newsviews/pages/food-labeling.aspx July 2016. for Industry: Voluntary Labeling Indicating Whether Foods Have or Have Not Been Derived from Genetically Engineered U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Food and Drug Administration. http://www.fda.gov/Food/GuidanceRegulation/GuidanceDocumentsRegulatoryInformati on/LabelingNutrition/ucm059098.htm. November 2015. Heggdal and Liv Langberg. Norway Became an Anti-GMO Biology Fortified, https://www.biofortified.org/2016/10/norway-became-anti-gmo- powerhouse/. 8 Oct. 2016 Premanandh, Jagadeesan. Global Consensus - Need Of The Hour For Genetically Modified Organisms (GMO)  Journal Of Commercial Biotechnology 17.1 (2011): 37-44. Business Source Premier. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. U.S. Senator Pat Roberts. Agriculture Committee Passes Mark on Biotechnology Labeling United States Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. http://www.agriculture.senate.gov/newsroom/rep/press/release/senate-agriculture- committee-passes-chairmans-mark-on-biotechnology-labeling-solutions-. 01 March.2016