Bricker - pg. # Madeline Bricker Professor Hanson Composition II January 29, 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft: Immigration Taxation In the United States of America, there is an existing concern on the amount immigrants pay in taxes to the American government. Some believe that immigrants are contributing largely in taxes annually, such as the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy (ITEP). Others, including the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), consider that the annual contributions to the government are not as great as the cost. While these two organizations disagree on the specifics, it is clear that they both are interested in how immigrants are affecting the American economy in hopes that it is a positive one. To begin, the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy (ITEP) believe that many of the facts gathered concerning immigration reform are due to the fact that many immigrants are undocumented. This affects numbers concerning how much immigrants are truly providing the American government in taxes. According to Lisa Gee, an employee of Institute on Taxation Economic Policy with active involvement in social policy regarding taxation on immigrants, undocumented immigrants contribute 11.64 billion dollars annually in state and local taxes. (3) These staggering numbers could possibly indicate that there is a misunderstanding about whether the revenue that immigrants generate is greater than their expenditures. Not only that, but immigrants pay percent of their incomes in state and local (Gee 3) The large portion of paychecks may surprise some, but immigrants pay sales tax when Bricker - pg. # purchasing any goods or services, income tax, as well as property tax, whether they own a house or are only renters. In addition, according to Gee, fifty percent of undocumented immigrant households file income (4) meaning that the other half are having taxes deducted from their paychecks but are not receiving returns in their income tax, increasing the amount immigrants supply in taxes. The fact that many contributions are the proves difficult in deciding whether they are contributing enough in taxation. However, in research, she provides the hidden figures behind these questions. Through this research, it is easier to get a grasp of how much revenue is honestly being received by the United government in taxation from immigrants, including previously known and undocumented individuals. On the contrary, the Federation for American Immigration Reform provides another side to the situation. Now we know how much immigrants are contributing, but how much money are they costing the government? As stated in a report by Jack Martin, who is actively involved in the political world and has a career campaigning for politicians, annual costs of illegal immigration at the federal, state and local level is estimated to be 113 billion (4) This number certainly exceeds the 11.64 billion that is contributed. In addition Martin brings up the point that some of the numbers about undocumented immigrants can be misleading because they do not account for the lack of employment opportunity for current citizens due to immigrants being in those available spaces. The biggest cost, says Martin, is the education that immigrant children receive from taxpayers, amounting to fifty-two billion dollars annually. (4) These costs are significantly higher than taxation revenue, the difference is 101.36 billion Bricker - pg. # dollars. Immigrants revenue does not exceed the expenditures it poses on the United States government. Both organizations, the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy and the Federation for American Immigration Reform bring up reasonable and real points concerning immigration taxation. After researching, there are two sides to the story, the fact that immigrants bring in a considerable amount of revenue to the government undocumented and also that immigrants cost the government over a trillion dollars more than they help annually. Although the Federation for American Immigration Reform concerns themselves mainly with costs, while the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy focuses on the revenue, it is clear that they both share a goal - to have immigration positively affect the American economy. To find a compromise that would satisfy each organization includes making many of these immigrants American citizens. By being more flexible in granting immigrants citizenships, their revenue would increase and therefore, their income taxes would increase. Both Martin and Gee discuss this possibility. Gee states that legal status was granted to all undocumented immigrants in the United States as part of a comprehensive immigration reform and allowing them to work legally would increase their state and local tax contributions by an estimated $2.1 billions a (4) This solution makes it more likely for immigrants to have documented revenue, meaning the number of immigrants who do not currently pay their income taxes would decrease. This is because many immigrants get paid the If they were granted citizenship, more immigrants would then be paid with knowledge to the government and they would be able to pay income taxes if they were automatically deducted from their paychecks. This solution has common ground between both the Federation for American Immigration Bricker - pg. # Reform and the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy because it increases the amount of revenue received by the government. Also, immigrants would be pleased to become American citizens. There is one potential downside to this solution that the Federation for American Immigration Reform mentions. If these immigrants are granted American citizenship, they will then receive benefits as any American citizen would, including Social Security. The concern for them becoming citizens, while they may bring in revenue through income tax, their costs would still be high due to large expenditure benefits such as Social Security. While this is a valid point, this would then reflect on how much America spends on their citizens, rather than costs concerning immigrants. If they are given citizenship, they are afforded the same benefits we are and all costs after that would be not concern immigration, but rather American citizens. Due to all of these considerations, the best compromise between the Federation for American Immigration Reform and the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy would be for more immigrants to be granted citizenship in order to increase tax revenue to the American government. In conclusion, the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy focuses on the revenue from taxation on immigrants, while the Federation for American Immigration Reform is attentive to the expenditures immigrants cause the United government. Although the organizations have conflicting focus and opinion on the situation, they clearly both are interested in the American economical status. The compromise proposed is that immigrants have more flexibility in being granted citizenship. This action will then have a chain effect causing incomes to increase, therefore increasing their income tax amounts. This revenue would increase their tax revenue by over 2.1 billion dollars. (Gee, 4.) With this solution, both Bricker - pg. # goal to positively affect the American economy would be met and in addition, immigrants would be pleased to be given the opportunity to have American citizenship. Increasing flexibility to grant immigrants American citizenship benefits everyone in the end. Bricker - pg. # Works Cited Gee, Lisa C. State & Local Tax Contributions. Institute on Taxation Economic Policy. Feb 2016. Martin, Jack. Fiscal Burden of Illegal Immigration on United States Taxpayers. Federation for American Immigration Reform. Feb 2011.