Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 29 Jan. 2017 Trees Save The Children Trees For The Future is a stakeholder that holds the claim that planting trees in rural tribal communities can help the growth and well-being of those who live there. In order to persuade people to donate to their cause, this organization uses a website to act as a gateway into their world. The website features pictures that depict native people and their association with these trees. Two pictures will be discusses, more specifically through visual and rhetorical analysis. The first picture uses several cues such as the way the subject is dressed, the background of the photograph, and the words incorporated on the image. Rhetorically this picture uses logos, pathos, ethos, kairos to persuade the audience as well. Furthermore, the second picture uses cues such as children as the main subject, the rural background, and the words imbedded in the photo as well. Rhetorically this photo uses the same elements as the first, but in a different way. Since both images are from the same website, they have the same intended audience; people who may want to help others (so virtually anyone). The first image has several elements that contribute to drawing a reaction from the audience. The purpose of this image is to show the audience what their donations can do for those less fortunate than them. In this case, it is about how planting the trees can provide food for those less fortunate. The man in the image is wearing a sun-shielding hat and even has a medical mask around his neck. This helps the photographer show the harsh conditions that this man is living in, which evokes a sense of sympathy from the audience. The harsh conditions can make Student 2 the audience feel sorry for this man. Additionally, the bananas in the background of the photo give a physical representation of how this organization is helping, providing food. The last thing that demand attention in this photo is the writing. The writing in this image speaks strongly and tells the audience exact what their donation can do for this man (and his people). The rhetorical elements in this image begin with the appeal to logic. The appeals to logos are in the form of an if-then statement that is casual (Hoffman and Wiggs 24). If you donate, then it will help these people. The writing appeals to the logic of the audience by telling the audience that with their donation, jobs are created and food is provided. Money and food are two essential things in this life and it only makes sense that if one were to donate to a cause, one would donate to a cause that provides for those things. The appeal to ethos in this picture is actually the quality of the picture itself. Since the picture is of an actual person in an actual situation, it shows that this organization has taken the time to go and investigate how they have impacted the people with their provisions. The hands-on fieldwork gives credibility to those who are working with the company. The appeal to pathos in this piece is the sympathy drawn from the harsh conditions as indicated above. The harsh conditions make one think, he needs help and I should be the one to do This is very powerful. The timing of the photo, or kairos, is very good. It is a call to action type, explained as to kairos in written form try to make use of the particular to capture in words what will be immediately applicable, appropriate, and engaging for a particular (Department of English at USF 50). Anytime is a good time to donate, so day or night, this photo is appropriate, there are always people who need help. The second picture depicts a group of younger children who are happy and excited. The group of children is the main focus and this is a strong technique to use. Children are a soft spot Student 3 for everyone, whether in trouble or smiling. The children draw a strong empathetic reaction from the audience because, coupled with the writing on the image, it makes the audience want to donate to help them. The background of the photo is of rural lands, maybe even battered huts made of straw. This background displays the terrible type of environment that these people live in, which evokes more sympathy from the audience. The writing on the image captures the main purpose of the stakeholder while telling the audience that they can change the life of these people (the children) by getting involved with the organization. The image draws the eye to the children first, then the writing. These two elements couple to show what the audience can do when donating to this company. This is encompassed in the line used on their website, donation not only sustains and empowers them, but also changes their lives Then the eye lingers to the background, which can make the audience sad and feel a dutiful pride to help because the children live in such bad conditions. The rhetorical features of this image are logical, credibility, emotional, and timing. Then appeal to logic is through the children; making people happy is good, so make people happy (by donating). The appeal to credibility is the same as the previous picture. The fact that these people went into the field and physically observed and endured the living conditions means that they are dedicated to the cause. As an audience, people want authentic and dedicated organizations to donate too and print photos show this. The appeal to emotion is completely in the face of the children. The pure joy of the children touches the heart of every individual that takes a look at the picture. This ties into the kairos of the image too. Now more than ever people care about those around them and have access to more resources to help. Some people may not donate because they think their money is going toward salaries and not provisions for the people in Student 4 trouble. But this company puts trees where they can help not just saying so the audience feels more trusting than it may have in the past. These two images were created to draw the attention of an audience that can donate to a cause that makes a difference. These images pull at the heartstrings of all people, giving this organization a wide range of audience demographic. Both images use their main subject, the background of the photo, and the white writing to send their message. The appeals to logic, credibility, emotion, and timing all have effects on how these images are received. These images have strong emotional draws that help sell this organizations purpose of collecting money to plants trees and produce to change the lives for those that live in poor areas. (WC: 1143) Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Professional & Technical Communication Program in the Department of English at the University of South Florida. A Rhetorical Approach to Workplace Writing. Vol. 3rd. N.p.: U of South Florida, 2016. Print. Why Trees Sustainable  Trees For the Future. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Student 6