Moran 1 Michaela Moran TJ Murray ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Instant Punishment for Littering How many times have you thrown garbage on the ground because you were too lazy to take the extra twenty steps to the garbage can? Almost everyone is guilty for doing this and most times people do not think twice about it. According to an article by Luther King, of people admitted that they littered in the past 5 Because most people litter and have the same mindset, the litter is building up and will continue to do so. It is imperative that the population takes responsibility and takes care of the planet. This is our home and if we treat the land like a garbage can, it will soon turn into one. The government should issue immediate shocks to anyone who litters knowingly. By doing this, the environment will benefit greatly and people will be forced to follow the law. As of right now, police try to monitor people littering, but it is impossible for them to catch everyone who litters. Often in parks and other recreational places there are signs that express the fine one will receive if they litter. These signs are not helpful as people are constantly littering. As much as police try to prevent littering, this is definitely not their only worry when patrolling a park. A blogger who writes about New York City parks found that, the nine months ending in March, there were 417 major crimes (like murder, rape, robbery and assault) in about 1,000 of the biggest Due to the multiple other crimes that happen in parks, police are more concern in preventing Moran 2 the crimes like murder, rape, etc. This distracts their efforts to fine and write tickets to people who are purposely littering. In term, this leads to more litter in public parks and other public places. These instant shocks will be able to prevent the public places from being filled with trash. Furthermore, littering, even the smallest piece of garbage, causes polluted oceans and other bodies of water. Over time, there has been noticeably more trash in the oceans. bulbs, bottle caps, toothbrushes, Popsicle sticks and tiny pieces of plastic, each the size of a grain of rice, inhabit the Pacific garbage patch, an area of widely dispersed trash that doubles in size every decade and is now believed to be roughly twice the size of (Hoshaw 1). No one wants to swim in the waters that are polluted with the items listed above. Not only personal preference, but the amount of trash in the oceans can be detrimental to the health of humans and animals. For animals, the amount of trash in the oceans affects whether or not the animals will be able to survive. Anyone who knowingly litters and knows how dangerous it is for humans and animals deserves to be shocked. To continue, littering also leads to more air pollution. Why would someone litter when they knew it could potential risk their health? In 2002 study, scientists found, exposure to combustion-related fine particulate air pollution is an important environmental risk factor for cardiopulmonary and lung cancer While of course this data is extreme, it is very well possible that air pollution can cause these diseases. As humans, we have the ability to prevent this chance by simply throwing out trash in the correct place. Electric shocks would cause people to throw out their trash and therefore lead to less diseases caused by air pollution. Moran 3 On the contrary, electric shocks can be very dangerous and harmful to the population. It is very unethical to electrically shock a person because they did something as small as put their gum wrapper on the ground instead of in the trash can. However, it is vital to have such punishment for people to actually follow the rules. It is evident that the signs and warnings that are given out currently for littering do not work. In order to prevent people from littering and lower the chances of the shocks being administered, the government should make sure that there are enough trashcans in every area. More trashcans will allow for people to not have to walk too far, but still be able to correctly dispose their waste. Curb Your Litter, a campaign dedicated to stopping litter at the source found that, blocks with the most litter are industrial and do not have litter This data proves that without trash cans, the amount of litter will increase, while increasing the number of trash cans will decrease the amount of litter. All in all, litter has become a huge issue that is affecting the environment and people far more than first thought of. Soon our entire planet will be covered with trash. Every single piece of litter is negatively impacting our planet. It is imperative that the population starts taking a stance in order to end littering for good. In order for actual changes to be made, the government needs to administer electric shocks to each person who litters on purpose. Everyone should be educated on the dangers of littering and those that still chose to litter deserves severe punishment. Littering is dangerous for animals and humans and nothing good comes from it. Therefore, with this new law and action taken, we will be able to save our beautiful Earth in which we call home. Moran 4 Works Cited We Have Litter Curb Your Litter. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hoshaw, Lindsey. Afloat in the ocean, expanding islands of  New York Times 9 (2009). III, PhD C. Arden Pope. Cancer, Cardiopulmonary Mortality, and Long- term Exposure to Fine Particulate Air Lung Cancer JAMA The JAMA Network. N.p., 06 Mar. 2002. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. King, Luther, and Lucky Marshall. Interesting Facts and Statistics about Litter. It Costs You. N.P., 27 Sept. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Shadow of Crime in City  New York Times, Aug 16 2016, National Newspapers Core; New York Times; US Newsstream, https://search.proquest.com/docview/1811508530?accountid=14745.