Maurice Nock January 17 2017 ENC 1102 TJ Murray The Real World Should Be Treated like Grand Theft Auto During the current times, there are many areas across the nation in which there are high poverty rates. Most of these individuals do not work and receive money from the government. There is a simple solution to end stop the poverty rate, as well as getting rid of all the people who are solely depending on government funding. A possible solution to the problem would be that the current President should pass a bill that sets out one week every other month for anyone to do as they please- commit crimes, including murder- with one limitation, people are not allowed to explode or destroy public buildings or housing, which includes hospitals, police stations, businesses, etc. If the bill is passed it will reduce population, remove the need for government funding to the population, as well as increasing revenue into the remaining population through more job opportunities. Although this is a well devised plan, there are a minute amount of things that could cause problems with this system, the reconstruction costs of streets and the environment would be unworldly; another problem that could occur is, as the death toll rises, the amount of space for proper burials would go down at an exponential rate. Throughout this essay both sides will be evaluated and discussed to properly analyze the possibilities of both positive and negative outcomes. According to the United States Census Bureau there are an average of million, or 21.3 percent, of participated government program each month in (Census). Government programs include Welfare/Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), unemployment benefits, Food Stamps (SNAP Food Benefits), and Medical Coverage like Medicaid and the Health Insurance Program (CHIP). This means that one-sixth of the population receives aid from the government, draining the country of funds that could be allocated elsewhere. If the country were to have a week of anarchy every other month this number, the number of citizens that acquire government funds would decrease, therefore decreasing the amount of money distributed 52.2 million, would drop dramatically. The number has increased from 18.6 percent in 2009 to 21.3 percent in 2012 (Census). The process would rapidly wipe many of the lower class citizens who use government funding as their primary source of income. The lower class citizens would not be able to defend themselves in cases where they are attacked by people who can afford the proper materials to survive the week of anarchy. In an article provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention there are deaths a year compared to births a year Although it may be near impossible as well as irrational to imagine getting these numbers the same, the amount of deaths would dramatically increase bringing the numbers closer together. The amount of births will decrease with the amount deaths occurring which would assist in bringing the numbers together at an expedited rate. The lowering in population would help the economy by opening more job opportunities and reducing the amount of competition for each job giving everyone steady income. In a table provided by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, they state that in the year 2014 there were 59 percent more people over the age of sixteen in the population than the amount of available jobs, in 2016 the number increased to 64 percent (BLS). The amount of jobs that will be available should be substantially larger once the population has been reduced. Although the plan itself is an excellent plan to help stabilize the economy, there are multiple inconveniences of this plan. There would be an excess amount of fees to the government in order to rebuild and repair any of the damages caused from the anarchy. Another downfall of the plan would be the amount of spaced designated to burials would run out faster than we would be able to produce new space. In order to prevent this from happening we would cremate all of the bodies that were lost during the time of anarchy to prevent any unnecessary usage of burial grounds. In order to stop the roads and buildings from being destroyed there would be limits put onto the bill that would be strictly enforced. Works Cited Births and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 07 Oct. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bureau of Labor Statistics  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 29 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Deaths and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 07 Oct. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 21.3% of US Participates in Government Assistance Programs Each  Newsroom. United States Census Bureau, 28 May 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.