Kennard 1 Emily Kennard Professor Hanson ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Animal Rights Protests: Too Controversial? Or Too Modest? Cute little bunnies; the little animal that brings you a basket full of gifts for Easter; is actually in a lab being force fed, stabbed with needles, having different chemicals forcibly shoved into its eyes, and eventually killed. This is what cute little rabbits and other animals across our nation are forced to do in order for humans to use everyday cosmetics such as soap, or makeup. These cosmetic companies do not advertise that they test on animals, but there are plenty of advocates against animal testing. Two advocates have very different ways of wanting to protest against and raise awareness of animal testing, these advocates are The Humane Society International and LUSH Cosmetics. Even though these two organizations are advocating in favor of animal rights, they have very different ways of trying to accomplish the abolishment of anti- animal testing with cosmetics. The Humane Society International protests against animal testing by creating petitions and having people sign them, while LUSH Cosmetics raise awareness by having very vivid and personified protests in the streets. A way for these two organizations to come together would be to combine their protesting styles. Create a video of a person experiencing what the animals do while playing a sad song in the background and at the end of the video have a link for an online petition. Having both of these things online will help to spread the word worldwide and have a greater effect of bringing this horrible situation to an end. Kennard 2 The Humane Society International raises money and helps all types of animals, not only the ones that are being tested on. Society International is one of the only global animal protection organizations working to help all animals in laboratories, animals on farms, companion animals and The Humane Society helps animals in many different ways: raises public awareness to stop the consumption of wildlife products (like shark fins, fur and ivory) and stop participation in activities that involve cruelty. responds when disaster strikes, working with local and international allies to provide relief to animals and A way that HSI is actively raising awareness is by having petitions signed. There are hundreds of petitions on the page on their website. This seems as though it is one of the only ways that they are trying to have people stop the different animal-related topics HSI is involved in. Their petitions been extremely successful, we achieved a great victory for animals by convincing Europe to become the largest cruelty-free cosmetics market. But in 8 out of 10 countries still legal to test beauty products and their ingredients on (Humane Society International). Even though their efforts to eradicate animal testing completely been accomplished, they have discovered alternative ways for cosmetic testing and have also proven that testing on animal is not beneficial because many animals do not have the same reactions that humans would, have short lifespans, so the duration of a chemical test is limited. It takes time for some toxic effects, such as cancer, to develop. Consequently, rodent tests cannot be made sufficiently sensitive to detect toxic effects at the low, prolonged doses of chemicals to which humans are usually (Langley 11). This means that an alternative method to animal testing needs to be created for testing cosmetics because animal testing has too many variables and do not correlate to how humans will react to these different chemicals. Kennard 3 LUSH Cosmetics on the other hand also is against animal testing but they have a different perspective of it, especially because they are a cosmetic brand. LUSH is a one hundred percent vegetarian brand, meaning that they actively source vegetarian alternatives. They try to be one hundred percent vegan, but: do use ingredients like honey, yogurt and eggs in our vegetarian products, but we work tirelessly to ensure that every ingredient we use is sourced only from suppliers who are as staunch about their own cruelty-free practices as we LUSH only believes in cruelty free: has been fighting against animal testing for more than 30 years because believe in cruelty to animals: not for food, not for clothing, and definitely not for Even though LUSH Cosmetics does prevent animal cruelty by using cruelty-free ingredients for their products, they also want to help eradicate animal cruelty specifically with animal testing, but they have a very straight-forward way of protesting in favor of animal rights. On April 24 th 2012 in London, LUSH Cosmetics started their own protest to bring animal testing back into the public eye: young woman was dragged through the streets of London to the flagship Regent Street store where she was placed in the window on a bench, like a laboratory animal, and experimented on in full view of horrified Animal Testing Due to this form of public protest, many children have been psychologically harmed from having to witness that situation. LUSH Cosmetics wants all of their shops to take part in this sort of protest in order to raise more awareness for the cause. Even if it will cause more harm to humans than it will to raise awareness for the animals. Also, it gave no parents warning to shield this from their children, causing the children to be harmed mentally. Even though these two organizations have different views on the way that awareness and protesting should be brought about, they are still working for the same cause. It would be Kennard 4 beneficial for the eradication of animal testing if these two organizations came together and combined both of their protesting styles. If they were to make a video that contains footage or images of what LUSH did in the streets of London with some sad music playing in the background and had it play in the shops of LUSH around the country, then they will raise more awareness about what happens during animal testing, while also providing a way for parents to monitor what their children are being exposed to. An example of this commercial ides is the ASPCA commercial, [heartbreaking images of dogs and cats along with the song by Sarah pitch has raised roughly $30 million for the organization since the advertisements started running in early 2007, making it the most successful Fund- raising (Strom). This statistic alone shows what the impact of this video could accomplish for the awareness of animal testing. Also, if LUSH had a petition at their registers that people could sign, then that could get the attention of the government, causing them to take action. This will create an awareness and a need to help fight for the cause because the video will pull towards audiences emotions, and the petition, with enough signatures will have to be considered for a law. For this compromise to work, LUSH has to tone down on their dramatic way of protesting to having only images, while HSI needs to focus on spreading the word more than just online. By doing this, more awareness will be spread and a better chance of eradicating animal testing will be achieved. To conclude, if HSI and LUSH were to come together and make this video, a lot of awareness will be raised for the animal rights activists. Enough awareness to potentially ban animal testing like it is in the European Union. If it became banned, then animals would be saved and humans will also have better results from the synthesized testing because animal testing does not give accurate results as to what might happen to the humans using or consuming the Kennard 5 products. Also, people can feel better knowing that the products they are purchasing are not harming animals, because most cosmetic companies now do not advertise that they test on animals, even though they test almost daily. Kennard 6 Works Cited Humane Society International, 29 Jan. 2017, <www.hsi.org/about/> Fighting Animal Testing  Lush Fresh Handmade Cosmetics. LUSH Cosmetics, 09 Dec. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://uk.lush.com/article/fighting-animal-testing- campaign>. Humane Society International. Be  Humane Society International. Humane Society International, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Langley, Gill. An Expert Report by Humane  (Cantab)EXECUTIVE SUMMARY (2012) Humane Society International. Humane Society International, Oct. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Our  100% Vegetarian. LUSH Cosmetics, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. View?cid=our-values-vegetarian>. Humane Society International. Humane Society International, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.hsi.org/assets/pdfs/hsi-one-pager.pdf>. Strom, Stephanie. Ad Featuring Singer Proves Bonanza for the  The New York Times. The New York Times, 25 Dec. 2008. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/26/us/26charity.html>.