Freixa 1 Carolina Freixa Erika Staiger ENC1102 005 Sunday, January 29, 2017 Animal Testing on Cosmetics Testing cosmetics on animals is a type of assessment to see if the ingredients used in makeup is safe and allergy free for humans to use. It is a safe way for humans to test ingredients but it is up for discussion whether it is ethical to be using animals because they cannot speak for themselves. Animal testing on cosmetics has become a widely known topic of discussion amongst companies and consumers. AMP is for animal testing within certain boundaries and cause, while PETA is completely opposed to using animals for our benefit what so ever. Americans for Medical Progress is a non-profit charity that has a lot of support from universities, businesses and scientists. AMP foundation is a board of directors composed of physicians, researchers and veterinarians. They provide accurate information to support and defend the huge debate about animal research and testing issues when it is necessary to advance our understanding in biomedical processes. These scientists are for animal testing on cosmetics and provide reason and facts to back up their views. to beginning a study, scientists must demonstrate that they have considered alternative methods to animal research, that their research cannot be successfully done without animal models, and that their studies are designed to produce needed results and (Americans for Medical Progress). According to AMP, they provide ethical treatment and follow guidelines and be conducted in facilities that are in accordance with laws and standards for animal research and (Americans for Medical Freixa 2 Progress). Therefore, provides evidence to back up why they are using animals within certain guidelines of how and when they can use an animal on certain testing for the benefits. Freixa 3 Works Cited Animal  Americans for Medical Progress. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://www.amprogress.org/animal-research/>. Animals Used for  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-experimentation/>. Cruelty Free  Alternatives to Animal Testing Cruelty Free International. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://www.crueltyfreeinternational.org/why-we-do-it/alternatives-animal-testing>.