1 Stewart Nicholas Stewart ENC1102 Instructor: TJ Murray January 29, 2017 May 30 th Nicholas Day a National Holiday Think of having just another day in the year off from work and school. A day to take ones shoes off and relax, enjoy the fruits of labor and celebrate. Luckily, the only days that offer such luxury are federal holidays; which come in a handful and usually around the same time. But, what if there was a way to get another holiday that would invoke these well needed pleasures. Given the fact that there is just one national holiday in the month of May I propose making the 30 th of that month a national holiday. This precise date has a very unique attribute about it. It is the day I was born; hence this new national holiday should be a celebration of my birthday. There are only 10 national holidays in the United States of America and making this the 11 th one will provide the opportunity for individuals to relax, unify them and excelled work productivity. Every holiday has the ability to bring together families, friends and people from different cultures and backgrounds. There is a of all members of the community during the ritual and later on during the (Harutyunyan, 2) which is more time to connect and share new experiences. A holiday has the power to unite us all and provide social equality which one of the most important mechanisms in (Harutyunyan, 2). Having holidays fosters 2 Stewart the development of traditions and the creation of memories. From old traditions, new traditions are built and having a holiday like this one which is the celebration of a life ensures the continuation and passing down of traditions. Through the time spent with people you love on a day like this is inevitable because of (Capellanus, 43) this boosted the mood within the whole group which causes people to be more open. The United States population needs to relax more. With the pressures of deadlines and busy schedules more than often people forget to take a breather. The timing of this holiday will give everyone the chance to take things slow and regroup. are studies to show that stress is comparable to other risk factors that we traditionally think of as major, like hypertension, poor diet and lack of (Hung and James, 389). Having a destress holiday will improve mood and memory and concentration made easier. Not relaxing prolongs the presence of stress hormones in humans which are linked to depression. Less stress and increased mood makes individuals more likely to want to engage with one another positively. The American population cannot keep going on and on like a machine without a break or they will self-destruct. The increased energy as a result of the improved mood due to this holiday will promote work productivity. The better one feels, the better one does and the better one does, the better one feels. This positive outcome due to this holiday will have a cyclical effect. When one has rested because of a change of routine. Their eyes are open to new experiences providing a new sense of inspiration and motivation. If workers are not motivated to do a task it will not be done to the best for their ability and in return can affect others and their productivity. It is said that time allows us to see the bigger picture away from everyday (Lawler III, 234). By implementing this holiday and giving workers the time off to take a minute and relax. They will realize that they are a part of something greater than themselves. 3 Stewart Due to the precise date of this holiday many individuals may oppose it because it is celebrating someone who has done nothing of great significance. It may present questions as to what is the true meaning of a national holiday? what it should mean? And why no celebrate my birthday instead? They believe that because it will be a national holiday that a more familiar face should champion this day. Their reason for opposing this idea may stem from their own personal agenda rather than focusing of the whole idea behind the holiday. Others believe that distract individuals from the goals and reality of (Krytle, 364). However, the need for this holiday could not be stressed enough. Having this holiday every year on May 30 th which is the day I was born will be a great addition to the holidays we already have. It in its entirety will ensure the gathering and connecting of all people, it will promote the idea of relaxation; by having everyone take things slow and not rush things but do things that they love to do and work productivity will go up because people who are relax and shared a moment with the people they love are motivated and willing to do the tasks at hand. So do we really need one ten national holidays that celebrate people who have come and gone? Or have one that celebrates life and is a massive party? 4 Stewart Works Cited Capellanus, Andreas. TH E ART OF COURTLY LOVE. New York: WW Norton & Company, 1969. Harutyunyan, Gayane. Holiday as a Mechanism of National Identity  Book of Articles of the International Conference dedicated to the 500th Anniversary of Armenian Printing and the 65th Anniversary of the Establishment of YSU SS. Vol. 2. 2013. Hung, Kam, and James F. Petrick. Why do you cruise? Exploring the motivations for taking cruise holidays, and the construction of a cruising motivation  Tourism Management 32.2 (2011): 386-393. Krythe, Maymie Richardson. All about American holidays. Harpercollins, 1962. Lawler III, Edward E. Motivation in work  (1973).