Shah 1 Riya Shah Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Human Cloning The creation of a genetically identical copy of a human being is known as human cloning. It is basically the reproduction of human cells and tissues to form an artificial human which does not include natural conception. The possibility of creating an identical copy of a human being has raised many controversies itself. Organizations like WHO and UNESCO are completely against human cloning as they consider it to be derogatory to the human race. While, Bioethics ethical concerns, potential benefits could be lost. The compromise is to conduct further research under strict regulations so that the human integrity is not disrespected. The United Nations works, build a better world by strengthening and improving the United Nations through the engagement of people who share a global mindset and support international The organizations such as WHO and UNESCO oppose human cloning and state it as unethical as it undermines autonomy. WHO believes in protecting the endangered human from human cloning. WHO urges other states to implicate legal and juridical measures to prohibit human cloning as it is contrary to human dignity and integrity. The New Atlantis Journal aims improve public understanding of the social, political, ethical, and policy implications of modern science and (Cloning Then And Now 9-146). The journal states that the most straightforward reason to oppose human cloning is Shah 2 due to the concerns of safety of those involved i.e. the women donating the egg and the child created through cloning. Human cloning is not considered to be safe because there could be various physical as well as psychological harms to the cloned human due to which the it eventually would succumb to death. Collecting human egg cells for cloning is complicated and ethically problematic. Cloning for biomedical research involves the manufacturing of embryos, which requires collecting oocytes from process that has various medical risks to women. The American Association for the Advancement of Science said that the cloned human would have a lot of physical as well as psychological problems which would eventually result in its failure and death. Critics of cloning humans also argue that cloning could diminish respect for human existence; this is because cloning allows to see human beings as replaceable. On the other hand, Bioethics tells that the psychological damage that is considered as one of the backdrops in human cloning is a genetic fallacy wherein a conclusion is put forward for consideration only based on source, history, or origin rather than its current meaning. It explains that because the genetic clones have similar looks, people tend to make an assumption of a similar personality, which is not correct. It also states that cloning is a way for individuals to access the right to reproductive freedom. Cloning has also been said to be a way to solve infertility. couples who are at a high risk of having an offspring with a genetic disorder, can decide to clone their child to avoid the risk of a deadly genetic disease getting transmitted, merely due to family history. People who would not be able to reproduce sexually, would not have any genetically-related children to rear. Working on cloning techniques has taken the basic understanding of human biology to a greater level. Just by observing stem cells grow, great Shah 3 insight is provided into the development of the human embryo which otherwise could not be seen. Now, scientists are able to better describe the procedure of the human development in its early stages. Also, studying about the early human embryo has the capability to provide with answers to various defects and developmental diseases. Both of these parties seem to be at extremes concerning the debate of human cloning. Even though there are major differences leading to this debate, both the parties have common ties between them. They all are in favor of the welfare of mankind. Those that oppose human cloning are concerned about the disgrace to the human race while those that support human cloning, are interested to make lives better for humans themselves. Both the groups are concerned regarding the future or the fate of the human kind. the first time in history, elderly (more than sixty-five years old) adults outnumber young (less than five years old) (Bednar 217). Hence there can be a compromise that would be acceptable to both the groups that would not harm any humans. Since both the groups are interested in the safety and well-being for the mankind, they both must find a solution mid-way instead of taking extreme measures. They must neither completely legalize nor completely ban human cloning, as important benefits could be lost. Proper research must be conducted within limitations. 1998, scientists in South Korea claimed to have successfully cloned a human embryo, but said the experiment was interrupted very early when the clone was just a group of four The American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) acknowledges the intense debates about the issue of human Shah 4 cloning within our society. Hence, AAAS has engaged the public and various professional communities in debates on the scientific and social issues associated with human cloning as well as stem cell research. Both the groups must come together and discuss the pros and cons of human cloning and the impact of human cloning research on the general public. All social, political and psychological factors should be taken into consideration such as the effect of the cloned child on the respective family, the psychological impact, etc. Hence, according to the American Association for the Advancement of Science, thorough assessment of existing guidelines and policy, including consideration of possible new regulations specific to this type of research, should be undertaken in light of the concerns surrounding To conclude, according to the above mentioned compromise, the differences between the two groups could be reduced and eventually eliminated, if they make the right call. One group must listen to the other group about the possible outcomes and vice versa. Organizations like WHO and UNESCO must take their opinion about banning human cloning into consideration and Bioethics must look at all the negative impacts that human cloning could have and then carry on with the research with government supervision. Although it will be a long journey, in this manner, no human could be harmed in the process and the world could expect to achieve another milestone. Works Cited Bednar, Martin M. Endogenous Tissue Regeneration And Restoration, Maximizing Our Human Potential: An Ethical Alternative To Human Embryonic Stem  Issues In Law & Medicine 31.2 (2016): 217-220. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. De Inmaculada. On Cloning Human  Bioethics 16.3 (2002): 246. Academic Search Premier. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Dewey, Joseph, PhD. American Association For The Advancement Of Science  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Researcher Discusses Ethics Of Human Cloning. n.p.: National Public Radio, 2006. Literature Resource Center. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Robertson, John A. Two models of human  Hofstra L. Rev. 27 (1998): 609 Special Issue: The Threat of Human Cloning Ethics, Recent Developments, and the Case for  The New Atlantis 2015: 9. JSTOR Journals. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.