Sulbaran 1 Helio Sulbaran ENC 1102 Professor Karen Hanson 29 January, 2017 Electoral System in the United States The United States of America has adopted an electoral system that does not use a direct democracy. Instead, they have indoctrinated the Electoral College System. In the Electoral College, the population of a state votes for a representative, or Electoral College voters, that will cast their Electoral College vote for the candidate the state selects. However, the Electoral College voter is not obligated to follow the corresponding election result, and may vote for whomever they please. Additionally, the winner of an election does not have to win the majority vote of the country; as long as the candidate acquires at least 270 electoral votes, the candidate can win the election. Consequently, there has been an ongoing debate on whether or not the Electoral College should be kept as the system used by the U.S. to elect their president, or if it should be eradicated and become a direct democracy, in order to not violate the choice of the people. The National Popular Vote organization, or NPV, supports the idea of eliminating the Electoral College and establishing a direct democracy system, one where the popular vote determines the elected candidate. However, there are also groups that support the Electoral College and are against the idea presented by the NPV. The Constitution Party defends the system utilized today and is against the popular vote idea that the NPV believes in. The Electoral College debate has many organizations involved, but out of all the organizations, they all fall between two choices: either keep the Electoral College, or eradicate it. The NPV, in this argument, will represent the side that wants to eradicate the Electoral College Sulbaran 2 and become a direct democracy system. The NPV is a corporation whose specific purpose is to study, analyze and educate the public regarding its proposal to implement a nationwide popular election of the President of the United (2016). Their purpose is to introduce people to the idea of implementing a new electoral system, one where the popular vote elects the President of the U.S, which culminates the Electoral College system that is used today. The priority is not to eradicate the Electoral College but rather to protect and make each vote count. They believe that due to the winner-take-all system, the candidates do not pay much attention to the small states. Instead, they spend most of their time campaigning in the battleground states and consequently ignoring the population and votes of the states that are predominantly lenient to one side. The proposed solution for this issue goes as followed: they will not get rid of the Electoral College and will continue to allow the states to control the elections. What they will change, however, is that the popular vote will decide where Electoral College votes go. Therefore, the winner of the popular vote will receive the Electoral College votes of each state, regardless of whomever the state voted for (2016). On the other side of the coin, the Constitution Party is found. They represent the side of the argument that supports the Electoral College and are completely against the bill that the NPV wants to put in effect. The Constitution Party was founded in 1992. Their principles come from their name itself, the Constitution. Their idea is to protect the views that the forefathers had and to not to let them get corrupted. Now, this is why they want to protect the Electoral College and are against the bill introduced by the NPV. The Constitution Party states that the idea presented by the NPV of eliminating the Electoral College, and basing the elections on popular vote, would make many states, particularly the smaller ones, lose their votes, due to the candidates only campaigning in big population states. The Constitution Party says that the NPV does not have a Sulbaran 3 of what constitutes a under National Popular This means that if a majority is not specified, then electing a candidate with a clear majority will be difficult. The Constitution Party wants to protect the Electoral College because it allows each state to have representation and makes sure that their votes count. If the Electoral College is abolished, then the candidates will only campaign in the states that have a large population and will therefore just ignore the smaller states(2016). After hearing both sides of the argument from each organization, similar characteristics can be found in each views. Both the NPV and the Constitution Party are concerned with equal representation for each state and wants to make sure that each votes matter and that therefore, candidates will campaign in every state. They both care about maintaining the process of democracy and having each voter to be able to express their opinion through their vote no matter what state they are from. Now, it is known that both organizations are actually pitted against each other. The beliefs and principles that the proposals are based off of, however, are actually not too different. It is true that the Constitution Party is against the idea of eradicating the Electoral College, while the NPV supports the idea of moving towards a popular vote system. However, by establishing the similarities between both of the core values, they can both reach a compromise that they will both benefit from. The proposition to connect the stakeholder goes as follow: the Electoral College system will be kept but the Electoral College voting will not follow a winner-takes-all system. Instead, the Electoral College votes will be redistributed according to the percent of votes that went to each respective candidate. This will make the idea of the popular vote more important, giving the popular vote winner the majority of the Electoral College votes. This fixes the issue that the NPV had of winning an election without winning majority. Now, given that each state will split their Sulbaran 4 Electoral College vote according to the popular vote percentage of each state, the candidates will have to campaign equally in each state. This is due to the fact that even if they have a state that supports them, the votes that they do not get will go to the other candidate, which will hinder their advantage to win. This covers the issue of smaller states not having equal representation and therefore, not receiving enough attention from the candidates. This resolution also satisfies the idea that the Constitution Party has of keeping the Electoral College that the fore fathers proposed, and allows each state to be represented equally. All in all, with the proposed solution, both of the stakeholders will have their ideas and principles satisfied. This proposal will benefit by helping to bring a new solution to the argument of whether the Electoral College should be banned or not. The benefits are that presidents can no longer win without having a popular majority vote to back them up, in turn, making the majority of the people be represented. Additionally, it satisfies the idea of keeping the Electoral College, equalizing the representation from each state and allowing them to maintain their independence in conducting their own elections. The voice of each state will be heard and still be independent from the popular vote, but the popular vote will ultimately be needed to win the election. This is an approach to solve the Electoral College debate and, if accepted, terminate the issue. Smaller problems might arise due to this compromise, but now that the two stakeholders can work together, they can figure out a way to eradicate those problems. Sulbaran 5 Bibliography:  National Popular Vote. http://www.nationalpopularvote.com/about, 19 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Agreement Among the States to Elect the President by National Popular  National Popular Vote. www.nationalpopularvote.com/written-explanation, 12 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wayne, Stephen, and Ed. Electoral  Britannica (2014): Research Starters. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Constitution Party National Committee. Oppose Adoption of National Popular Vote And Support the Electoral College http://www.constitutionparty.com/resolution-to-oppose-adoption-of-national- popular-vote-and-support-the-electoral-college/ (2011) Web. 25 Jan. 2017.  Constitution Party of Utah. www.constitutionpartyofutah.com/introduction/ , n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.