Spasoje Stefanovic T. J. Murray Composition II January 28, 2017 If the whole world spoke the same language U ovom eseju cu pisati o jednoj absurdnoj ideju koja je veoma zanimljiva a to je bi ceo svet govorio istim You wish you could understand what it says, right? Without using Google translate. It is written in Serbian language this essay I will be writing about one absurd idea that is very interesting and that is the whole world spoke the same If we all spoke the same language this be a problem to understand for anyone. definitely an absurd idea but a possible one. If the whole world spoke the same language people would not have so much trouble communicating with one another, understand each other, and they would be united in some way, but It will be very difficult to agree on what language the whole world should speak for many reasons. According to Linguistic Society of America there are 6,909 languages spoken in the world at this moment. Numbers of those languages are pretty similar and knowing certain language can help you communicate in several different countries without a problem, but still, that is a pretty big number that can cause a lot of communication barriers. Georgia, advocates say some Latino immigrants get substandard health care because they cannot speak English well and few hospitals have Spanish Tennessee, manufacturing and retail employers say they would hire more Hispanic immigrants but cannot adequately train or relay job safety requirements to non-English You have to speak English on the job, so nobody has to be around you to tell you what the boss  or translate out of an instruction manual, said Jose Adame of Horn Lake, Miss. He came from Mexico nine years ago for work, but said he was not able to find a steady job as a machine operator until he improved his (Cosgrove-Mather) These are just couple of issues that CBS News stated as language barrier problems. Now lets see this issue on a much higher level, like impact of language barrier on medical professionals. To provide quality medical care it is essential to have good communication with the patients. Medical professionals are dealing with a great amount of stress due to the lack of information or misinformation they are receiving from their patients, especially in emergency situations. They have to make very important decisions in treatment that can have a big impact on the life. Sometimes those decisions will have an impact on their careers too. Finding that one language the whole world would speak would be a very difficult thing. First, languages carry a big part of the history of cultures so giving up the language the specific culture was built on will be a decision many of nations agree on. Second, there is going to be a lot of political issues that would play a part in making a decision on what language the whole world would speak. And third, even if the world comes to the decision on what language the whole world would speak, there would be almost an impossible challenge of implementing one language into every culture. By the survey that was designed and distributed in creating Article Article: Impact of Language Barrier on Acute Care Medical Professionals Is Dependent Upon by several authors, 61 nurses and 36 physicians responded to survey and 95% nurses reported that language barrier was an impediment to quality healthcare, on the other side 88% of physicians responded similarly. It was a high number in percentage that was reported that both nurses and physicians are experiences great amount of stress in language barrier situations.( Bernard, Andrew) Goenka, Pratichi K author of academic journal in translation: Impact of language barrier in wrote have shown that there is suboptimal identification of patients who require linguistic assistance and, as such, there are missed opportunities to bridge language gaps with many of our patients. The lack of interpretation, or use of informal, untrained interpreters, has significant effects on patient safety, quality of care, and patient (Goenka, Pratichi K.) Both of these studies show speaking one language would solve problems that language barriers make. So many lives would have been saved, the stress in workplace that was created by the language barrier would be gone and the best quality of medical care would be available to everyone. Studies show people from different cultures who speak the same language tend to build relationships quicker and easier than people from same culture who speak a different language. This is a great example of how speaking one language can unite so many cultures and nations. Communicating and understanding each other is more important than from what culture individuals are coming from because even if they are coming from the same cultures they have a tool of communication to build their relationship. By uniting different cultures and nations we can avoid conflicts, fights, and war. Also we would build better things in world, make our cultures and nations better and richer in everyway. If the whole world spoke the same language people would not have so much trouble communicating with one another, understanding each other, and they would be united in some way. But it will be very difficult to agree on what language the whole world should speak for many reasons. If everyone were to speak the same language, many problems would be solved in the medical care field, work places, and many other fields of the world. Cultures, countries, nations, and people would be united and make the world a better place because they would understand each other. Works Cited Goenka, Pratichi K. Lost In Translation: Impact Of Language Barriers On  Current Opinion In Pediatrics 28.5 (2016): 659-666. CINAHL. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bernard, Andrew, et al. Original Article: Impact Of Language Barrier On Acute Care Medical Professionals Is Dependent Upon  Journal Of Professional Nursing 22.(2006): 355-358. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cosgrove-Mather, Bootie. Language Barriers Cause  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 06 Aug. 2002. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Linguistic Society of  How Many Languages Are There in the World? Linguistic Society of America. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.