Nancy Leriche Legend has it cocaine was the key ingredient in the Coca Cola Products that can still be found in the nearest grocery store. Proving cocaine was once in famous soda maybe difficult to perform but the rumor shines light to how cocaine was once viewed. The United States used to be in high spirits when the drug cocaine was legalized. When the procession of cocaine was officially an illegal drug in the United States, the potential for economic and social benefits was also ripped away from the public which lead to issues with the population. The population of humans is growing gradually and Roger Smith from the Salem Press Encyclopedia explains how this challenges the economy, social structures, and in his article Population growth and environmental impact (Smith). The presence of cocaine in the society could become the solution to the challenges presented by population growth. The financial and resourceful assets of a nation is how the economic status of the nation is determined. The financial well-being of citizens is important to the economy of the United States. Jobloss, Wealth and Depression during the Great Recession in the USA and Europe mentions the raised unemployment rate caused by Great Recession of has negatively affected citizens regardless if they were able to keep a job (Riumallo-Herl 1508). If cocaine were to become legalized, jobs for distributing cocaine along with preparing it would become necessary, and will decrease the rate of unemployment. Instead of money going directly to unauthorized drug dealers, the United States can tax the purchase of cocaine. Most Americans would find that most issues that come from drugs can actually be solved by the sale of drugs to adults is proposed as the most effective solution to the drug as R J Dennis says in the article Econimics of Legalizing Drugs (Dennis 126). Legally selling cocaine would mean the product would have to be taxed but that is a small sacrifice for users and a great benefit to the United States economy. Paying tax would be an acceptable trade off in order to gain a chance to gain pleasure and an extra outlet to relieve stress. The human brain is highly responsive to drugs such as cocaine. Depending on the type of drug, a drug can either increase or decrease chemicals in the brain that alters how a person feels. The National Institute on Drug Abuse categorizes cocaine as a stimulant drug because the drug makes the brain constantly build up dopamine, the chemical responsible for pleasure, and creates a state of euphoria for the user (NIDA). Similar to most drugs including prescription drugs, cocaine can be become addictive with acceptable reasoning. Who would not want an energy lifter after having a bad day or week? Cocaine is already illegal and yet there are already so many addicts in the United States. Legalizing cocaine will raise the number of people that is addicted to cocaine but it does not mean such a turn out would be a negative circumstance. A high of people becoming addicts and overdosing on cocaine is not an ideal nation Americans would want to deal with. People dying or shortening their life for pleasurable moments may seem because the entire idea seems taboo. Granted humans have come a long way to advance in health and technology in order to prolong their lives. Prolonged lives and fewer factors causing human fatalities have led to the overpopulation of humans. Challenges toward the structure of a nation has occurred due to the overpopulation of humans. If it is cruel to have people die of a conscious action that they are aware of the possible consequences, then why is tobacco still legal and being sold across the nation. Looking forward to the cost of living is equivalent to Energy Conversion and Management cost of ecology, the of non- renewable exergy connected with the fabrication of particular 1149). As production of items involving the use of nonrenewable resource increase to accommodate living people, nonrenewable resources decreases. Instead of shortening the existence of human as a whole the government should allow more fatalities by legalizing coacaine. Legalizing cocaine can be the next step to a better society for the American people if the United States Government chooses to review the benefits and accept the solutions to the challenges of a growing population. An additional product for the United States to tax and market is a step closer to a better economy. The step of bringing a better economy allows Americans to also hav chance to experience a more pleasurable life with less stress. If the United States Government forms the idea of how cruel it would be to withhold a great increase of jobs and pleasure from its citizens, then the potential risk of using cocaine would not seem as important. Regardless of the risk factors of using cocaine, legalizing the drug does necessarily condemn every person to the possible fates of using cocaine. Similar to tobacco, not every American will feel compel to use a drug because its legal availability. If the people who do decide to use cocaine overdoses on the product, at least it helps with the issue of Earth being overpopulated. The thought of hundreds or thousands of people dying or shortening his or her life seems inhumane but the reality is that the only planet known to be sustainable enough for life is suffering from the overpopulation of humans. The growth of the human population has caused detrimental challenges and legalizing cocaine is the possible solution to the challenges. Works Cited Dennis, Richard J. The economics of legalizing  The Atlantic Monthly 266 (1990): 126- 132. NIDA. Cocaine. (2016): https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/cocaine Riumallo-Herl, Carlos. loss, wealth and depression during the Great Recession in the USA and Int J Epidemiol (2014) 43 (5): 1508-1517. Smith, Roger. Population growth and environmental  Encyclopedia of Environmental Issues, Revised Edition (Online Edition). Salem P, 2013 Szargut, Jan. of the non-renewable natural exergy resources as a measure of the ecological Energy Conversion and Management. (2002) 43 (9)