Shehadehagha Alrefai 1 Youssef Shehadehagha Alrefai TJ Murry ENC 1102 29 th of January 2017 Global warming might be a hoax When you hear something on the news over and over it is going to stick in your head, and for the past few climate change has been over the news on how dangerous it is and myriad of people would say that global warming is real and dangerous. However, not everyone has doubted the claims that were made. Global warming being a hoax is absurd because of the ton of news people hear almost everyday on how it is destroying our planet. Over the scholars discovered that some of the most important information and point of view we have on climate change might not have been true and might have been manipulated, some scholars started researching to see if there is actually climate change, or if the global warming is happening, and maybe global warming is a hoax. Researchers point out that there is no global warming despite some wrongful claims that were made towards global warming. Scientist are always comparing previous years and show how global warming exist and how climate change is changing to the worst, but according to Larry Bell the professor at the University of Houston cooling of about 1.3 degrees Fahrenheit between 1945 and which is actually a decrease in climate change, between a huge period of time, almost 30 years (Bell, 2016). The professor Larry bell did not stop there but he also argued and showed surprisingly that for the past two satellite and weather balloon measurements show no statistically-significant global warming, which contradicts all the false claims made on global warming (Bell, 2016). Professor Bell also quoted credible source the Shehadehagha Alrefai 2 UK Hadley Center, average annual planetary warming between 1850 and 2015 is virtually imperceptible, and certainly not Which certainly support that global warming can be a hoax (qtd. In Bell, 2016). Carbon monoxide is always associated with global warming and how humans are increasing the carbon monoxide on the earth, but according to a Sanford article humans are just moving carbons from the ground and turning them into living things, which they find dangerous at all, and claim that children will enjoy an Earth with twice as much plant and animal life. This is a wonderful gift from the industrial (Robinson, 4). Simple observations can be made on some climatologist to disregarded most of the previous claims the were about global warming. According to philosopher of science and science educator Douglas Allchin most people who support the climate change are con artist scientists, because what professor Allchin is claiming that those scientists never really support their claim and can never teach anything about climate change, and Allchin claims that only 39 out of the 30 thousands scientist that signed the petition for global warming movement are credible and actually are climatologists. Even most of the scientist cannot be trusted regarding global warming and according to Allchin it should not be a problem (Allchin, 309). Elke Weber also supports professor Allchin that not everything should be trusted and global should not be a problem (Weber, 77). Just with a bit of observation many flaws can be found, just like in 2014 when NASA declared the year 2014 to be the hottest year ever when they were only 38 percent sure that that was going to happen and it ended up with not being the hottest year ever, and not only that but there any evidences for global warming for the past two decades which can be easily seen when looking at the flat line temperature trend since 1997 (Bandler). Shehadehagha Alrefai 3 As stated in many articles before climate change has the worst scientific scandal of our generation. Climategate showed emails with manipulated data that was trying to show that climate change is man made with fake evidence. In 2009 people discovered email from the university of East Climatic Research Unit showing how famous climatologist were encouraging the idea that global warming is man made, with attempting to create books and manipulating other books to their side with their ideas that the planet is heating up because of the high carbon dioxide levels (Bandler). The former NASA climatologist Dr. James Hansen also known by the of climate change was also involved in this scandal, along side with other scientists that introduced that concept of global warming like Philip Jones, Michael Mann. The emails also included discussions on hiding the data they found and actually some of the data got deleted. This scandal should alert people and show them the truth that global warming is a myth (Bandler). The enormous number of people that believe that global warming is real and support it without even actually knowing what is it or what is behind it is an indication that something is definitely wrong. Although people might feel the weather is getting warmer every year but that is not the case and many other observations are made to disregard any false claims that have been made. Other scandals that shows how that global warming is hoax, after all our president, the president of the united states believes that global warming is a scam and created by the Chinese in order to make United States manufacturing non-competitive. Shehadehagha Alrefai 4 Word cited Allchin, Douglas. Global Warming: Scam, Fraud, or  American Biology Teacher (University of California Press) 77.4 (2015): 309-13. General Science Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Bandler, Aaron. 9 Things You Need To Know About The Climate Change  Daily Wire. N.p., 07 Oct. 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Bell, Larry. Three Facts Prove Climate Alarm Is a  Newsmax. N.p., 31 May 2016. Web. 19 Jan. 2017. Robinson, Arthur B., and Zachary Robinson. Science has spoken: global warming is a  Wall Street Journal 4 (1997). Weber, Elke U. Experience-based and description-based perceptions of long-term risk: Why global warming does not scare us  Climatic change 77.1 (2006): 103-120.