Calabrese 1 Martina Calabrese Bob Botkin ENC 1102 24, January 2017 Life in Plastic, is it Fantastic? Ever wonder what lies behind the making of a beauty pageant? Most people see beauty pageants only for what they portray on the stage. For numerous years young women have been subjected to a world of beauty where they have to act as young adults rather than act their own ages. More times than not these young women have no desire to participate in these pageants but are forced to by their parents. Being forced into pageants can do one of two things; give these women the ability to start a career, get their names out there in order to build connections, and win scholarship money to help put them in college or it could cause them to grow up with a twisted ideal of what beauty is, lead them to changing themselves and potentially causing them to obtain disorders due to the extreme conditions they are put through in order to compete. Beauty pageants, having been around for many years, should begin to focus on whether or not they are beneficial or degrading to those participating in them. Beauty pageants are known for the scholarships they reward to those who win and even those who participate. A big organization many people are familiar with is the Miss America Organization (MAO). This organization alone provides more than 45 million a year in cash and scholarships to its Miss America beauty pageant participants Company Profiles, 2017). Not only are beauty pageants a great way for young women to potentially qualify for a scholarship and win a substantial amount of money, but it is also seen as a good way to build confidence and communication skills that these young women will be using throughout their Calabrese 2 daily lives in the future. Pageant contestants must be able to speak in front of an audience and be able to perform various talents on a stage. They must also be able to think on their feet which is a skill that will be very beneficial for when these women enter college and have to go on job interviews. The recognition these young women receive is also a benefit when looking for a career and is something that will also follow them into the future. Some pageant systems even offer cash prizes for those who do optional activities such as speeches, commercials, and modeling (Shappert, 2010). Beauty pageants also force you to become friends with the girls you are competing against due to the fact that they are around each other for long periods of time throughout the years. These girls treat each other like family and praise one another while competing (Zhang, 2013). Beauty pageants help young women find a purpose to be passionate about. This is beneficial to not only the girls in the pageants, but also to the people they help once being awarded with money. The side of beauty pageants that many people are focused on is the negative side. There are many more negatives to a beauty pageant than there are positives. With beauty pageants having no restrictions on age other than not being able to compete if you are older than 24-26 years of age, it leads to these girls being sexualized at very young ages. The outfits these young women are instructed to wear are very short, skimpy, provocative, and inappropriate in some cases especially with girls of such young ages. These outfits include mini-skirts, swimwear, and high heels. Not only are girls wearing outfits that are extremely revealing, they also have to wear an excessive amount of makeup such as false lashes, foundation, lipstick, eyeshadow, blush, etc. They are also encouraged to wear false nails, put in fake hair extension, and use fake tanners such as spray tans, or the use of tanning beds. Many times when these girls do not see the results they want with all the makeup and other fake add-ons they wear, they are lead to plastic surgery Calabrese 3 and Botox treatments. This is mainly seen within older women, but the use of Botox has been used with younger girls. This is a major health concern especially with girls of such young ages. Another thing that leads from these girls not seeing the results they would like is low self- esteem. These girls are constantly being compared with one another and being judged on how they look and how nice of a figure they have. When one girl is the winner of a pageant, it makes the other girls feel as though they are not pretty enough to win or has them constantly trying to figure out what is with them as to why they did not win. Losing these pageants also leads to these girls becoming depressed. Not only is low self-esteem an issue with the girls competing in beauty pageants, but a great deal of girls have been known for becoming anorexic, bulimic, or starving themselves in order to remain the size that is acceptable for the pageant. These girls tend to go overboard on restricting what they are consuming and spend most of their time in the gym during pageant season. These are the negative conditions that come with being involved in a beauty pageant. Considering beauty pageants are a very controversial topic, there is an excessive amount of feedback for both sides. In order for these two stakeholders to see eye to eye, they must agree on at least one thing. For instance, the positive stakeholder believes that beauty pageants are only seen as a positive due to the fact that they support many young women and give them the confidence boost that many of them might need. They also think this way because of the amount of money raised and given to these beauty contestants through scholarships or just simply from winning and participating in the pageants. A compromise that needs to be put in place in order for the positive stakeholder to agree with the negative stakeholder would be to base these competitions on qualities other than beauty and the size of your body. Qualities such as being intelligent and not for sexualizing and degrading girls at such young ages. In essence, letting kids Calabrese 4 still be kids. On the other hand, the negative stakeholders see things in a way most people do. That beauty pageants are demeaning and ruin the minds of the youth. They also see how many of the young women who participate in these pageants are at risk of developing many disorders such as anorexia, depression, and causing them to lose their self-esteem when competing against other girls for their physical appearances. The negative stakeholders see beauty pageants as an unhealthy thing for children of such young ages. In order for the negative stakeholder to compromise with the positive one, they need to focus less on the fact that beauty pageants sexualize girls and that they can obtain disorders from competing, but put that focus into understanding that not all beauty pageants are demeaning and not every girl that competes in beauty pageants develops a disorder or does not like the way she sees herself. These are important compromises that need to be put in place in order for these two different stakeholders to value each other and respect their differences. Calabrese 5 Works Cited Miss America Organization  Company Profiles (2016): Company Profiles. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Shappert, Rhonda. What Are The Benefits Of Beauty  Pageant Coach Rhonda Shappert Ohio Pageant Coach Rhonda Shappert Winning Through Pageantry. N.p., 2 July 2010. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sunseri, Sophia. The Benefits Of Beauty  New Moon Network 8.2 (2000): 4. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Zhang, Cynthia. What Really Like To Compete In Beauty  Business Insider. Business Insider, 30 Aug. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.