Weber 1 Olivia Weber Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 29 Jan 2017 Imagine having to ask yourself how far you are willing to go to play a sport you are passionate about? This is what college athletes who play for Division 1 schools are having to do. A major debate inside the college sports world is whether or not they should receive payment for playing. One side of the argument made by the National College Athletic Association(NCAA) is that giving students scholarships is enough and that they should not get paid because they are Amateurs. The NCAA also believes that students should focus on excelling in both sports and academics. They also support the idea and make the rules for no payment to the student Official Site of The the other side, the College Athletes Players Association (CAPA) believe that student athletes are employees and therefore deserve proper treatment and payments. They form a union that is lead by past college athletes to protect their rights. They hope that they can eventually form a player association which will eliminate all of the unfair and unjust rules that were created by the To have a compromise, the NCAA would have to modify rules and CAPA would have to be willing to not only have one goal in mind. A good compromise for these two would be somewhere in the middle ground of some type of compensation towards the athletes and still focusing on the student education. The NCAA is The National Collegiate Athletic Association which is in charge of college athletics including the most popular, Football and Basketball. The NCAA has a strict Weber 2 policy on no payment to athletes. Within this organization there are three divisions. The division that I am going to be focused on is the most well known, Division 1. Division 1 has the big name schools with the big student bodies that bring in the majority of the revenue for the NCAA. Division 1 is also known for giving out the most scholarships. The core values of The NCAA are The highest levels of integrity and sportsmanship. The pursuit of excellence in both academics and athletics.The supporting role that intercollegiate athletics plays in the higher education mission and in enhancing the sense of community and strengthening the identity of member institutions. An inclusive culture that fosters equitable participation for student-athletes and career opportunities for coaches and administrators from diverse backgrounds. Respect for institutional autonomy and philosophical differences. Presidential leadership of intercollegiate athletics at the campus, conference and national levels. Within the division, The NCAA has a focus on Amateurism. They emphasize that all student athletes are students first and athletes second. A major component of amateurism is that athletes do not receive pay, if payment was received then they would no longer be considered amateurs. Two of the amateurism requirements deal with athletes getting paid. They state, for participating in and money above actual and necessary are not allowed. Amateurism is the main reason stated by the NCAA themselves in why they pay their student Official Site of The The NCAA emphasizes that they educate their athletes and provide many of them with scholarships. schools more than $2.7 billion in athletic every year to more than 150,000 Many say that by providing an education and free college for the students is as good as paying Weber 3 them. Another claim for not paying student athletes is that if colleges were to pay athletes it would take too much money away from the college and then the college would have to make cutbacks on things such as staff, research and other essentials. Due to the college already putting in so much money to athletics, if they had to pay each student athlete on top of that many other areas would feel budget to these are the three main reasons often stated by the supporters of no payments for student athletes. The College Athletes Players Association(CAPA) was founded by three former college athletes. They are labor organization established to assert college status as employees with the right to collectively bargain for basic The first founder, Ramogi Huma, decided to found this association when he saw his own teammates getting punished for things such as accepting groceries when they are hungry or not having their medical bills payed for when they sustained an injury during practice. The Second founder, Luke Bonner, was a college basketball athlete who during his whole time playing division 1 sports felt a need and often advocated for better player protection. The last founder is Kain Colter who was a college football player turned professional. He advocated to the media about the players need for a voice in the NCAA sports. As an association, they hope to advocate for players rights as an employee. They believe players should have the right to bargain for their rights. Those are the basic reasons that the CAPA believes players deserve to be paid. On top of that, they also like to put out information to falsify the reasoning for not paying athletes. As shown above, CAPA says that the NCAA says that if student athletes had to receive pay then they would have to cut other smaller problems. Yet CAPA says that this true and says that non revenue sports are too valuable to colleges and therefore would not be abolished. Another Weber 4 issue that many opposers of no payments have are the amount coaches are paid. Often times, coaches are not paid just their normal salary. They can receive endorsement deals meaning they can be payed thousands or even millions just have their players wear a certain brand. Many believe if the coaches can get paid that much then there must be some money for students(Schneider). When you first look at both stakeholders, they look as if they are in complete disagreement. Yet, when a closer look is taken you can see the similarities they have. The main similarities that both stakeholders share are their care for the student athletes. The CAPA has a goal and mission to do whatever they can to protect the student Although, the NCAA might not look like they are protecting the students by not letting them receive payment, they are looking out for them and want the best for them during their time at Official Site of the By having these common threads the stakeholders can more easily come together to make a compromise. Seeing that both stakeholders have a commonality in the protection and best interest of their students athletes. That is what the compromise should be based off of. The compromise should be that the initial of the student athlete should be their tuition. Payment should come in terms of practice hours and playing hours. The colleges could set up a system such as wages and have the players get payed for the amount of playing and practicing they do but instead of the wages going into a paycheck it overtime will pay off their tuition. This way they are seen as employees by having their amount of work recognized but also as students with having their tuition as a priority(Groves,104). To add to the compromise, any players that has personal merchandise sold or is in any type of video games should receive correct compensation Weber 5 for that. To end the compromise, it could be a possibility to give the student athletes a small weekly or biweekly wage so that they having money to buy groceries or other necessities they often go without. Since almost all athletes do not have time to have a job to earn money, by receiving a weekly or biweekly stipend that could account for other expenses. By having this compromise, it recognizes both stakeholders views. It keeps the student athletes, students by having their focus on their tuition and also amatuer by not getting paid for their hourly work. Yet it aso recognizes the idea that they players are worthy and employees and gets them compensated in the correct manner. Often times, the NCAA and CAPA do not agree. The NCAA sticks strongly to their idea of amateurism while CAPA has a stronghold in student athletes being employees. Yet this debate could affect the future of college sports so both organizations must come together to compromise. Once an agreement is made, likely the students athletes and the collegiate sports world will be more joint because of it. Weber 6 Work Cited Groves, Roger M. A Solution For The Pay For Play Dilemma Of College Athletes: A Novel Compensation Structure Tethered To Amateurism And  Review Of Entertainment & Sports Law 17.2 (2016): 101-143. Search Premier . Web. 28 Jan. 2017. More  Athletes Players Association (CAPA) . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Pay To  Events 111.13 (2012): 7. Guide Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Schneider, Raymond G. College Perceptions On The Payment Of Intercollegiate  Student Journal 35 .2 (2001): 232. Source . Web. 26 Jan. 2017. The Official Site of the  - The Official Site of the NCAA . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.