Equizi 1 Tyler Equizi Martha Heiser ENC 1102.068 1 February 2017 Athletes Versus Students College Sports can be the most competitive level of sports, even more so than the pros. While the fan base may be less than or the same as the fan base of pro spots, the rivalries between two schools add much more excitement. But college sports could be on a decline. As of now, college athletes cannot be compensated for playing for a team other than a scholarship. Many groups such as student athletes believe this is unfair and should be paid, while others like the student body, believe the exact opposite. Countless court cases have been held to favor one side, but the rulings resulted in any changes. This is a conflict that will likely continue for years to come, but a quick solution could end it now, and be beneficial to both sides of the argument. When comparing a pro athlete and a college athlete, it is much easier to spot the similarities rather than the differences. The truth is, both levels of athletes put in the same amount of practice time, play the same sport, and generate money for the team they play for. But why is it that get paid to play while students According to Dave Anderson in his article Top 10 Reasons College Athletes Should Be Paid University of Alabama took in $143.3 million in athletic revenues alone. This figure is not only more than any professional hockey team in the NHL earns but it is also more than 25 out of the 30 NBA teams bring in annually as If the University of Alabama is bringing in over one hundred million dollars from athletics alone, surely they can find room in their budget to pay their athletes. Anderson also said in his article that head football coach made $5.5 million in 2013, while the average salary of all head football head Equizi 2 coaches was $100 thousand. It is not fair when the coaches of a team are getting paid thousands of dollars a year, while the students who are on the field playing and risking injury are receiving nothing. As many people know, being a full-time student takes up a lot of time. Many students attend school four to five times a week for up to five hours a day, and being a college athlete does not excuse you from attending class and maintaining good grades. Athletes must go to school full time while also attending all practices and games. From an outside perspective that might not seem bad, but one former Quarterback of Northwestern University, Kain Colter, once said in an interview with The Monitor Newspaper that he estimated that he spent up to 60 hours a week doing a football related activity during the summer, and 40-50 hours a week during the fall semester (Iaconangelo). When adding that practice time to time spent in class and studying, athletes have minimal time to do anything else, including getting a job. Since athletes have time to get a job, where are they supposed to make their money? It feasible to expect an athlete to pay for his or her own living expenses if their scholarship cover it. Even though paying student athletes makes a lot of sense, in many cases it is extremely unfair. The largest group of people protesting the compensation of student athletes is regular non-athletic students. In the eyes of a student, both groups have obligations to attend classes, do homework, and receive good grades, but most students do it without the help of scholarships. While college athletes get their school paid for to play a sport, other students must work full time in addition to school in order to pay tuition. In some cases, a full-time job still enough to cover the costs of certain universities and results in students going into debt (Anderson). In a way, the universities are punishing students and making it harder for them to succeed just because they run fast or throw a ball. Equizi 3 A second strong argument for the student side is the fact that schools afford to pay their athletes. Athletics bring in a large amount of money, however they use that money to support the parts of the school that well funded. Most students want to see improvements in their school that are shown in places other than on the field. Students attend school to receive a degree and obtain a career, but a school known only for their sports as reputable as a school that excels in education. In the article Top 10 Reasons College Athletes Should Not Be Paid Dave Anderson says schools will have to make cut backs if they start paying their student athletes. He also continues to give the example the university in question has a small art program with only 100 students and the university decides to pay their athletes, you can take a well-educated guess on where the money will come from, and in the process, say goodbye to the art By cutting the art program at the hypothetical school used in the example, the one hundred kids who were part of that program will miss out on the educational experience. There is only one clear solution to the argument between these two groups of students. Student athletes want to be paid because they do the same things a pro player does, and they have time to get a real job. Non-athletes however, think unfair if college athletes are paid more money than they are already receiving through scholarships because students work just as hard as athletes in school with a job and they believe Universities should be putting the money elsewhere in the school. So, a program needs to be set up to examine the costs of students living expenses and depending on the financial situation of the student, stipends should be given out to help cover them. The stipends will be enough to cover rent, bills, and groceries, but not anything more. If a student wishes to receive more money to spend on things other than necessities, they must figure out ways to do that themselves. The process of examining the student must be thorough to prevent misuse of the funds given out. This will benefit both sides. Equizi 4 The college athletes will receive enough money to cover expenses of living that they miss out on making themselves, while regular college students will also receive financial aid help to make college more than just a luxury. Without a successful compromise between college athletes and students, college sports could begin to decline due to less athletes wanting to compete at the college level. While some students may not care about their sports teams, without them the school loses a large amount of revenue. Less revenue coming into the school means budget cuts and programs being discontinued. In order to keep both sides pleased, schools must start to better examine students financial aid needs, and give help to the students who needs it, both to athletes and non-athletes. This will give an equal opportunity to students that already have a hard time trying to find ways to make money in their busy school schedules. Equizi 5 Works Cited Anderson, Dave. Top 10 Reasons College Athletes Should Be  Top 10 Lists ListLand.com. 22 Sept. 2015. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Anderson, Dave. Top 10 Reasons College Athletes Should Not Be  Top 10 Lists ListLand.com. 17 Mar. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Berkowitz, Steve. Games Offer Rare Payday for  USA Today 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. College Athletes Deserve More  USA Today 2014: Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Iaconangelo, David. Is a New Era for College-athlete Compensation on the  The Christian Science Monitor 2016: General OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.