P e m b e r t o n 1 Michael Pemberton Professor Martha Heiser ENC 1102.068 1 February 2017 Copyright Infringement Online Media Piracy is a major point of contention, it has been a great cost to content owners as a large portion of the projected profits of the media they produce is lost. Currently proposed legal solutions to piracy threaten to hinder freedom of speech and breach the privacy of the general public. The two most vocal stakeholders would be the U.S. representatives for the Stop Online Piracy Act, and the representatives for the Online Protection and Enforcement of Digital Trade Act. They hold the common ground of both wanting to promote creativity and the production of content for the entertainment. To safeguard the rights of content owners and preserve freedom of speech and privacy, U.S representatives opposing the bill should force a filibuster whilst increasing awareness of the economic effects of piracy. Besides the point of differing goals, both stakeholders come from positions of self- interest. As clearly stated mission of the Department is to create the conditions for economic growth and The United States Department of Commerce is one of the major supporters of the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA). In October 2011, U.S. Representative Lamar Smith introduced the bill to empower law enforcement in their efforts to prevent and persecute infractions of online copyright infringement and online trafficking of counterfeit goods. Conversely, members who oppose the bill have pledged their support for an alternative, The Online Protection and Enforcement of Digital Trade Act (OPEN). P e m b e r t o n 2 The leading representative in favor of the alternative bill is Senator Ron Wyden, the member who Proposed the OPEN act. The OPEN act has the primary goal of cutting off the revenue stream generated by foreign websites engaged in piracy and counterfeiting, whereas SOPA also orders Internet Service Providers to redirect users away from viewing the sites Internet American Moratorium Act (IAMA). Both sides seek the same end result, yet propose controversial ways to achieve it. The Department of Commerce supports the SOPA as one of the main complaints against piracy is deprives content owners from the revenue that should be generated from the production of their media. The agency within the department with the focus of securing property rights is the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). The USPTO claims to follow in its mission statement by the stronger and more effective [Intellectual protection around the The Stop Online Piracy Act was introduced by U.S. Representative Lamar Smith with the goal promote prosperity, creativity, entrepreneurship, and innovation by combating the theft of U.S. property, and for other The bill was proposed to protect intellectual property, as Representative Smith, along with his cosponsors consider intellectual property to be one of the top job creators of the nation. It was debated that content creators should not be subjected to copyright infringement by foreign parties who are beyond the reach of current U.S. laws. Stephen Pinkos, the Deputy Under the Secretary of Commerce made a statement on the Piracy of Intellectual Property as follows, Increasingly, both the United States and our trading partners are relying on [Intellectual to drive economic growth. This is because competitive success in a market P e m b e r t o n 3 economy depends more and more on the IP assets held by an institution-from the skills of its employees to the results of its latest research (Pinkos). Pinkos made that address prior to the introduction of both the SOPA and OPEN bills, in an attempt to inform stakeholders on the current position of the Patent and Trademark position. As well as boosting the confidence of American businesses and entrepreneurs, providing them with the required knowledge and protection. The Opposition is the collective efforts of members of Congress backed in large by members of the public. The originator of the OPEN bill, Senator Ron Wyden argues not for complete dismissal of the SOPA but for another method of handling piracy. The bill was introduced in December 2011, only two months after SOPA. It is claimed that the Stop Online Piracy Act would empower the law enforcement with means to breach the privacy of individuals even suspected of online piracy or counterfeit, and would lead to internet censorship. In his online petition to Keep the Web Open, Senator Wyden has made available to the public the terms of his counter bill Internet American Moratorium Act Even providing means for community suggestions and comments as to what amendments should be made. In addition, Senator petition also provides the terms of SOPA bill. A bill that would grant law enforcement the ability to order internet service providers to block access to websites suspected of piracy. Edward J. Black in his article published by the Huffington Post, Users, Free Speech Experts, Petition Against stated that legislation would domains suspected of containing infringing copyright (Black). Black is the President and CEO of the Computers and Communications Industry Association, and supports The OPEN Bill. P e m b e r t o n 4 Contrary to the apparent impasse, a compromise can be reached in the effort to reduce piracy. Both of the stakeholders could work together to increase the public awareness of the economic effects on the nation as a whole. Allowing the public to be the dictators of their future economy would be rather beneficial. Firstly, removing the enormous weight of all the ethical implications that would need to be considered by the U.S. Representatives while voting on the bill. Secondly, it would serve to place a higher value on the public, giving them the opportunity to greatly affect their economy, as well as protecting their privacy. Professor of Economics at Montpellier SupAgro claims that, . . . we argue that eliminating piracy is not always desirable even at zero enforcement cost, because genuine producers can in some plausible circumstances strategically use (and even encourage) piracy to increase their profits at levels that will be difficult to reach without piracy. (Grolleau Gilles, 2). In his article, Gilles goes on to explain that there are numerous means by which piracy may be beneficial to the content producers, even stimulating creativity. All aspects of piracy should be brought to the attention of the public so that they may go on to make an informed decision on the consequences of their actions and inactions. In summation, two stakeholders mean to eliminate online piracy and counterfeiting. One by force and one by procedure. Both stakeholders have gathered support and even endorsement from large corporations, with the consumers holding the sway in the argument. Whilst empowering law enforcement with the abilities to locate and persecute individuals suspected of being directly involved or complicit to online piracy and counterfeiting; others argue a smarter means. A method wherein all streams of revenue towards the perpetrators of piracy and counterfeiting are severed. Leaving them with no reason to continue the theft of the intellectual P e m b e r t o n 5 property of the various content creators. However, there is another course of action. The public should be educated on the direct economic effects of piracy and counterfeiting. Understanding of the current situation would lead the majority of the populace to themselves, work against piracy, so as to secure themselves a better future. The end result of public deliberation may very well turn out to be the choice for beneficial local piracy and the dismantling of foreign piracy and counterfeiting. P e m b e r t o n 6 Works Cited Department of Commerce, 20 Jan. 2017, www.commerce.gov/page/about- commerce. Accessed 31 Jan. 2017. United States Patent and Trademark Office, www.uspto.gov/about-us. Accessed 31 Jan. 2017. Black, Edward. Users, Free Speech Experts, Petition Against The Huffington Post, www.huffingtonpost.com/edward-j-black/stop-online-piracy-act- Accessed 31 Jan. 2017. Grolleau, Gilles, Sana El Harbi, and Insaf Playing With Pirates: How Companies Can Win The  Journal Of Business Strategy 37.3 (2016): 30 Accessed 31 Jan. 2017. Pinkos, Stephen. of Intellectual https://www.uspto.gov/about-us/news- updates/piracy-intellectual-property. Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. Internet American Moratorium Act keepthewebopen.com/. Accessed 31 Jan. 2017.