Adrian Andujar Professor Karen Hanson ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft: Parents everywhere have always been keen on protecting their children from viewing mature content, especially in regards to video gaming. Video gaming is a major hobby for the younger generation and seemingly has become favorite pastime throughout the years. Many studies have been conducted and have shown that children who are exposed to mature games tend to be more aggressive toward their peers, but, with age and development, the aggression declined and ultimately playing helped them with problem-solving skills and hand- eye coordination. The question at hand is: should gaming stores be able to sell games including mature content such as, intense violence, blood and gore, sexual content, and/or strong language, to those below the age of 17? There are many different stakeholders whose goals all vary from each other, whether it be for or against stores selling these mature games. The Entertainment Consumers Association (ECA) advocates collective rights by tackling the issue at a governmental level through legislators and creating tight-knit alliances that help to rid the entertainment industry of what they believe is unnecessary censorship With thousands of registered members, they are a force to be reckoned with in the gamer world. They are against the censorship of video games because they believe there is no correlation between violent video gaming and real life violence in the mind of a child with an undeveloped brain. They argue that the filtering of certain content in these games opposes their First Amendment, the right to free speech. The association works hard to ensure that every man, woman, or child is guaranteed the absolute liberty to purchase and engage in any form of entertainment of their choosing. On the opposing side of the issue, the Parents Against Media Violence (PAMV) strongly believe filtering certain things out of the media and video games especially, are necessary to ensure their child grows up and develops properly. In the perspective of the organization, parents have been a huge contributing factor to the desire to engage in the violent virtual world, even going as far as to say that they as caretakers have provided the information necessary to breed such a longing for gore. Parents Against Media Violence are fearful over allegations that games with mature content within them lead to nightmares, depression, and the undermining of violence in the real world. Although it may seem as though the Entertainment Consumers Association and the Parents Against Media Violence must be combatants and collide with each other constantly, this is not necessarily the case; yes, they are in opposition but both groups essentially would like for their young ones to grow up and develop in the way they deem most appropriate. The Parents Against Media Violence clearly are more conservative while members of the Entertainment Consumer Association are highly more likely to take a laidback approach with parenting techniques. These two differences lie within their opinions of how intense violence and other mature content affect the undeveloped mind based off whatever studies they have encountered data on. Apart from that, those who grew up viewing and engaging in mature content as an adolescent and prior to adolescence who still prevailed to develop into functioning members of society are predisposed to believe that violence in a non existent, virtual world has no real impact on the mind or any correlation with how one deals with day to day issues or conflict. A compromise can bring two groups on opposite sides of an issue, even if they seem as if they are adversaries, together and can put them on the right path to progression. Although such a compromise can oftentimes be very difficult to reach because ultimately, they are on opposing sides of one common conflict. The Entertainment Consumers Association and Parents Against Media Violence have colliding ideologies; one group views entertainment as something that should be an unfiltered form of art for everyone to be able to consume and engage in regardless of age or mature content while the other argues that children are easily influenced and need to be sheltered from intense violence and any other parts of a video game they feel is inappropriate or intensely violent. In order for compromise to be reached, both groups must sacrifice a fraction of their beliefs and meet somewhere around the middle so to speak. The current laws regarding this issue state that at the age of 17 you can legally purchase any video games with mature content and prior to the age you must have a parent present that is willing to conduct the transaction for you. This accommodation is perfect for both groups. Parents who are members of Parents Against Media Violence or simply just do not agree with the content of a game in itself are able to monitor what their child is playing by refusing to purchase for them these games prior to the age of 17. Members of the Entertainment Consumers Association and those who promote the right to free speech in general can go out to their local gaming store and purchase said video games for their young ones until they are of age. This way, kids who have protective parents can still be sheltered until a certain age so they have plenty of time to develop. Not only that, but parents who are devout entertainment fans can simply tag along with their children to the store and buy the game for them so that they can enjoy the entertainment they hold so near and dear to their hearts. The argument over the selling of video games including mature content such as, intense violence, blood and gore, sexual content, and/or strong language has been going on for several years. Thousands of people are on both sides of the issue and constantly advocate for and promote their own goals as individuals and organizations. Two groups fighting for the different causes in this social conflict are the Entertainment Consumers Association and the Parents Against Media Violence. The Entertainment Consumers Association wants nothing but the freedom of expression through entertainment for them and their kids as the first amendment of the U.S. constitution states. The Parents Against Media Violence do not want their kids as the next generation of functioning members of our society to participate in or be able to purchase any games with mature content and/or intense violence. If both groups are willing to sacrifice the issue at hand can be resolved. Those who are for freedom of speech through unfiltered gaming should be able to purchase these games for their children at the store before they become of age and those who are stricter should be able to say no to their young ones until they develop to at least 17 years as current laws state. Compromise is a beautiful thing. WORKS CITED PAGE Entertainment Consumers Association Advocacy Entertainment Consumers Association (ECA). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. American Academy of Pediatrics, American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, American Psychological Association, American Medical Association, American Academy of Family Physicians, and American Psychiatric Association. The Impact of Entertainment Violence on  AAP..Report. N.p., 20 July 2000. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. PAMV (Parents Against Media  Home. Parents Against Media Violence, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.