Gott 1 Jordan Gott Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 1 February 2017 Governmental Analytics and Concession Besides dystopian fictions of anarchy, there is not a single place you can find to that lacks a form of government. Throughout the ages it has been determined that as social animals we require a form of governing, however it has yet to be determined how much governing we should have. Too much and you and your country would be in similar state of North Korea, too little and your back to virtual anarchy or perhaps the grueling conditions of the industrial revolution. Not only this but certain governing styles may be more effective in different countries so debates continue throughout the United states on whether we need a large or small government. The citizens of the United States can be generally described to fall under one of two sociopolitical categories. These categories are known as the Democrats and the Republicans which as of recently seem to have split the population virtually in half. Despite both these parties residing in the same country under the same democratic republic it seems their views could not be further apart, especially on size of government. A Republican is simply known as a member of, or someone who follows the beliefs of, the Republican Party. This party is also referred to as the GOP, or Grand Old Party, which generally follows the conservative philosophy, hence most Republicans are also referred to as conservatives (Gould, 2015). This philosophy holds stake in almost every aspect of politics including economics, social, medical, military, education, environment, and energy. All of these categories and the policies pertaining to each one relies on a key factor, the size of government, which determines how much a government is involved in a life from public to private affairs to anything they do pertaining towards the fore mentioned categories. The Republican Gott 2 Party supports the idea of a small government which allows each individual to remain responsible for only his or her self as much as possible. Little government intervention should occur on individual path he has laid out for himself and should only step when society must have more than just the efforts of individuals in order to operate efficiently therefore the rights of the citizen should always come before the own desires. Due to this very restricted approach and minimal they wish to keep the government closer to state or community level to ensure prevention of large overpowered political systems that lack representation (RepublicanViews.org, 2014). One of the biggest ideologies of this small government philosophy of the Republicans is their stance on economics. One example is their desire for limited taxation on the individual and the small amount of tax that is collected is to only be used efficiently for country necessities such as military and infrastructure. Not only is this to limit the role government plays in life but to ensure taxation does not impede on the individuals venture towards prosperity. This is a very capitalistic approach in where they wish for the individual to keep the money they have worked with and encourage competition in order to increase the improvement of overall society and country. They are firm proponents against the taxation and then redistribution of wealth and preach the philosophy earn what you work Economic policies limiting taxation and controlling spending as well as bringing government closer to the citizen are almost always top priority in the agenda of Republican politicians. A Democrat is just a member of the Democratic Party or follows the same set of values and beliefs. The Democratic Party is the oldest operative political party and is known for their more socialistic style views as opposed to the capitalistic ways of the Republicans (Democrats.org, 2017). As being the counter part of the conservatives the democrats take on a Gott 3 more liberal stance, or open to new ways and willing to discard traditional values, thus are commonly referred to as liberals. To almost every stance held by the Republicans it seems the Democrats have counter stance; whether it be economics, social, or education. The Democrats believe in the philosophy greater together than we are on our this country succeeds when everyone gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same (Democrats, 2017) which is quite different than the individualistic approach of their political counterpart. Of course this means their stance on government is just as opposing as the rest of their views with the Democrats supporting a much larger government. The idea of one strong federal government is more favorable to them than that of small powers given to a state which means they prefer one universal law and rule throughout the entire country. This stronger role of government is meant to allow them more intervention in the lives and operations of the citizens so that it is ensured everyone has a fair and equal opportunity, especially those less privileged. This government is supposed to have some stake in most affairs and in order to make the challenges faced by the individual easier to overcome using a unified effort. An example of this unified and socialistic belief that is held together by a large government is their method on taxation. The democrats believe in taxing virtually every affair or transaction involving money from sales to property to imports and involves a dual level of taxation from federal and state level. The democrats are firm believers in the share which is a progressive tax system where the higher the income you earn the higher the taxation you receive (Kenny, 2011). This not only refers to dollar amount but to the percent of your income you pay to taxes as well. All this taxing is used to pay for almost every public commodity, and even some private, that the country runs from funding schooling and health care to multiple welfare programs. Another reason for the more frequent taxation is for one of the Gott 4 Democrats most socialistic beliefs which is the redistribution of wealth (Republicans vs. Democrats Views on Government Size, 2017). In this system the upper class would be taxed significantly more from their income than the middle and the lower class would virtually be taxed nothing at all. The money taxed from the upper class would then be used to support higher wages for the middle class and an abundance of welfare programs used to keep all classes at a stable living wage. This is a much larger responsibility the government takes on as opposed to the conservative system which in turn results in much more regulation. Business conditions, trade deals, workers wage, quality assurance, and safety codes are all very common regulations held in more socialist governments. The large government of the democratic system is not only to be a net that citizens can fall back on whether in rough times but a mediator that allows for every citizen an equal chance at a happy and secure life. The difference in beliefs, especially economically, between the Democratic and Republican views are undoubtedly distinct however common ground is still apparent between the two sides. Both agree there is a necessity for at least some form of government, particularly a democratic one where the officials are voted on and used to represent the people. They also desire the ability for every citizen to have the opportunity to lead a successful life given they put in the necessary work. These two seemingly opposite views might be capable of a compromise. I suggest a nation with one strong central government, in order to keep unity and organization throughout the country, but with a flat tax (a tax where every income is taxed the same percentage which still allows the richer to pay more than lower classes without exponentially overpaying) and with very limited regulations to keep health and safety a priority (such regarding workplace conditions and food quality) (Shaikh, 2016). This still allows for a representative Gott 5 government that is not too involved with affairs and allows for everyone the opportunity to have a safe and prosperous life. This assessment and compromise is anything but a trivial matter. The importance of this lies in the fact that no matter the city, state, or country, any corner of this earth has some form of government. Therefore, as a citizen you will always fall under the rule and law of a political system and thus it is paramount we find an effective an efficient government that works for us and our needs. This is a particularly important trait in the global superpower that is America which as a major gear in the machine of the global economy we have a substantial impact on every other nation of this world as societies become more and more connected. Discovering a compromise can not only be beneficial in stitching together a divided nation in times of great divide but also can set the stage for the political and economic path of our world for generations to come. Gott 6 References Gould, Lewis L. The Republicans : A History Of The Grand Old Party. n.p.: New York : Oxford University Press, 2015., 2015. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017.  Democrats.org. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 31 Jan. 2017. Kenny, Jack. A Polished Political Paradigm: In mixed economies - which have both socialistic government centralization and aspects of free-market capitalism - capitalism gets blamed for  The New American 2011: 31. Academic OneFile. Web. Accessed 31 Jan. 2017. RepublicanViews.org, Victoria Says, Dumbocrats Says, Forest Gump Says, Chyanne Says, A. Real American Says, Uriel Says, Joe M. Says, Pat Says, John Says, Fix It JESUS Says, Mia Says, and Jason Says.  Republican Views. N.p., 11 Apr. 2014. Web. Accessed 31 Jan. 2017. Republicans vs. Democrats Views on Government  The Classroom Synonym. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 31 Jan. 2017. Shaikh, Anwar. Capitalism : Competition, Conflict, Crises. n.p.: New York, NY : Oxford University Press, 2016., 2016. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017.