Lamusse 1 Kelly Lamusse Erika Staiger ENC 1102 01/29/17 Diego Garcia: The loss of one-thousand five-hundred homes In 1965 the UK paid Mauritius seven and a half million dollars in exchange for Diego Garcia, the largest and only inhabited island in the Chagos Archipelago (Carey 71). This purchase formed part of the UK-USA mutual defense strategy whereby all islanders would be force-fully removed, enabling the US to build one of their most important military and naval bases. Washington compensated Britain by cancelling a fourteen-million-dollar fee Britain owed as a research and development surcharge on Polaris missile programs (Harris 25). This was a fifty-year agreement with a twenty-year extension option. From 1968 to 1973, American soldiers employed harsh tactics to remove all the chagossians from the island, spread rumors we would be bombed, then they turned on our dogs. They burned them in front of us, many still (Pilger 22). The majority of the islanders were in Mauritius, Seychelles and the United Kingdom, where they were left to fend for (Carey 71). Although the islanders will most probably never live on Diego Garcia again, they should receive the right to visit or re-settle on other islands in the Archipelago. The Mauritian Prime Minister and the US military must collaborate to help all Chagossians adapt to their new homes. Writers question how the US military justified their acts of inhumanely removing one-thousand five-hundred innocent people from their home land. The excellent size, location and layout of Diego Garcia enabled the US to construct one of their most strategically important overseas military bases. Diego Garcia could accommodate the largest United States battle ships, high performance aircraft and cargo planes; the island also Lamusse 2 became a vital refueling and communications station, major maintenance facility, medical and weather unit (Harris 25). The new military base was key in monitoring the Soviet Union during the cold war, and launching air strikes on Afghanistan during the Gulf War of 2001 (Carey 71). All of the above combined to give the United states more power, control and increased the overall safety of their nation. The wonderful lifestyle in Chagos facilitated the recruitment of new officers and contributed towards the growth of the army; looking for a professional challenge, a close-knit team, unbelievable recreational facilities and exquisite natural beauty, then you are coming to the perfect (Naval Support Facility Diego Garcia). Since most of the Chagossians were shipped to Mauritius which also used to own the islands, Aernood Jugnauth, the Mauritian Prime Minister has become very involved in the issue. Jugnauth has often stated his desire to regain sovereignty of the Archipelago primarily because Diego Garcia to the US would generate useful amounts of foreign exchange and help in the oceanic economy of the This will assist the island in transitioning from a newly developing to developed country (Jugnauth 2). Mauritius values the possibility of trading with a major economy such as the United States, and strategically wishes to remain on good terms; having a fully equipped navy and army so close to Mauritius is a major security advantage. In the event of an attack, natural disaster or political threat, Jugnauth recognizes the ability of the US military in restoring order. The Prime Minister holds the UK responsible for exploiting Diego Garcia and giving the former inhabitants a life of misery; according to Jugnauth, Britain should not be allowed to own the Archipelago. The Mauritian Prime Minister supported his claim with evidence that British representatives lied when they stated that Diego Garcia was when the United Kingdom government first acquired (Pilger 22). This lie was what enabled the awful UK-USA deal to occur. Jugnauth appreciates the proximity of the US military, however he despises of their Lamusse 3 cruel treatment of the chagossians. Whilst Mauritius and the United States have conflicting motives, the two stakeholders happen to agree on several matters. To begin, both stakeholders concur that the military presence on Diego Garcia involves several advantages. As discussed earlier, Mauritius benefitted from a long-term security aspect and the United States gained great military and naval strength. The personnel working on Diego Garcia appreciate an above average lifestyle unlike other officers who serve their country; the island provides a comfortable, beautiful and more relaxed environment. American soldiers enjoy galleys, clubs, bars and spectacular (Naval Support Facility Diego Garcia). The chagossians were all eligible for a UK or Mauritian passport, given the opportunity to travel, received a great education and higher paid jobs (Carey 71). Many chagossians endured the trauma of losing their homes, however they eventually enjoyed a higher standard of living with access to better medical care, and more modern facilities. Chagos support communities were established and often had games, funfairs and sometimes even (Carey 71). The United States spent over seven-hundred million dollars on Diego Garcia; since so much change has been done to the island, the stakeholders agree that sending the Chagossians home will not be an option, their homes are now a massive air base. With that in mind, both stakeholders agree that it would be an economic waste to transform the island back into a plantation site, it is also likely that many chagossians would become bored if they returned. The stakeholders further agree that Britain should be held most accountable for the Diego Garcia scandal; lying about the number of inhabitants on Diego Garcia was malicious. If the US knew that there were over a thousand inhabitants in Chagos, they would not have recognized the island as a potential military base. Through common ground, Jugnauth and the US military have shown that they can come up with a fair compromise regarding the chagossians and their motherland. Lamusse 4 Finally, Diego Garcia was a land of peace, basic living and safe communities so when all the Chagossians were sent to the UK, Mauritius or Seychelles, many were unable to adapt. The islanders had never witnessed drugs or the stress of a high cost of living, and suddenly this became their daily struggles. The Chagossians, whether in the UK, Mauritius or Seychelles have merged to fight for justice, they want to return home and feel they deserve compensation for the crimes they faced. Military personnel wish to remain on the island forever in order to control any threats made to the United States. Their air base is vital in the collection of data about other countries and strategically located to defend themselves from any physical attacks. According to the US military, they are helping other nations by protecting the Indian Ocean and helping the US develop more knowledge and power over the world. A great compromise would be to provide the Chagossians with a public apology, and of course give each islander enough money and opportunities to create themselves a new life. Mauritius should be given sovereignty over the Chagos Archipelago and all chagossians should be given the right to visit Diego Garcia and the choice of relocating to Peros, Banhos or Salomon, the other main islands in Chagos. The military can stay as long as it continues to act with their heart and look after the Indian Ocean. In return, the US will funds for housing, job-training programs, investment, health care and for the people of chagos (Harris 25). Lamusse 5 Works Cited Carey, Sean. Chagos Is My  New African 566 (2016): 70-72. Academic Search Premier. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Harris, Joseph E. The Ilois  Transafrica Forum 7.1 (1990): 25. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pilger, John. Plight Of The  New Statesman 137.4925 (2008): 22. Academic Search Premier. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Naval Support Facility Diego  Commander, Navy Installations Command. N.p., n.d. Web. Jugnauth, Aernood. (2015): 1-9. GENERAL DEBATE OF THE 70TM SESSION OF THE UNITED NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY. Web.