Lankford 1 Caroline Lankford Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Parents Against Bad Books in School (PABBIS) vs. the Freedom to Read Foundation (FTRF) Which is more important, protecting childhood innocence or enforcing intellectual freedom? The issue of whether or not controversial reading material should be used in the classroom is hotly debated in America. On one hand, many parents feel that some books contain explicit or vulgar material unsuitable for young children. An example of a group of parents that fit this description is called Parents Against Bad Books in Schools, or PABBIS. On the other hand, organizations such as the Freedom to Read Foundation (FTRF) work to support and enable teachers who wish to utilize more books to initiate conversation about complex topics and promote independent thought. Although PABBIS and FTRF may differ on what they consider acceptable classroom reading material, conflict can be avoided through the use of permission slips listing any and all books that will be assigned to students in addition to a short paragraph detailing reasons why the instructor intends to use each book, to be distributed at the beginning of the school year and requiring parental signatures of consent. That being said, in order to fully grasp how such a compromise would work, it is imperative to first take a look at each side of the argument in further detail. According to the official Parents Against Bad Books in Schools website, the organization was created after a district in Virginia released a recommended and assigned reading list for schools that contained objectionable material. A group of parents banded together to design a website Lankford 2 dedicated to advocating better, more appropriate curriculum choices and providing parents with information on the explicit books that are often presented into the classroom setting (Controversial and Challenged Books in PABBIS does this in part by publishing paragraphs from various books that contain graphic sex scenes, violence, profanity, vulgarity, etc and Challenged Books in This way, parents are able to read the controversial parts of each given book and judge for themselves if they approve of the messages that could potentially be presented to their children. The major takeaway is that the parents who founded this organization, as well as their supporters, object to the exposure of potential harmful ideas present in many books popularly used in schools that may influence their children in an adverse manner and Challenged Books in Therefore, as a matter of consequence, the mission of PABBIS conflicts with that of organizations such as the Freedom to Read Foundation whose mission it is to fiercely protect First Amendment rights, even from parents. Founded in 1969 by members of the American Library Association, the Freedom to Read Foundation (FTRF) is a non-profit anti-censorship organization dedicated to and defend librarians whose positions are jeopardized because of their resistance to abridgments of the First Amendment; and to set legal precedent for the freedom to read on behalf of all as is stated on their website. One of the most noteworthy ways in which FTRF advocates what they call  is through the sponsorship and organization of the annual Banned Books Week to Read The objective of Banned Books Week is to draw attention to both persecuted authors of banned and challenged books, as well as to the books themselves to Read FTRF holds firm to the belief that it is up to the American people to decide what ideas expressed in literature they do or do not wish to Lankford 3 embrace and that no organization should be allowed to inhibit the availability of any such written ideas. These principles clearly clash with that of PABBIS. The task at hand, therefore, is finding the middle ground. Although these various stakeholders maintain their differing opinions concerning book censorship in K-12 schools, they can be united in the common ideal that children ought to grow into capable and thoughtful members of society. Children are desired to be protected yet challenged while being educated in the best way possible. Both Mary Cotillo and Glenda Do You Need Permission? A Look At How To Approach Introducing Controversial Books Into The  and Roberta Exploring Censorship: Using Challenged And Banned Picture Books To Introduce Middle And High School Students To A Controversial  help pave the way to compromise. These journal articles focus on the issue of censorship in classroom literature as it pertains to teachers, students, and parents. The respective authors individually address the controversy and offer compromises that have worked for them in the past; thus effectively allowing them to both engage their students in meaningful conversations about touchy subjects without angering parents due to moral conflict. What they found to work best is exactly what was proposed earlier, written permission slips (Cotillo and Funk 19; Linder, 37). Cortillo and Funk assert that instead of educators looking to those outside the teaching profession for book approval, they should parents early in the year about the variety of read-alouds students will hear in (19). Other methods of cooperation have proven to be less effective. For instance, Timothy L. Not In Our School: Anatomy Of A Banned Books Challenge; An Interview With English Teacher Jeffry  tells the first-hand story of a failed attempt at compromise between parents expressing concerns about explicit reading material in schools and a (Jeffry Newton) own desire to provide a wide variety of information to his students, regardless of whether or not they delve into sensitive or taboo topics (1). This interview presents a clear example of not to These sources are credible because they are written by (or contain the direct words of) the very teachers who have come into contact with the issue at hand: book censorship. Their Lankford 4 experience is invaluable to understanding the relationship that exists between the two sides of the argument. They help create the perfect protagonist versus antagonist model whereby teachers are often supported by organizations such as the American Library Association and the Freedom to Read Foundation against groups of well-meaning protective parents seeking to retain control over the moral education of their children. When it comes to the difficult topic of book censorship in K-12 schools, PABBIS and FTRF are divided. PABBIS believes it is their duty to prevent inappropriate literature from being available to their young school-age children while they are not yet old enough to handle some of the mature subject manner. Conversely, FTRD prioritizes beloved right to the freedom of speech above parental concerns. Both stakeholders, however, share a willingness to challenge and educate children for the betterment of their ensuing adulthood. Given this common ground, a reasonable compromise can be achieved by the usage of detailed permission slips distributed by teachers to parents prior to any and all books are assigned in classrooms. Lankford 5 Works Cited Coggins, Timothy L. Not In Our School: Anatomy Of A Banned Books Challenge; An Interview With English Teacher Jeffry  Virginia Libraries 46.3 (2000): 20. Biography Reference Bank (H.W. Wilson). Web. 25 Jan. 2017. and Challenged Books in Controversial and Challenged Books in Schools--PABBIS, www.pabbis.com/. Cotillo, Mary, and Funk, Glenda. Do You Need Permission? A Look At How To Approach Introducing Controversial Books Into The  Literacy Today 2 (2015): 18. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. to Read Freedom to Read Foundation, American Library Association, www.ftrf.org/. Linder, Roberta. Exploring Censorship: Using Challenged And Banned Picture Books To Introduce Middle And High School Students To A Controversial  Literacy Today 2 (2015): 36. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.