Bishop 1 Lora Bishop Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102 25 January 2017 The Cost of College According to the National Center for Education Statistics, in fall 2016 about 20.5 million students were expected to attend college, an increase of 5.2 million since the fall of 2005. All of these students will need to figure out a way to pay to attend college, whether it be scholarships, grants, loans, or paying out of pocket. However, according to an article on ProPublica that received its data from the National Center for Education Statistics, the U.S. Department of Education, and the United States Census Bureau, college tuition between 2000 and 2014 has increased on average by $3,576 while median household income has decreased by $4,067 in the same time. So the question of how all these students can afford to go to college comes into play. Some people think it should be the responsibility of the government to fix its funding of education to be able to make college tuition free, while others argue that there enough resources out there like scholarships and student loans so that students can afford to go without having the government give more money. The most support for free college tuition has come from an organization called The Campaign for Free College Tuition. As their name suggests, they strongly believe that college tuition should be free for all students and that it is feasible to do so. On the other side of the debate would be the Navient Corporation. Their company services and collects student loans. Since their company serves 12 million customers, they obviously would not believe that college Bishop 2 tuition needs to be free. Although The Campaign for Free College Tuition believes that all college tuition should be free and the student loan business Navient benefit , they both believe that more people deserve access to higher education and could compromise by agreeing to have community college be free. The Campaign for Free College (CFCT) main goal is to get more people into college to make the United States more competitive in a global marketplace and they believe that the way to do that is to increase access by decreasing the cost of tuition to make it free for all who wish to attend. CFCT has many different ideas on how to achieve their goals. They believe that if the government creates incentives for states to change their funding formulas that states will comply. This could include tuition levels for in state students to be tied to the median family income in that state, so that the average family could afford to go and investing their resources at high schools to make it so that students have to take remedial classes once entering classes. They also believe that federal money should be used to create a Promise program so that any academically qualified student from a lower or middle income family can receive enough money to be able to pay tuition. The Superintendent of the Kalamazoo Public School System agrees that college tuition should be free which is why she introduced the Kalamazoo Promise. This program was fully funded by a group of anonymous donors with the purpose of offering four years of free college tuition to any public university in Michigan as long as the student graduated from the Kalamazoo Public School System and met certain criteria. Quasi-experiment methods found that the Kalamazoo Promise increased the amount of students in their public system that considered going to university in Michigan. They also found that it especially increased interest for students that come from families whose income is less than $50,000. Bishop 3 President and CEO, Jack Remondi, says their purpose is, our customers navigate the path to financial success is everything we stand They do this by giving over 12 million people access to student loans. Their mission statement says that they want to help their customers succeed by giving expertise and support when it comes to taking out loans. total assets as of 2015 totals in at $146.4 billion dollars. So it is safe to assume that Navient is doing extremely well as a business because of the fact that student loans exist. While there is no direct opinions from the company on how they feel about free tuition, I think it would make sense that they would not be in favor of free college, since less people would need student loans, so they would receive less money. Matt Bruenig, a writer for the political magazine Dissent, would agree with Navient that free college tuition is not necessary. He argues that the biggest problem with free college tuition is that most college students come from a family background that can afford to help pay for college tuition. He also points out that students who are from families that are in the poorest bottom 25% of the population already pay almost nothing to attend college, between receiving scholarships for financial need and grants from FAFSA. So, to sum up his argument, the majority of people who would benefit from college are those who do not need to benefit. The Campaign for Free College (CFCT) believes that college tuition should be free. On the other end of the discussion, Navient Corporation would feel that college students need to figure out how to fund their education on their own. While these two companies may seem that they have no underlying common goals, there is definitely one giant thing they can agree on. That would be that they both feel that people deserve to have a higher education. Both groups agree that anyone who desires to go to college should be able to do. Bishop 4 There are multiple compromises that could come from these two organizations. I think that they could work together to come up with a plan to make community college free and/or the first two years of university free. They could require that students have a certain ACT/SAT score and a certain high school GPA. Another thing that would be good for the compromise is that if a student drops out before finishing the two years of schooling, they have to pay back what they received in education. This would incentivize people to stay in school. The Campaign for Free College Tuition (CFCT) would have to make a compromise because not all four years of education would be free, only two. Navient would have to make a compromise because they would lose money from potential loans that people would have to take out in those first two years of education. In an article by the Enrollment Management Report, the author Joan Hope, who has a Ph.D in English Literature, writes about how in Tennessee, there is a program called the Tennessee Promise. It offers recent high school graduates from Tennessee, that have met set requirements, free tuition. When they began this program, they noticed some great benefits. First, the average amount of students enrolled in community college increased by 1,000. Second, the amount of credit hours taken increased from 11 to 13 on average. Third, the campus noticed that the students who went tended to actually stay on campus more than ever before, which increased the amount of people going to the campus dining hall. Fourth, it encouraged a lot of students to apply who normally have. In conclusion, The Campaign for Free College Tuition (CFCT) and Navient Corporation disagree when it comes to the controversial topic of college tuition and whether or not it should be free. CFCT believes that tuition should be free, while Navient believes it However, both organizations can agree that anyone who wants to attend a university should be able to. I feel that both organizations could come to a compromise that at least community college and/ or Bishop 5 the first two years of university should be free. Imagine a country where more than half of the people had college degrees. It would lead to a lot of innovation and make us competitive in a global economy. If people were able to get their foot in the door of higher education by getting their first two years paid for, I think it would lead to great improvements in the United States. Bishop 6 Works Cited Andrews, Rodney J., Stephen DesJardins, and Vimal Ranchhod. The Effects Of The Kalamazoo Promise On College  Economics Of Education Review 29.(2010): 722 737. ScienceDirect. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Bruenig, Matt. The Case Against Free  Dissent 4 (2015): 112. Project MUSE. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Campaign for Free College  Campaign for Free College Tuition. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Fast  Fast Facts. National Center for Education Statistics, n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Hope, Joan. Free Community College Brings Campuswide  Enrollment Management Report 7 (2016): 1. Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Navient. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Median Income Is Down, But Public College Tuition Is Way  ProPublica. N.p., 25 Aug. 2016. Web. 21 Jan. 2017.