Newcomb 1 Celeste Newcomb Project 1 Intermediate Draft As simple as it seems, private bathroom stalls are as comforting as they are a general part of each day of our daily lives. Knowing that our known privacy could be jeopardized is enough to create a controversy. Recently, transgender bathroom rights have started quite the controversy amongst businesses and states around the country and the question still rings true: Should trans- gender people be allowed to use whichever bathroom they feel comfortable using, regardless of the gender they were born with? The American Family Association (AFA) does not think so. The organization strongly believes that allowing these bills to pass and to support businesses that do not discriminate based on gender would then lead to the victimization of women everywhere. They strongly believe that allowing transgender women to use the bathroom would lead to an immense increase in sexual assault cases and video voyeurism (Target, 1.) On the oth- er hand, the Texas Association Against Sexual Assault (TAASA) does not think this will be as rampant as many people believe it to be. The TAASA thinks that we should be focusing our con- cern to not only cisgender people but also to transgender people who fall victim to sexual assault just as much as anyone else. They believe that forcing a transgender woman to use a re- stroom would lead to just as much of a risk for sexual assault if not more than allowing transgen- der people to use the restroom they feel accepted in (Gender, 1.) Though the American Family Association (AFA) and the Texas Association Against Sexual Assault (TAASA) both have differ- ing feelings regarding allowing transgender people to use the bathroom that they feel comfort- able in, I believe we can create a compromise by beginning funding to make private closed stalls Newcomb 2 in each bathroom so every person has the privacy they wish for and can still be welcome into a place that they feel comfortable in. The AFA is a organization that was founded by Donald E. Wildmon, pastor of First United Methodist Church in Southaven, Mississippi in 1977. Previously known as the Na- tional Federation for Decency, AFA is one of the largest pro-family organizations in the country (About, 1.) Their most recent cause is to boycott Target for allowing transgender people to use whichever bathroom or room they feel comfortable using. AFA believes that allowing transgender women to use the bathroom would give room for grown men to be using the bathroom, which is their main reason for concern. Sexual assault and video voyeurism are the main reasons listed why AFA believes that transgender people do not deserve the right to use the bathroom they want to. They argue their beliefs by giving incidents where older men used the excuse of being transgender to women changing in the changing room. AFA concludes in statements that they strongly believe that Target will take a massive shortage in their statement due to this controversy and that their only course of action should be to change the dressing room policy or to hire a new CEO (Target, 1.) The TAASA is an organization committed to ending sexual violence throughout Texas in the form of educating, preventing, and advocating. The association has a strong record of success in educating many communities, youth involvement and outreach, law enforcement involve- ment, legal services, and so much more since founding in 1982 (About TAASA, 1.) Since the transgender bathroom controversy, the TAASA has let out a statement on the subject and how the organization feels thus far. The TAASA wants the safety and respect of all people, regardless of which gender they identify as. They believe that the best way to advocate against sexual assault Newcomb 3 is to be committed to ending all kinds. They believe that equality starts with men and women be- ing on equal footing and that all genders should be regarded when discussing the importance of preventing assault. TAASA also believes that the chances of transgender people being severely harmed by being put into a bathroom that does not align with their transitioning is greatly larger than woman being assaulted by men that disguise themselves as transgender women. Their goal is to educate their state not only of the harmful effects of sexual assault on cisgender people but to also trans people as well and to educate lawmakers and the police about what we need to do to change any preconceived notions we have about those that are different from us and need to be treated differently (Gender, 1.) The transgender bathroom controversy has many different sides and opposing arguments. The AFA and TAASA are just two organizations that disagree on the topic but their are hundreds more that see eye to eye. I believe a compromise that these two groups could make to better the country and also stay on equal footing would be to implement bathroom stalls and dressing rooms that were more private and to begin an initiative to educate those around us about transgender people. Many people that know enough about transgender people have a preconceived notion of who they are and the day to day struggles they have to go to and it would be critically important for those people to be informed. On the other hand, their are still a large majority of people that still will never really feel that they are safe knowing that their could be someone of not the exact same gender as them in the bathroom. To reach some sort of meeting point, I believe funding should be put into place to create bathrooms that are less exposed and prone to assault or video voyeurism. Before any of this controversy began, anyone can relatively Newcomb 4 walk into any stall that they choose and commit heinous acts so why only now has the topic truly come to light? Though the American Family Association (AFA) and the Texas Association Against Sex- ual Assault (TAASA) both have differing feelings regarding allowing transgender people to use the bathroom that they feel comfortable in, I believe we can create a compromise by beginning funding to make private closed stalls in each bathroom so every person has the privacy they wish for and can still be welcome into a place that they feel comfortable in. In conclusion, I be- lieve that our country will not be able to agree on this for a very long time. The controversy pushes more than just the idea of privacy but of that of religion, morality, equality, and social jus- tice. While all people deserve just and fair treatment, the idea that sexual assault could grow or become more prevalent is terrifying. Both organizations offer plausible reasons for concern but the controversy will never truly be settled unless both come to a resolve. I think that everyone should be willing to be apart of the funding to create more private bathrooms not just so that transgender people can use whichever bathroom they choose but also to stop the problem of sex- ual assault in bathrooms and video voyeurism. With education, discussion, and peaceful com- promise, I believe that AFA and the TAASA and all other differing groups can come to a resolve to end this problem and better the country. Newcomb 5 Bibliography About  American Family Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  Http://taasa.org. N.p., 28 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Target and the Transgender Video  American Family Association: The Stand. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gender Diversity in the Sexual Assault Movement Katrina  Http://taasa.org. N.p., 19 May 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.