Bedi 1 Sean Bedi Robert Ryan ENC 1102.059 January 27, 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft- Vaccines The debate over vaccines is one that has garnered a bunch of attention throughout its gaining popularity over the past decades. There is a divide between those that believe that vaccines are beneficial for general healthcare and those that believe that it is a harmful practice that can lead to disease. Two large stakeholders of each view include the Immunization Action Coalition and the Vaccine Resistance Movement. Both of these organizations hold strong opinions on the use of vaccines that are completely opposites one The Immunization Action Coalition supports the spreading use of vaccines while the Vaccine Resistance Movement, as its name indicates, completely opposes the administration of vaccines. Even though these organizations are polar opposites, a feasible compromise can be made by both organizations if they give some leeway to allow the other party to spread their respective ideas. On one end of the spectrum of the vaccine debate, stands the Immunization Action Coalition. Within their core beliefs sates, Immunization Action Coalition (IAC) works to increase immunization rates and prevent disease by creating and distributing educational materials for health professionals and the public that enhance the delivery of safe and effective immunization (Immunization Coalition Act). Their stance on the subject of vaccines is obvious that they advocate the spreading use of vaccines by providing info about their health benefits. Within their mission statement also includes the spread of info about the safety of vaccines to patients, parents, healthcare organizations, and government health agencies (Immunization Action Coalition). The Immunization Coalition Act can be described as an Bedi 2 organization that promotes the use of vaccinations due to the supposed medical consequences they can prevent. In accordance with these views, an article by Mark Doherty et al, a group of professors ranging from Universities around the world, mentions a case study that concluded that the use of immunization of babies that were at high risk for liver disease due to mothers having Hepatitis B were successful over a 20 year period after the babies were born. According to the case study, none of the children that were at high risk for contracting liver disease ended up developing any illness relating to the Hepatitis B or the vaccine itself (Doherty et al 6710). On the complete other side of the spectrum, lays the Immunization Resistance Movement. Within their mission statement contains the roots of their ideas and beliefs. These beliefs include the preservation of self-determination of what to do to own body and to expose that vaccines have a synergistic effect that allows for further infections and diseases to be contracted (Immunization Resistance Movement). From their perspective, it is seen that vaccines are a form a fraud that is inhibiting the human body from gaining natural immunity from certain diseases. Because of this viewpoint, it can be concluded that the Vaccine Resistance Movement can be summarized as a group that is opposed to vaccines as a whole and have no purpose towards human health. Coinciding with the views of the Immunization Resistance Movement, an article by Alberta Di Pasquale et al, a group of professors and researchers at Universities ranging from the Americas to Europe, included an example of how the measles vaccines during the late were linked to autism after over 100 annual cases after the immunizations occurred (Di Pasquale 6673). This notorious series of events sparked an increase in the support in the belief that vaccinations had adverse effects on patients that is shared by the Immunization Resistance Movement all the way up to the early Bedi 3 Even though both of these organizations may have the complete opposite viewpoint from one another, it is possible for the two to come to terms if both parties can find something in common that can be worked upon to come to a compromise. For these two parties in particular, both of them want to protect the general public from naturally occurring diseases. Although their methods in doing this may differ completely, their want to protect can be a basic building block for future progress. If both of these organizations realize this, they can take steps to communicate with each other in order to find the best solution to satisfy their common goal. There have not been many studies about the possible compromises between the pro- vaccine and anti-vaccine communities due to the sheer extreme opposite values they possess. However, the idea of compromise itself is one that has lasted the tests of time throughout humanity. If its basic principles can be applied to the two vaccine groups, it is clear a compromise can be met. But in order for a compromise to be determined, it must first be fully understood. According to Barry Hoffmaster and Cliff Hooker, both professors of Philosophy at University of Western Ontario and University of Newcastle respectively, a compromise is when not all of the several obligations we acknowledge in a situation can be fully met, and we cannot avoid the conflict because inaction will generate a worse (57). In this scenario, the Immunization Action Coalition and the Vaccine Resistance Movement cannot be satisfied fully due to their differing views on vaccine usage. To add, leaving the conflict as is would only increase the divide between the two organizations, making a compromise even more difficult than before. So a viable compromise would be one that will benefit both parties, but may also go against some of their beliefs. An example of such a compromise would be to leave the freedom of choice of vaccines to the patients, but to first properly inform them of the possible health benefits as well as the possible health risks of receiving vaccines as described by each Bedi 4 respective party. It is important that both sides are represented equally in the distribution of this information so that there is no bias over one perspective or the other. By doing this, it leaves it to the discretion to either receive the vaccine or not. It also allows for people that side with the Vaccine Resistance values to refuse the vaccine while those that support the ideas of the Immunization Action Coalition to still access the vaccines they want to receive. Putting both of these viewpoints in front of the patient at the same time ensures that patients make their own decisions on immunizations without having any outside bias. This will be an effective compromise because both parties get to distribute their input on vaccines and if both believe in what they feel is right, they would be content with the patient making their own individual decision based on what they feel is right after reading both arguments. Additionally, the Vaccine Resistance Movement start to reach a greater audience to influence and the Immunization Action Coalition rely on the spread of the scientific based evidence they claim to have to balance out the compromise further. As stated by Hoffmaster and Hooker, this is an example of fulfilling obligations partially and intermittently, or periodically (55). So even though it is not the ultimate compromise that will bring the two organizations closer, it is a step in the right direction towards their common greater goal of protecting people from disease. The Immunization Action Coalition and the Vaccine Resistance Movement are two organizations that have two conflicting perspectives on vaccine usage. The Immunization Action Coalition wants to spread the effectiveness and emphasize the necessity of vaccines while the Vaccine Resistance Movement acts to spread the possible dangers and the lack of need for vaccines to fight disease. However, both organizations have one thing in common, the want to protect people from contracting naturally occurring diseases. If both parties can come together for this purpose, a compromise that allows the public to make their decision before vaccinations Bedi 5 based off info provided from each side of the argument allows both groups to spread their cause equally without outside interference. Leaving the public to make individual decisions based off which viewpoint they support will satisfy parts of each mission statements when it comes to distributing arguments of their cause.