Angela Apicerno Ryan Reynolds ENC 1102 28 January 2017 The Death Penalty As with all controversial topics, it can be very difficult to find common ground for compromise between the two sides. When it comes to the issue of the death penalty, there are multiple interest groups fighting to keep it alive or have it expelled from our justice system. Two groups specifically, Amnesty International and Justice for All, are two interest groups on opposite ends of the spectrum when it comes to the issue of capitol punishment. By examining their values and goals though, it seems that there could be a chance at finding compromise between the two. Amnesty International is an organization that works to provide basic human rights for all humans throughout the world. Battling many common issues, one they focus on is the death penalty. Internationally the death penalty is used as a punishment for various crimes with some as feeble as being unfaithful to a spouse to more serious crimes like murder or harassment. Their goal is to eventually abolish the death penalty all around the world by promoting different, more humane forms of punishment. They reject the death penalty at all times no matter what the crime. According to Amnesty, the death penalty infringes on two of our basic human rights, the right to life and the right to live free from torture. They oppose the common point that the death penalty deters crime, saying there are no facts or studies to back it up. It is often used as a political tool or within skewed justice systems. Since 1977, Amnesty has been working internationally to get the death penalty removed from legislatures and has successfully converted almost two thirds of the world to abolish the practice. Although the facts are astonishing, multiple countries, one third of the world, still believe in the punishment (Death Penalty). On the other hand, Justice for All highly promotes the use of the death penalty as a form of punishment for appropriate crimes. They are a Justice reform (Justice for All) Their purpose is to act as an advocate for change within the criminal justice system which they believe is inadequate of protecting citizens and their property. They try to bring change through private citizens and corporate membership to peacefully push the influences necessary in changing the paths of the criminal justice system. Out of the 3500 inmates on death row, many of them have claimed the lives of multiple victims and therefore Justice for All sees it fit that the death penalty is the only way to insure crimes like these happen again. Many of those opposed to the death penalty tend to take a more activist stance on the issue versus those who support it and so they believe they a speaking and working for the silent majority in their fight to keep the death penalty within our justice systems (Justice for All). It is clear that the two organizations have very clear goals in mind when it comes to the death penalty. One believes it is cruel and inhumane while the other finds it an effective way at ensuring severe crimes are not repeated. One common goal they do have is providing justice for the people. One of the most seemingly possible compromises comes in leaving the option of the death penalty up to the family or loved ones of the victim. This would then gives the families the opportunity to choose mercy or revenge, whichever makes them feel safest or morally right. For this to even be possible though, many things would have to be changed within our law system. To start, the death penalty would have to be legal in all states, making it a federally mandated and enforced issue rather than the states. The laws would also have to change to explicitly state in which situations the death penalty would apply because as it stands now it varies from state to state. This plan does slightly favor that of those in favor of the death penalty as other seek to completely abolish it, but it also allows law-biding citizens to choose what makes them feel safest. The death penalty is a very difficult issue that many people often tend to avoid when given the option of life in prison without chance of parole. With that being said, it would be untrue to assume that the use of the death penalty would increase. It would be an extremely difficult issue to pass, but I believe it has the most potential in providing equality between the two sides and ultimately fulfill both sides overall goal of giving justice to those victimized. Conclusively, it is extremely difficult to find a compromise between two forces that are stuck at opposite ends of the spectrum. By coming together to enact on their one similarity though, it could be possible that each side would be willing to give a little to support those who are truly effected and provide them with the opportunity to feel safe and secure on their own terms. Sometimes the best option is putting aside your opinions and prejudices and compromising to benefit the greater good. If Amnesty International and Justice for All could do this and put the people they are fighting for above their own opinions, the world could possibly be a much better place. Works Cited Death  Death Penalty. Amnesty International, 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Justice For All - A Criminal Justice Reform  Justice For All - A Criminal Justice Reform Organization. Justice for All Inc, 2011. W