Student 1 Student Dr. Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft The Americans for the Arts Action Fund was founded in 2004 in order to convey a united message to Congress as well as build political support for the Arts. This organization thrives on the Arts continuous ability of impacting our American society and the issues surrounding our communities. The most important impact the Arts have is on our students and their education. Arts education brings students and schools better grade point averages, better scores on standardized testing, and lower dropout percentages. However, the main problem is that there has been cut backs and elimination of funding for Arts education programs in schools. The reason this has become such a drastic issue, that this organization has been battling, is because since the lack of funding the Arts programs have had to reduce hours and offer less productions every year. Therefore, the Americans for the Arts Action Fund stands up for rights to an Arts education, assembling national support against vicious attacks on the Arts. This campaign advertisements provide images and information leading towards how more support can push them closer towards their goal of getting 5% invested in local education budgets in Arts education. Using images with such unique design components and persuasive appeals, the Arts Action Fund informs people of the importance of Arts in education and with their message urges citizens to stand up and join this movement in the fight to keep the Arts live in schools all across the country. Student 2 The first image I noticed on their Web page (see Fig. 1) was located in the About Us section. It is the third image presented and it is simple text of is what stands out more powerful than the other two images it is placed next to. The main message this stakeholder is communicating is for people to stand up for the Arts and make a difference. This organization is encouraging individual viewers to be the ones to take part in helping the Arts stay alive in education and our community. In the background is a picture collage with tiny images of people doing different Arts activities as well as supporters/speakers of the movement. With this mini photo collage taking up the whole entire background of the image, the organization is showing that this is specifically what they are supporting and these are the people who are already making a difference. The design element of the Americans for the Arts star logo in the very center over the tiny photos in the background collage brings their message to life. Plus, the compositional element of the text being in bold black, with red lining, letters really impacting the power their message is conveying. By using the colors of red, green, and blue, it draws the audiences view immediately to the organization itself. The entire message communicates for people to stand up and join the movement in supporting the Arts and making a difference. This visual appeal has strong persuasive and rhetorical influence. The Arts Action photo collage really appeals to the or the evidence and reason behind the purpose. The use of various pictures, in the photo collage, of speakers and supporters who have already joined to take part in this movement to help the Arts creates visual evidence to the audience. On top of that, the other half of the pictures within the collage appeal to drawing the attention and making them connect to the image. Using pictures of students and children taking part in many different Arts activities Student 3 such as dancing, singing, and playing instruments raises emotion in the audience. Also, the organization is emphasizing what it is exactly they are supporting for children. Another way Americans for the Arts Action Fund gets their message out is through the use of an image that shows all the Arts does for the communities in our society, looked on their main company Web page of Americans for the Arts (see Fig. 2). The first thing that catches the eye is the variety of colors, grey, yellow, blue, and red, used throughout the entire text. The color coordination is very creative and it makes the viewer notice that each big word in a particular color matches a smaller word in the same color promoting the different subject contexts that the bigger word represents. For example, the big word in yellow is connected to the Arts changing the little words listed on the bottom in yellow such as education and environment. Another visual element in this image is the bigger and bolder font of the phrase day the Arts transform communities taking up most of the image. The organization is telling the audience why the Arts are so important and why they support its continuous. Then, all the little words in smaller font at the bottom of the image express specifically to the audience more reasons behind what the Arts does for society convincing viewers how positive the Arts really is towards our communities. The visual design elements mixed with persuasive tools provides a more powerful influence on the goal and purpose. One of the strongest rhetorical appeals used in this image is The organization listing everything the Arts helps with in society at the bottom of the image provides more viewers to be emotionally touched because at least one of those will relate to an individual specifically convincing them even further in joining the movement. By placing their star logo at the bottom right hand corner of the image this organization demonstrates the rhetorical appeal of or their character and the credibility Student 4 they represent. The Americans for the Arts Action Fund logo represents who they are as an organization and what they do. It is evidence to the audience showing that they stand for the Arts and any viewer can look up their title to help persuade the authority the organization has. Therefore, the information displayed in the image is truthful and proved by a credible organization making the audience feel more comfortable about joining their cause and participating in the movement to take action supporting the Arts. Displaying these images on the Americans for the Arts Action Fund website tactically provides effective use of rhetorical appeals to triumphantly impact viewers on the importance of the Arts in society. Schools and communities who are struggling to keep their Arts programs and activities going depend on organizations like the Arts Action Fund to spread the strong voice of their supporters. The Arts Action Fund devotes 100% of their time, money, and actions on advancing the Arts all around the nation. Using images with such unique design components and persuasive appeals, the Arts Action Fund informs people of the importance of Arts in education and with their message urges citizens to stand up and join this movement in the fight to keep the Arts live in schools all across the country. (Word Count: 1,178) Student 5 Works Cited Americans for the Arts. 2015. Web. http://www.armericanforthearts.org/news- room/ceos-corner. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Americans for the Arts Action Fund. a 2015. Web. http://www.artsactionfund.org/. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. Americans for the Arts Action Fund. a little about 2015. Web. http://www.artsactionfund.org/about/about-us. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily, Lee, Kendra Gayle, McKee, Jessica, McIntyre, Megan, and Pantelides, Kate. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. Print. Sheffield, Jenna Pack. Down an Writing Commons. Web. http://www.writingcommons.org/breaking-down-an-image. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1. http://www.artsactionfund.org/about/about-us Student 7 Figure 2. http://www.americansforthearts.org/news-room/ceos-corner