Pellissier 1 Olivia Pellissier Erika Staiger ENC1102 28 January 2017 Deforestation in National Parks and National Lands National Parks and National Lands are home to many species of plants and animals due to their vast ecosystems and thriving source of lush vegetation. These parks and lands are sacred lands that are protected by laws in order to keep safe from any harm. Arguments have arisen on whether or not logging should occur in National Parks and lands. Logging supporters, such as the logging companies across the United States, argue that too many forest fires are occurring in the parks and forests due to the overcrowding of trees (Palmisano, 2014). These supporters also believe that allowing logging in National Parks and National lands will create more job opportunities and more revenue (Palmisano, 2014). Many organizations, including the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA), are against logging among these lands. This organization protects National Parks and lands by enforcing laws, including the National Forest Management Act, and educating the public on how to protect the lands These two groups have opposing views on this topic, but a compromise could be made by allowing certain areas or amounts of the land available for logging. The ones who are in support of logging in the National Parks and National lands are the timber companies. Timber companies argue that more jobs will be available to Americans and there will be more revenue brought in to rural areas (Palmisano, 2014). National Parks and National lands have a wide variety of vegetation that is sacred to America, but is also a treasure to these companies 2015). Yosemite National Park is no stranger to logging. Pellissier 2 Due to logging and mining companies being drawn to Yosemite National Park, in 2013 the park was closed and allowed logging companies such as Poston Logging to log areas of the park which ended up causing many disagreements 2015). Another company responsible for logging of these lands is Swanson Group Mill. This business claims that logging the forests actually saves the environment. Forest fires are very common in large forests and without controlling these fires, ecosystems and nearby residents can be harmed severely (Palmisano, 2014). Many National Parks, including Yosemite and Sequoia, are located in California which is an area that is prone to forest fires. California is concerned about their watersheds because 75% of the drinking water comes from the forest watersheds and with increasing fires, the water supply will no longer prosper (Palmisano, 2014). Even with the large amount of forest fires due to vast forests, many scientists have stated that forest fires are a natural part of the environment and they are helpful to ecosystems in the long run by adding nutrients to the soil and improving the health of the forests (Palmisano, 2014). Logging has many detrimental effects on the environment including loss of ecosystems, climate change, and flooding. These lands have thrived for so many years while also creating habitats for a vast number of species. The reason flooding occurs from logging is because the forests soak up the water as it rains, but without any trees the ecosystem will be in jeopardy 1998). The NPCA takes a huge part in controlling the laws placed on logging. One of the laws placed on logging of the National parks and lands is the National Forest Management Act, which states that these lands must be protected from excessive logging and must remain maintained 2012). This act was placed in 1976 and has helped with the conservation of National lands. Many National parks and lands are harmed by logging and according to the NPCA, Yellowstone, Shenandoah, and Great Smoky Mountains are most Pellissier 3 vulnerable to damage by human impact (Dykstra, 2003). Also, Big Thicket National Preserve, located in Texas, is in severe trouble of deforestation on their land (Dykstra, 2003). In order for both groups to be satisfied, a solution will need to be set in. The best solution would be to allow the timber companies to log the lands, but only certain parts and certain amounts. Congress was considering acts that stated certain portions of land in National Forests were to allow mining and logging of the land just weeks after an armed militia was protesting against the federal public land (Milman, 2016). The House of Representatives passed a bill, Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act, that allowed timber to be harvested for lumber but only at a minimum amount (Palmisano, 2014). This act was passed with a 244-173 vote in order for communities to have a dependable source of revenue and employment opportunities while also protecting the United States forests (Palmisano, 2014). Logging across the lands has been a contentious debate for many years and even though NPCA and other organizations against logging did not receive complete irradiation, both of the stakeholders will benefit from this compromise. National Parks and National lands flourish with a wide variety of plants and animal species and as long as there is a limit on the amount of timber produced, the ecosystems should remain the same. This compromise will allow the National Parks and National lands to remain lush and successful while also allowing timber companies to gain product and produce revenue among communities. Pellissier 4 Works Cited Palmisano, Joseph. Logging in National Parks and Forests: A Contentious  Law Street (TM). N.p., 23 July 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. National Forest Management Act  National Forest Management Act (NFMA) - Sierra Forest Legacy. N.p., 2012, Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Our  National Parks Conservation Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Destruction of Last Wild  Destruction of Last Wild Forests. N.p., 1998. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dykstra, Peter. Famous National Parks Among  CNN. Cable News Network, 2003. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. While Yosemite Was Closed, It Was Open Season for Timber  While Yosemite Was Closed, It Was Open Season for Timber Companies. N.p., 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Milman, Oliver. House Republicans Seek to Open up National Forests to Mining and  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 24 Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.