Aboderin 1 Cherelle B. Aboderin ENC1102-059 Professor Robert Ryan 23 January 2017 Embryonic Stem Cell Research in America: Ethics versus Health The ethical debate concerning the use of embryos for scientific research has been going on for over a decade. This is because, in order for their stem cells to be obtained, the embryos must first be destroyed. Those who oppose embryonic stem cell research do so because they believe it is morally wrong to take lives in order to save lives. However, researchers are adamant about the continued use of these embryos because it was discovered that embryonic stem cells are pluripotent. This means that, as they have not yet differentiated and become specific types of cell, they can be manipulated in order to grow any type of tissue. As embryos grow into zygotes and then fetuses these stem cells differentiate into other cell types and, thus, are no longer pluripotent. There are many stakeholders involved when it comes to embryonic stem cell research. Some, like Susan B. Anthony List, continue to oppose it despite the medical advances made as a result of studying embryonic stem cells. Others, like the Americans for Cures Foundation, believe the gain is far too great for the research to be abandoned. In order for either of these two stakeholders to move closer to achieving their goals, they must agree on a compromise based on a shared common ground: the desire to save lives. Susan B. Anthony List is a pro-life organization centered on the prevention of the termination of embryos and fetuses. According to their mission statement, they wish to promote people in power with pro-life beliefs while also educating voters and advocating the creation of new laws supporting their cause. To achieve their goal, practices such as abortion and the use of embryos for scientific research would need to be prohibited. At the very least, Aboderin 2 SBA List wishes to raise awareness for their cause so that the general public can be more informed on pro-life matters. Angeliki Kerasidou, a researcher in Global Health Ethics for Nuffield Department of Population Health said, in her article, that those who are against human embryonic stem cell research believe that, relevant human life begins at (Kerasidou, 167). This means that embryos have the same rights as fully developed human beings and should be treated accordingly. They say this to counter the belief of others that, relevant human life begins [with the development characteristics such as self-awareness and (Kerasidou, 167). Kerasidou goes on to state that, despite the commonly supported compromises, the loss of embryos to research will continue; the compromises might even, inadvertently, aggravate the issue (Kerasidou, 168). The limiting of embryonic stem cell research to the use of unwanted embryos originally created for the purpose of in-vitro fertilization encourages the creation of even more of these embryos. The result is that there is no overall reduction in the number of embryos destroyed to further scientific studies (Kerasidou, 168). The Americans for Cures Foundation is an organization which promotes the use of stem cell research and therapy development. They believe that these two, hand-in-hand, could help scientists find the cures to many chronic illnesses and injuries. This organization strongly encourages the use of stem cells, as they believe that the possible resulting discoveries would result in massive steps forward in medical science. Promise of Stem an article from the Nature Neuroscience journal, mentions that embryonic stem cells were differentiated into neurons, cells of the nervous system, in order to to treat patients suffering from disease promise of stem This is called cell replacement therapy and is also used to treat other illnesses that result from degenerating tissue and cells such as Huntington disease promise of stem The article also states that, other neurodegenerative disorders, such as an Aboderin 3 effective cell replacement therapy is likely to be further in the promise of stem This means that the process is not perfect and will require years of further research to improve. Another major use of stem cells is the study of human physiology, which would have been harder to do with live subjects. For example, scientists could introduce a certain strain of bacteria or viruses and observe the stem cells to see how they are affected and how they could possibly be made immune to/cured of the resulting illnesses promise of stem The possibilities made available by embryonic stem cells could be limitless. However, there is no way of knowing with certainty until for research is carried out. While both SBA List and Americans for Cures have drastically different methods, they share a common goal, and that is the preservation of human lives. SBA List sets out to save embryos that have not begun their lives yet while Americans for Cures focus on people whose lives have been interrupted and/or cut short by diseases. In a book writing by Future Search Network co-directors, Marvin Ross Weisbord and Sandra Janoff, Future Search : An Action Guide To Finding Common Ground In Organizations And Communities, it is said that, the discovery and use of common agendas and shared ideals rather than the replaying of old interactions [makes ready, willing and able to do now [what they could not and Janoff, XII). This means that common goals, such as the one shared by SBA List and Americans for Cures, encourage groups that are not like-minded to work together and improve their overall potential. Thus, a compromise, on the basis of this common ground, will give SBA List and Americans for Cures a chance to collaborate and improve their methods. A compromise can be thought of in two ways: it can either be seen as a way to promote peace between two warring bodies or it can be construed as surrendering to competition. In order for a compromise to work, both of these stakeholders must believe the former and be willing to hear what their opposition has to say in order to create harmony. A Aboderin 4 possible compromise would be equal numbers of representatives from each organization meeting and discussing their respective issues with one another in a calm and neutral environment. Perhaps this may highlight even more similarities between the two groups. This joint body can then go on to make decisions about how each organization goes about achieving their goals. They can discuss regulations which both groups must abide by and, when this is done, they can then focus on raising the awareness of the public about what they both believe in. Although each group may be unwilling to help the other, they will need to realize that, by helping the other group, they are helping themselves. In conclusion, when faced with two stakeholders as seemingly contrasting as Susan B. Anthony List and Americans for Cures, the key is to help them acknowledge that they are not as different as they initially thought. By working together, they can pool resources and, thus, be able to afford, orchestrate and execute a campaign that will help each organization move one step closer to achieving its goals. The profits made from fundraisers can then be split equally between SBA List and Americans for Cures. Should this cooperation continue, it could encourage other stakeholders from either side of this debate to work together. As more and more stakeholders join forces, fewer resources will be put towards fighting each other and can then be redirected towards saving lives. Aboderin 5 Works cited Americans for Cures. Americans for Cures Foundation, 2016, http://americansforcures.org/. Accessed 18 Jan. 2017 Kerasidou, Angeliki. Human Embryonic Stem Cell Research: Middle-Ground Positions And Moral  Studies In History & Philosophy Of Biological & Biomedical Sciences 57.(2016): 167-169. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Susan B. Anthony List Advancing Pro-Life Leadership. Susan B. Anthony List, 2017, www.sba-list.org. Accessed 18 Jan. 2017. The promise of stem  Nature Neuroscience Oct. 2004: 1013. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Weisbord, Marvin Ross, and Janoff, Sandra. Future Search : An Action Guide To Finding Common Ground In Organizations And Communities. n.p.: San Francisco, CA : Berrett-Koehler, c1995., 1995. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.