Running head: VACCINATIONS GIVEN TO CHILDREN 1 Vaccinations Given to Children Cristina V. Shawver U30946798 University of South Florida Running head: VACCINATIONS GIVEN TO CHILDREN 2 Vaccinations Given to Children The fear of contracting autism spectrum disorder from vaccines has become a legitimate fear that has stopped many parents from allowing their children to be vaccinated. Both the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Vaccine Information Center have a stance on this issue. The mission of the CDC is to ensure American health and safety by fighting disease and illness (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 2014). The NVIC strives to keep the public informed of the controversy of vaccinations and oversees research about those vaccinations (National Vaccine Information Center While both organizations ultimately seek the safety of Americans, both have an opposing view of whether vaccinations truly cause autism. The CDC has come out with many scientific studies which have stated that vaccines do not cause autism (CDC, 2015) while the NVIC supports continuing research of vaccines due to the many cases against them (NVIC). Due to this fear of vaccines being directly linked to autism by many Americans, both the CDC and NVIC should compromise and should not render the vaccination-autism hypothesis as true or false until further research is done on both sides. As stated before, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention aims to fight disease and secure the health of American citizens. To accomplish this task, the CDC responds by creating cures to illnesses, conducting numerous research experiments, and providing the results of those research studies to the public (CDC, 2014). After the completion of many different studies, the CDC has developed a conclusion that vaccines do not cause autism spectrum disorder. According to the Institute of Medicine, a recent study tested a series of vaccines on both adults and children and found that the vaccines were not unsafe (CDC, 2015). Also tested, was an ingredient in vaccines that is used to prevent contamination called thimerosal (CDC, Running head: VACCINATIONS GIVEN TO CHILDREN 3 2015). Thimerosal was found to have no direct relationship with the onset of ASD and this same study has been conducted nine different times by the CDC (CDC, 2015). Another study that analyzed five cases of vaccinations found, evidence for the link between vaccination and the subsequent risk of developing autism or autistic spectrum (Taylor Swerdfeger Eslick, 2014). The conclusion states that they have not done extensive new research and believe that the ASD cannot be caused by the administration of vaccinations on children. On the other hand, the National Vaccination Information Center holds opposing beliefs. The National Vaccination Information Center is a nonprofit organization that was founded in 1982 and exists to advocate for protecting individuals from injuries and deaths by vaccines (NVIC). They also provide counseling for parents of children who have encountered vaccine complications such as illness, injury, or death (NVIC). From reports of vaccinations causing ASD amongst many individuals, the NVIC holds the belief that autism has a high possibility of being caused by vaccines. To support their belief, in 2008 the NVIC begun a campaign against forced vaccinations in the U.S (NVIC). Also, they have recently started forums on the internet where concerned people can gain more information on vaccinations and share their specific experiences with vaccines (NVIC). These forums are helpful to parents as they may go on to their website and decide whether or not to go forward with the administration of a certain vaccine. Between the forums, campaigns, and websites, it is clear that the NVIC leans strongly toward vaccines being a cause of ASD. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Vaccination Information Center are separate organizations that do not collaborate. They do not do research together, and often times the NVIC compares their research to the and vice versa. Most often, the two organizations have opposing views. The CDC has come to conclusions that the Running head: VACCINATIONS GIVEN TO CHILDREN 4 there is no possibility of contracting ASD from vaccines (CDC, 2015). The NVIC opposes by saying that they do, and that vaccinations cannot be forced upon patients (NVIC). Although the CDC and the NVIC hold different positions on the debate of whether or not vaccines cause ASD, the two do share some common beliefs. Both stakeholders strive for the greatest possible health of the American people. Also, their mission statements are alike in the fact that both want to prevent injury, disease, and death of people. Also, the CDC and NVIC both do many research experiments to come to conclusions about different subjects. In order for both organizations to reach a compromise, they must both have an open mind. The CDC and NVIC should neither fully deny nor accept the possibility of vaccines causing autism until further research is done on both sides. For example, several trials of the effects of vaccinations should be tested and posted online for the public to view. To show why, one may look to what both organizations believe in. The mission statement of the CDC is protect America from health, safety and security threats, both foreign and in the (CDC, 2014). Since they desire American health, safety, and security, they should continue research to console the worried parents who fear vaccinations will give their children autism. On the other hand, the NVIC desires to stop vaccinations because of the numerous cases speculating that a child received ASD through a vaccination they were given. They believe in protecting humans from injury, death, and illness from vaccines. The NVIC wants to stop this from happening at all costs, but they should also realize that these conclusions are not 100% true. Many benefits come from this compromise, as both organizations will be honoring their mission statements by continuing research of vaccinations. Also, if the stakeholders in this debate continue research, the public will feel more safe about vaccines rather than having fears about them. Running head: VACCINATIONS GIVEN TO CHILDREN 5 The issue of distrust of vaccinations has been an issue concerning Americans recently as stories of ASD in children are speculated to be linked to them. Autism spectrum disorder is a serious disorder that no person wants to put their child at higher risk for. The compromise of both the NVIC and the CDC will alleviate the fears of Americans. Also, if both organizations work together in their research and compared their results, it would make for a credible source of information for the general public. As long as this more research from both to fruition, Americans will be able to trust medical professionals and their practices more readily than before. Running head: VACCINATIONS GIVEN TO CHILDREN 6 References Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Mission, Role and Pledge. (2014, April 14). Retrieved January 28, 2017 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Vaccines Do Not Cause Autism. (2015, November 23). Retrieved January 26, 2017 National Vaccine Information Center. How We Inform the Public - About Us - NVIC. (n.d.). Retrieved January 28, 2017 Taylor, L. E., Swerdfeger, A. L., & Eslick, G. D., (2014). Vaccines Are Not Associated With Autism: An Evidence-Based Meta-Analysis Of Case-Control And Cohort Studies. Retrieved January 28, 2017