von Werder 1 Jade von Werder Taylor Poston ENC 1101-029 27 January 2017 Hunting Black Bears in Florida: The Compromise In direct correlation with the growing population of humans in Florida, the presence of black bears in Florida has been increasing since 1980 Your Bear With more bears roaming around, more calls and complaints have been coming in regarding bears getting close to suburbia, getting into garbage, and even attacking other animals such as pet dogs. The recent growing human-bear interactions have caused people to question not only their own safety, but the safety of the wild bears as well. Responsible for the control and management of the bear population in Florida, the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation (FWC) has been taking measures to carry out their responsibilities and help sustainable, healthy bear populations with priority concern for human safety and other public The hunting of Florida bears has been closed since 1994 as an effort to let the bears re- populate. In 2015, however, the FWC issued a hunt for black bears in order to large, resilient and growing bear This struck up controversy on whether it was right for the FWC to allow these bears to be killed. One group in particular that voiced their opposing stance on the bear hunt was the nonprofit OneProtest campaign called the Florida Bear They believe hunting and killing bears will not solve any problems. Since the 2015 hunt, this group has been trying to spread awareness and save the bears in preparation for the potential 2017 hunt. The question now posed is what do these two groups have in common, and what can be offered as a compromise to benefit both parties regarding the hunt of Florida black bears. von Werder 2 The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation is an organization that was created in 1999 with a mission of fish and wildlife resources for their long-term well-being and the benefit of Fast When it comes to the black bears of Florida, the FWC has four objectives stated in their recent Florida Black Bear Management Plan that was approved in June, 2012. These goals include maintaining a sustainable statewide bear population as well as habitat, reducing human-bear conflicts, and educating Florida citizens (Florida Black Bear, v). In an article written by Certified Wildlife Biologist and Executive Director, Nick Wiley, it is addressed that, to many inaccurate was incorporated into the bear management plan from the very beginning as a population management and is not a result of the recent bear attacks and growing conflicts According to Eric Hellgen, Chair of University of Department of Wildlife Ecology and Conservation, hunting is a key component of modern wildlife and hunting bears in Florida can provide utilization of a renewable resource (e.g., food, fur), population control, and funds from hunting license sales for improved research and (par. 3). Despite the seemingly assuring measures and reports put out by the FWC, many Florida residents believe the hunt was mismanaged and uncalled for, especially since hunters broke some of the guidelines regarding location and sizes of bears acceptable to hunt. Since the hunt, people have been voicing their opposition toward the FWC and joining in efforts to make sure no more bears are hunted. One group at the other end of this controversial issue is the campaign the Florida Bear This campaign was created as a result of the issued hunt by the FWC. As stated on their website, they believed the 2015 hunt was unnecessary and unwarranted as the Director of Habitat and Species Conservation for the FWC, Dr. Thomas Eason, admitted that the black bear von Werder 3 had not exceeded the biological carrying capacity of its habitat the This basically meant that the hunt was not technically due to too many bears populating their habitats. No matter what the real reason may have been, Stop the Florida Bear Hunt has been suggesting humane ways of dealing with the such as relocation, bear proof trash cans, and even the FWC, however, has stated that relocation is not feasible as Florida does not have large enough spaces where bears will not encounter people as well as the fact that bears will just move anyways with Florida Black Even though they are in disagreement on how to go about the growing black bear issues in Florida, these two stakeholders do have common ground that can be the foundation of a successful compromise. The FWC and Stop the Florida Bear Hunt are equally interested in the safety of Florida residents. This means, both groups would agree that educating the public on black bears is one of the best ways to lessening the amount of human-bear interactions gone wrong. The FWC website has an entire tab of educational resources on understanding bears and what to do if one encounters a bear. These resources include bear games for kids, research on the Ursus americanus behavior, and how to scare a bear away from your property. Stop the Florida Bear Hunt campaign director, Adam Sugalski, believes, with humans in suburbia can be almost completely solved with simple changes in human Both groups have already been executing educational strategies. However, a study done in 2015 on willingness to implement measures to manage conflicts found that the FWC may have a reduced public perception on how helpful they are given the amount of bear calls compared to the lesser amount of time and resources they have been putting toward addressing those calls (Pienaar et al. 805). It seems as if the FWC has room for growth and von Werder 4 improvement on their public education strategies. Therefore, if the FWC can prove to be implementing more effective public education measures, then Stop the Hunt campaign will have more help in their goal of educating people on how to manage human-bear conflicts. Since most survey respondents from the study were already aware of how to secure their trash properly and put up electric fences, Pienaar et al. suggested increasing efforts in getting people to, pet and livestock feeding practices, secure or remove bird feeders, keep yards clean and clear of attractants, and clean and secure grills and (805). Improving their educational strategies will bring the FWC more positive perceptions from not only the public, but from campaigns such as Stop the Florida Bear Hunt as well. Seeing that the FWC is taking non-lethal measures to dealing with the bear issues will satisfy those campaigns against the hunting of the bears as a measure. For the sake of Florida residents and the fuzzy land mammals, increased efforts to implement more effective educational strategies should work as a reasonable compromise that benefits both stakeholders. The FWC will be viewed in a more positive light and Stop the Florida Bear Hunt will have progressed in their efforts to halt the hunting of bears. von Werder 5 Works Cited 2015 Florida Black Bear Hunt Summary Report. Rep. Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission , n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. About  Stop The Florida Bear Hunt. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Florida Black Bear Management Plan. Rep. Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission , 2012. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Hellgren, Eric. Eric Hellgren: Conflict and Conservation of Black Bears in  Web log post. UF/IFAS Center for Public Issues Education. N.p., 14 Oct. 2015. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Important Facts You Need to Know About Black Bear Conservation in  Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. N.p., 22 June 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Know Your Bear  Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Living with Florida Black  Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Overview - Fast  FWC - Fast Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pienaar, Elizabeth F., David Telesco, and Sarah Barrett. Understanding Willingness to Implement Measures to Manage Human-Bear Conflict in  The Journal of Wildlife Management 79.5 (2015): 798-806. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. von Werder 6 Why the  Stop The Florida Bear Hunt. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.