Michael Alvin Tan ENC 1102 Robert Ryan 1/27/17 Project 1 Intermediate Draft: Artificial Intelligence AI or artificial intelligence has different meanings; but the main focus behind it revolves around machines having the knowledge to perceive information in any given situation and create solutions that will maximize its success towards a goal. This has been a steeple in the sci-fi genre and the moral issue that stands beside it has driven many organizations to rise in the wake of its actual development in the real world. While some are in full support for the development of AI; there are those that would not want to see it come into fruition. The Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence for example is one of the organizations that rose with the beginning of AI development. Another that rose would be the Future of Life Institute who was created in protest of AI. However, despite the opposition, AI can still yield many benefits to society and has the potential to lead us towards the future of technology. Looking at the two groups that have different stands on AI, the first group mentioned or the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence has a firm stand towards the support of AI development and application. Regarding their basic beliefs, their main focus is towards the promotion of research and understanding of AI (http://www.aaai.org/). They also have a firm belief towards the teaching of AI practitioners as well as responsible usage in real world settings (aaai.org). The organization cooperates with research facilities and large technology giants such as Microsoft or the Department of Computer Science at Stanford University in order to have stake in the AI campaign. They provide evidence from other sources and research outlets to create arguments for AI development. For example, works from the Computer Science Division of yield positive results for the research and development of AI. Verification, or methods of application, shows that AI can be safely applied to machinery through the usage of a general-purpose operating system which when checked allows for machines to accomplish their objective without the risk of dangers to humans (Russell et al. 3-4). Another benefit of AI would be the changes it could bring to the economic world of the United States. The addition of autonomous machines to the labor force could shift the amount given in wages to a much higher degree as there is no need to pay for machines and the cost on maintenance would not compare to that of which an individual could earn just from this (Russell et al. 2-5). The ease it could bring to humans overall such as with the elderly is another reason they seek to promote AI development. Looking at data from Intelligent Assistive Technology and Systems Lab; AI has the ability to allow people form the ages of 65 and beyond better mobile transportation. The addition of AI to this select community could allow for these citizens to engage in much more rigorous activities (Wang et al. 1287-1288). The standpoint of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence appears to provide a solid amount of evidence for the support and development of AI. However, there are those against the development of AI and would rather have research focused on other means of technological advancement. The second organization mentioned looks at the risks that AI could yield to society and is known as the Future of Life Institute. Their stand on AI is that it should not be developed as it can negatively impact society on both a society on both an economic and social standpoint. They believe while AI is capable of great things, there are too many risks that come along with and therefore it must not be pursued. They too use research from other sources and carry it with their mission statement against AI. For example, works from a group under the supervision of Paulius show that AI is far too dangerous to be created. Looking at the perspective of what AI will do, there is a way in which they think similar to humans through rational context. However, when these machines use this type of thinking, the goal is meant to be satisfied, disregarding the dangers it could bring to people and the environment et al. 378-380). Another example that aids the stake that the Future of Life Institute makes towards the argument of AI is the writer Allison Berke and her work known as Future of Artificial Here, she shows how artificial intelligence can be beneficial to humanity but if it became too self-aware, it would ultimately destroy humanity. There is the potential for this form of intelligence to exceed beyond human comprehension (Berke 117-118). Other outlets see AI as something that it is economically damaging as the cost of creating AI machines is high and how it would injure the market by dropping profits of companies that do not utilize this formula in their own creations (Anticipating Artificial Intelligence 413). But the proposition of a compromise that would benefit both groups is something that would allow for both groups to be satisfied. In order for this to happen, the first Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence would have to realize the dangers AI could create if not checked; while the Future of Life Institute would have to be flexible in the fact that AI development could benefit society overall despite the dangers it could bring. Both of the organizations share data that is similar to the research of AI and if both pull their resources together; the potential to create an AI system that is advanced while limiting its ability to be beyond human control could accomplished. The data shared includes the knowledge of an AI proxy system and how a standard operating system would be able to limit AI self-development for extended periods of time unless there is human interference (Russell et al. 6-8). The addition of this compromise would satisfy the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence as they would have their promotions of research in the AI field fulfilled. While the Future of Life Institute would be able to be satisfied as the limitations set in with AI development would not put society in danger of destruction. Overall, artificial intelligence can yield both positive and negative results when applied to the real world. The Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence showed that AI can assist humanity through the creation of goal-orientated machines without dangers to the positive outputs of wages and financial benefits with corporations. The Future of Life Institute showed that through AI development there are risks that come along with it such as over development or human destruction. But despite all this, AI has the potential to bring humanity towards the next step of technological evolution. Works Cited Page Association for the Advancement of Artificial  Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.  Future of Life Institute. N.p., 26 Jan. 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Paulius, Jurgita and Liability for damages caused by artificial  Liability for damages caused by artificial intelligence. Science Direct, June 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Berke, Allison. Strategic Studies Quarterly. 3rd ed. Vol. 10. N.p.: Air Force Research Institute, 2016. Print. Russel, Stuart , Daniel Dewey, and Max Tegmark. Research Priorities for Robust and Beneficial Artificial  Research Priorities for Robust and Beneficial Artificial Intelligence 36.4 (2015): 1-9. USF Libraries. Web. 27 Jan. 2016. <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1602.03506v1.pdf>. Anticipating artificial  Http://www.nature.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/news/anticipating-artificial-intelligence- 1.19825. Nature Publishing Group, 26 Apr. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2016. <http://www.nature.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/news/anticipating-artificial-intelligence- 1.19825>.