Should the Equal Rights Amendment be ratified? The Equal Rights Amendment was a purposed amendment (ERA) in the to guarantee equal rights for women. Previously called the rights amendment, it was spearheaded by The National party, and came about at a time where women were not viewed as equal in society and lacked certain rights, like the right to vote and go into politics. (www.loc.gov) It was a strongly controversially bill, as some felt the amendment represent views adequately, focused only on rights or the neglected the working class. This lead to the rise of many opposing organizations and stakeholder opinions, like stop the ERA-campaign run by Phyllis Schlafly, a traditionalist that felt the ERA was destroying traditionalist values, which ultimately lead to the bill being defeated. The amendment needed 35 of the necessary state ratification for the amendment to be added to the constitution. Stakeholders are still fighting for the rectification of the law but argue that the bill presents some biased towards gender issues. A voice for Men (AVM) believes the Amendment should also focus on rights, but at present it is has a one-sided bias, while the National organization for women (NOW) believes That the amendment should be focused more on rights, such as abortion, sexism in the workforce, and current expectations of women in society. A Voice For Men is a rights activist group and their organization goal is, promote the legal and nonviolent antagonism of all agents of misandry, from members of academe, to holders of public office, to law enforcement and other state to corporate agents who promote misandry for (avoiceformen.com) AVFM believe that the ERA should be ratified for the equality of men and women, but the organization thinks that the Amendment neglects the issues of men, and are presented in a one sided bias towards women. An example of their activism was to campaign against the feminist bias that they believed is present in the ERA. In a paper written by, Kristina Marie Graves, titled, Taking Our Privileges! The Anti-ERA Movement in Georgia, the author illustrates a point that reinforces the views of the AVM organization. Most of the information written about the ERA, or facts documented about the ERA, are mostly always from a feminist standpoint. This Has created a biased feminist presence for the Equal Rights Amendment, that has not only lead to the creation of opposing organizations, such as the Anti-ERA campaign, but also the alienation of supporting women. Another supporting fact is that the United States interagency on Homelessness, has found that 70% of those that are homeless are men, and an even further study has shown that out of that 70%-30% are veterans, this can be seen as evidence to support the AVM that some of the issues outlined in the ERA may overlook rights. The AVM Also believes that other important gender factors are being overlooked such as marriage and divorce and how it impacts men. In a report carried out by the National health statistics report, shows that divorce is on the rise, especially amongst young couples of which AVM believes is mostly initiated by women and results in men losing 50% of their possessions and the right to see their children. They believe if the ERA were to be ratified and included rights, men would benefit in the case of marriage. The National organization for women the grassroots arms for woman Their activism is dedicated to multi-issue and multi-strategy approaches to rights, and they consider themselves to be the largest organization of feminist grassroots activists. They also share the same views the AVM organization have on the grounds that the ERA should be rectified as it would benefit both genders. Their activism is parallel to the National Party and they share a lot of their core beliefs such (now.org, about) constitutional equality and, for women in the NOW believes the amendment should focus more on reproductive rights for women as well as other issues listed on their website, these reform, livable wages, job discrimination, pay equity, housing, social security and pension (now.org, about) A statistics survey report done by the American Community Survey, researched by Liana Christian Landivar, issued in 2013, might confirm that there is some disparity between men and women in the workforce. (Landivar 3) The study shows that men are employed in STEM programs at a higher rate than women right our of college, and the study also shows a declining employment rate for the women in STEM programs. This disparity is one of the mission statements the NOW organization is fighting for, and it rightfully reflects their opinion about the ERA focusing on the issues of encouraging the equality of women in the workforce. A report by Breslin, on the legislative obstacles that women face in Arizona for the right to have an abortion, shows how the NOW views on abortion being included in the ERA for rights, is a valid argument. The article discusses a legislative act that could have deprived women of the ability to have an abortion, legislature enacted a statute that would have deprived any physician who performs elective abortions, or any facility where elective abortions are performed, from receiving Medicaid (Breslin. 1) This legislature would have decreased the number of active physicians able to perform abortions, and if the ERA were ratified with an included act about right to an abortion, NOW believes that this could deter legislations like this in the future. Both stakeholders share common ground in wanting the ERA to be ratified, as both stakeholders believe that it could be a great benefit to both gender issues. If the language in the ERA were changed to present an egalitarian standpoint it could not only raise issues of rights, but it could also decrease the biased feminist presence that the AVM organization feels is alienating them from fully supporting its ratification. Research carried out by a group of a psychologist, Name Or By Deed? Identifying The Source Of The Feminist (Anastosopoulos et al.) Shows that when a poll was conducted with one hundred and seventeen university students, most who identify as feminist were received less favorably. The research also shows that only one-third of men identify as feminist and four in ten saw the movement as angry. This shows that a feminist presence could be alienating potential supporters of the ERA ratification which include men, and also conservative women, and further strengthens the point of perhaps revising the language and activist image used to represent the ERA. The Greatest opposition to the ERA ratification were conservative women, and the feminist image of the ERA lead conservative women to feel that their views were not being taken into account. In the academic article by Graves, the author takes a quote from an interviewer of an ERA opposing, conservative women on the topic of If feminism is about choices for women, then one must ask why the feminist movement condemns women who choose to act in a manner contradictory to (29) This illustrates that If both stakeholders want the ERA to be ratified they need to listen and understand the opinions and views of the public as much as possible, and this could be achieved by listening to the views of those who opposed the ratification and by decreasing the presence of an activist bias. Both organizations are prevalent in raising awareness about the issues that men and women are facing. A good way for both organizations to benefit from each other would be to mention the issues of both organizations on their website: the downside would be the loss of their activist identity, but it could serve as a way to spread the topic of both issues with a wider net. For example, AVM could list the issues that the NOW organization feels the ERA should be focusing on for women and vice versa. This would allow readers, contributors, donators, subscribers and other groups involved in the efforts to get more informed on both issues, thereby allowing more awareness by spreading and sharing resources. And this also allows more exposure for men and female rights. This will develop a more egalitarian ERA rather than a single gendered one. Works Cited The United States Insurgency Council, Chronic www.usich.gov/goals/chronic, accessed, Web, Jan 26, 2017 Linda Christin Landavir, American Community Survey Reports, in STEM Employment by Sex, Race, and Hispanic Accessed, Web, Jan 26, 2017 Breslin, Angela. A Wall Of Legislative Obstacles In The Path Of A Woman Exercising Her Right To An Abortion: Planned Parenthood Arizona, Inc. V.  Golden Gate University Law Review 1 (2014): 53. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. The National Health Statistics Reports. Marriages in the United States: Data From the National Survey of Family Accessed, Web. Jan. 26, 2017 A Voice For Men, www.avoiceformen.com, Accessed, Web. Jan. 26, 2017 Anastosopoulos, Vanessa, and Serge Desmarais. By Name Or By Deed? Identifying The Source Of The Feminist  Journal Of Applied Social Psychology 45.4 (2015): 226. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Graves, Kristina Marie, Stop Taking Our Privileges! The Anti-ERA Movement in Georgia,  Thesis, Georgia State University, 2006. Web. Jan. 27, 2017 The National Organization For now.org, Accessed, Jan 26, 2017 Tom Is homelessness a A Voice For Men, www.avoiceformen.com, Accessed, Jan 26, 2017 American Overview Of The National www.loc.gov, Acessed, Jan 26, 2017