Student name: Shengyu Weng Instructor name: Karen Hanson Course: ENC1102.107S17 Date: 01/29/2017 Stop Animal testing, fin an alternative way or pass a law Animal testing is an issue that has been around for a long time, there are groups of people concerning about this issue. What is animal testing? An animal test is any scientific experiment or test in which a live animal is forced to undergo something that is likely to cause them pain, suffering, distress or lasting harm. (Cruelty Free International) As an animal testing can cause animal be painful, there are groups of people suggest that time to stop it. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is an organization fighting against regulatory testing on animals. PETA believes that are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other At the meanwhile, there is an organization called The Humane Society (HSUS), HSUS is the leading animal advocacy organization, working to protect all animals across the nation and worldwide. This organization is focusing on pass anti-cruelty laws in every nation to directly stop animal testing. PETA focus on founding an alternative way of animal testing, and HSUS prefer to pass some laws to stop animal testing. Although their ways to achieve their goals are different, both organizations have the same end goal in mid: to stop animal testing and help the animals. PETA is the largest animal rights organization in the world, with more than 5 million members and supporters. PETA focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment industry. PETA also works on a variety of other issues, including the cruel killing of rodents, birds, and other animals who are often considered as well as cruelty to domesticated animals. PETA works through public education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescue, legislation, special events, celebrity involvement, and protest campaigns. In official website, there are lots of blogs, photos and videos revealing the truth in the laboratory, PETA wants to use the truth to arouse sympathy, and then raise money and use the money to continue to help animals. However, as majority of people love this organization a lot. There are also some arguments about PETA. Some people say in the PETA, the idea of being kind to animals is sometimes too radical, including advocating replacing vegetarianism with a vegetarian diet, replacing experimental animals with human experiments, and so on. At the same time, the propaganda ads sometimes include gender discrimination, obesity discrimination and other views, and make use of the language of the audience offensive publicity, but also lead to public resentment. At the headquarters of PETA, the group annihilated nearly 2000 cats and dogs per year. PETA claims that half of the animals (but not all) are not being adopted. (Wikipedia) However, although there are some disputes of PETA, this organization contributed a lot to animals. For example, PETA is always finding the alternatives to animal testing. They follow a word said by former U.S National institutes of health director Dr. Elias Zerhouni have moved away from studying human disease in humans. We all drank the Kool-Aid on that one, me included. The problem is that [animal worked, and time we stopped dancing around the problem. We need to refocus and adapt new methodologies for use in humans to understand disease biology in Elias Zerhouni (Alternative to Animal testing) , PETA and its affiliates fund the development of many of these non-animal methods, they encourage people to develop a new way of testing without animal. There are some ways look like can replace animal testing, such as which means researchers develop a wide range of sophisticated computer models that stimulate human biology and the progression of developing disease. Studies show that these models can accurately predict the ways that new drugs will react in the human body and replace the use of animals in exploratory research and many standard drug tests. (Alternatives to Animal Testing) The Human Society also aims to help animal, they have some animal rescue teams to help with homeless dogs, cats, they will directly care for thousands of animals each year. Also, HSUS published animal advocacy to protect animals. For example, Puppy this advocacy reveals the truth that in order to get more profit, the companies always keep lots of dogs in an extremely poor place, give them the cheapest food, and dirty water. Pets Stores only want to get more puppies and sell them to make money. In fact, that was also a kind of animal abuse. So HSUS wants to stop it and then HSUS tells the truth to called on people to stop buying pet from pet shop or online. HSUS also focusing on the issue of animals in laboratories. HSUS has conducted its campaigns promoting alternatives and the reduction of animal use in a way that avoids harassment of individual scientists. The organization has declined to participate in campaigns focused against individuals and feels strongly that violence, illegal action or the harassment and intimidation of animal researchers or any other category of people who use animals are unacceptable and cannot be condoned as society debates and moves away from the use of animals in research. HSUS also helps with finding an alternatives of animal testing, however, they more focus on directly stop laboratories. HSUS insists that Cosmetic testing on live animals is an outdated, inaccurate and cruel method of determining safety for human use. (Animals in Laboratories) An article from HSUS official website shows the animal testing has really low accurate, and there are lots of limitation with animal testing. For example, there are 1000 dogs in an experiment, and after the experiment, there is only 1 dog successfully pass the experiment, half of the rest 999 dogs dead and the rest all seriously harmed. worse, the only 1 success example could be not accurate. Which means scientists got nothing after taking 1000 life. HSUS believes most of the animal testing experiments are ridiculous. They did a lot to stop these experiments going on, such as appellate court, or directly give the animal testing companies money to sign a contract. In conclusion, organization PETA and HSUS have their different way to stop animal testing. PETA would more focus on find alternatives to animal testing, they donated more than one million dollar in other organization and that can show their determination of stop animal testing and totally change this situation. The HSUS also wants to find an alternative, but it is not their emphasis. PETA prefer to directly stop the animal testing by passing laws in different nations in order to save life. Their focus basically the same, to stop animal testing, the only difference is the ways they use to achieve their goals. So to appease both organization, a middle ground could be created if they have more communication. Their goal are basically the same, the only thing is PETA prefer to find a way that not only solve the problem of animals being abused, but also PETA wants to find out a new way of testing. While the HSUS only focus on directly stop it, in order to stop animals being abused. So these two organizations could be friend, they can really do these two things together, they can find an alternatives of animal testing while passing laws into different nations. . Works Cited Cruelty Free  What Is Animal Testing? Cruelty Free International. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Alternatives To Animal . PETA. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Stop Puppy Mills : The Humane Society of the United  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Animals in Laboratories Homepage : The Humane Society of the United  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.