!1 Autism in the United States affects 1 in 68 births and according to the Autism Society and the CDC it is fastest-growing developmental Disorders and conditions such as Autism and Syndrome are caused by genetic disorders and complications. Recent advances in technology within the past sixteen to twenty years have proven that making alterations to the genes causing disorders such as those afore mentioned is no longer out of the scope of scientific capabilities. Along with altering and modifying the DNA of a human embryo to display character traits such as gender, hair color, eye color, and IQ capabilities, scientists can now alter the gene sequence in an embryo that has a high potential of developing autism or syndrome resulting in a reduced likelihood of developing such characteristics. But how ethical are these methods? The parents whose DNA sequence sets them up for high chances of giving birth to a child with autism or syndrome may opt for the genetic modification of their embryo to increase the likelihood of giving birth to a child without disabilities, diseases, or disorders claiming their child and their choice. On the other hand there are activist groups such as Friends of the Earth, Planned Parenthood, and Choice USA, to name a few, as well as the scientific organization The Centre for Genetics and Society, that strongly oppose the concept of genetically modifying human embryos. They claim modifying the human DNA sequence could have serious consequences and irreversible effects on the DNA of the human genome. So what about a compromise that potentially compromise the genome of an entire species? If there could be a middle ground on !2 this controversial subject could both parties be satisfied? What compromise could be made to appease all spectrums of the matter? There are a few methods that have shown a high likelihood of decreasing the odds of autism and syndrome without the modification of human DNA. These methods could lead to three possible compromises that could be made to diffuse the tension on the matter. Firstly an increased intake in folic acid, secondly plan childbearing before the age of thirty, and thirdly a genetic screening for In Vitro Fertilization. A study performed by The National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) established a link between folic acid intake and a decrease in Syndrome. This link appeared to be a seemingly coincidental occurrence when an original study observing the inverse correlation between folic acid and neural tube defect (NTD) showed a decrease in a plasma called homocystine (Hcy) which has been linked syndrome. The NCBI states that the current Recommended Daily Intake (RDI) of folic acid is 0.4 milligrams, yet this study noticed that a daily intake of at least five milligrams of folic acid and even as high as ten milligrams show up to a 53% reduction in the Hcy plasma. According to the Scientific Committee on Food adverse effects have been associated with the consumption of excess folate from That being said there are no adverse affects for excessive folate intake but its synthetic form, folic acid, which is available as a supplement and added to fortified foods has shown controversial yet inconclusive evidence that it may do harm with excessive dosages. With this form of compromise both opposing parties would be satisfied. There is no genetic modification involved so the !3 activist groups would be appeased, yet the parents wishing to lower their odds of producing offspring with autism or syndrome are satisfied and actively participating in decreasing the odds of these disorders. Granted not guaranteed 100% effective but neither is genetic modification. With genetic modification the fetus still has a probability of spontaneous abortion because the DNA was tampered with. So what else can be done to increase the likelihood of offspring with no disorders or complication? There is quite a bit of compelling evidence that suggests impregnation prior to the age of thirty is much better on the body and the fetus as opposed to when the mother is in her thirties or forties. According to parenting.com women in their mid to late thirties have an 18% chase of miscarriage as opposed to 10% in women 25-29 and 9.5% from 20-24 years of age. The rate of women giving birth to a child with syndrome in their early thirties is 1:952 and 1:1,250 in women in their late twenties. The rate of chromosomal disorders for women in their early thirties is 1:385 and 1:476 in women in their late twenties. The NCBI states in a study done in England and Wales in their article prevention of all families had been completed by age 30 the prevalence would only have been 0.80 per 1,000, a 58% reduction. Completion by age 25 would reduce prevalence to 0.68 per 1000 or This prevalence they refer to is the prevalence of syndrome in child births. So if couples wish to diminish their chances of giving birth to a child with syndrome or autism there are now two methods to actively decrease these odds that also satisfies the opposing parties like Friends of the Earth, Planned !4 Parenthood, and The Centre for Genetics and Society. There is no meddling in the gene pool and greater yet in the gene pool of the human species. Lastly there is one other method couples can take into consideration when planning a family while reducing the risk of chromosomal abnormalities like autism and syndrome. Pre-implantation genetic screening is frequently used in couples that are infertile and recently being used as a pre-screening for syndrome. For many couples, starting a family before their thirties may not be an option due to a multitude of factors. Luckily for those in such a predicament there is a light at the end of the tunnel; in vitro fertilization (IVF). IVF uses the gametes of both the male and the female and inseminates the egg in a laboratory setting. Once fertilization has occurred the egg is then placed inside the uterus for implantation. The National Center for Biotechnology Information has stated technique of PGD [Pre- implantation Genetic can be applied in order to achieve a normal pregnancy with the couples own Meaning there is a possibility of using the DNA of a couple who carry the genetic risks of syndrome or autism as opposed to using one gamete of the couple and another from a donor. Though the procedure is complex, it is likely. Even in a worse case scenario the couple can still perform the Pre-implantation genetic screening, determine which side of the family the genetic trait for syndrome or autism lies, and go through with IVF but with a donor gamete to replace the parents gamete. This case works out for both sides of the issue on genetic modification because the family has the highest !5 likelihood of producing normal offspring with zero modification to the genetics. When it comes down to the ethics or morality of the genetic modification of human DNA to reduce the likelihood of autism or syndrome, humanity can take a chill pill because there are plenty of other viable options to diminish the chances of diseases, disabilities, and disorders without modifying an genes and without dangerously meddling in the human genome. If couples plan ahead and conceive before the age of thirty and stay on top of folic acid and Folate intake even before conception their chances of giving birth to a child with syndrome or autism drop significantly. And even for those who are past this thirty-year-old marker there are still very good chances of normal birth through the miracles of In Vitro Fertilization. Alison and Andrew Allen are just one couple of the thousands who have undergone IVF and be happier to give birth to a set of normal, healthy twins. all this has taught me anything at all, that family is so important. Now I have a little family of my own and every day just keeps getting better and - Alison Allen. !6 WORKS CITED Society, Autism. Facts and  Autism Society. N.p., 26 Aug. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Data &  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 11 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cuckle, Howard S. Primary prevention of  International Journal of Medical Sciences. Ivyspring International Publisher, 1 July 2005. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pregnancy at 20, 30,  Parenting. N.p., 17 Nov. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. A Joy - Alison & IVF Success  Origin Fertility Care. N.p., 13 Feb. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.