Butz 1 Dana Butz Mrs. Penuliar ENC 1002 29 January 2017 Project 1 Animal testing is more than just using animals as test subjects to make sure that substances are safe for human consumption. Animal subjects are also used to solve the mysteries of science in research labs as well as act as the center of dissection experiments in high school science classes. The use of animals as subjects for testing and experimenting can be dated back to 300 BC when they were used in biomedical research by Greek physician-scientists. It was not until the twentieth century when animals became important to drug testing in the United States with the passing of the 1938 Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which required drugs to be tested on animals before the drugs could be marketed (Hajar). Since then, animals testing has been used by countless companies to ensure the safety of their products for the human consumers. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and Johnson and Johnson are two stakeholders in the ongoing debate of animal testing. Although PETA believes that all forms of testing on animals is unethical and laws should be put in place to end it, and Johnson and Johnson believes that using animals is sometimes required to develop safe products, they both believe in the safety of their targeted audiences. These two stakeholders can compromise by joining together and lobbying for the implication of laws that will get rid of animal testing and allow human volunteers to be subjects for research and experiments instead. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, or PETA, focuses on four areas in which the largest number of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: the Butz 2 food industry, the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (About PETA). The underlying motivation behind beliefs is that violating animal rights is worse than violating human rights because animals speak for (Maroufi). PETA believes that there are countless alternative methods to animal testing that can be as equally or more effective in the testing of consumer products. Some of these alternative methods include in vitro methods, in silico models and the use of human volunteers. If these methods were implemented, it would save millions of lives, as well as millions of dollars and a significant amount of time during the testing process. PETA not only supports the research of alternate methods, but it also funds the development of non-animal methods. One corporation that receives funds from PETA to conduct research is MatTek Corporation. MatTek Corporation has created a human cell-based tissue that can be used for safety testing, product development and basic research (Call for Short Proposals). This is just one example of how non-animal methods are as equally effective as animal testing methods. The funding of MatTek also shows that PETA is proactive about their beliefs; instead of just voicing opinions, PETA donated money to help with the progression of non-animal methods. Johnson and Johnson is a company that produces pharmaceutical products, medical devices and the largest range of consumer products. This company prides itself with acting ethically and responsibly as a business and producing effective products of a consistent quality. However, to ensure the safety of these products, animal testing is implemented. On the Johnson and Johnson website, it is stated that 2000, the use of animals in research has decreased over 60 (Our Strategic Framework). The reason that they have not completely eradicated animal testing from their company is because government agencies require certain data that only animal testing can create before these products can be released onto Butz 3 the market. Johnson and Johnson does not necessarily support the use of animal testing for their products, but the familiarity and acceptance of it makes it easy for companies like this to complete the required testing to gain approval for their products. An argument for using animal testing is that animals provide us with models that are almost impossible to recreate using human subjects (National Academy of Sciences, 4). In 1966, the Animal Welfare Act was signed and is currently the only Federal law that regulates the treatment of animal subjects. Companies such as Johnson and Johnson think that as long as they follow the minimum requirements of this law, animal testing is justified. The fact that there are still no specific laws banning the use of animals in product testing gives companies more leeway is how they chose to test their products. Johnson and Johnson clearly states that to animals should be used whenever and they take the treatment and care of their animals used in testing very seriously (Our Strategic Framework). Although this is comforting to know that their animal subjects are treated in the best way possible, it does not cover up the fact that Johnson and Johnson, among countless other companies, still uses animals as the subjects for their testing. PETA and Johnson and Johnson have very different views on animal testing. main goal is to eradicate the practice of animal testing because of the main argument that animals have no way to defend themselves. Supporters of PETA believe that they must step in to defend the lives of the innocent animals that are tortured every year. Johnson and Johnson, on the other hand, does not necessarily support the use of animal testing, but they believes that in certain situations it is more effective to implicate the use of animal testing. Although these two stakeholders do not see eye to eye on this issue, there is one common underlying goal. Both stakeholders strive to ensure the safety of their targeted audiences. For PETA, their targeted audience is both the animals in danger of being test subjects, as well as people and organizations Butz 4 that are also fighting toward the end of animal testing. If PETA did not exist, millions of animals would continue to die everyday due to mistreatment and a torturous environment. Johnson and targeted audience is the consumers that are using their products in their everyday lives. If Johnson and Johnson did not test their products, whether using animals or not, their consumers could be in danger because of unsafe substances that are released onto the market. Although these two situations seem very unrelated, the underlying goals are very similar. Both stakeholders are concerned with the safety of their audiences, but the approaches to reach that level of safety are fueled by different motivation. One way that PETA and Johnson and Johnson could work together to reach a more central goal is to join forces and fight for laws that only allow human volunteers to be test subjects. This will eliminate all use of animal testing, as well as provide companies with subjects that are able to give consent. Johnson and Johnson will have to understand that testing will be slightly more complicated due to a finite number of subjects, instead of an endless supply of animal subjects. PETA will also have to continue to fund research that confirms the safety of the humans that volunteer to be subjects. Companies that use human testing should also implement a policy that will ensure any medical attention the subjects may need during the testing process. This compromise will force companies to be more careful when research and testing is done. Companies will have to chose subjects that are physically and mentally ready to be exposed to whatever is being tested. Using human subjects can also lead to social benefits, which are beneficial outcomes received by someone other than the subject, such as people in society. In a journal written by David B. Resnik, he states that testing and research that involved human subjects useful because it produces social benefits by generating knowledge with practical Resnik also explains that human subjects are beneficial because the benefit gained Butz 5 from using them is greater than the cost. Using human subjects is also more ethical because of the fact that humans are able to verbally give consent before undergoing testing. This will eliminate any criticism about how unethical animal testing is. By coming together and working toward a common goal, PETA and Johnson and Johnson can eliminate the unethical uses of animal testing for good. After centuries of using animal testing for medical purposes, consumer purposes and research, the debate of this issue has grown. While one side of the argument fights to eradicate the use of animals as the subjects of testing, the other side thinks that the use of animal testing is necessary for certain situations. The underlying question is simply if it is ethical or not. To reach a conclusion, stakeholders on either side of the debate will be forced to come together and fight for their common underlying goal: the safety of consumers and the subjects involved. PETA and Johnson and Johnson are two stakeholders that not only have influence in this issue, but they also have the power to come together to reach a goal that will benefit everyone. Butz 6 Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. CALL FOR SHORT PROPOSALS - PETA & MATTEK TEAM UP TO OFFER TISSUES FOR FREE. (2015, August 03). Retrieved January 29, 2017. Hajar, Rachel. Testing and Heart Views : The Official Journal of the Gulf Heart Association 12.1 (2011): 42. PMC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Maroufi, Chogollah. People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. National Academy of Sciences Institute of Medicine. Science, Medicine, and Animals. Washington, D.C.: National Academy Press, 1991. Print. Our Strategic  Johnson & Johnson. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Resnik , David B. Social Benefits of Human Subjects Research  Journal of Clinical Research Best Practices 4 (2008): n. pag. Web.