Rivera 1 Your Name Karen Hanson ENC1102 29 January 2017 Hydrologic fracking and enhanced regulation Recently in the last few decades hydraulic fracking has become a highly controversial topic. According Joshua Pritchard fracking is mechanical process that uses fluid pressure to release quantities of petroleum or natural gas from deep below the (Pritchard) However this process does not go on without leaving an environmental imprint. Since fracking involves the use of high pressure and chemicals to break down the shale bed, there is concern for aquifers being at risk of contamination. Some fear that fracking will cause groundwater leaching as the pressure from fracking causes an increase permeability within the aquifer. (Wei) Meaning that chemicals used in the fracking process can breach the porous material surrounding aquifers much easier, leaving water unsuitable for human consumption. In addition, fracking is trouble sum when it comes to waste disposal. If the chemicals and water used during the fracking process are not disposed properly it will leave the surrounding environment vulnerable (Smith, Ferguson). Such revelations have caused some to rallying against the natural gas industry and government agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency(EPA), as they feel that the health of the public is not being protected. Although the EPA has imposed regulation to limit the environmental impact hydraulic fracking has on the Environment, environmentalist feel that there are not enough safeguards in place to truly protect the environment and the health of humans. The current backlash against the EPA is due in part of the failed communication Rivera 2 between, state, local, and federal government. Antifracking organizations such as Water Action, and the Delaware Riverkeeper (Smith, Ferguson) must work with all levels of government to hold the fracking industry accountable not just the EPA. In order to ensure the overall protections of the environment, federal agencies must move to legitimize and except state and local regulation over fracking. The Environmental Protection Agency aims to protect the environment and the health of humans. It focuses on making sure that companies follow legislation that gets passed through congress and imposes regulation it creates (United States Environmental Protection Agency). Currently the stance on hydraulic fracking is that it will continue to spend revenue on water sampling in areas where there is fracking. The EPA hopes to ensure that there are minimal leaks and that there is proper waste disposal. However, since the EPA is a federal agency, it is greatly affected by legislation passed through congress. Specifically, the numerous regulation in place that prevents the EPA from imposing too much regulation on the natural gas and oil industry, such as the Energy Policy Act which exempted gas industries from any federal regulation and oversight under the Safe Drinking Water (Smith, Ferguson). This act is also commonly referred to as the Halliburton Loophole. As it created a loophole against EPA imposed regulation and oversight. Contrary to popular beliefs the EPA is not opposed to stronger regulation of fracking however, it cannot impose stricter regulation when congress passes legislation against the EPA. Despite the attempts to regulate the fracking industry many environmentalists feel that they are being left unprotected. Some environmentalist feel that the EPA is not stopping the contamination of the aquifers. As in some cases methane has contaminated the ground water so abundantly that some have ability to ignite running tap (Coman). Which have left Rivera 3 homeowners furious and wanting fracking to halt completely. Some anti-fracking groups such as the DRN have collaborated with other local and state organization to try and dismantle the fracking industry. Even going as far as raising the issue with the supreme court. The DRN feels that federal regulation is too concerned over short term economic gain then the long term environmental consequences (Smith, Ferguson). Middle ground can be reached. A strong opponent of federal intervention is that there is fear amongst politicians that if federal environmental agencies are given to much power over industries then it will cripple the United States economic infrastructure. As in the case of hydrologic fracking, it brings in thousands of jobs around the country. Some fear that if the natural gas industry becomes overwhelmed with regulation then it might result in a deficit of millions of dollars a year, as well as an increase dependence on other sources of energy such as oil. However, if there is an increased movement to defund attempts made by the EPA to protect the environment and the health of consumers then companies will essentially self-regulate themselves. Possibly leaving the United States susceptible to gross levels of pollution and the loss of valuable drinking water. In addition, the public is becoming increasingly more environmentally aware. Which means a path towards deregulation will not be acceptable for numerous individuals. Nor will delegitimizing the work of the EPA (Smith, Ferguson). Which is why the federal government must allow the EPA to function like it was intended to do, and there needs to be more cooperation within different levels of government. For instance, since the federal government cannot allocate sufficient resources to monitor all activity within different industries, state officials, and even local homeowners must enforce the regulation necessary to maintain sustainability and a clean environment. This might look like state mandated testing, Rivera 4 local government imposing weekly water testing from drill sights near wells, or state oversight of waste disposal. Although hydraulic fracking has been around since the it has indeed become a controversial topic recently (Coman). Fracking has been debated across the media recently because of the sharp growth of the industry in a short period of time. Leaving some feeling as though legislation and regulation is not keeping up with the pace at which the natural gas industry is growing. Especially since regulatory agencies such as the EPA are being crippled with legislation and movements from congress to defund attempts made by the EPA to impose stricter regulation despite the public outcry. If more regulation is to be implemented with the acknowledgment of the possible economic tolls, then there must be attempts made from all levels of government to ensure the safety of the environment. Furthermore, the federal government must also recognize the need for more funding for the EPA. Without funding no amount of interlevel government cooperation will make proper oversight possible. Frequent water samples might prove to be costly. Especially if some states require fracking companies to pay for different third party research companies to provide the result. A possible solution to this cost might be green tax breaks. Where companies who spend more on testing and preventing leaks can get a state tax break reducing the cost or perhaps in some cases making a small profit for being environmentally aware. In the end regulation is a key to protecting the limited drinkable water within the United States. If ground water was to become contaminated widely then the United States might have to resort to importing potable water. Resulting in costs far greater than what is needed to regulate the industry. Rivera 5 Works Cited Coman, Hannah. Balancing The Need For Energy And Clean Water: The Case For Applying Strict Liability In Hydraulic Fracturing  Boston College Environmental Affairs Law Review 39.(2012): 131. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Pritchard, Joshua. Fracking:  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 Smith, Michael F., and Denise P. Ferguson. Issue Management And Locus Of Policy Decision-Making In The Marcellus Shale Gas Drilling  Public Relations Review 39.Public Relations and Democracy (2013): 377-386. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 United States Enviromental Protection Agency. Mission and What We www.epa.gov/aboutepa/our-mission-and-what-we-do(web).29 Jan. 2017 Wei, Yaqiang, et al. Model For Simulating Hydromechanical Responses In Aquifers To Induced Hydraulic Stresses: Laboratory Investigation And Model  Journal Of Natural Gas Science And Engineering 30.(2016): 592-603. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.