Dakota Broughton ENC 1102 Essay Draft one Video Games the teaching tool of the Year No one has ever complained about being asked to play video games, homework on the other hand is impossible not to complain about. Every day professors give their students a boat load of homework each, with say 5 classes about 25 boat loads a week. Not only is it something to complain about it is rather pointless. Professors believe that by giving students homework they are encouraging home learning while the truth behind it is that one student looks up all the answers on google and distributes it to the rest of the student body. Video games on the other hand one has to think about, make decisions that could alter the path completely. All in all, professors of Universities should assign video game quests in place of homework, simply because compared to homework videogames cause less stress on the student and increased dexterity. Having to find enough time in a week for college classes, work, and staying healthy is stressful enough, adding 25 boat loads of mindless time consuming homework on top of that is only going to make it worse. As opposed to homework video games are said to relieve some stress. Amanda Roy, from Stetson University, says may be drawn to action games as a means of cooperative bonding, which may actually reduce (Competitively versus cooperatively? An analysis of the effect of game play on levels of stress, page 1) Many other articles have quotes much like this one, stating how the concentration of video games can relieve stress. Other researchers such as Clifton Parker, a Stanford researcher, have found homework to cause stress. In the article research shows pitfalls of she explains percent of the students considered homework a primary source of (page 1) Homework never improved hand eye coordination or gave real world examples of an issue that may be faced later on after school. The only issues faced in most homework situations is figuring out how many watermelons Susie needs to spend exactly $153.75 on watermelons. While doing homework the only thing students are thinking about is getting the work done so that they can get a decent grade and do something more interesting. Like play video games. While playing video games students are interacting with things, having to think about what the next move has to be in order not to get caught or how to make a weapon out of vines, rocks, and sticks. Quests in these games can help brain activity. It has been said that video games can disconnect people from reality and cause depression, however this is false. The and organization that studies the pros of video games, released an article called The Healing Power of Video Games. In this article, they explain that even hospitals provide video games for people who have to have an extended stay, since studies have shown playing video games increase the activity of the hippocampus. The hippocampus is actual an organ in the brain that, while stimulated, can increase emotions such as happiness and joy. Over all homework has little to no effects that are good while the opposite can be said about video games. Homework does no good to students and is simply a punishment for trying to learn. Professors of Universities need to realize video games are the answer. They always have been and they always will be. Clark, Kelsey. Video Games from the Perspective of Adults with Autism Spectrum  (2015): 1-17. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Roy, Amanda. Competitively versus Cooperatively? An Analysis of the Effect of Game Play on Levels of  (2016): 1-19. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Designs, West. The Healing Power of Video  Charity Nerds. N.p., 26 Sept. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Wallersteiner, Rebecca. Homework and  Netdoctor. N.p., 18 Sept. 2012. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Parker, Clifton B. Stanford Research Shows Pitfalls of  Stanford News. N.p., 15 Apr. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.