Maxwell Uhl Professor: Karen Hanson ENC1102.013S17 29 January 2017 To Do: Scores of people have heard of and form opinions about Genetically Modified Organisms in food products and their safety, their usefulness, and benefits but, here we going to talk about opinion. We are going to talk about fact and action. Two organizations have differing thoughts about the actions that nations should take on the subject of GMO foods. One, the JUST Label It project, thinks it is prudent to simply mandate in depth GMO labeling on food products. They consider consumer concern about the subject to be a viable reason to promote mandating GMO food labeling. The World Health organization (the W.H.O) believes that GMO foods are inherently neutral and need to be studied on a case by case basis to determine their safety, benefits, and drawbacks rationally before making decisions on what actions to take. Considering the vagueness of the words depth GMO why we discuss what is meant by them? The Just Label It project says this, on their right-to-know webpage our reasons for wanting to know in our food may vary, what unifies us is the belief that our (Right To Know Center) They go on to say that show that more than 90% of Americans support mandatory labeling of genetically modified (Just They cite Thomson Reuters, whoever he, they, or it is or are. Now, since they cite public opinion as their reason for supporting the cause of labeling it should be considered who they are speaking to to make change. In an open letter to food company leaders aptly titled Dear Food Company Leaders, the chairman of Just Label It, Gary Hirshberg calls for said companies to follow certain state legislature in putting labels on all of the foods that use genetically engineered ingredients. (Dear Another GMO related organization is the Non-GMO Project, mission statement is as Non-GMO Project is a nonprofit organization committed to preserving and building sources of non-GMO products, educating consumers and providing verified non-GMO (Mission)This group is far more staunch in their anti-GMO position. One of their key positions is use of non-GMO crops, evidenced by this statement on the same web page and building the non-GMO supply chain is a critical step of transitioning toward a safe, healthy food supply for future (Mission) Their position goes as far as to prefer non-GMO foods over any GMO foods whatsoever. They have a labeling initiative designed to allow people to avoid GMO foods all together, should that be their choice. Even with all the public opinion being cited, the WHO does not concern itself with such subjective matters. With statements on both cites starting with the WHO has no particular attitude towards the topic, other than wat can be proven. On the webpage on the WHO position on the matter, they state GM foods should be assessed before being allowed on the market. FAO/WHO Codex guidelines exist for risk analysis of GM (Food, Genetically modified) They do not believe all GMO foods should be labeled, but rather rigorously tested for safety and then after that, good to go to market. GMO foods, to them, are not inherently risky but like anything we put in our mouths or grow in our soil, worth a hard looking at before making a decision. With their position on being so clearly neutral, we have to go to another source for a matter of action in advocacy. A pro GMO action group that frequently cites science as their go to source of inspiration and direction is the Genetic Literacy Project. They are of the opinion that research can improve food security, the environment and public health. Yet dramatic innovation can also lead to unintended health and environmental consequences and present ethical And so can be seen as neutral as well, They admit a net neutral to the idea of GMO and consider it worth study and a good hard look, not just fear. In fact, one of their principle ideas on the subject, directly under the header of their website is not This seems to well sum up the ideals of the two stake holders while simultaneously addressing a deeper problem likely not easily covered by a 1000 word essay. With that being said, an essay does have to have point. The point is that whether a food item has GMO ingredients or not, it is tested for safety before it is ever put to market. The cited fact that a large portion of citizens believe they have a right to know whether or not they are eating GMO foods seems to matter to one stakeholder, and not necessarily the other. While the Just Label It project wants there to be labeling on all GMO foods, the WHO care less if it is labelled or not, so long as it passes their guidelines for food safety. And be clear here, they are the WHO, their guidelines known to be frugal. Therefore, these two have seemingly little to disagree about. A compromise would likely include some of the same things already being done by both groups, advocacy for health and human safety in regards to foods, and also a concern for knowledge of what goes into the food. If the WHO would support a mandatory labeling initiative for companies and the Just Label it project supported the efforts in furthering scientific tests of the products they want labeling for, both seem to gain from each presence in their affairs. A sort of scratch my back, I scratch collaboration between the two would involve the WHO adopting a position of mandatory labeling of products in countries that do not have laws governing the use of untested Since the Just Label It project appears to be for public health, they can advocate for individual, scientifically proven health benefits of specific and not ALL If both stakeholders want to remain as truthfully neutral, they will have to agree to engage in discourse based on scientific facts, not personal ideology. If a GMO is proven to be bad both stakeholders, will not advocate, but if it truthfully proves helpful then they would and should report the truth publically and unabashedly. In the case a project supporting a reportedly mostly undivided public on the matter of GMO labelling, and a global institution based on nothing but what can be proven factually for the sake of public health, we can only surmise that when the two come together for the sake of both of their interests, that their interests would both benefit. If back is scratched, it only follows that everyone is satisfied. The WHO would support mandatory labeling, to placate the reported need for it and the Just Label it project would advocate for particular that work and do the most good. Works Cited Right to  Just Label It. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Food, Genetically  WHO. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.  The NonGMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Mission, Financial Transparency,  Genetic Literacy Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.