Cardoso 1 Juliana Rocha Cardoso Professor Erika Staiger Intermediate Draft Should Fossil Fuel Companies Make the Switch to Renewable Energy? In recent years, the United States of America has been affected by climate change that is happening around the world, such as global warming. The increase in temperature is cause by a natural phenomenon, but it is accelerated by human actions by burning fossil fuels like gasoline, coal and diesel in car, thermoelectric and industries are generating carbon dioxide (CO2), one of the most dangerous gases, causing the Greenhouse effect. The greenhouse effect is a natural phenomenon that occurs on Earth. In this phenomenon, the energy of the Sun, which passes through the atmosphere, is absorbed by the Earth and converted to heat on the surface. This heat is radiated back in the form of infrared radiation into the atmosphere, which contains, in addition to atmospheric gases, water vapor, carbon dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and methane gases whose molecules have the property of absorbing heat retaining surface heated ground. It is through the greenhouse effect that our planet can maintain its temperature constant, giving conditions for the existence of all life forms we know today. In this way, we can say that the atmosphere is fundamental for the biosphere, because besides containing essential gases already mentioned, still prevents the Earth to lose heat, acting like a greenhouse. Knowing the great importance of the atmosphere to life on the planet, it can be imagined what changes in its composition can lead to life on Earth. For many scientists, the increase in the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, resulting from the burning of fossil fuels, causes an increase in temperature, accentuating the greenhouse effect. The increase of 1 C in temperature averages is enough to cause disastrous effects. There are several corporations trying to combat the effects of global warming caused mainly by big oil companies. The Environmental Protection Agency Cardoso 2 (EPA) is one of the main stakeholders in this cause and it has been trying to implement solutions and present ideas to big oil companies. Greenhouse gas emissions from oil companies are one of the largest contributors to increasing global temperatures. It is agreed by both, EPA and Oil Companies that a greater emphasis on cleaner, alternative sources of energy is the need to retard the upward incline of global temperatures, but on the other hand, turning to renewable energies and natural gas is more expensive and less profitable. Most of the electricity that is used in day-to-day life comes from petroleum, coal, natural gas and uranium, which, besides being non-renewable energy sources, they cause serious environmental impacts to nature, contributing to the aggravation of environmental problems, such as global warming and destruction of the ozone layer, for example (Russell and Horgan). While energy from renewable sources is used in only 8.5% of the world, fossil fuels account for about 85% of the energy used on the planet. Humanity has a great challenge ahead, the search for alternative sources of clean and renewable energy, which replace the energy obtained from oil that both pollutes the environment and will not last forever. On the planet there are already more than 7 billion people and once there has been a great population growth, the demand for energy consumption tends to increase in the same proportion and consequently the need for more electricity, which will result in the need to build more power plants. According to the green peace website, eighty-one per cent of the current energy supply, estimated at 11,435 million tons of oil equivalent, is based on fossil fuels. Climate change from greenhouse gas emissions points to an unprecedented global environmental crisis. In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the US Global Change Research Program (USGCRP) are institutions that conduct and gather research on this meteorological phenomenon. According to both agencies, global warming has already had a variety of effects on Cardoso 3 the country. EPA states and Oil companies agree that global warming is a reality and, if nothing is done, it will have catastrophic consequences for biodiversity and for the human specie. That is why EPA works to pressure governments and businesses to cut greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible. It is an understanding between EPA and Big Oil companies that it is needed to put aside coal and oil and invest in sources of renewable energy. On the other hand, as Walter Russell Mead and Jamie Horgan stated in their article the oil majors shifting to renewables the way green would like- and doing so will mean making the world more corporate and capitalist than it currently is (Russell and Horgan). In this context, renewable energy appears as an alternative to reduce the effects of this crisis. However, it is extremely difficult to predict that these sources could be able to replace fossil energy in the near future. Even though Big Oil are moving a step closer to exterminate themselves with every barrel of oil they produce because they are liquidating the fossil fuel sources, it is not profitable and easy for them to simply change to renewable energy. Loren Steffy cites in his article, wind or solar energy were inherently profitable, big oil companies would have invested more (Steffy). Although the uncontrolled emission of pollutant gases has caused a significant increase of the global temperature in the planet, big oil companies cannot be judged for doing what they are supposed to do, and most importantly what their investors expect them to do. In the international context, efforts to increase the share of renewable energies are now the subject of intense debate. Particularly in the case of biofuels, the controversies are more vigorous. Concerning electricity generation, the main issue is the high costs of alternative sources compared to traditional sources, which necessitates the implementation of several strategies to support these sources, based on the adoption of subsidies. According to the EPA official website, the author Enesta Jones cites that it was proposes measures to cut methane Cardoso 4 emissions from the big oil industries. It is said, proposed plan would limit harmful emissions while streamlining the permitting process for this rapidly growing (Jones). The regulation represented an irritated reaction from oil and gas companies, since methane is the principal component used by oil companies, which cause investors to worry that the industry will start moving slowly. Also no combination of so-called alternative fuels or energy procedures will allow people to maintain everyday life in the United Stated the way people are used to during the oil-economy era. No combination of alternative fuels will allow people to keep a substantial part of the system that exists today from agriculture, transport, industry and even the production of electricity, to ordinary day-to-day tasks. On the other hand, both natural gas and oil are running out. In this equation one side will be less favorable. Even though oil companies knows that something needs to be done about the emission of gases, they do not want to take any action because it will be super expensive and not profitable, meaning not beneficial for them. Both EPA and big oil companies should start working together instead of against each other. Reducing the use of fossil fuels and increase the use of biofuels and ethanol, installation of control systems of polluting gases emission, increase the generation of energy through clean and renewable sources, make the most of natural lighting in domestic environments, stop with deforestation (it is necessary to plant more trees as a way to reduce global warming), use clean and advanced techniques in agriculture to avoid carbon emissions, invest more heavily in the development of technological capacity and gradually cease oil drilling. The solutions are many and both EPA and Big Oil companies have to be efficient and find ways to collect money to fund this big change. Cardoso 5 Work Cited Dlouhy, Jennifer A. For Oil Drillers, Obama Methane Rule Is Worse Than  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 12 May 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-05-12/for-oil-drillers-obama-methane- rule-is-worse-than-proposed>. Jones, Enesta. EPA Releases First-Ever Standards to Cut Methane Emissions from the Oil and Gas  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 12 May 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-releases-first-ever-standards-cut-methane- emissions-oil-and-gas-sector>. Mead, Walter Russell, and Jamie Horgan. Can Big Oil Go  The American Interest. Identity Crisis, 01 June 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.the-american- interest.com/2015/06/01/can-big-oil-go-green/>. Steffy, Loren. Alternative Energy And Big Oil: Poor Returns Versus  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 28 June 2013. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.forbes.com/sites/lorensteffy/2013/06/28/alternative-energy-and-big-oil- poor-returns-versus-lies/>. Fighting the Clean Power Plan and EPA Action on Climate  Union of Concerned Scientists. UCSUSA, 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ucsusa.org/global-warming/fight-misinformation/whos-fighting-clean- power-plan-and-epa-action-climate#.WIEi-rYrJPM>. Cardoso 6