Anel Orynbayeva Karen Hanson ENC 1102 1/29/17 Is e-cigarette a good alternative for a normal cigarette? Smoking has always been a big problem health wise and environment wise. According to CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention), smoking is the leading cause of preventable disease and death in the United States, accounting for more than 480,000 deaths every year, or 1 of every 5 (CDC). According to The Tobacco Atlas, tobacco industry damages the environment in many ways, and in ways that go far beyond the effects of the smoke that cigarettes put into the air when they are smoked. The harmful impact of the tobacco industry on deforestation, climate change, litter, and forest fires is enormous and (The Tobacco Atlas). There are a lot of bad sides of smoking, and besides health and environment problems that smoking causes, there is something called hand which means being harmed by other people smoking. The most important thing about second hand smoking is that children that are a lot more sensitive than adults to harmful chemicals that cigarettes contain are being harmed by people that are smoking around them. Adults are informed about the consequences smoking causes, so it is their choice to harm their health, but children choose to be harmed, furthermore they are not even informed about the bad health effects that smoking causes. Cigarette contains more than 600 ingredients, according to American Lung Association, among them are carcinogenic chemicals that cause cancer. Cigarettes contain such toxins as nicotine, carbon monoxide, tar, ammonia, formaldehyde, hydrogen cyanide that are polluting the environment on a very high scale. Farming tobacco is a complicated process that involves usage of pesticides, chemical fertilizers and growth regulators that causes environmental health problems. Growing tobacco depletes soil of nutrients like nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium that are very essential for other crops to be grown. As you can see, smoking causes a lot of problems, not only because people waste their time and money, but also because it causes a lot of problems for environment and health. According to CASAA (Consumer Advocates for Smoke Free Alternatives Association), first commercially successful electronic cigarette was invented in 2003 in Beijing, China by Hon Lik, a 52 year old pharmacist , inventor and The story says that his father died because of a lung cancer, which motivated him to invent a device that would let people smoking without harming their health. Electronic cigarette is a handheld electronic device that vaporizes a flavored liquid. Some of them contain nicotine, some of them E-cigarette is believed to be a healthier and better alternative for a regular cigarette that helps quit smoking, but is it that safe and helpful in quitting smoking as e-cigarettes companies say? Lately e-cigarette became a trend among teenagers, because they were convinced by e- cigarette companies that it is safer than a regular cigarette, because you can smoke it wherever and whenever you want and because the advertising companies work so well that they made it a trend among teenagers by inventing new flavors, attractive devices and accessories for them so teenagers feel a need to keep up and compete with their age mates. Firstly, the attempt to create an electronic device that would look and work similar to a regular cigarette was made to help people avoid serious diseases and allow them smoke without being harmed, but now it became part of the business, where e-cigarette companies are trying to make as much money as they can regardless of methods they are using and regardless of health and environment risks they may cause for people. Some vapors contain nicotine, but they still contain toxicants and traces of heavy metals that are harmful for people. A lot of researches were made on this topic, but there is still no clear evidence or credible research that would prove that e-cigarettes do not harm or harm less. According to Cancer Prevention & Treatment Fund, 2009, FDA has pointed out that e-cigarettes contain levels of known carcinogens and toxic chemicals to which users could be For example, in e-cigarette cartridges marketed as the FDA detected a toxic compound found in antifreeze, tobacco-specific compounds that have been shown to cause cancer in humans, and other toxic tobacco-specific (ACPT). Another damaging side of e-cigarettes is that kids start smoking e-cigarettes at the very young age, and the younger people are when they start smoking they more likely they will continue doing it, that is why a lot of people that smoker vapors later started smoking regular cigarettes. Works Cited American Heart Association classifies e-cigarettes same as regular  The Economic Times 2014: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Foulds, J., S. Veldheer, and A. Berg. Electronic Cigarettes (E-Cigs): Views Of Aficionados And Clinical/Public Health  International Journal Of Clinical Practice 65.10 (2011): 1037. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching Barrington-Trimis, Jessica L., et al. Original Article: The E-Cigarette Social Environment, E-Cigarette Use, And Susceptibility To Cigarette  Journal Of Adolescent Health 59.(2016): 75-80. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lerner, Chad A., et al. Environmental Health Hazards Of E-Cigarettes And Their Components: Oxidants And Copper In E-Cigarette  Environmental Pollution 198.(2015): 100-107. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lerner, Chad A., et al. Environmental Health Hazards Of E-Cigarettes And Their Components: Oxidants And Copper In E-Cigarette  Environmental Pollution 198.(2015): 100-107. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.