Calderon 1 Sergio Calderon Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 1 January 2017 The Declawing of Cats There are cat owners out there that declaw their cats which obviously means to remove their claws permanently. There is an organization called Paw that are completely against removing a claws whether they are domestic cats or wild cats and they explain why they believe it is inhumane. There is another organization called the American Association of Feline Practitioners or (AAFP), and they necessarily advocate for declawing, but they believe that people should be allowed to declaw their cats, but they have to be aware of what the procedures of declawing and what the outcomes might be. As well as different alternatives to declawing their cats. They believe that after that, they should be able to make a decision as opposed to the Paw Project, which think that declawing should not be allowed period. This will be about two organizations Paw and the AAFP and analyzing their points of view on the issue and eventually come up with a proposition that will satisfy both parties. This will be an overview on what the Paw Project stands for and why they believe that the declawing of cats is inhumane. There is an academic journal that was published on December 15, 2015 and was written by Nadine Dolby of Purdue University and in her journal it has a quote from Friends Animal which says is the amputation of each toe at the first joint. In humans, it would be equivalent to cutting off the tip of every finger at the first knuckle very painful, indeed. If performed on a human, this operation would be considered a Calderon 2 (Dolby 8). So it is evident now that declawing is not simply just a manicure, it is literally amputating a joint of a toe and it would be just as painful as if it had been done to a human. Even though this is a one-time procedure is it still inhumane long term? Dr. Jennifer Conrad who is the founder of the Paw Project lists tons of information about declaw surgery or onychectomy on the Paw Project website. On the home page there is a tab labeled after clicking on the tab, click on and it will show a page explaining onychectomy and the health problems that come with it. One of which she basically explains that cats use their toes to support their weight and cats that have their claws removed experience pain when they are walking are trying to just simply stand. (Conrad, Declaw Surgery). She goes into further detail by saying that compensate for the pain in their tender paws, cats will attempt to shift their weight farther back on their feet, in effect walking on their The stresses caused by the abnormal posture and movement, may produce arthritis in the legs, which, in turn, may cripple the cat further and cause it more (Conrad, Declaw Surgery). There are also videos and pictures in this section on the website that gives illustration of some cat anatomy and how declawing affects these cats. This is why the Paw Project advocates for declawing to be banned all together because of the surgical processes itself, and the long term effects it has on the feline community, like felines suffering long term by not being able to walk or stand without experiencing great pain. They advocate that all cats should keep their claws to prevent them from suffering and for their own well-being. The American Association of Feline Practitioners are not necessarily advocating having cats declawed, but they believe that the owners can have their cats declawed, however not without the knowledge of what the procedure is about and what the long term effects will be. Also without basic knowledge of how to take care of a cat and what its behaviors are and how they may change Calderon 3 after the surgical procedure. Basically they believe that a cat owner should be educated about their cat and about different alternatives before making any rash decisions. If the owners decide to go forth with declawing, they prevent them from doing so. When visiting the home page there will be a tab labeled clicking on that tab will unveil three tabs, one of them called When clicking on that tab it will reveal a link called and this is the page where the position statements from 2015 for declawing are located. There is some information regarding veterinary obligations saying that is the obligation to educate cat owners and provide them with alternatives to (MC Interactive, 2015 Declawing). Why would the cat owners decide to remove their claws in the first place? According to Nadine Dolby, natural need and instinct to scratch drew them (and their claws) to furniture and couches, which became a nuisance for (Dolby 8). She then basically says that about 25% of cats in the United States are declawed because the owners want to protect their own furniture (Dolby 8). This is just one of the reasons why people decide to declaw their cats, but the AAFP want people to be educated about their cats and invest in different possible alternatives before they do decide to go through with it. practice of cat declawing is intertwined with how both veterinarians and the public are educated and socialized to make sense of non-human animals and the relationship between humans and non-human (Dolby 1). So to sum up, the Paw Project believes that absolutely no declawing should be allowed at all and the AAFP believe that owners can declaw their cats if they want to, but after they have been educated by their veterinarian and perhaps maybe look into other alternatives before deciding what to do. Both organization have an admiration for the feline community and want what is best for them, perhaps this proposition may shed some new light. The favorable alternative would be Calderon 4 to simply take the time and trim their nails at least once every few months instead of having the cat go through unnecessary pain from being declawed. This will be favorable to the AAFP because it is a better alternative than declawing and it will satisfy the Paw Project because this solution will prevent any suffering since the owner only trims the nails as opposed to removing the claws permanently causing the cat to endure enormous pain. Just once every few months should do the trick and the cat owner would not have to worry about furniture being ruined as long as they trim their claws once in a while so that they get too long. So moral of the story, a quick trim can go a long way. Calderon 5 Works Cited Conrad, Jennifer. ABOUT THE PAW  About The Paw Project. GoDaddy.com, LLC, 24 Feb. 2003. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Dolby, Nadine1. The Paw  Critical Education 6.23 (2015): 1-14. Education Source. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Group, MC Interactive. American Association of Feline  Declawing Position Statement American Association of Feline Practitioners. N.p., 13 Dec. 2000. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.