Bello 1 Pulcherie Bello Mrs Hanson Composition 2 01/29/2017 A solution to world hunger? 795 million people in the world do not have enough food to lead a healthy active life. about one in nine people on (World Food Programme) Those are the statistics that the World Food Programme found. World hunger is an issue that we all know that every country is a victim of and had always been a problem. With this problem still not resolved arise another issue: overpopulation. With this new factor, capitalists think that there are too many to feed and the problem is demographic while other parties think that there are too many to feed and not enough resources, there is an inequity of resources. Concerned by overpopulation, the international community through many measures, such as the sustainable development goals of the United Nations, tried to remediate to the problem of world hunger, that contribute to the increase of the rate of poverty and malnutrition. Greenpeace and Monsanto, therefore, came with some ideas for a solution to this problem involving biotechnology and agroecology: could GMOs or agroecology then be solutions to world hunger? Monsanto found a solution to world hunger through the use of technology. Living in a world where technology is taking the control, companies such as Monsanto decided to use it as an advantage: GMOs. This company firmly believes that a solution to world hunger would be genetically modified crops. Genetically modified crops allow a more profitable production with some crops that have some Bello 2 traits of pesticide, therefore, making the production easy and fully usable. Monsanto also believes that GMO will help produce more by using less resources, especially since we live in an era where resources are becoming scarce. This company works with the goal to produce more The use of GM crops not only will help with global hunger but also protect our environment and climate change. Monsanto believes that GM crops are the solution to world hunger and that GMO actually subscribe to the United Nations Sustainable development goals. According to Monsanto the use of GMO in agriculture could actually be safe and healthy for the population and provide vitamins and fiber that are essential so, in addition to a well-fed population, GM crops will also contribute to a healthy population. GMO will help bring agriculture to another level and make food production easy while being green and using fewer resources possible, this why GMO could be a solution to world hunger and this is what Monsanto work for. In fatal attraction: the intuitive appeal of GMO scientifics Stefaan Blancke, Franck Van Breusegem, Geert De Jaeger, Johan Braeckman and Marc Van Montagu explain that contrary to the usual disgust about GMOs, those organisms could actually be good and not unhealthy. Through their study, scientifics explain why some could not like GMOs and why such oppositions to this method and they also explain that In Africa and Asia, the resistance to GMOs has had tragic consequences, costing thousands of ( Blancke, Van Breusegem, De Jaegert, Braeckman and Van Montagu, 1) That means that the use of this method could have avoided these lost. This article insists on how anti-GMO intuitions can gain our minds but the fact is that Biotechnology could actually be a be a formidable tool in the realization of a sustainable form of Blancke, Van Breusegem, De Jaegert, Braeckman and Van Montagu, 6.) These scientifics through this paper explain that GMO could be a good asset for agriculture and could actually save some lives that the anti-GMO approach lost, Bello 3 biotechnology is not that bad but in contrary could help produce sustainable food thus that could support the development goals of the UN. After all, GMO could be the solution to this problem that we try to eradicate for decades now. Being able to produce enough for the population without using so many resources while using a tool that scientifics believe could only become better and better with time, technology. Biotechnology could be the answer. While Monsanto thinks that the solution to the world hunger to GM crops, Greenpeace, a non-profit organization affirms that GMO is the worst and be the answer to this problem but agroecology is. Agroecology is a knowledge-rich type of farming which protects and sustains the diversity of life on earth [and is gaining recognition as farmers struggle to adapt to a changing climate and the out-dated, chemically intensive model of farming increasingly comes into Kruszewska. From good to : Ecological Farming Is Coming!) Greenpeace believes that ecological farming will help produce healthy food without the use of pesticide or other chemical going against our environment. The organization also believes that using ecological farming will be more than only beneficial to produce more food but only using renewable ressources and protect our environment against climate change therefore using less CO2. Biotechnology contrarily to what is thought actually uses non-renewable resources thus not really helping the case and lead at one point to scarcity while this problem be observed by going green with ecological farming instead of technology. This technique will also remediate to the problem of the inequity of resources making impossible to feed a part of the population because using agroecology will an equitable food system for the people who actually produce the Bello 4 To remediate to the problem of world hunger we need a method that will provide a sustainable food system, and that is the goal of agroecology. Global hunger can be resolved with the adaptation of agricultural practices,; conservation of biodiversity and natural resources; and development of embedded food as it says in the study of A. Wezel, H. Brives, M. Casagrande, C. Clement, A. Durfour and P. Vandenbroucke, . Through their research, they affirm like Greenpeace that world hunger is not only about nourishing the whole world but also about food ( Wezel, Brives, Casagrande, Clement, Durfour and Vandenbroucke, 1). While companies like Monsanto chooses GMO that still leaves the problem of inequity not resolved, these scientifics believe that agroecology would solve this problem because it will be available for small farmers or big farms. They also include the fact that agroecology is not only about quantity and quality but also about protecting the environment through the conservation of diversity, and the non-use of intensive methods that could deplete the land. Agroecology could be a solution that will actually help the population, with the quantity of resources and food, the preservation of the environment, the conservation of biodiversity and social and economic issues. Monsanto and Greenpeace are proposing ideas to end world hunger but their positions are opposed. While Monsanto thinks that the solution is GM crops (Mosanto) they also think that technology will help feed the world not ecological agriculture. At the same time while Greenpeace thinks that agroecology is the answer, (Kruszewska) the organization also thinks that GMO is poisonous(Greenpeace USA). One or another they are against each other, technology or conventional. We can see that both Greenpeace and Monsanto here are trying to find a solution to feed the population in a healthy, no-risk and fair way even though one of the stakeholders promote quantity of food over fair Bello 5 equity of resources. We can see that they both care for the population, the resources, and the environment. There is some commons ground here. We could then propose an unsual compromise that could be beneficial to both stakeholders: working together. Working by themselves, each stakeholder be able to support the need of the world population but while together, both can end global hunger, and this what plant geneticist Pamela Ronald tell us in her paper Genetics, Sustainable Agriculture and Global Food Together biotechnology and agroecology could help feed the nine billions of people and provide a sustainable agriculture that would be the solution. In her paper Ronald explains that some lacks that biotechnology has, agroecology could help with it and same the other way around. In a sense, agroecology and biotechnology could be complementary. Agroecology would help with the fertility of the soil, the conservation of diversity, the efficient use of water and land and less use of chemicals while biotechnology would help by contributing trait that permits the crops of being resistant to pest and, use less water and release as much carbon. (Andrew Porterfield , A co-existence peace plan for GMOs and organics) World hunger is a problem that for decades international organizations tried to find a solution to. Through the years two stakeholders demonstrate interest for the topic and proposed ideas for a solution. Could GM crops or ecological farming been the answer to the question? We found that both stakeholders in their positions were opposed. Monsanto thought that genetically modified crops would provide more food and use less resources therefore it could be a solution. Greenpeace thinks that ecological farming because while it only uses conventional tools for the production it is not intensive as biotechnology and could provide in addition to more food for the world, a fair production and still Bello 6 protecting the soil and the environment. Having some common interests such as the environment and the well-being of the population at heart, those two stakeholder could compromise and work together and become complementary one to the other as geneticist Ronald studied in her paper. Bello 7 Work Cited Blancke, Stefaan, et al. Fatal Attraction: The Intuitive Appeal Of GMO  Trends In Plant Science 7 (2015): 414. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=9&sid=d1041a92-9d71-4 30-bc54-766 Iza Kruszewska. From good to : Ecological Farming Is  Greenpeace International . N.p., 21 Jan. 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Portherfield, Andrew. A Co-existence Peace Plan for GMOs and  Genetic Literacy Project. N.p., 16 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ronald, Pamela. Genetics, Sustainable Agriculture and Global Food Ed. J. Rine. Genetics 188.1 (2011): PMC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Rotolo, G.C., et al. Environmental Assessment Of Maize Production Alternatives: Traditional, Intensive And GMO-Based Cropping  Ecological Indicators (2015): 48. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Unknown. Hunger  Hunger Statistics WFP United Nations World Food Programme - Fighting Hunger Worldwide . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Unknown.  Monsanto at a Glance . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Unknown. GMOs & Toxic  Greenpeace USA . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.