Anand 1 Dhruv Anand Mr. Bob Botkin ENC-1102 28 th January, 2017 Hunting has played a role as sport for a very long period of time now. In the old times, rich people of United Kingdom used to hunt animals to show how courageous and brave they are. They used to hunt lions and use them as decoration on their walls of the houses where as today, people treat hunting as a hobby or for business purposes. One of the best example is African elephants, they are killed for their tusks which are used in making jewelry. Many endangered species are on the verge of extinction because of hunting. Extinction of any species is going to effect the whole eco system because every species plays an important role in maintaining the balance of the eco system. Hunting as a sport and for fashion purpose should be banned because it is not worth to take an animal life for a useless purpose which is not going to give great benefit. The people who use hunting as a sport, for them just a sport or entertainment source but for the animals their lives. Killing an animal just to show how brave they are should be banned as well as wearing jewelry made of dead animal should be banned. Their lives are much more important than these things. Hunting as a sport has other consequences to human being because it is very dangerous as hunters has no safety in a forest when they are going to face a wild animal. Many people and hunters lose their lives while hunting because wild animals attack the hunters for protecting their livelihood and families. Hunting has been very popular among rich people as well as the hunters and poachers who are hired by the business which deals with animal made jewelry and other fashion things. Anand 2 The owners of the businesses makes a lot of profit by selling animal made stuff because the price of the jewelry or other things are set high by the owners of businesses but hunters and poachers get low wages. On the other hand, rich people do hunting as their hobby. Killing the animals is just a source of entertainment for them. The main reason behind hunting by rich people is to show other people that how brave and courageous they are. Rich people pay a lot of money for killing wild animals. To show how strong and powerful they are, rich people buy wild animals lives from their money. Other than this, Hunters kills different kind of endangered species just to experience something new. H.W Wilson mentioned that Knowlton who is a hunter claimed that a hunter. I want to experience a black (2). This shows that for some of the hunters, it is just a new experience. Black rhino which is considered as endangered because there are only 5000 black rhino left in this world, 1700 of which are in Africa. They are mainly killed for making ornaments. People are also interested in participating in animal auctions where people spend a lot of money to buy the animal and the highest bidder gets the animal. Auctions are usually held for endangered species because they were more popular and their population is rare among the bidders than other species. On the other hand, wildlife conservation organizations are against hunting because no human being has any right to take other living creature life just for entertainment and for fashion. The president of the Safari club international, Jon Wemple clearly states that am reminded of the importance of preserving our hunting heritage...my generation left it better for my father than he had inherited at the turn of the century. This was a time, when buffalo, elf and other species were nearly lost. The true conservationists (hunters) stepped up to the plate. Visionaries like Theodore Roosevelt, Gifford Pinchot and Aldo Leopold put us on course for what we enjoy shows that wildlife conservation organizations has played a very Anand 3 important role over thousands of years in protecting the wildlife species because they know that hunting for sports or for fashion is inefficient as it clearly shows animal cruelty. In 1901, when Roosevelt become president. He designated millions of acres of national parks where hunting was banned to protect the endangered species from extinction. Government as well as conservation organizations has played a vital role to ban hunting and protecting the endangered species because they know the consequences of hunting especially for the sports and for fashion. The government should work on providing more wildlife sanctuaries and national parks for protecting the endangered animals where as rich people and hunters should understand the consequences of killing an endangered species just for fun and for fashion. The best thing government can do is to ban hunting of endangered species because if the hunting on endangered species is not ban. Hunters, poachers or rich people will hunt those endangered species for their own benefits as hunting going to benefit them in different ways like hunters and poachers can sell those dead endangered species to business which deals in animal made stuff and make profit out of it, for rich people who is hunting for entertainment hunting of endangered species will be a new experience because those species are rare. The ban on hunting of endangered species will force the people to stop killing endangered animals and with the help of national parks and wildlife sanctuaries, the endangered species can make their population out of danger of extinction. Peter A Lindsey mentioned that illegal killing of a radio-collared lion, by a trophy hunter in government take appropriate actions against the hunter as well as wildlife conservation organizations protected the babies and the family of Cecil the lion. This was one of the best example which shows that government is taking actions to protect endangered animals and how hunters were killing endangered animals illegally for their own benefit . Wyatt Smith described that five months after death, in an effort to make it Anand 4 more difficult for hunters to bring lion trophies into the United States, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) officially extended the protections of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) to the African This clarifies that government take different actions in favor of protecting the endangered animal species. They started taking serious actions because African lion was on the brink of extinction. Life after Cecil in Africa changed. Lindsey parker claims that governments posed by the need to fund vast wildlife estates and provide incentives for conservation by communities in the context of growing human populations and competing It means government is changing their strategies to make as much as funds they can make for protecting the endangered animal species. Animal rights Activists also plays a very important role in protecting the endangered animals. Beckie Elgin states that rights activists are employing a new set of tactics to thwart hunters from taking down wolves, bears, and other (6). This proves that activists are against the hunters who are hunting innocent animals for their own benefits. Animal rights activists has also lodged protests against the hunting of endangered species. Beckie Elgin also tells that In 2014, the Wildlife Defense League, founded by Tommy Knowles, helped create and sustain a road blockade to keep non-Native hunters out of an area in northern British This explains that different wildlife conservation organizations are giving their best effort to protect the endangered animals and to ban hunting because every species has their own different role in eco-system. Therefore, hunting is inefficient as recreational activity as well as for fashion. Anand 5 Work Cited Shoot To  Earth Island Journal 29.1 (2014): 4-5. Guide Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Elgin, Beckie. Hounding The  Earth Island Journal 30.4 (2016): 30-36. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lindsey, Peter A., et al. Life After Cecil: Channelling Global Outrage Into Funding For Conservation In  Conservation Letters 9.4 (2016): 296. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Simon, Alexander. Against trophy hunting: a Marxian-Leopoldian  Monthly Review 2016: 17. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smith, Wyatt. Endangered Species Act Or Extradition?: Protecting Foreign Species In The Aftermath Of The Cecil The Lion  Vermont Journal Of Environmental Law 18.1 (2016): 55. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.