Rataj 1 Richard Rataj Professor Erika Staiger English 1102 January 28, 2017 The Role of Trade Organizations in Environmental Protection With the rise of globalization, a new economic platform has been created, leading to greater exploitation and higher competition. For many underdeveloped and developing nations, it is difficult if not impossible to take part in this new global arena, furthering the implementation of exploitation from nations and corporate actors with greater power. To stay competitive, often industrialization needs to take a foot hold, however with an ever-growing support for the protection of the environment, barriers to this development exist. As of today, many trade organizations such as the World Trade Organization, further referred to as the WTO, NAFTA, and many others operating on different scales throughout the globe. The WTO has recently been citified for its lack of acceptance and awareness of the environmental problems caused by exploitation and industrialization. In 1999, the WTO organization convened in Seattle, WA to discuss the expansion of the organization and adjust policies and agenda, however the people of Seattle organized a protest to the WTO in support of more environmental protection worldwide (Burton). The WTO and other similar organizations and agreements argue that they help bring economic growth to developing nations by allowing them to compete in a global trade network. World Trade Organization (WTO) deals with the global rules of trade between nations. Its main function is to ensure that trade flows as smoothly, predictably and freely as (WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION). A leading supporter in the protection of the environment Rataj 2 is the Greenpeace Organization, who have heavily criticized the WTO for their role in the increasing presence of exploitation of underdeveloped nations. The increase in globalization and globalized trade is leading to corporate power and unsustainable use of resources (What exactly is global trade?). As a country grows and develops, exploitation and environmental destruction becomes prevalent, therefore the question of what is worth more, the furthering development of a nation or the protection of the environment, becomes pressing. Increasing trade leads to furthering developments across a country as the economy grows, but due to recent global developments the global environment may need drastic measures of protection. International trade should begin to favor sustainable practices by incentivizing resources and practices that help bring protection to the environment, and creating levels of development that correspond to the strictness of environmental regulations. The ultimate goal is to see a global world running efficiently and sustainably without exploitation. Trade organizations tend to favor the furthering development of trade through classic capitalism, where a completive market exists to ensure the best products for the best prices. In many developing and underdeveloped nations, industrialization needs to become more prevalent to help drive their completive place in a global arena. By increasing environmental regulations, the total production level of a country may be severely hindered, especially those that are underdeveloped, as they do not have the technology needed to be even slightly competitive. The WTO does not see themselves as an environmental protection agency, meaning that they should not have a say in the environmental regulations that take place globally. It can be argued that by allowing these nations to go through the developing process, albeit in a non-environmentally friendly way, similar to the United States and many European nations did, these nations can reach a status and reach high enough growth that they can contribute to the protection and Rataj 3 cleanup of the environment (Falkner). By imposing environmental restrictions on developing nations, they cannot grow out of the developing stage, being stuck forever, leading to an increase in pollution over time if compared to simply allowing the nations to complete the development process without hindrance. The WTO does not recognize that it has a role in the protection of the environment, and the job of the WTO is to create fair trade for all nations, leading to an equal globalized society. As free trade rises and all nations have a fair and equal part in the global trade network, the WTO looks to bring safe and sustainable trade for all nations and become equally developed with all as to avoided any one nation from becoming overpowering. Humanities pressure on the environment is at an all-time high, and without action permanent damage may arise. It is impossible to predict what this may mean for society as it exists today, and many do not want to gamble with fate. As human population grows, the need for resources across the globe becomes prevalent, and organizations such as the WTO exists to make sure these resources are traded fairly for all. Consequently, many see the ability to monopolize on basic human needs, and exploit underdeveloped countries and the global environment for profit. Greenpeace urges for these organizations and corporations to look at the damage being done to the environment, and realize that they can and should have a say in helping save the global community from potential disaster. By continuing to invest in trade organizations that disregard the environment, irreversible damages may be done. Many species are on the brink of extinction with causes being linked to the exploitation of underdeveloped nations for their resources, whether it be oil, wood, food, or any other resource used by most the global community (James). Unsustainable practices lead to growth only for those corporations at the top, and the global biodiversity is decreasing due to deforestation and poaching, both consequences of the incentivizing of a global completive market. In order to stay in competition Rataj 4 with developed nations, these developing nations must use unsustainable practices, which eventually will harm their output ability, freezing these nations in place while destroying the environment. The increase in trade organizations does not lead to the developing of nations in society, and only has the consequence of those at the top become further up and the destruction of the environment, which may have unforeseen consequences. Off the coast of Western Sahara, the EU is exploiting the political climate of the area to use unsustainable fishing practices for net gain. Fishing stocks are being depleted, highlighting the environmental damages caused by these practices that exists all over the world (Exporting Exploitation). Greenpeace urges to bring a stop to this exploitation by having developing nations break out of the control of other nations and corporations and develop to the point of being able to maintain their own sustainable and efficient economy that does not encourage the destruction of the environment. Hopefully, a sustainable global economy can arise for all nations without any one nation exploited others or any one nation to fall to being exploited. Sustainable practices can lead to being the most competitive over time for any nation, however many countries are currently in a position so far behind others that without the ability to participate in global trade, they may never reach the point of having their own sustainable and stable economy. Alternatively, the environment is in dire conditions, and help is needed from all fronts. In order to find balance between free and fair trade and the protection of the environment developing nations should be incentivized for harvesting resources that are sustainable and using clean and sustainable industrial practices. Although not all nations may use these sustainable practices, many will consider them as they will boost their economy faster. Furthermore, regulations for developing nations may be based on the level of development of the nation, where less developed nations have less restrictions, and as they further develop the restrictions and regulations get tighter. This Rataj 5 helps developing nations grow by participating in industrialization, and helps limits environmental damages because as they become more developed they must follow stricter rules, instead of being allowed to grow without any environmental checks. Over time, nations will have the ability to develop in economically and environmentally sustainable ways, however during the stages of developments, the economy may be favored over the environment and vice versa. Ultimately, this can help lead to a global network of sustainable trade while still showing care for the environment and its role in the world. Rataj 6 Works Cited Burton, Lynsi. WTO riots in Seattle: 15 years  WTO riots in Seattle: 15 years ago. Seattlepi, 29 Nov. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Exporting Exploitation How retired EU fishing vessels are devastating West African fish stocks and undermining the rights of local people. Greenpeace, 2 Dec. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.greenpeace.org/eu- unit/en/Publications/2013/Exporting-Exploitation/>. Falkner, Robert, and Nico Jaspers. Environmental Protection, International Trade and the  Environmental Protection, International Trade and the (2012): n. pag. The Ashgate Research Companion to International Trade Policy. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <https://static1.squarespace.com/static/538a0f32e4b0e9ab915750a1/t/538db556e4b038f0 df>. James, Deborah. Free Trade and the  Free Trade and the Environment. Global Exchange, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://www.globalexchange.org/resources/wto/environment>. Olsen, Jose, Jose Salazar-Xirinachs, and Monica Araya.  Trade and environment at the World Trade Organization: The need for a constructive dialogue (2000): 155-82. United Nations University. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://archive.unu.edu/news/wto/ch08.pdf>. What exactly is global  Greenpeace.org. Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.greenpeace.org/international/PageFiles/24427/Globaltrade.pdf>. WORLD TRADE  World Trade Organization - Home page. The World Trade Organization, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.