1 Abortion has been a controversial topic that has been debated upon throughout history. Philosophers, doctors, politicians and even the general public have argued about the pros and cons in regards to this medical procedure for ages. However, the real issue is whether or not abortion is morally justified. The philosophical arguments that have been established against and in support of abortion stimulate a great deal of discussion and critical thinking on the subject matter. The purpose of this paper is to analyze both sides of the arguments regarding abortion and make a case as to why abortion should be supported as an ethical right for women. With that being said, there are several different medical terminologies concerning abortion that will be discussed throughout this analysis. For example, the medical expressions are as follows: abortion, spontaneous abortion, induced abortion, therapeutic abortion and viability. According to the author of the book Great Philosophical Arguments by Lewis Vaughn, a Republican member of the South Carolina Senate defined abortion as the ending of a pregnancy (529). Vaughn then goes on to state that due to natural defect or injury, for example is known as spontaneous abortion or (529). Furthermore, a miscarriage usually happens within the first 12 weeks of the pregnancy, but can occasionally occur in the later stages as well. In addition, intentional termination of pregnancy through drugs or surgery is called an induced abortion, or more commonly, simply (Vaughn 529). On the contrary, Vaughn states that therapeutic abortion is referred to as abortion performed to preserve the life or health of the (529). This particular form of abortion is supported by both the conservative and liberal opinions on abortion. Several methods are used to perform abortions which include either surgical or pharmaceutical approaches (Vaughn 529). 2 Most often the method used is determined according the health in addition to the length of her pregnancy. The procedures during the abortion process include but are not limited to the following; suction curettage which is used in the first 12 weeks of the pregnancy, dilation and evacuation which is used after 12 weeks of pregnancy, and induced abortions which involves taking medication between weeks 7-9 (Vaughn 529). Depending on which stage of pregnancy a woman is in, determines her potential risk of complications of the abortion procedure. The earlier the abortion is performed, the lower the risk. It is even argued that the chances of a woman dying during childbirth are at least ten times higher than the risk of dying from an early abortion (Vaughn 530). Because legal conflicts over abortion influence ethical arguments, the vs. debate continues to be a hot topic of discussion in America. The well-known case between Roe vs. Wade in which sought a nontherapeutic abortion in Texas, where the law prohibited such action unless necessary to preserve the life, stirred up the controversy on the topic of viability (Vaughn 530). Viability is defined as the stage when the fetus can live outside of the uterus generally between the 23 rd and 24 th week of pregnancy (Vaughn 531). From the case it was determined that abortion could not be banned in any state prior to viability (Vaughn 531). As you can see, there are varying definitions of the root word abortion which further provide differing connotations to the supporting terms attached. Subsequently these terms stem the main basis of the arguments addressed .The focus of the argument against abortion is as follows, of an innocent person is (Vaughn 532). Whereas the opposing argument states that unborn is not a person, not a full human being, and therefore does not have a right to (Vaughn 551). While both John T. Noonan and Don Marquis oppose the idea of abortion Mary Anne Warren and Judith Jarvis Thomson provide a stronger 3 case supporting the issue based on the idea of and their careful distinction between what classifies a person or human being as such. Once that definition is clearly examined, we can then address the philosophical questions of how is the value of a life determined and how can we define the moral community? The three positions are as follows: conservative view, liberal view, and the moderate stance which will be discussed throughout this argument (Vaughn 532). The conservative view argues that abortion is never morally acceptable (except possibly to preserve the life), for the unborn is a human being in the full sense (Vaughn 532). The conservative view is typically the main justification of the argument against abortion. Philosopher John T. approach to the argument against abortion starts by showing that there is no precise point at which an entity becomes a human being in doing so, he is examining the process of development from zygote to adult human arguing that there is overlapping social visibility (532). Consequently, Noonan then goes on to state that the most plausible view is that personhood begins at conception, because it is understood that the unborn entity will develop into a mature human being with undeniable moral (Vaughn 532). Where the argument lacks strength and leaves room for assumptions is when the aforementioned viewpoint is examined in detail. The major problem with arguments is that there is a big difference between possessing a particular trait that gives you a right and having the potential to develop a trait that gives you a right. On the other hand, another argument is made by an additional philosopher who furthermore goes into detail as to why abortion is immoral. Don Marquis argues against abortion on different grounds (Vaughn 533). He argues from the position that he implies that abortion is murder, and someone deprives them of experiences, activities projects and (Vaughn 534). Marquis then goes on to argue 4 the controversial topic of contraception then also being immoral as well because it to prevents the actualization of a possible future of value (Vaughn 549). The purpose of argument is to address the assumption that the moral permissibility of abortion stands or falls on the moral status of the fetus (Vaughn 550). This is mainly because the fetus possesses a property, the possession of which in adult human being is sufficient to make killing an adult human being wrong therefore, abortion is wrong (Vaughn 550). In other words, the conservative argument against abortion states that the premises are of an innocent person is wrong; the unborn is an innocent person from the moment of conception; and the conclusion is therefore, it is wrong to kill the unborn concluding the argument that abortion is immoral (Vaughn 532). The main point that these philosophers were trying to exemplify was presenting details as to why abortion is immoral. The focal basis of their arguments really have emphasis on to two definitions that hold similar meanings according to these philosophers; person and fetus. The liberal view is that abortion is acceptable whenever the woman wants it for the unborn is not a human being in the full sense (Vaughn 550). In addition, moderate stance falls between the two positions, rejecting both the zero tolerance for abortion and the idea of abortion on (Vaughn 550). Vaughn then goes on to state that the moderate view refers to some, but not all abortions may be morally justified (550). Philosopher Mary Anne Warren supports the argument in favor of abortion being morally justified by identifying five traits that are to personhood (Vaughn 551). Those traits are as follows: consciousness and the capacity to feel pain, reasoning, self-motivated activity, the capacity to communicate, and lastly presence of self-concepts and self- awareness either individual, racial or (Vaughn 551). She argues that a fetus in fact 5 satisfies none of these traits and therefore is not yet a person said to have moral rights (Vaughn 551). Her position on abortion reflects similarly to the liberal viewpoint about the issue. The one flaw that may arise in the argument is the problem of defining moral community which is the set of beings with full and equal moral rights (Vaughn 533). Philosopher Judith Jarvis Thomson also provides a credible argument defending abortion. She does this by arguing the long debated topic of when is a human being defined as a person and where is the line drawn in regards to a fetus? (Vaughn 558). In addition, she examines the similar viewpoint that encompasses the moderate stance position. In her essay, she argues for the cases of abortion being justified in cases of rape, long-term bed rest and shortened life expectancy of the mother (Vaughn 559). Those situations are the gray area cases where even some conservative view members may draw the line and make an exception for abortion. In addition, we should also consider special cases where a mother finds out that carrying the baby to term could result in her death at childbirth due to an unforeseen health issue, do they have an equal right to life? (Vaughn 559). The aforementioned statement is a perfect example of where the conservative opinion may view abortion as a permissible action. Both philosophers provide supporting facts and details as to why abortions should be supported as a morally justified procedure. The premises and conclusion to the argument in support of abortion is as follows: the unborn is not a person, not a full human being, and therefore does not have a right to life; abortion is a procedure that can be used to preserve the life; therefore, it is acceptable to kill the unborn, concluding the argument that abortion is moral. The main point that these philosophers were trying to exemplify was presenting details as to why abortion should be morally justified. The focal basis of their arguments really has emphasis on to two definitions that hold different meanings; personhood and human being. 6 The arguments in support of and against the stance on abortion being a morally justified act have areas of common themes and overlapping ideals as well as differing viewpoints. Historically the differences refer back to political perspectives on the issue which three main positions were discussed. Throughout the arguments, some of the most commonly repeated words were person or personhood and human or human being. Although both arguments repeatedly used the same words, each position on the stance in regards to abortion being morally justified provided different connotations to the meanings as previously identified in this paper. For example, just to recap the different meanings of the words, the opposing viewpoints defined a person as such from the moment of conception while the arguments in favor of abortion defined a person as a human being that possesses five distinct traits. The arguments made by the philosophers that opposed abortion took more of an emotional and ethical appeal approach because terms such as fetus and baby were used throughout the essay to try to evoke emotions from the reader in support of the argument. In both of these arguments the strengths were discussing what characterizes a fetus and tying in that fetuses have the right to life. However, perspective that biological resemblance to living conscious human beings does not provide a valid basis to prohibit abortion. In addition, both positions against abortion could be argued to have a foundation and encompass fallacy. Marquis argued against abortion on different grounds by identifying what it is that makes murder wrong and applying that to his case (533). Whereas, Noonan argued that there is a definite difference in possessing a particular trait that gives you a right compared to having the potential to develop a trait that gives you a right (533). For example, an analogy was used to illustrate this legally citizens have the right to vote at the age of 18, pre-adolescents do not, even though they clearly have the 7 potential to reach the age of 18 (533). Although convincing at times, these examples exhibited flaws in their opinions and left room for assumptions, consequently making the arguments weaker in their validity. The arguments stated by the philosophers in favor of abortion took more of a logical and ethical appeal. Warren states that if the right to life of a fetus is to be based upon its resemblance to a person, then it cannot be said to have any more right to life than a newborn guppy (556). Furthermore, that right of that magnitude could never override a right to obtain an abortion at any stage of her pregnancy (Warren 556). Although Thomson does defend the right to abortion, she takes a slightly different approach than Warren. Rather than trying to focus on a in the development of the fetus, she concentrates her efforts on protecting the legality of abortions (558). She states that we should add the right to life and her right to decide what happens in and to her body in which the sum of her rights outweigh the right to life (559). Thomson provided analogies to support her position on abortion in which it causes the reader to think critically and examine both the positives and flaws within her argument. For example, she compares a fertilized egg being no more a person than an acorn is an oak tree (Thomson 558). As previously mentioned, although something may have the genetic coding to eventually mature into what they may be intended to become, it is not immoral to destroy it before its potential to grow because its fate is uncertain. With that being said, Warren took more of a biological approach to support her argument whereas method used several analogies. In my opinion, using these logical appeal approaches made the argument for abortion stronger in its validity. By means of inductive reasoning methodology, where the philosophers examined multiple premises as solid evidence to support their conclusion provided strength in their argument. Although historically established, abortion has been a delivered right 8 for women within the United States, it may not be viewed by everyone as a right that is morally justified. There are always going to be opposing viewpoints on this controversial issue; however, it is important to be unbiased and really take a look at the facts and reasoning behind the action. My stance in regards to the topic of abortion is in support of the procedure being an ethical right for women to exercise within their comfort of confidentiality and privacy. I think the argument in favor of abortion is a stronger case to defend than the viewpoints opposing the dispute. My position is as follows the unborn is not a person, not a full human being, and therefore does not have a right to life; abortion is a procedure that can be used to preserve the life; therefore, it is acceptable to kill the unborn concluding the argument that abortion is moral. The main idea behind my position is that moral justification really is determined based on the definition of the word person. Mary Anne Warren and Judith Jarvis Thomson provide excellent examples as to what defines a person as such and why abortion should be defended. On the other hand, the Roe vs. Wade case argues that abortion should not be banned in any state prior to viability and I think that is where the line should be drawn in the instance of abortion. This is mainly because once the fetus can live outside the uterus on its own that seems to add complications to the argument. In addition, being a father I can sympathize with that position because unless the mother of my life was at risk, I would not have been in support of her obtaining an abortion at that later stage of the pregnancy. Although that aspect should be handled on a case-by case basis, I am still in full support that abortion is a morally just act. Although I fully support the position that I have chosen on the issue of abortion, some may refute my argument. This rebuttal would probably occur by the opposing position presenting the facts about the risks of abortion, in addition to revisiting the main account which 9 refers to killing of an innocent person is wrong. However, as previously stated, the risks associated with abortion are extremely low especially during the earlier stages of pregnancy. Even the risk of death in childbirth has been researched to be 10 times higher than that of early abortion (Vaughn 530). The debate on the stance on abortion would be combatted back and forth because of the major detail of how the words person or human being are defined. As previously mentioned, the conservative view states that the unborn is an innocent person from the moment of conception. However, philosophers will argue against the aforementioned statement and say that the unborn is not a person and not a full human being. The liberal and moderate stance views illustrated in the arguments in support of abortion make a stronger case because Mary Anne Warren identifies five traits that are most central to personhood. In addition, even the conservative argument may make the exception to justify abortion as moral if it is to preserve the life. With that being said, I fully stand by and agree with my original position that abortion is a moral right for women and should be exercised by them given their personal circumstances without judgment. In conclusion, the debate about whether or not abortion is morally justified has been a topic of discussion and philosophical debate for ages. The main purpose of this paper was to analyze both sides of the arguments regarding abortion and make a strong case as to why abortion should be supported as an ethical right for women. My position is as follows the unborn is not a person, not a full human being, and therefore does not have a right to life; abortion is a procedure that can be used to preserve the life; therefore, it is acceptable to kill the unborn concluding the argument that abortion is moral. If the right was banned for women, there could potentially be increased cases of unplanned pregnancy, higher divorce rates, greater suicide proportions and increased 10 single-parent statistics. In doing so, causing increased poverty rates among not only lower socioeconomic status communities but potentially affecting the middle-class as well. With so many battles fought in history not only for rights but for reproductive rights as well in support of their legal choice to control their fertility; abortion should be viewed as a positive option for women around the world and one that we as a society should welcome. There are many positive aspects to abortion from a legal, political, and ethical standpoint that in the future should be normalized and exercised among women without judgment. Works Cited Vaughn, Lewis. Great philosophical arguments: an introduction to philosophy. New York: Oxford U Press, 2012. Print.