Mariam Goubrial Janie Gill ENC1102-077 January 22, 2017 Mass Incarceration of Drug Offenders vs. Drug Treatment Therapy In June 1971, President Richard Nixon had declared the official on Today, this proposal has been taken into questioning. Organizations such as the Drug Policy Alliance, Common Sense for Drug Policy, and Stop-the-Drug-War view incarcerating individuals under drug charges and giving them sentences in prison are unnecessary ways to solve the issue. They believe rather than throwing drug abusers in jail under lengthy sentences, the government should put them into treatment programs to help them break their addiction. Although this may be a good solution for some, organizations such as the Republican Party do not agree. A solution that could benefit both sides of this argument is less jail time for drug abusers accompanied with excessive treatment to withdraw from drugs and choose a healthier lifestyle. This will satisfy the opposing side because drug abusers will go to jail, but for less time and will get treatment, which satisfies the pro-treatment side. The Republican Party firmly believes that using stricter law enforcement policies will cease the use of drugs within society. They wish for prosecutors to aggressively detain drug users and sentence them accordingly. President Donald Trump also shares similar beliefs. It is believed that he encourages stronger sentencing and more law enforcement towards the war on drugs. (Republican Views) In the article Programs And The Real Costs Of Policing by Rachel A. Harmon, she explains the costs of the programs that enforce current drug violation laws such as the Byrne JAG Program. Federal dictums have given authorization to these programs and agencies to fund local policing departments to enforce incarceration. Harmon states that . .tens of billions of dollars spent on new programs for local law (Harmon, 883-884) She then explains how such programs are always changing and expanding. They no longer just provide money, they also provide equipment and power to law enforcement to fulfill like the war on drugs. (Harmon, 884) This point of view is understood because of safety concerns and also the effect drugs have on society and the economy but sentencing people for lengthy time in prison because of drugs is fairly unnecessary. A prison sentence does more harm than good to an individual. After prison, it is very difficult for the individual to pursue a career or an education. (Drug Policy Alliance). Organizations such as Drug Policy Alliance and Common Sense for Drug Policy disagree with the belief that prison or jail will straighten out drug offenders acts. The Drug Policy Alliance visualizes a just society, where individuals are no longer punished for what they intake but rather treated with compassion and respect. (Drug Policy Alliance) They believe that drug abusers should be given treatment for their actions and do not deserve to be thrown into prison for it. They also believe that prison is a harmful solution to drug use and only makes prisoners rebel more. According to the Drug Policy Alliance website, 84% of drug violation arrests made in 2015 were for possession only. (Drug Policy Alliance) In the article Our Drug Laws Have Failed and What We Can Do about It: a Judicial Indictment of the War on Drugs by Andrew P. Morriss, Morriss reviews a book written by Judge James P. Gray about how the drug laws have failed our system. Judge Gray claims that the drug laws drugs more dangerous to drug (Morriss) He also believes that in the future drug laws will be viewed the same as Jim Crow laws. (Morriss) Although these sides seem like they cannot meet halfway, there is a helpful solution that will satisfy them both. The solution is that the government lessens prison time for drug users, and bases their sentence fairly on quantity, and also provides them with the rehabilitation they need to overcome the desire to use drugs again in the future. In the article Drug Treatment Court As A Form of Restorative Justice by Andrew Fulkerson, Fulkerson proposes a recently founded solution to the mass incarceration of drug offenders. The drug treatment court was first started in Miami, Florida in 1989. The drug treatment court provided acupuncture, treatment, counseling, educational programs and vocational programs to offenders because they had noticed that current policies implied now are ineffective. (Fulkerson, 254) Fulkerson then explains how the drug treatment court works- offenders are first detoxified and must go to counseling. After counseling ends, offenders must go to an aftercare program. During the whole treatment phase, offenders must always take consistent drug tests to prove that they are clean of drug use. If the drug offender does use drugs during his/her treatment course, he/she must repeat one or more of the phases of treatment. (Fulkerson, 255) Fulkerson explains that the difference between the traditional prison/jail system and the drug treatment court is that the drug treatment court understands that relapse will happen. They understand that the offender will be tempted to take drugs again because addiction is in fact a disease. Although they understand this, they must give some sort of punishment time to the offender. Fulkerson states sanction for a positive drug test in some drug courts is the least amount of punishment necessary to reduce drug use and criminal behavior (Dorf & Sabel, 2000). This level of sanction is called (Hora et al., 1999, p. (Fulkerson, 255) The drug treatment court would be a good solution for these two stakeholders- the federal government and the drug policy alliance. Drug offenders are given treatment and a second chance to regenerate into society, and if they disobey and use drugs again, they will be sent to jail to do time. This satisfies both sides because it is implying both of their strategies into one solution. Drug offenders should not be sentenced long prison or jail time because of these actions but given a chance to regenerate and work on bettering themselves. Although there may be some problems accompanied with this solution such as the costs of this treatment, the government may avoid paying billions of dollars on federal prisons and jails but rather spend it on these treatment facilities. The federal government should not focus on the mass incarceration of drug offenders (the war on drugs) but rather on criminals that hurt others. The government should also view drug abusers not as criminals, but as people who are imprisoned in the jails of addiction. Works Cited RepublicanViews.org.  Views . 19 Oct. 2015. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Drug War  War Statistics Marijuana Statistics Mexico Drug War Deaths Drug Policy Alliance . Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Harmon, Rachel A. Federal Programs And The Real Costs Of Policing  York University Law Review 3 (2015): 870. . Web. 31 Jan. 2017 Fulkerson, Andrew. The Drug Treatment Court As A Form Of Restorative  Contemporary Justice Review 12.3 (2009): 253-267. Search Premier . Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Morriss, Andrew P. Why Our Drug Laws Have Failed And What We Can Do About It: A Judicial Indictment Of The War On  Review 1 (2002): 137. AcademicOneFile . Web. 31 Jan. 2017.