Rawalgaonkar 1 Dhanashree Ms. Erika Staiger ENC-Composition 1/29/2017 GMOs- Genetically Modified Organisms We have evolved from a Stone Age man to technosavvy sophisticated human beings. Today, technology has changed our ways of life. However, researchers have now become skeptical about effects of advancements in science and technology; one example of a much debated technological advancement is Genetically modified organisms.Genetically modified organisms are hybrids produced by mixing DNAs or genetic material of two or more species artificially with the use of biotechnology. On one hand agricultural industries like Monsanto and Du Pont are mass producing and patenting GMOs in form of poultry, meat and seeds for business creating a monopoly in the agricultural sector and thus affecting organic and small scale farmers negatively; on the other hand non profit organizations like Organic Consumers Organization (OCA), Navdanya (in India) and organic farmers are protesting against GMOs due to over commercialization as well as safety and health concerns. Both stakeholders have their own goals and are on the opposite end of the argument but can compromise to dissolve the issues. GMOs are artificial hybrids and are impossible to exist in nature. Altering and producing genes is altering nature which can have dire consequences in the future; however, with growing population the agro industry has to adapt modern technology to some extent. Therefore, Monsanto can reduce the amount of GMOs it produces annually, help organic farmers farm organically and reduce the extensive patenting of GMOs. The OCA and Navdanya can support their cause by helping organic farmers thrive or conducting research on different ways of using traditional farming Rawalgaonkar 2 methods to maximize the yield instead of completely banning GMOs. Such compromises between the two could ease the tension between the agricultural industries and people like researchers, public who are against GMOs; however, it is easier said than done since many sectors of the agricultural industry, the government and consumers will be involved in the proposed compromises. The issue is seen as a commercial war for business and money versus safety and health Monsanto calls itself a sustainable agricultural company. Established in 1901,the company has been at the forefront for genetically modifying plants and animals in the agricultural sector for traits like better insect resistance, water resistance, higher yields for conserving and improving soil fertility. Monsanto has received much criticism by researchers, organic farmers and consumers regarding the safety concerns and health effects of its GMOs. One of the leading opposers of Monsanto is a non profit organization called Organic Consumers Association (OCA) formed in 1998. The organization has a self-explanatory slogan: Campaigning for health, justice, sustainability, peace, and democracy. It clearly opposes GMOs and companies like Monsanto or Du Pont. Campaigns like organic NOT the are organized by the organization to promote organic farming. Recently, the organization overtly protested against Monsanto by saying the following: the Senate: Let Monsanto Run the USDA and (FDA). Another organization, although on the other side of the world, having similar goals and philosophies like OCA is Navdanya. Established in 1998, Navdanya is an organization that supports organic farming in India ; The organization has successfully won 3 biopiracy campaigns (campaigns against GMOs and patenting of crops), created 122 community seed banks (organically grown seeds and no GMOs) and assisted farmers in need (Navdanya). The Rawalgaonkar 3 organization has been opposing companies like Monsanto after interference in the agricultural industry in India raised a havoc when the company introduced a cotton breed that posed threat to biodiversity in the long run and started patenting seeds grown locally by transforming them into In 2003, it launched a citizens campaign against GMOs in order to ban them (Navdanya). After a background about all the stakeholders and their issues, the paper now dives into some specific arguments between the stakeholders. Marie Monique Robin, the winner of the 2009 Rachel Carson Prize for the book Le monde selon Monsanto (The world according to Monsanto), describes toxic past as the company who sold Agent Orange which is still destroying generations of newborns in Vietnam due deformities, DDT which is an extremely toxic chemical and PCB that is linked to cancer. Robin accuses Monsanto of misusing its networks in US government and FDA, falsely advertising the safety of its products, extensively patenting seeds grown locally which negatively affects local farmers and shadowing research against the ill effects of their products. The author states, is absolutely breathtaking is that Monsanto knew that PCBs presented a serious health risk as early as 1937. But the company carried on regardless until the products were banned in (Robin 16) Robin also narrates the havoc that transgenic cotton seeds called Bt-cotton raised in India. Bt Cotton was purchased by many farmers after Monsanto promised their GMOs of being pest resistance; however, it was later discovered by farmers that the crop needed specific pesticides sold only by Monsanto which were expensive. Later the insects developed resistance to the pesticides being used and the farmers therefore had to use more toxic material on the plants leading to a degraded and toxic soil. It was a vicious cycle that lead many farmers to bankruptcy and eventually suicide. Robin describes the situation as follows, Rawalgaonkar 4 irony of the story is that Monsanto was perfectly capable of from the deadly spiral that its products had helped create and which, in conjunction with the fall in cotton prices (from $98.20 a ton in 1995 to $49.10 in 2001), had led to the death of thousands of small (Robin 295 ) a result organizations like Navdanya lead by Vanadana Shiva who holds a Phd. in Physics are opposing Monsanto and GMOs. In India, Research Foundation for Science, Technology and Ecology (RFSTE), Navdanya and other organic organizations appealed for a complete ban on GMOs for at least the next ten years. Today, due to growing awareness about health, people want to know what is exactly in their diets. Monsanto does not label their products as genetically modified which enrages the consumers since this leaves them with no choice but to consume genetically modified food against their will. The organic Consumers Association has launched a campaign called Millions against Monsanto. website recently expressed outrage about a Monsanto executive for his statement as follows. should not have to vouchsafe the safety of biotech  said Phil Angell, director of corporate communications. Our interest is in selling as much of it as possible. Assuring its safety is the  (Organic Consumers Association) .OCA highlighted how many former Monsanto executives hold jobs in FDA which is responsible for making official and key decisions in the food industry. OCA also highlights how former Monsanto executive who now works in FDA held a key position in decisions about the safety of bovine growth hormone used in milk. The appeal to not label its product as genetically modified since there are no side effects of the GMO was reviewed and passed by Margaret there has been a controversy that weather companies that use and other modern bioengineering technologies should label their products as genetically modified for the consumers. After a much heated up debate and research FDA has announced that such companies are not required to do so, and this disappointed many consumers. Rawalgaonkar 5 Instead of taking extreme measures like banning GMOs or using genetic engineering to alter agricultural practices completely, the stakeholders can choose a middle ground if both sides agree to compromise. Monsanto can educate people about GMOs; instead of only advertising about the good qualities of GMOs, the company can also address concerns about the ill effects of transgenic crops which would create trust between the company and the consumers. The company can explain how in the coming years with increasing population but having the same amount of land for food production, traditional farming be a practical option, and agro industries will have to adhere to biotechnology and genetic engineering to some extent. Monsanto can start labeling their products as genetically modified giving the consumers the choice of food they want to consume. Monsanto can reduce its extensive patenting of local seeds which makes them expensive for local farmers leading them to bankruptcy. The company can launch organic products along with genetically modified products to serve the consumers who prefer organic products. Organizations like OCA and Navdanya can help the bankrupt farmers who want to grow organically, educate people about the negative effects of GMOs so that the consumers can choose for themselves. Recently FDA ( The Food and Drugs Administration of The United States) proposed that are just as safe to consume as any other produce grown organically and traditionally but because of the connections between Monsanto and FDA ( many former Monsanto executives are employees at FDA), the finding is viewed with skepticism. FDA responded by proposing that organizations or companies who farm organically can specify their products to be organic on the labels, and this will satisfy the consumers who prefer organic food. Nature is governed by its own laws and distorting them will only lead to destruction. Genetically modifying genes and introducing new unknown genes into the ecosystem will not only alter the balance Rawalgaonkar 6 of the system but also result in hazardous consequences. With modern technology able to predict weather forecasts, science and technology has saved our civilizations from many natural disasters but genetic engineering can surely call for a man made disaster from which no technology an save us. Genetic engineering comes with pros as well as cons; it is our responsibility to analyze them and use genetic engineering to our benefit. Just like this technology can feed a thousand more, if not used carefully, it can also destroy a thousand more. Using it cautiously as well as educating consumers about biotechnology and genetic engineering is the only compromise we can make. Rawalgaonkar 7 Works Cited Robin, Marie-Monique. World According To Monsanto : Pollution, Corruption, And The Control Of Our Food Supply. [Electronic . n.p.: New York : The New Press, 2010., 2010. of South Florida Libraries Catalog . Web. 29 Jan. 2017 - http://www.monsanto.com/pages/default.aspx https://www.organicconsumers.org/campaigns/millions-against-monsanto/ monsantos-government-ties Administrator - www.navdanya.org/campaigns/gmo-free Administrator - Wordsworth stated that Romantic poetry was marked by a spontaneous overflow of powerful  (263). Romantic poetry is characterized by the spontaneous overflow of powerful  (Wordsworth 263). Wordsworth extensively explored the role of emotion in the creative process (263).