Higgins 1 Madeline Higgins Professor Gottlieb 2/1/17 ENC 1102 Genetically Modified Foods All companies in the food industry have different feelings and opinions towards genetically modified organisms being used in their products. Most businesses pick a side and either support or go against these No one knows whether they should trust the people who say these organisms are safe or go with the fact that they are bad for humans in the long run. want and deserve to know what is good and bad for them so they can choose the correct lifestyle they want to live based off of true and researched facts. There is also a concern in how these products are marketing which has turned into a political issue over the years. There will always be two sides to an issue such as this one and people will always have their own opinions. No one here is necessarily right or wrong, but there is still a debatable topic at hand that needs to be dealt with. Whether or not genetically modified products are safe has been a controversial issue between many food companies, especially Kraft and Aldi, and it would be extremely effective if the labels on these products told the truth as to what is in them. Kraft is an extremely well known food company that is probably best known for their Macaroni and cheese. The owner of this business has made it clear that the company fully supports and they are used in their products. Kraft feels as if there are many benefits to selling genetically modified products, such as that they are not only safe for people to use, but also harmless to the planet. They are also beneficial because they can enhance the taste of the food which makes more of a profit in the end. Kraft has fallen into the trap of advertising by chemical or biotech companies, which are the ones that produce the seeds which are then used to create certain Kraft products (Scipioni). Going off of the genetically modified seeds, the Higgins 2 statement has been made that, crops can improve yields for farmers, reduce draws on natural resources, and fossil fuels and provide nutritional which is why Kraft would see nothing wrong with using them in their products (Lallanilla). Kraft has a right to believe that using in their products is safe and the most efficient thing to do. On the other hand, Aldi is known for being an all-natural business. Aldi is a discount grocery store that manages to sell products without for very cheap. This business is completely against producing and selling products that contain The company believes that they are bad for health in the long run. It has been stated that, developed nations do not consider to be so of course Aldi is worried about what the long term effects of using in their products would be especially since they already do not believe that they are beneficial or good for a human being in any way (Lallanilla). While being a natural food store, Aldi has surprisingly low prices for many of their items. Aldi is an anti-GMO company because there have been several negative things said about them such as, modified foods have been linked to toxic and allergic reactions, sterile and dead livestock, and damage to virtually every organ studied in lab according to the Institute for Responsible Technology (Lallanilla). If they are that harmful to animals imagine what the effects could possibly be to humans if consumed in the wrong way. These two companies have come together over the same issue and if the right compromise is brought up, the problem could be resolved. It is a knowledge and perception that creates their opinion about (Zhang, 1198). They go off of what they see on the internet or hear on TV and most of the time believe what they are told. Companies need to be honest with the consumers about what is really in their products. The labeling should be truthful and contain all the important information about that product, especially whether or not Higgins 3 were used in the process of making it. One consumer, Tamara Holley, made the statement, have a right to know what we put in our bodies and companies should be held responsible for (Trotter). Most companies do not want to have to go through the process of relabeling all their products because of the major expense, but if it will put minds at ease about knowing what they are eating, it is worth it. Yes, the relabeling might cause the sales of certain products to go down when people are well aware that they contain but it is better if people are aware of what they are purchasing. Even a representative from Kraft stated, continue to make improvement where we which shows that this could be a very reasonable compromise (Mikkelson). Also, the FDA and all of the other organizations in charge of dealing with genetically modified products need to come to a conclusion on whether or not they are actually good for a human to consume or not. A recent study reported that almost 90% of Americans want to know if their food contains (Wolf). All of the constant wondering can be hard on people and it is another reason why they get so anxious when they are not sure what food products to buy at the store. It would make this relabeling process a lot more effective because people could go into it knowing what they want to buy and being able to because the labels are truthful. A conclusion needs to be reached on whether or not they are harmful to humans in the long run and companies need to be honest in their labeling so that they can earn the customers trust by producing a good, safe product. Since there is no final verdict on whether are good or bad, most people get scared away when they see that something has been genetically modified. This is why most companies do not want to have to make it clear on their labels if they contain but it is still unfair for consumers to have no idea what they are eating. Sometimes, people can guess depending on the product whether or not they think it has in it, but the whole process would be a lot easier Higgins 4 if the labeling was honest. Kraft and Aldi both have taken understandable sides in this conflict, but it is time they come together to make a compromise work so the problem can disappear once and for all. Higgins 5 Works Cited Lallanilla, Marc. GMOs: Facts About Genetically Modified  LiveScience. Purch, 11 Jan. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Mikkelson, David. Kraft Macaroni & Cheese Made with GMO  Snopes. Snopes, 18 Mar. 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Scipioni, Jade. Kraft, Pepsi, Coke & Others Want to Keep GMOs Their Little  Fox Business. FOXBusiness, 5 Aug. 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Trotter, Greg. GMO Labeling Debate Puts Food Industry on  Chicagotribune.com. Chicago Tribune, 25 Mar. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Wolf, Clark. Are GMO Foods On The Way  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 19 Apr. 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Zhang, Meng, and Guo-Liang Liu. The Effects Of Subjective And Objective Knowledge On Perceptions And Attitude Towards Genetically Modified Foods: Objective Knowledge As A  International Journal Of Food Science & Technology 50.5 (2015): 1198-1205. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.