Myroradov 1 Dan Myroradov ENC1102.029 Taylor Poston Jan 29, 2017 AMERICAN CINEMATOGRAPHY AND VIOLENCE Film production has become a progressive industry in the United States that generates enormous amounts of content every year. All around the world, people watch American movies, which brings incredible revenue to the production companies and the American film industry as a whole. Not only can films entertain the viewers with exciting stories, they can strongly affect mood and even impact their perception. Additionally, many of the films depict violent scenes in order to attract more attention and therefore make more profit. To protect viewers from the explicit or violent content, Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) was founded. With its Ratings System, it often delimits the opportunities for the film companies to display the stories how they see them. In order to found the agreement, American production companies and MPAA should understand each position regarding the violence in films: the production companies and viewers need to retain their freedom to chose what content they want to see and MPAA needs to able to warn and protect the viewers. Since the establishment of the film industry in the United States, various film production companies were interested in telling an exciting story through the screen. It has become very popular because people were able to visually experience all the happenings and feel empathic for their favorite characters. They could have a certain mood and develop a definite perspective on a presented issue. With the development of Myroradov 2 the industry, more movies would depict the scenes of crime and violence that concerned the municipal governments about the potential loss of a image of the American citizens. Hence, the decision to censor the violent content in the American movies was made. In the article A Century of Film Censorship, Elizabeth McCauley explains how the American films were censored during the last century and compares the Motion Picture Production Code to Ratings System. According to McCauley, the first regulations were not clear enough and were often inconvenient for the film productions. As a result of those policies, numerous films were not allowed to distribute because certain standards were simply not met. In order to overcome the arising protests and make the regulations clearer, the Motion Picture Production Code (MPPC) was created (McCauley par. 5). According to one of the MPAA official illustrations, which shows the timeline of the outstanding changes of the censorship policies, this code was founded in 1922 and is also known as Hays Code, because it was founded by William Hays. Consistent with that code, the scenes of drinking, gambling, violence, and sex were not permitted. Regardless of the fact that MPPC had clearly determined the censorship policies and enabled the film production companies to receive criticism on their movies by Motion Picture Producers and Distributors Association during the filming process in order to secure the release of the films, they were still repressed (par.10). The rules generally dictated what the storylines were expected be. In other words, good had to overcome bad all those who committed bad actions were to be punished, while the good ones were to be rewarded (par. 7). Myroradov 3 No matter how the policies would change over the years, the filmmakers did not have enough freedom to tell their stories accurately and to show the scenes of violence that numerous audiences and viewers wanted to see. Consequently, MPPDA loosened their censorship requirements and some of the movies could be released even when they were tagged as (par.13) Moreover, according to the illustration on the Motion Picture Association of America official website, in 1968, president Jack Valenti replaced the Hays Code with the film rating system we use today. This system endures as a symbol of American freedom of Therefore, MPAA made a progressive step and found a reasonable compromise to then provide more autonomy for the film production companies in the United States. The idea of the Ratings System overall was not supposed to be harmful for the filmmakers, giving them more freedom and not outlawing the violent films, and was instead made to warn the viewers by marking the intensity of the explicit content and violence in the films with such labels as G (general audiences), PG (parental guidance suggested), PG-13 (parents strongly cautioned), R (restricted and requiring accompanying parent or adult guardian under the age of 17), and NC-17 (adults only) all portrayed on another illustration on the Film Rating System on Motion Picture Association of America official web site. McCauley explains that replacing the code with the Ratings System had not resolved the issue completely. The modernized system would still shape the content of the films that contained violence and impede all the explicit films rated as NC-17 from being successfully promoted and distributed (McCauley par.16). The censorship history of the American films shows that the issue was approached differently; however, the inconvenience for the production remains unresolved today. Myroradov 4 To resolve the conflict of the freedom for film production companies and censorship it is important to take into consideration the perspective of MPAA as well. The main interest is to protect the viewers from the violent and explicit content. It is also essential to realize that a huge responsibility lies on the production companies for everything they display in their films. For instance, in a newspaper article Violence in American Movies Is Rising, Study Michael Cieply states that gun violence has significantly increased over the years and can cause a negative influence on the viewers. The researchers from Ohio State University and Annenberg Center determined that presence of violence in American films doubled in the period form 1950 to 2012 (Cieply par. 3). Daniel Roger, the researcher explains that since the depiction of gun violence has increased so drastically, this issue has to be approached seriously (par. 11). All the things considered, the issues with the Ratings System by MPAA and violence in the American films cannot be easily solved. On one hand, the film production companies need to be able to demonstrate the story accurately and attract more attention from the audience, sometimes using the scenes of violence. On the other hand, the MPAA needs to protect the viewers from the possible dangers triggered by the depiction of the implicit or violent content. The best decision for both stakeholders would be to be more understanding in finding common ground and then find a compromise. The film production companies should be more concerned about the safety of the viewers and the Ratings System should become simpler. The viewers should be warned! Myroradov 5 Works Cited Cieply, Michael. Violence in American Movies Is Rising, Study The New York Times, 11 Nov. 2013. of the Official web site of Motion Picture Association of America. < http://www.mpaa.org/our-story/ > McCauley, Elizabeth. Century of Film Back Story, 7 Oct. 2016. Film Rating Official web site of Motion Picture Association of America. < http://www.mpaa.org/film-ratings/ >