Berrios 1 Gerson Berrios Silva Professor Taylor Poston ENC 1102-029 29 January 2017 Immigration Laws A controversial topic that has been surrounding the United States through many aspects, including social media and politics, is immigration and whether they should get benefits. 13.3% of immigrants make up the U.S. population, according to the Migration Policy Institute. Immigrants come to the United States in pursuit of a new beginning because either their country is facing economical/political issues or they have no means of supporting their family in their country. Some U.S. citizens believe immigrants coming into the country should receive full benefits, just like them, while others believe it is wrong and should not be done. The organization FAIR (Federation for American Immigration Reform) believes immigrants take away jobs from the community, drain budget systems, and even pose a threat to the United States. They credit that immigrants should not receive equal benefits. The organization MALDEF (Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund) believes in creating and preserving opportunities for those in search. They trust that immigrants should receive benefits. The views and instilled beliefs of these different organizations are mismatched but through ideas, both sides are able to reach a reasonable compromise. The topic of immigration and the numbers in the United States have been at a constant increase. That is one of the reasons The Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund was founded in 1968. This non-profit organization was built up through the help of the League of United Latin American citizens and The Legal Defense Group. Through grants and funds, they Berrios 2 have been able to help immigrants and expand into many states. According to MALDEF, affects every family, business, and community in the United Because of their saying, they highly believe in creating and preserving opportunities for those in search of a better life or personal freedom in America. The non-profit organization not only wants to help immigrants get established into this country but also push to change unfair reforms. Their mission statement is to social change through advocacy, communications, community education, and litigation in the areas of education, employment, immigrant rights, and political Through this, MALDEF has taken many unconstitutional circumstances into court and with the help of their attorneys have overturned ordinances. The president of the organization, who was elected as a nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, John Trasvina has worked and persisted on reforms for many immigration policies that have changed the lives of many new comers. Overall, MALDEF is constantly working on laws that will give new opportunities and benefits to immigrants constitutionally and welcome them into a new beginning in America. Just like how some citizens believe it is morally correct to give equal benefits to immigrants coming into this country, there are others who fully believe it would be wrong to do so. One organization that promotes this idea is the Federation for American Immigration Reform or FAIR. Their mission statement is educate and increase public awareness of immigration issues, present solutions, hold our leaders accountable for answers, and ensure the voice is This non-profit organization believes that the current U.S. immigration laws should not be reformed to better fit the needs of future coming generations. FAIR advocates solutions that help stop the harmful impact of illegal immigration which in the long run would hurt security, jobs, education, health care, and the environment. They hope to reduce the overall immigration Berrios 3 rate to a level where is more manageable. Reducing the immigration number from one million to a thousand number will aid the United States in growing, addressing other topics, and conserving a high quality of life overall. FAIR judges that due to the United constant growth, both population wise and economically, there is limited space for the current citizens and immigrants should not be granted those openings. Although the organization believes in stopping immigration, they understand it is a sensitive topic and should not be based on favoritism toward, or discrimination against any person on the basis of race, creed, color, religion, gender or The president of the non-profit organization, Dan Stein, is a lawyer working for an America with controlled illegal immigration and reducing it to a level with national interests. Overall, FAIR does not want jobs, health care benefits, education opportunities to be granted to immigrants because those are for American citizens, with these ideas they strive to become a better America. Due to immigration being at an all-time high due to poverty and political issues in many countries, a reasonable compromise needs to be reached. In order to fully carry out the compromise, both MALDEF and FAIR, need to be on equal terms. Using their beliefs and plans for a future America a plan can be carried out. MALDEF wants to provide immigrants with new opportunities, like jobs and education, while FAIR wants to lower the rate of immigration to keep U.S. citizens from the harmful effects. A possible compromise would involve the U.S. Congress to step in as well. The compromise would consist of giving undocumented immigrants immediate status to live and work in America which would speed up the process of them getting permanent residence, or a closer step towards citizenship. Immigrants would no longer be treated unfairly or be deported but rather be opened to new opportunities. The United States cannot just ignore the 11 million immigrants residing in shadow, according to CNN. The compromise would Berrios 4 also include the strengthening of U.S. borders, improved monitoring of incoming visitors, and cracking down on hiring undocumented workers. This would control the number of new immigrants entering and in the long run minimize that number. Immigrants that have a criminal record would be deported. The compromise has both the ideas of the non-profit organizations FAIR and MALDEF. It would be giving immigrants a new chance in life by receiving benefits to work and in the future, receive citizenship to attain full rights. While at the same time, lowering the number of immigrants in the nation and strengthening border security. MALDEF and FAIR would both be on the same page and strive to become a better America, the land of new opportunities. Immigration has been a topic of much discussion due to the rapid increase and the effects. Some organizations want immigrants to have opportunities, such as jobs and education, while other believe it is a harm to American society because they take away jobs. The people that believe it is wrong consider that the opportunities should be giving to the residing citizens. Both sides have different ideas and beliefs which calls for a reasonable compromise. The compromise would not only allow both sides to be content but also the playing factor, immigrants. The compromise consists of granting undocumented immigrants immediate access to jobs and life in America and in the long run permanent residence in America, a closer step towards citizenship. In addition, the strengthening of borders, monitoring of incoming visitors, cracking down on undocumented workers would be added to the compromise. This would result in the immigration number decreasing and providing more security for United citizens. Through this agreement from both organizations, new hope can be granted to groups of people while at the same time conserving a beautiful and prosperous America. Berrios 5 Works Cited About FAIR Federation for American Immigration  Federation for American Immigration Reform. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Bash, Dana, and Tom Cohen. Possible Compromise on Immigration Reform Takes  CNN. Cable News Network, 28 Jan. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Frequently Requested Statistics on Immigrants and Immigration in the United  Migration Policy Institute. N.p., 26 May 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Oxley, Shannon. Federation For American Immigration Reform  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Romero, Tom I. II. MALDEF And The Legal Investment In A Multi-Colored America  Berkeley La Raza Law Journal (2007): 135. HeinOnline. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Protecting  MALDEF: Protecting Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.