Giang 1 Helen Giang Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 Stem Cell Research Stem cells are the future of regenerative medicine. These cells are also known as unspecialized cells, meaning that they can transform into almost any type of tissue in the body, making this research extremely important and valuable. Stem cell can be found in both embryos and adult the difference is, stem cells that are abstracted from the embryo has the ability to do more than adult stem cells. Since the embryo is at such an early state, the cells have not been assigned to do anything yet, making the stem cell easier to work with when dealing with regenerating other tissue in the body. However, the negative part to using embryos is it tears apart the embryo ultimately killing the life of the embryo. Some have argued embryonic stem cells are derived from embryos that develop from eggs that have been fertilized in an in vitro fertilization then donated for research purposes with informed consent of the donors. They are not derived from eggs fertilized in a (NIH p.1) Meaning that they believe the life of the embryo has not even start. In adults, stem cells can be found in different parts of the body such as bone marrow and inside the umbilical cord at birth. Stem Cells have the ability to transform into almost anything in the human body because of this discovery scientist are eager to do more research. Although some organization such as the International Society of Stem Cell Research understand the health benefits that can affect millions of people, organizations, such as the Christian Coalition, oppose stem cell research due to the belief that stem cells are derived from a result of an abortion. However, these two organizations could come to an agreement to only use adult stem cells. The Christian Coalition organization is concerned about the lives of the embryo Giang 2 that are being destroyed in the process but if adult stem cells are used instead, there is no life being harmed and consent is given. Although stem cell research can change the lives of many people, some can argue this practice is morally wrong or unethical. The Christian Coalition is one of the many groups or organizations who oppose stem cell research if it harms life. This organization was founded in 1989 by a religious broadcaster named Pat Robertson. He and the other people in the organization work together as a political organization, they continuously to identify, educate and mobilize Christians for effective political (Christian Coalition p.3) This organization follows and lives by the Bible to its fullest and because of this, they do not believe in killing embryos for their stem cells is right. Even though scientist claim life of an embryo do not start the process of life until a certain point in time is met, the Christian Coalition do not believe that the life of one should be taken away just to give life to another. The Christian coalition do not oppose stem cell research however they are against the destruction of embryos in the process. They do not mind if the stem cells are being abstracted from adults because it does not kill them or harm them in the process. On the other hand, there are organization that are for the cause of stem cell research and believe it is for the greater good. An example of one of the non-profited organizations is the International Society of Stem Cell Search (ISSCR). The ISSCR was founded by Leonard Zon who was a professor at Harvard Medical School, Zon served as the first president for this organization in 2001. One of the main goals that this organization intends to do is help the and dissemination of information and ideas relating to stem Statement p. 2). The international society or stem cell research (ISSCR) believe that stem cell research yield cell replacement therapies for a multitude of devastating and widespread genetic, malignant, a Giang 3 degenerative disease that are currently (ISSCR, guidelines p.1) meaning that they believe more good can come from the bad. When it comes to embryonic cells the ISSCR goes through certain guidelines that help with answering whether decisions are ethical. This shows the organization understand that embryotic stem cells may be negative however more good can come from the research. Both the Christian Coalition and the International Society of Stem Cell Research cannot come to an agreement. The reason why they have not yet come to an agreement is because the ISSCR want to continue to use embryotic stem cells, scientist claim stem cells are often present in only minute quantities and can therefore be difficult to isolate and (NIH p.16) which makes using adult stem cell more difficult. However, the Christian Coalition strongly disagree on, there have also been claims that is now possible to reprogram adult somatic cells to become like embryonic stem cells (induced pluripotent stem cells, iPSCs) through the introduction of embryonic (NIH p.17). The Christian Coalition are a strong believer that life should not be taken away from one to give life or benefits to another. Even though the International Society of Stem Cell Research and the Christian Coalition have not yet come to an agreement there could be a possibility in the future where the only adult stem cell can be used. That way no living being is being harmed and there in consent from the donators. In 1991 stem cell were discovered, it was not until 1998 was when they become more popular and open to the public. Stem cell research is essential to modern medicine and improvement of health worldwide. The International Society of Stem Cell Research and the Christian Coalition could come to an agreement that would provide for the greater good for the world. Giang 4 Works Cited About the  About the ISSCR. Isscr.org, n.d. Web. Isscr.org, accessed 1 Jan. 2016. Catholic Support for Ethically Acceptable Stem Cell  Catholic Support for Ethically Acceptable Stem Cell Research., n.d. Web. Usccb.org, accessed1 Jan. 2016. Use Embryos in Stem Cell Research, Pope  Reuters. Thomson Reuters, 11 Oct. 2007. Web. Meengs, By L.S. Controversy: Embryonic Stem Cell  The Megaphone., N.p., 19 May 2014. Web. Stem Cell  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Christian  About Us Christian Coalition. Christian Coalition of America, 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.