Jude Pierre Professor Aranda ENC 1102 02/05/2017 Should Marijuana be allowed for Pain Relief in Professional American Football? The National Football League founded in 1920 in Canton, Ohio is by far one of the largest stakeholder organizations in the modern day era and American Football itself is one of the most popular and most watched sport in the United States and worldwide. However, although American Football is such fun to watch, it is also exceptionally dangerous. The hard hitting, explosive burst of speed and strength and hours of preparation needed to play at this level can wear on the body overtime. Because of this rehab always enough and a type of pain relief drug is needed to calm inflammation in muscles and joints or to help players function throughout their daily lives. A type of pain relief that is growing in popularity for medical use is medical marijuana. Which is the use of Cannabis for medical benefits, usually in a hospital setting. However, the use of marijuana period is on the Substance and failure to comply to following the Substance can result in a suspension. However, it is important for not just the owners of NFL teams to have a say in what rules are in place, but for the players, the people the fans come to see have a say as well. Thats where the NFLPA or National Football League Players Association comes in. The NFLPA, founded in November 1960, is an stakeholder organization devoted to the safety of the players and that the players of the NFL are being treated fairly. The NFLPA is an opposing stakeholder because of its proposition and push to allow marijuana to be used in the NFL for pain relief use, although the NFL fears it can be a bad look for the business and can lead to an unfair advantage. These two stakeholders will come to a compromise if they allow the use of marijuana in the NFL.However, the lift of the marijuana ban must come with limitations and regulations. The NFL is an organization that prides itself on its integrity and fairness for all players. This involves prohibiting and discouraging the use of during the season and during the off season..This is done to avoid any player having an unfair advantage over any other player. The drugs prohibited in the NFL include cocaine,opiates MDMA , PCP and of course marijuana. The National Institute on Drug Abuse is an organization that studies the effects of many different drugs. This organization stated that marijuana is a plant that when commonly smoked can senses, alter sense of time, change mood, impair body movement and impair Institute on Drug Abuse. Blog . Mar. 2016. Web. 4 Feb. 2017). With these effects one can see why the NFL dreads even the thought of players smoking or intaking marijuana in any form before games or even during games. The game is dangerous enough as it is, if a player is in a state of euphoria while playing because it is allowed, lawsuits, complications and fatal injuries could occur. Marijuana being prohibited in sports is common.In fact, the USADA or U.S Anti Doping Agency, which works to keep the game fair in all sports by discouraging use of drugs to gain a competitive advantage stated has the potential to enhance or enhances sport performance,It represents an actual or potential health risk to the athlete, It violates the spirit of A. FAQ U.S. Anti-Doping agency www.usada.org . U.S. Anti-Doping Agency (USADA), 27 Oct. 2015. Web. 4 Feb. 2017). The prohibition of marijuana just common in football common in sports as a whole. The NFLPA is an organization whose only duty and priority is to make the players of the NFL voice be heard and protect them while in the NFL and after their NFL careers are over. The use of painkillers in pill form is a common treatment in the NFL for aches and pains and without self control can become addictive. Excessive consumption of over the counter pain relievers can result in complications in the body. The National Kidney Foundation is an organization with the foundation of studies and research on the kidneys and what can affect or harm the kidneys in anyway. The NKF states that or long-term use of some of these medicines, such as ibuprofen, naproxen, and higher dose aspirin, can cause chronic kidney disease known as chronic interstitial National Kidney. medicines www.kidney.org . The National Kidney Foundation, 3 Feb. 2017. Web. 4 Feb. 2017.). In a former interview with former NFL superstar Calvin Johnson by the Washington Post a credible, extremely popular newspaper. Calvin Johnson says were handed out like Des Bieler By Des. Johnson Says Painkillers Were Handed out to NFL Post . Washington Post, 6 July 2016. Web. 4 Feb. 2017.) when he played. Studies show the use of Cannabis as a pain relief to be successful. The Hawaii journal of Public Health wrote an article explaining the benefits of Cannabis for medical sue, especially the medical use of pain relief. The article states when patients used Cannabis for pain relief reported pain relief from medical cannabis was Charles W, and Sandra M Webb. Benefits of Cannabis: A Patient 73.4 (2014): n.pag. Web. 4 Feb. 2017). NFLPA proposed the ban on marijuana to be uplifted to avoid players being addicted to painkillers while they play the game and after they are done with their careers. The end of the dependence on pain relieving pills can prevent tragedies like disease and overdose in the future. Overall, although both organization have different views on how to promote and encourage player safety, they both care about player safety and a start on the journey to coming to a compromise.The lift on the ban of marijuana in professional American Football is is possible and inevitable A proper solution and compromise for both these stakeholder organizations would be to allow the use of medical marijuana for pain relieving purposes, but only for certain injuries, it can only be used over the offseason and not only the team physician, but an independent NFL physician, to avoid any medical authorization, deems it all right. Also, to go with the use of medical marijuana being heavily supervised by medical doctors, unless given a special permit as well to go along with two authorizations from physicians, the medical marijuana can only be used during the offseason and during the BYE week. The reason this is a fair and reasonable compromise for both stakeholder organization is because the NFLPA or National Football League players Association will have their thoughts and wishes heard and have the prohibition on marijuana changed or reversed and players will be able to fight aches and pain with the use of Cannabis. This will help players steer away from the heavy reliance on pills to reduce pain caused by inflammation, injuries or extreme soreness. The NFL or National Football League Association will benefit from this compromise because although the use of marijuana is now allowed for pain relief purposes, there are strict regulation and limitations to the use. This will reduce the chance of a player having an unfair advantage or reduce the risk of a player going into a game or even leaving a game in the wrong state of mind. This not only helps maintain the integrity and spirit of the game, but also helps the players stay safe. besides their differences, both organizations want the safety of their players to come first. Works Cited Institute on Drug Abuse. Blog . Mar. 2016. Web. 4 Feb. 2017). A. FAQ U.S. Anti-Doping agency . U.S. Anti-Doping Agency (USADA), 27 Oct. 2015. Web. 4 Feb. 2017). Institute on Drug Abuse. Blog . Mar. 2016. Web. 4 Feb. 2017). Des Bieler By Des. Johnson Says Painkillers Were Handed out to NFL Post . Washington Post, 6 July 2016. Web. 4 Feb. 2017.) (Webb, Charles W, and Sandra M Webb. Benefits of Cannabis: A Patient 73.4 (2014): n.pag. Web. 4 Feb. 2017) .