Gore 1 Maribeth Gore Professor Sarah Basil ENC 1102 25 January 2017 Legalization of Prostitution Feminist groups such as the Sex Workers Outreach Project-USA and the United States Legislative branch are at odds upon decriminalizing prostitution. The decriminalization of prostitution is a matter of morality and freedom. If the Sex Workers Outreach Project- USA and the United States government were to collaborate to legalize and decriminalize prostitution in America in a morally and ethically satisfactory way, the lives of prostitutes and their customers would be greatly improved, rates of sex trafficking would be greatly reduced, and not to mention the economic boost the American economy would experience. The Sex Workers Outreach Project- USA (SWOP-USA) are strong supporters of the fundamental human rights of those involved in sex work and hope to end violence and stigma through educating and advocating within communities SWOP-USA provides community support lines for current or former sex workers, and activists can receive peer support, directly respond to news that affect sex workers, advocate on a national level, fund local chapters and provide mentoring and leadership development to new organization and initiatives SWOP believes decriminalization would help to decrease harm and promote action with those involved in sex work Through nonviolent action SWOP hopes to reduce violence and achieve dignity and rights for sex workers. SWOP committed to the respect, safety, and autonomy of all sex workers, and seeks to amplify the voices of those who Gore 2 are often left out of discourse around the issues address collectively as a social justice The United States legislative branch has become increasingly conservative recently. The policy makers and law enforcement currently use research to set up interventions for prostitutes, investigate homicides related to prostitution, and examine the relative costs and benefits of focusing on arresting prostitutes versus arresting their clients Prostitution: Pathways, Problems and ). Prostitution is viewed as immoral and unethical to the majority Christian citizens of the United States. The crusades against prostitution are directed towards the legislative branch of the government. Crusaders call upon political elites to do something about the problem, and successful crusades result in some kind of (Weitzer 33). The government seems to be moving further away from decriminalization of prostitution, yet prostitution was estimated to make to 1.6 (Tanzi 431) dollars in revenue in the underground economy in 1976. Decriminalization is characterized by the government involvement and removes any laws or regulations regarding voluntary, consensual (Rayborn 131). Sweden decriminalized prostitution, in 2002, with the goal to combat violence against women and promote gender equality (Rayborn 132). Also with the decriminalization of prostitution in Sweden, estimated number of men purchasing prostitution had decreased by about seventy- five (Rayborn 133). However, decriminalization makes it harder for prostitutes in Sweden to be reached by non-governmental organizations and other public health initiatives, increasing health risks for prostitutes. Also, the lack of demand could force sex workers to make deals and negotiate in hidden areas, quickly, which is not different from how they already compose business, raising the risk of violence towards sex workers. the selling Gore 3 of sex, while criminalizing the purchasing of sex, would not give a state or county the ability to control the market and conditions of practice of prostitution that inevitably will 134). model of decriminalization does not serve the goals of the Sex Workers Outreach Project, because it does not reduce violence against sex workers. It may fit the morality of the legislative branch by reducing prostitution; however, it is hard to justify the morality of continued violence towards women. Instead the Netherlands took a more relaxed approach to decriminalization by lifting bans on brothels and pimping but requiring licensing. This approach targeted abuse suffered by sex workers by acting against businesses operating without a license, as well as institutes health requirements and condom usage (Rayborn 134). Also for safety prostitutes are given a button that is wired to local police for protection from violent (Rayborn 135). The institution of this approach in America would help decrease violence towards sex workers, morally making it the correct approach for the American legislative branch to take. Therefore, it is possible for these groups to cooperate to morally decriminalize prostitution in America. Even though Netherlands approach does not abolish prostitution, it encourages a more moral and safer way of sex work. Increased safety for sex workers and equality under the law expresses the morals that were laid out in the ground work of the American government. The legislative branch and the interests of the Sex Workers Outreach Group are both pleased and improved by the approach to decriminalization. Gore 4 Annotated Bibliography About  Sex Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Project. SWOP-USA, 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Home  Sex Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Project. N.p., 2016. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Prostitution: Pathways, Problems and  National Institute of Justice. USA.gov, 29 Sept. 2009. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. RAYBORN, JARED R. Regulated Prostitution as A Component In The Fight Against Human Trafficking In  Willamette Law Review 50.1 (2013): 115-162. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 23 Jan. 2017. TANZI, V.. The underground economy in the United States: estimates and  PSL Quarterly Review 33.135 (1980): n. pag. Web. 23 Jan. 2017 Weitzer, Ronald. Moral Crusade Against  Society 43.3 (2006): 33-38. Academic Search Premier. Web. 23 Jan. 2017.