Fishman 1 Jack Fishman Professor Wiggs ENC 1101 29 January 2016 Rough Draft #2 ! When one googles the term internet censorship looking for a basic definition, one will find something along the lines of what Wikipedia lists it as. They state that internet censorship is basically control or suppression of what can be accessed, published, or viewed on the Internet enacted by regulators, or on their own (Wikipedia). Countries all over the world have different views on how the internet should be handled, places like Germany, Canada and the United States have some of the more lenient takes on internet control, while countries like North Korea control everything and provide very little internet access to their citizens and countries like China have high access to internet but the internet is highly controlled. The question I want to look at for this project is essentially a two part question, the first being is there any benefits to internet censorship and if so should internet censorship exist and to what extent? ! ! Beech, Hannah, et al. The Other Side Of The Great  Time 185.23 (2015): 48-51. Academic Search Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. ! Fishman 2 This is a Time magazine article that gives a unique perspective and inside into internet regulations. In China many of the largest technology companies do not exist or operate there due to regulations, companies like Google, Facebook and Amazon have what appear to be mirror images of their concepts operating under Chinese control in China due to their regulations. google is called Baidu, its Facebook is called Tencent and its Amazon is called Alibaba. All of these can be used in other places with internet access but in China they are the only option for those services. The article makes claims that because China controls everything within their internet that it helps their economy because it keeps all the cyber money within China. It also claims that the price of internet stays cheaper in China because they do it this was as well. In terms of how this connects to the research question. I think it gives a really fair and honest look into the world of high controlled internet. It does not completely throw away the idea, it puts it all into perspective showing off how the world second largest economy uses a highly regulated internet to its advantage. Time magazine is a credibly source and upon looking into the author it appears that China and southeast Asia appear to be here area of expertise which gives her good merit to speak upon the issue, she was also born in China meaning she has experience with it. ! Soldatov, Andrei. The Taming Of The  Russian Politics & Law 53.5/6 (2016): 63-83. Academic Search Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This article was written in a journal about Russian politics and law. The article breaks down how and why Russia censors its internet the way it does. The article talks about the history of how Fishman 3 everything came to be, all of it stemming from relationship with Global internet business leaders. Russia has a different approach from how China does its regulations, instead of having its own countries internet companies create basically replicas of certain websites, Russian instead tries to manage how the already existing companies operate within their country. The article also talks about what Russia bans from its internet, it has a four level ban list, why they ban it and how Russian intelligence monitors the information they can access through the internet and why. The article was published in scholarly journal specially for Russian politics and law. I googled Andrei Soldatov to find that he is a Russian investigative journalist as well as a Russian secret service experts which I believe gives him merit to write about these topics. This article applies to the question because it gives another perspective about internet censorship from a place that does it differently from China but still has strict regulations but for different reasons. ! WANG, DAKUO1, dakuo.wang@uci.edu, and GLORIA1, gmark@uci.edu MARK. Internet Censorship In China: Examining User Awareness And  ACM Transactions On Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI) 22.6 (2015): 31:1-31:22. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. ! This is another article about internet regulations but it is from a different perspective than Other Side Of The Great The article I listed earlier in this annotated bibliography focuses on internet censorship from more of an outside perspective hence the name Other Side Of The Great This article focuses on internet Fishman 4 censorship from more of an insiders perspective. article is more data and question based than the time magazine article. Wang asked Chinese citizens for their opinions about the internet censorship and formulated data and answers to his questions through that. His questions focused around whether or not people were aware of the internet censorship and if they were did they think it was needed or not. This article also has charts breaking down the data of the responses he got to his questions. The article is scholarly which makes it credible. Also the thing I really like about the article which adds to its credibility is the fact that the article has actual data and statistics to back up what is being said in the article. In terms of how this applies to the question being asked, the article gives a unique insiders perspective to the question about internet censorship. The data of the article comes from one of the most censored places in the world which helps give a better understanding of how internet censorship really works and whether or not people benefit from it or not. ! Palfrey, John. Four Phases Of Internet  Social Research 77.3 (2010): 981-996. Business Source Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This article is different from the rest in the sense that it does not really help to answer the research question but it instead helps understand what internet censorship is all about. The article like the title states breaks down internet regulation into four different sections. The first being which is exactly what it states, an open internet without regulations. The next phase is which is the phase where certain things begin to get regulated and blocked. The next stage is which is similar to access denied in the sense that not everything is free and unregulated but different because it uses more modernized technology Fishman 5 to filter instead of block. The last stage is which is where things on the internet are directly effected by companies involved. For example the article talks about googling and in the United States and how it differs if you were to google the same thing from a middle eastern country. The article is scholarly which lets me know that it is credible.For how it applies to the question being asked, like I stated earlier it does not really help to answer that actual question but it instead helps to understand the question being asked. The article can be used to explain why the question is being asked which in turn will help better understand the question so that the question can be properly addressed. By explaining what internet censorship is in terms of stages of it helps give a better understand because internet censorship has so many different layers.