Solanke 1 Emmanuel Solanke Professor Staiger ENC 1102 1/27/17 The legal Drinking Age With the current generation, there has been a debate dealing with the legal drinking age limit. One side want the legal drinking age to go down from its current age limit of 21, giving reasons like how people younger can die for the country, and how at 18, individuals are officially considered adults per the government. But another side wants to keep the limit at where it is right now, with reasons dealing with health issues, and less traffic related accidents. Both these stakeholders share something in common, they both care about other people, one does care about a safety, and another care about their freedom/rights. But they both share that goal of caring about others. A compromise between the two stakeholders would deal with lowering the drinking age to 19 or 20 but a limit is set on how much alcohol can be bought by that person. Regarding this issue, we have two main stakeholders. One group wants to keep the drinking age limit at it is currently, age 21, the organization associated with this argument is called Mothers Against Drunk Drivers, also known as MADD. MADD was formed in 1980, formed by a mother who lost her child from a drunk driver, since then, MADD has been making impacts around the country, advocating against drunk or drugged driving, pleading their stories to lawmakers and preventing underage drinking by talking to young adults (MADD 2017). Eric Hoover who wrote an article called MADD, the legal drinking age is not up for he tells the reader that MADD was able to convince President Ronald Regan to support legislation that they supported (Hoover 2008). mission is to drunk driving, drugged driving, Solanke 2 support victims of these activities, and prevent drunk (MADD 2017). On their stance on the legal drinking limit, MADD wants it to stay where it is, citing that lives have been saved and will continue to prevent more tragedies. The organization states that based on research done, younger folks have a different reaction to alcohol compared to adults, essentially, young adults know how to control themselves with alcohol, they know when enough is enough. MADD states that even lowering the drinking age, alcohol will still be seen as a big deal and will still attract younger folks. To them, younger folks should wait till the legal age before having alcohol, due to safety, their brains are still be developed, and could have effects later in life. Now the second stakeholder, who is in support of lowering the legal drinking limit is an organization called the Student for Sensible Drug Policy or SSDP for short. SSDP is an organization of students who are concerned about drug abuse in their communities and are fighting against the war on drugs. They do this by empowering young people to know their rights, participate in the political process, and push for more (Student for Sensible Drug Policy 2017). The organizations main goal is for individual to make their own decisions, they also want engagement from both sides about these issues. SSDP gives us three arguments as to why we should lower the drinking age, 21 fosters unsafe drinking habits, it gives guardians more options, and its inconsistency with the definition of adulthood. Starting with the fostering of unsafe drinking habits, SSDP explains that due to the drinking limit, young adults are drinking behind closed doors which ends up becoming binge drinking. With regarding giving guardians more options, SSDP tells us that if the drinking age is lowered, it can hopefully plant safe drinking practices with their children, contrast to drinking behind closed doors. Lastly when talking about the inconsistency with the definition of adulthood, In the United States of America, Solanke 3 you are considered an adult at the age of 18, you can vote, serve in the armed forces, even serve on a jury, and SSDP states inconsistencies because they drink alcohol. Even with their differences, they share the similarity of wanting to help others. MADD wants to make sure young adults and the people around them are safe from drunk/drugged driving, and underage drinking. While SSDP focuses on empowers young adults to get involved in fighting for their rights regarding the war on drugs, they advocate for drug use, but advocate for making your own decisions on these issues. A compromise between the two stakeholders would be dropping the legal drinking limit set at the age of 19, but it comes with years with some form of schooling, some government programing, as well as there being a limit on how much these young adults can consume to make sure they drunk to the point where they function correctly. Scott Walters is a university dean of students wrote a fictional letter, in the letter the country is pictured to have lowered the drinking age but has limits on the young adults mainly the ones entering college. He gives us examples saying how alcohol is served on campus, but checks in place for safety like monthly health and safety inspection, as well as an excise tax on the alcohol that was put in place according to the letter. If a compromise like the one suggested by Walters was put in place, there might not be a change right off the bat, but over time alcohol will stop being so important, accidents could be reduced, and people get to choose how they dictate their lives regarding alcohol. Furthermore, regarding the issue on lowering the legal drinking limit, there are two stakeholders, one who want it lowered for issues related to health and safety. The second stakeholder wants it lowered for issues regarding rights of people. A compromise between the two would benefit both, supporting both ideals. Solanke 4 Works Cited Hoover, Eric. MADD, the Legal Drinking Age Is Not Up for The Chronicle of Higher Education, vol. 55, no. 11. Madd. MADD - Mothers Against Drunk  MADD - Mothers Against Drunk Driving. www.MADD.org . Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Ssdp. Lowering the Drinking  Students for Sensible Drug Policy. http://ssdp.org/campaigns/lowering-drinking-age/ . Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Toomey, Traci L. Rosenfeld, Carolyn. Wagenaar, Alexander. Minimum Legal Drinking Age: History, Effectiveness, and Ongoing Alcohol Health & Research World, vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 213. Walters, Scott T. the Drinking Age Were Lowered, What Then? A View from the Year Journal of American College Health, vol. 58, no. 6, pp. 579-581.