Crisp 1 Matthew Crisp Robert Ryan ENC 1102 01/26/2016 Project 1: Intermediate Draft As a country, the United States is divided on more than just a few topics. Planned Parenthood, welfare reform, and military spending have been issues that have been debated for decades. Within the last past twenty years or so, one issue has become an increasingly hot topic: marijuana legalization. Marijuana was outlawed in the United States in the early due to popular belief that it was being brought over American borders and being sold to children and adolescents, which most people thought would then turn them into criminals. Then in the the War on Drugs sparked the fear of marijuana back into the hearts of many Americans as it was classified by the DEA as treacherous and harmful to people. However, within the last few decades, leniency on marijuana laws has ignited much controversy and debate again. Typically, with marijuana legalization, there are people who support it, those who and those that support it for medical reasons. Many organizations have surfaced since the topic has become more prevalent. A few of which are the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, and the Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana. Despite both organizations being the absolute opposites of each other, there may be some middle ground for the two. NORML is a pro-marijuana, non-profit organization that was established in 1970 to provide a voice for those that believe marijuana had a right to be legalized recreationally and medically in the United States. mission statement, specifically, is to the public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an Crisp 2 advocate for consumers to assure that they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and to Reform Marijuana About NORML, norml.org/about). NORML has multiple divisions of its organization, having a PAC, a legal committee, a business network, and a foundation dedicated to educating the public through a series of advertisements, with the Bloomberg/NYC advertisement being decreed as one of their most popular. These divisions offer job positions, such as being part of the NORML business network, or being a lawyer for those that are convicted for illegal marijuana use, so even though NORML is a non-profit organization, it a volunteer organization. NORML is governed by a board of directors that consists of economists, lawyers, attorneys, entrepreneurs, and physicians, whom all of which believe that marijuana is economically beneficial and nearly harmless if used responsibly. CALM is basically the antithesis of NORML. It is an all-volunteer PAC that opposes the use of marijuana, whether it be recreational or medical CALM USA, calmusa.org/). Despite having its roots embedded in preventing California from legalizing marijuana, it also aims to diffuse this goal to other states as well. It is also currently the biggest anti-marijuana organization in the United States to date. Despite being all-volunteer, there are plenty specified unpaid jobs that the public can participate in to halt the legalization of marijuana, such as composing anti-marijuana speeches and publicly presenting them to the local community, helping donate to campaign against marijuana legalization, providing research that indicates that marijuana may be harmful, or helping develop website to be more current and up to date. CALM is backed and allied with numerous organizations that also are against the legalization of marijuana; Parents Opposed to Pot, Drug Free America Foundation, and Smart Approaches to Marijuana are just to name a few. Because CALM is a Crisp 3 heavily-backed PAC, that gives it a little bit of political strength, which is beneficial to its cause seeing as that legalization of marijuana is a very political topic. To summarize, NORML is pro-marijuana, which includes recreational and medical use, for responsible adults. They wish for marijuana to be treated like alcohol in the way that those under the age of 21 should not permitted to use it, and that they understand that marijuana can impair judgement and cause brain developmental issues in adolescents to Reform Marijuana NORML Policy on Personal Use NORML.Org Working to Reform Marijuana Laws, norml.org/about/item/norml-policy-on-personal-use). CALM is completely opposed to marijuana because they feel that marijuana will get into the hands of adolescents and youths, and be abused in the way alcohol can be abused CALM USA, calmusa.org/calmcablog?category=Youth). They also feel that legalizing marijuana is economically harmful and unsubstantial, and rely on the older research regarding the harm of marijuana. Essentially, these organizations are the complete polar opposites of each other, however, the fact that they share the want to give best to the public of the United States may be enough to go on. Despite their differences on the topic at hand, a few solutions could be at hand. According to their mission statement, goal is to legalize marijuana recreationally and medically nationwide. CALM wants to hinder and eradicate the progressing leniency on marijuana laws, and outlaw it all together. Two compromises seem apparent here, where each compromise benefits one more than the other. The first compromise involves the disintegration of the CALM donation service, which would limit the amount of money that CALM could utilize to continue its campaign against the legalization of marijuana. Due to this hindrance in organization, preventing marijuana legalization would be much more Crisp 4 difficult to accomplish, and in turn, benefit NORML. However, in this case, NORML would also have adjust its goals. Instead of pursuing the mission of legalizing marijuana for all responsible use and decriminalizing it completely, NORML could aim its sights slightly lower, and simply attempt to legalize marijuana for medical use only, and only decriminalize the use of marijuana to a point that remains in the confines of what is legal for medical marijuana usage. Even though NORML has to alter its values and mission statement to achieve this compromise, it might be more beneficial to NORML due to the fact that PAC would be weakened slightly. Alternatively, the second compromise might be more constructive for CALM. One of main strategies for spreading their influence regarding marijuana as a favorable drug is through their use of advertising, or specifically, through the NORML Foundation, which is, as mentioned earlier, their division that handles the advertising of their message. If NORML disbanded their advertising foundation, then it would limit their message to the public of their stance on marijuana, thus making their mission a little bit harder. In response to this, CALM could stop campaigning their anti-marijuana message in states that already have marijuana legalized in one form or another. Seeing as that there are only a handful of states that have marijuana legalized or decriminalized, this would be more helpful for CALM in the way that they would have much more territory to expand their anti-marijuana influence, or to rather preserve the anti-marijuana influence that is already quite rife in most of the other states in the United States. Despite having a relatively vague middle ground, and compromises that revolve heavily around being mutually productive, the compromises seem fair and just considering the fact that the pair of these organizations are completely at odds with one another. Each compromise dampens the ability for each organization to spread its message and continue reaching their goals that their missions statements decree, but at the same time also helps each Crisp 5 organization continue its work without drawbacks, such as backlash from one organization to another.