DIAZ 1 Viviana Virginia Diaz Melim Robert Ryan Composition II January 27, 2017 Animal Testing Animal testing can be defined as any experimental procedure realized in non-human animals in order to understand, evaluate, and observe the reaction or behavior of this organisms when they are exposed to certain stimulus. Animals have been used for experimentation from about millions of years in order to get data and information that can be used to develop drugs for humans. This method of providing data have been increasing over the years, creating controversy between animal rights activists, scientists and companies that rely and trust in the importance of animal testing for research purposes. PETA and FBR are two organizations that work as an example of this different points of view. This paper will seek to understand and explain the purposes and perspectives of this organizations in order to develop a compromise between them that can benefit them both, respecting their priorities and values. The People for the Ethical Treatment of animals (PETA) is a nonprofit organization that aims to defend, protect, and establish the rights of animals. They want to make people aware of all the suffering that animals go through due to human activities. They base their ideology in the slogan ARE NOT OURS, to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other This way we can observe that they reject any kind of human contact that can harm the life of this organisms. They promote the idea that humans DIAZ 2 have no right to use animals for their own benefit because animals suffer and feel pain. This organization aims to educate people of how they should treat animals. Also, they make people aware of how health can be affected in negative ways due to human activities. In their webpage, they use the rhetorical appeal of pathos, showing pictures and videos were animals are being mistreated by humans. This way we can notice that they pretend to touch people with the purpose of influencing their actions in a positive and more animal friendly way. PETA propose that animal testing is a waste of lives because the data obtained from this researches is not accurate most of the time. According to The Food and Drug Administration (FDA), PETA webpage states, percent of all drugs that are shown to be safe and effective in animal tests fail in human trials because they work or are This explains that substances that may work on rats can produce negative effects on human beings. This is the reason why PETA states that all the suffering that animals go through in experiments is not worth it. According to Sonali and Dhawale, the number of animals used for testing has increased drastically over the past years. They state that even though this type of experimentation has been used for research, it is an old-fashioned method that harms the animals. This authors explain how laboratories isolate animals from their natural habits and are expose to procedures that make them suffer, causing discomfort, pain, and distress (Sonali and Dhawale 224). Most of the time, when the experiment is over, scientists use euthanasia to all the animals that had survive to all the harmful procedures. This shows how animals life is abused and sometimes misused during this practices. The Foundation for Biomedical Research (FBR) is a nonprofit organization that aims to improve the life of both animals and humans. They embrace and support the importance DIAZ 3 of animal testing for medical purposes. They guarantee that testing with animals provides important data that had helped to increase human life span. Animal researches help scientists to understand how specific diseases acts in the body. Once they have this information, they can develop and evaluate treatments in animals before being used in humans. In order to provide to the audience a good understanding of the importance of biomedical research in animals, this organization relies on the slogan testing is essential. Animal research saves This organization as well introduces in their webpage the rhetorical appeal of pathos, showing little kids suffering of terrible diseases. This way they seek to make their audience aware and conscious of how their medical research can help to find the cure of ilnesses that affect humans and animals. Furthermore, with pathos FBR aims to influence in positive ways they audience to receive more donations that will be designated to medical research purposes. According to Garattini and Grignaschi, animals used on experimentations such as rats have similar features to humans such as organs and metabolic processes (2). They explain the importance of animal testing arguing how absorption, distribution, transportation, metabolism, and excretion plays an important role when evaluating the response of an organism to a specific drug. Alive animals provide to researchers very dynamic and complex conditions that help them to understand and evaluate how a certain drug acts in the organism. Also, the use of in vivo techniques help scientists to evaluate how drugs affect some functional activities (Garanttini and Grignaschi 2). For example: some drugs can cause sleeplessness in animals. We can observe that FBR and PETA are both nonprofit organizations. This means that they both rely on the funds that they can receive from other organizations, people, and DIAZ 4 any other entities. We can evidence that they both include the rhetorical appeal of pathos in order to influence their audience actions in a way that can be beneficial for the organization. Moreover, PETA and FBR seek to create awareness among their audience about the ideas and values that they have. In the one hand, purpose is to protect animal rights and stop the suffering that they are exposed due to human activities. In the other hand, FBR aims to improve the life of both animals and humans throughout their medical research, finding the cure to several illnesses that affect health in negative ways. We can evidence throughout this paper how PETA and FBR share a common outcome: improve the health of animals and protect them from pain. FBR protects them against illnesses and PETA protects them against suffering produced by human activities. In order to find a solution between the different ideas of this organizations, it is important to develop a compromise between them, respecting their values and ideologies. PETA is an organization that receives thousands of dollars from their funds. In the interest of stablishing a compromise, PETA needs to destiny some of their funds to FBR in order to provide monetary help for the implementation of computer bases-modellings as an alternative to the use of animals for experimentation. FBR needs to be willing to implement the new technology for their research purposes. As well, this organization will need to invest some of their funds to install the new machinery and equipment. FRB can increase their funds and popularity among their audience because they are no longer killing and harming animals to obtain their data. Furthermore, PETA with this initiative, will be helping to protect the life of many animals and will be gaining popularity because of the achievement of stopping animal suffering produced by FBR during their experimentations. DIAZ 5 According to Greengard, the implementation of computer-based modelling is an alternative way to animal testing. It allows to create simulation models that allows researchers to obtain biological information needed for medical purposes. Computer models help to obtain better and more accurate data than animal experimentations (22). He estates that the possibilities that computer modeling is able to produce accurate data that can help to improve drugs and therapies without harming animals. To sum up the foregoing, we can notice how animal testing has many perspectives and points of view. Even though this perspectives can be different, we can get to an agreement that can help two different organizations to join and fight for a same purpose: help to improve the life quality of animals. We can observe how PETA can help to reduce the quantity of animals being used for experimentations. While FBR will be finding more technological and accurate methods in order to develop cure for many illnesses that affect humans and nonhumans. With this compromise this two organizations will increase their popularity. PETA will have like an achievement that was able to safe important amount of animals from suffering and FBR will show a more animal friendly image to the audience. It is important that we all understand that even though we can have differences, we can be able to work together. This way we will be able to help each other and both sides will end up with important benefits. DIAZ 6 Works cited Doke, Sonali K., and Shashikant C. Dhawale. Review: Alternatives To Animal Testing: A  Saudi Pharmaceutical Journal 23.(2015): 223-229. ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Foundation for Biomedical Research, www.fbresearch.org. Accessed on 25 January 2017. Garattini, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi. Original Article: Animal Testing Is Still The Best Way To Find New Treatments For  European Journal Of Internal Medicine (2016): ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Greengard, Samuel. How computers are changing  Communications of the ACM 2014: 21. Academic OneFile. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals, www.peta.org. Accessed on 25 January 2017.