Student 1 Student Nancy Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Soldiers, Regardless of Gender Using an image of women from the in proper US Army uniforms saluting in solidarity, the US Army inflicts upon the viewer the same emotions of respect and patriotism that is accompanied any service member one sees, and furthermore uses of women in different roles of the Army today to communicating their point that women and men are equal in the eyes of the Army. The Army has a creed, fittingly named the Creed, which is 121 words long and not once does it specify the gender of a soldier. The Army lives up to this creed by using all the rhetoric appeals in their website, but the most prominent one is Pathos, followed by Kairos. The image portrayed on the women section is an image from some time in appeals well to Pathos. The first thing one notices is the fact that these women are wearing different uniforms, saluting towards the horizon a very typical imagine usually preserved for masculinity. The American flag is waiving in the background and is whitened in the shape of a halo around the women, putting the focus on them. Furthermore, the picture is taken from a lower angle, forcing the viewer to look up at the image, signifying the determination and professionalism demanded by the figures in the image. These characteristics https://www.army.mil/women/index.html Student 2 of the image force the emotions that we correlate with service including respect, admiration, and courtesy. Skeptics would argue that these women are all wearing different uniforms, giving base to the assumption that women in the military is so rare that you even find enough to stage a photo without crossing branches and uniforms. This assumption would be ambitious at most, since it is far more likely that the people who took the image made that design on purpose. Making all the women wear distinctly different uniforms signifies that women are not limited to a certain path in the Army, but are rather free to pursue a multitude of fields and goals. The spectrum of uniforms is also a testimony to the equality given by the Army, that the thought of women in the military is not just a cheap, half-assed idea, but a fully implemented pillar of the Army, with all the uniforms and distinctions that follow. Complimentary to this trend, the artists have used timeliness to embed the understanding that the Army is not estranged to the thought of women within its ranks (Carreiras). The use of a historical tint on the image hits us in the back of the head, communicating that women have been in the services longer than images can document. Women have been in service with the military for a long time, and the image does well to reflect this stance by making the women salute towards the horizon the unknown, instilling a sense of urgency and resolve in the viewer. They stand ready to tackle whatever task may lie ahead, a trait that most would find favorable, and helps normalize the tread of women in the military. The second image is one of many that come from a full forum of women who serve the military a multitude of ways. The woman in the picture is Cpt. Shaye Haver, one of two women who were caught in the political forum when they completed Ranger School, being the first two women to ever do so (Associated Press). The use of Pathos and Kairos are modernized, but still Student 3 reminiscent of the first image. Words that comes to mind when seeing this image are words usually reserved for men: action, force, haste, etc., and like the previous picture, we are forced to correlate these trends with women as we do with men. This goes to show that women, just like men, can easily shave their heads and down in the mud. Another theme that keeps reappearing is that Shaye is facing the horizon and are upright, not behind a desk or in an office but outside. This helps augment the trait of readiness and professionalism, while taking the focus away from the multitude of uniforms and opportunities, and focusing on determination and strife. The woman here is ready, she is engaged in her role, and most of all she staged up for the photo, she is at face-value. In this image, timeliness is used as a polar opposite of the other image. Whereas the previous image had trends of stability, duration, and would read like a metaphorical marathon for women, this image reads as a sprint. The last 100-meter dash to the finish, being caught up with the action and ready to go, running into the horizon the unknown. Cpt. Shaye is proof that women serve in the military just like men do, and that they serve an integral part that be replaced. The image is also unaltered, instantly making the viewer perceive it as modern and current, which it is. This face-value path draws a line between the previous image which portrayed history and antiquity, while this one represents the recent and the future. Those opposed would argue that this image has no appeal to timeliness, but they forget to take into account that the first image on the page is a historical one, and all those after are current an https://www.army.mil/women/profiles/ Student 4 intentional design meant to sweep us right up to our own times, and remember that the military is moving in the direction of equality. The Army uses trends of Pathos and Kairos to convince their viewers that women have a place in the Army and that trend is not about to change. They convey this message by showing us images of women in situations usually reserved for men, sparking emotions such as patriotism, determination, and respect to cement their point. They draw a metaphorical line between the past and the present by having one image be historical and one be recent. The emotion that truly persuades the viewer is our sense of patriotism, and the Army did well in appealing to that emotion. (WC: 1007) Student 5 Works Cited Carreiras, Helena. Gender and the military: women in the armed forces of Western democracies. London: Routledge, Taylor & Francis Guoup, 2006. Print. The Associated Press, and Meghann Myers.  Army Times. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.