Sturm 1 Harrison Sturm Mrs. Staiger ENC 1102.005 29 January 2017 Mature Games: To Be Regulated or Not To Be Unregulated? Video games today flood the market with a plethora of topics, activities, themes, and options for players to investigate. Some of the most well received games are often the leaders in these categories but are seen with suspicion due to their mature content. The content in these games that make these games mature can vary between violence, crude language, drug use, even sexual. These topics are generally controversial to most people in one form or another despite knowing the game is fictitious. To make matters even more complicated for mature games, young audiences are becoming more and more popular with them despite the emphasized age limit. With the video game market becoming stronger every day and grabbing the interests of young audiences from other form of entertainment, mature games can be seen as the biggest source of income to retailers regardless of age. To prevent this, concerned parents call for a ban of mature games or at least stricter regulations on the sales of them. Other groups however state that the sale of the games is an act of freedom of speech and that there be a ban. Both agree that video games are meant to be played and enjoyed across all ages, but they are unable to agree on where the boundaries lie between freedom to sell games and preventing young audiences from playing games they Lobbyists for regulation necessarily hate mature games and believe they should be banned from shelves. Many themselves enjoy games and are likely to often play the very games they are attacking. Instead of attacking the games because of their content, the games are Sturm 2 receiving controversy for being sold to young audiences. The argument is that the rating system is only used as a reference while being blatantly ignored when young audiences immediately purchase the games from retailers. According to an anonymous writer on the news blog The Artifice, parents argue that the distributors need to enforce the age ratings games received since the retailers simply allow young audiences to purchase video games...with little censorship and concern as to the appropriateness of the (Artifice 2). The article also criticizes parents who are equally responsible since they bother to look at the game before purchasing and mentions hypocritical parenting. Another writer for the Gaurdians of the Law, Marcy Magiera, mentioned how several states are pushing for reforms to limit exposure of mature content to young audiences. Countering the claims that the sale of video games are protected by the first ammendment, she states that she I want my access to violent content (Magiera 1). Claiming that until there are strict laws, she is willing to do the regulations herself to prevent her children from playing mature games. Both articles firmly support the idea of strict regulation on how mature games are sold and to whom. The other side of the argument calls out on freedoms, rights, and liberties to protect the sales of mature games. Most defenders are quick to state that the fault of the parents who ignore the content and not the retailer. Others defend the content of games in a different manner. Yale University PhD graduate Craig Fehrman commented that their worst, video games become a of (Fehrman 1). Fehrman argues that video games are meant to be played and can be seen as works of art in place of pointless wastes of time. Political and moral theorist Marcus Schulzke on the other hand defends the content of the games. Using empirical evidence, Shulzke creates a list as to why he defends the content in mature games. While he does acknowledge the counter arguments, he states that the fears are not confirmed or Sturm 3 at least issues that should be looked at. In the end, he states that moral status of video games is certainly far from over, but it needs to evolve and learn from some of the shortcomings of previous (Shulzke 10). Both articles defend the content of mature video games as being what they are intended to be, sources of entertainment. Neither outright claim that they should be sold to young audiences but state that the games are not the cause of social issues in the world. A potential compromise to both parties would be to have retailers understand who they are selling the mature games to and have parents take control over the scenario. A mix of distributor and parental regulation is a likely means of preventing young audiences from playing mature games. Retailers a steady source of income and are unlikely to stop the sales of mature games. However, they could ask for an identification before the sell the game and advise parents on exactly what the game entitles. Parents in turn can set regulations themselves as for what games their children are and allowed to play. An example comes from Dylan McAndrew, a student, who states that his own parents to play certain mature games that sexually graphic and have the approval from my (McAndrew 1). McAndrew also states how certain children are capable of handling sensitive topics and that video games should be seen equal to movies. Before purchasing a game, a parent could look at a review on the game or talk to someone who knows the game to get an understanding of the games content. The answer lie just in the parents however. Electronic distributors which lack features that limit certain games can create new software that prevent young audiences from sneaking behind their back. This in turn would cover the electronic retailers when young audiences attempt to avoid parental regulations. The market of video games is unlikely to change in the near future. Developers are going to continue making games whether the have mature content or not. In turn, retailers are going to Sturm 4 continue selling the games and buyers are going to play them. People calling for regulation and free sale are likely to agree that video games are entertainment and that the market is going to continue to develop new games. Video games are a form of media for all ages and a source of income retailers. To have total regulation would ruin the entertainment of those who enjoy the games and put many retailers out of business. To have no regulation can result in young audiences being exposed to mature content and possibly them not understanding the limits between a game and real life. Neither extreme works in total favor with society and most certainly causes friction with the other party. The idea of limited regulation, limited freedom, and the general caution of parents is a commonly suggested compromise. Retailers can be able to sell their wares while concerned parents have to worry for their children being exposed to mature content. The compromise perfect and young audiences are going to continue playing games. However, it offers a chance to reduce incidents between parents, their children, and the retailers who sell the games. Sources Cited Fehrman, Craig. Extra Lives: Why Video Games  Christian Science Monitor 29 June Sturm 5 2010: N.PAG. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. McAndrew, Dylan. Parents Let Their Kids Play M Rated Video ApaCenter, 29 June 2012, www.apacenter.com/should-parents-let-their-kids-play-m-rated-video-games/. Magiera, Marcy. Guardians of the  Galegroup.com. Gale, n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Schulzke, Marcus1, marcusschulzke@hotmail.com. Defending The Morality Of Violent Video  Ethics & Information Technology 12.2 (2010): 127-138. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Game Content Ratings: Does Anyone Care The Artifice, The Artifice, the- artifice.com/video-game-content-ratings-anyone-care-anymore/.