Taylor Nipper According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-V (5 th ed., 2013), dissociative disorders are classified into three main types of dissociation: dissociative amnesia, dissociative identity disorder, and depersonalization/derealization disorder. In preceding editions of the DSM, dissociative amnesia was a fourth category but has since been combined with dissociative amnesia. People with dissociative disorders most likely have faced some type of trauma including but not limited to rape, an accident, combat, incest, or a natural disaster. Dissociative symptoms start to emerge when the stressor becomes so extreme that it negatively effects daily life and functioning. Because of the overwhelming stress of the incident, the patient turns to dissociation as a defense mechanism which separates the event from the conscious mind and allows them to evade the emotional distress and anxiety that they once felt. These conditions involve disruptions of awareness, identity, perception and memory. Women tend to develop this disorder more than men, and most diagnoses are done before the age of 30, however some doctors still argue the validity of this condition. After doing a substantial amount of research, I hope to be able to answer the question: What causes someone to turn to dissociation, and once they have, what can be done to help achieve in daily life? The first source that I looked at for this paper was a general research-starter. From this article I learned that there are three major categories: dissociative amnesia, dissociative identity disorder, and depersonalization/derealization disorder. The most popular symptom of dissociation is amnesia, a person with dissociative amnesia can no longer remember the trauma that caused the disorder. Identity disorder, also known as multiple personality disorder is when the person develops two or more distinct personalities. These personalities can range in age and gender and in other characteristics such as shyness or how outgoing that personality is. Depersonalization is the idea that the self becomes strange or different and they enter an almost dreamlike state. This entry gives general information about dissociative disorders that helps to understand the basis and acts as a stepping stone for future and more in depth research. I learned general terms and categories that I can now search specifically to find more articles. This source relates to my research question because it talks about what leads to dissociation and at the end goes over treatments which intend to cure this disease and help them achieve normality. This source is peer-reviewed and was published in the Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health in January of 2016. Prerost, Frank J. Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health. Jan. 2016, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=39f029de-530e-4ca4-9617- 69c15b674055%40sessionmgr103&vid=1&hid=113&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d# AN=93871893&db=ers. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Another source that was helpful in my research was one from the Academic Search Alumni Edition Database. Here they mention that many ideas of these disorders come from Hollywood representations such as the movie and book Sybil, but there is so much more to it than that. People also tend to believe that it is very rare, when in fact 1-3% of the general population is affected. Mostly this is caused by childhood trauma and it is the failure of normal developmental integration that causes the separation and the parts of the personality. Dissociative disorders characterized by integrated functions of consciousness, memory, identity, or perception of the environment, meaning that memories and feelings may not go The treatment for Dissociative Identity Disorder (DID) is long-term, one on one psychotherapy and typically extends for five or more years. This sources helps me to answer my research question by providing a good amount of information on the treatment of dissociative identity disorder and also talking about the diagnosis. It discusses how to work with the alter personalities and helps me to understand what the patient is going through. I found this source on the USF Library page and it was originally published in the Healthcare Counselling & Psychotherapy Journal in October of 2011. Spring, Carolyn. guide with dissociative identity Healthcare Counselling & Psychotherapy Journal, Vol. 11, Issue 4, Oct. 2011, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=89ef535e-8376-468b- 9406c0222d524ac7%40sessionmgr4007&vid=2&hid=4108&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLW xpdmU%3d#AN=67228197&db=a2h. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017 This article was of use to me because it put into perspective the type of people that can be effected by this disorder. Although not always true, many cases include an adult bipolar patient with a brutally traumatic childhood and/or dysfunctional family. Dissociative disorder can be temporary or long term, as the personalities are altered states of consciousness and the patient is often not consciously aware of the divided self. I found this source using the USF library website. It is peer reviewed and is an article originally published in the 33 rd volume of the Psychoanalytic Inquiry. The abstract helped me to get an idea of what the article was about and showed me the relevance to my topic and research question. This source has a slightly different angle and some unique information and research that I had not seen in any of the similar articles. It also solidified some of the research I have already gathered. Blum, Harold. and Its Psychoanalytic Inquiry, Issue 5, Vol. 33 Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Sep/Oct2013, p427-438. 12p. doi: 10.1080/07351690.2013.815058. Accessed 2 Feb. 2017 This article starts off by discussing how dissociative symptoms provide a detachment from or a protective containment of overwhelming experiences. The author compares this disease to an defense where the animal freezes in the face of predation when the fight or flight instincts are tested. The article lists several things that are altered by dissociation including: memory, consciousness, awareness of self and/or body, awareness of environment, and identity. Later in the article, it talks about the prevalence of dissociative disorders stating that it is the most prevalent in general population studies. Lastly, it goes into detail about specific disorders such as dissociative amnesia, dissociative identity disorder, and how to differentiate and treat them. This article contributes a lot of reliable and relevant information for my paper. The article comes from the Academic Search Alumni Edition database and was peer reviewed. It was published in the Psychiatric Times magazine. As stated in the above paragraph, the article starts off by describing things that can lead to dissociation as well as comparing it to something more easily understood. This helps answer the first part of my research question. The second part about how it can be treated is addressed in the end of the article. Brand, Bethany, Loewenstein, Richard J. Disorders: An Overview of Assessment, Phenomonology, and Academic Search Alumni Edition. Vol. 27, no. 10, Oct. 2010, pp. 62. eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?vid=11&sid=f94cc43d-83f5- 4167-a39a- 7791707fa154%40sessionmgr102&hid=113&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#A N=55292927&db=a2h. Accessed 2 Feb. 2017