Jared Lynn, ENC 1102 Section 107, Project 1 Int Draft 1 NFL and The Concussion Crisis The National Football League is one of the biggest sports watched in America today. This year the NFL is supposed to bring in over 13.3 billion dollars in the 2016-2017 season which is more than a 50 percent increase from 2010 (Belzer). Football is something that defines America, ever since the creation in 1920 it has been one of the most watched events on television. It is a contact sport however, with vicious hits and ruthless players wanting to go into practice and games day in and day out just to bring the Lombardi trophy back to wherever they play. One thing that affects NFL players both retired and still playing is the brain disease CTE or Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy. CTE is a brain disease that occurs when an individual is constantly taking blows to the head and it leads to symptoms such as memory loss, depression, and dementia. According to researchers with the department of Veterans affairs and Boston University they have now found out that percent of NFL Players they examined and 79 percent of all football have been diagnosed with CTE (Breslow). The Concussion Legacy Foundation or CLF is an organization that dedicates themselves to figure better ways that they can treat, prevent, and study the effects that CTE has on NFL players. Both the NFL and CLF both want to figure out a way for less players to get diagnosed with those brain eating conditions, and to do that they should study more about CTE, manufacture better helmets for NFL players, and teach players how to hit the proper way from an earlier age. The NFL has been around since 1920 and is almost considered a national holiday when more than half of the country is tuned in on Sunday afternoon to watch around 28 teams play each other. However, in recent years multiple retired players have either been diagnosed with or have passed away from a brain disease. The NFL has been trying to catch these brain injuries more quickly, with multiple huge donations to research companies to try to find better ways to Jared Lynn, ENC 1102 Section 107, Project 1 Int Draft 2 diagnose and help players. Also, the NFL has roughly paid over 1 billion dollars to roughly 5000 players and their families to settle for the damage caused to the heads (Breslow). Some of the tactics that NFL commissioner Rodger Goodell and his support staff have implemented to improve the diagnosis and prevention of these deteriorating brain diseases are; to make sure that once a player has been hit hard to take them off the field and quickly check for concussion like symptoms so that they go back in the game and sustain more blows to the head. This is only one of the tactics that the NFL have implemented to stop these diseases from forming. However, there has been a lot of controversy in this specific topic for the NFL, as a doctor named Bennet Omalu in 2005 was the first doctor to study the effects of CTE on players, and since then CTE has been found in multiple retired players like deceased hall of famer Junior Seau. Shortly after his findings were published Omalu was directly attacked by the NFL and he said afterwards go against the NFL, squash (Breslow). This shows that the NFL did know about the link between football and concussion related injuries, but they only now in recent years have tried to do something to prevent it. The Concussion Legacy Foundation is an organization that was created in June of 2007 by Chris Nowinski and Dr. Robert Cantu. While playing football at Harvard Nowinski was diagnosed with multiple concussions and he was very distraught because he know the signs or symptoms of a concussion. Concussions are considered an injury because it is an injury that occurs inside the brain, the main goal is to ensure that a lot fewer lives are at risk from this by educating people, changing the policy for hits in professional sports, and advancing research so much that they know exactly what hits can cause concussions. One of the programs that the CLF has started is the training program, this program teachers football players from the high school to pro football level about how to hit properly, how to Jared Lynn, ENC 1102 Section 107, Project 1 Int Draft 3 prevent getting hit in the head, and other various techniques for people to be able to avoid these deadly injuries. CLF has expanded a lot since their creation in 2007, by 2014 they have been featured on multiple news stations such as the New York Times, USA Today, CNN, and much more (CLF). Also with their expansion they have moved on from just football, as they have made way into Major League Lacrosse, the Ivy League, and the International Rugby Board. This means that it matter what sport you play, you should be able to make sure that you are educated on the severity of concussions and how they affect your mental state. The CLF research center for CTE has also grown a lot since the creation of the foundation, now with over 200 donors it is the biggest CTE research facility in the world, taking 76 of the 79 cases of former NFL players in 2014 (CLF). With the exponential expansion, it has quickly become one of the biggest and most effective research facilities for CTE, which benefits its partnership with the NFL directly. The NFL and the CLF have been working together since the year 2010, but recently their work against identifying CTE in living athletes has grown tremendously. Both organizations want to help reduce the risk of this disease in players, and certain techniques would better their research a lot. Both organizations should put funding aside for them to start manufacturing new helmets, ones with sensors in them to detect when a player has been hit hard enough for them to sustain a concussion. This technique would be very helpful to both organizations because it allows the CLF to start making a profit and manufacturing helmets to the NFL and brings in more capital for their research, and it benefits the NFL by making sure that players are sustaining less of these head injuries. The partnership also allows for the NFL to donate big money to CLF as the NFL brings in an obscene amount of income as discussed earlier in the paper, and it will allow the CLF to expand its teachings to every NFL, collegiate, and high school players. Jared Lynn, ENC 1102 Section 107, Project 1 Int Draft 4 CTE and other concussion related injuries have been prominent in the NFL and all contact sports for a very long time, and it has taken the life of multiple athletes and caused dread among countless families. If both the CLF and the NFL take a common stance against this and put in the time and effort to combat and educate people about this infectious and deadly disease it will benefit both tremendously. Common ground will be easy to find for both of these organizations, with a common goal for both to be to drastically reduce concussion related injuries in athletes, and to catch them before it takes their lives. Too many athletes have passed away because of this, and people just cannot stand to see it happen anymore. Jared Lynn, ENC 1102 Section 107, Project 1 Int Draft 5 Works Cited Belson, Ken. New York Times. 15 11 2012. 30 01 2017. Belzer, Jason. Forbes. 29 02 2016. 30 01 2017. Breslow, Jason. PBS. 18 09 2015. 30 01 2017. PBS. 28 09 2015. 30 01 2017. CLF. Concussion Legacy Foundation. 01 01 2014. 30 01 2017. NFLPA. NFLPA Homepage . 01 01 2014. 30 01 2017.