Ellis 1 Collin Ellis ENC1102 Robert Ryan 25 January 2017 Internet Privacy vs Internet Security The evolution of the internet and our capacity to share information has seen a plethora of advancements, since the establishment of the worldwide web in 1990. The evolution of the internet was followed by an identical evolution of data. This trend inevitably diversified they type of information residing on the net and began incorporating locational, financial, medical and other private outlets of data. These changes abruptly came to fruition and societies assimilation was followed by a very complex discourse on the existing imbalance between internet privacy and internet security. The dissonance expressed became extremely evident between civil societies, business entities, as well as federal and national institutions. Groups such as the American Civil Liberties Union(ACLU), National Association for the Advancement of Colored People(NAACP), the National Security Agency (NSA) and finally the Freedom Online Coalition (FOC) have lead forefront on this debate. With the type of data and amount of traffic on the internet growing at a pace in correlation to Law, what policies and guidelines should be established to govern the balance between internet and privacy? Founded in December of 2011 the Freedom Online Coalition has been devoted to preserving the rights that humans retain offline when they are connected to the internet. The FOC founding declaration was created in reverence to the Universal Declaration of Human rights. Currently ratified by of over 30 countries, recently encompassing the likes of Argentina, Ellis 2 Spain, New Zealand and Australia, the coalition seeks to expand its influence on the international level missioning the ideals of internet freedom and accessibility. A mission of freedom goes hand in hand with a mission of security and protection. Since its establishment the FOC has Launched the Digital Defenders Program (DDP) and has created three multi-stakeholder groups; An Internet Free and Secure, Digital Development and Openness, and Privacy and Transparency Online that work in conjunction to develop best practices for the parent organization (FOC). Mentioned in the founding declaration, the coalition takes notice of the repressive actions of governments and their increasing tendency to limit given freedoms by conducting illicit monitoring, filtering and hacking, on- and offline bodies of network technology users. However, the decoration does not discuss the topic of national security and the negative implications that come with accessibility portion of their core mission. This dilemma is faced by every entity connected to the internet and has become the source of the discourse between international governments, business entities, and civil societies. The gray area present in the lack of established guidelines, illuminated the deep vulnerabilities in the frontier. The in the proper governance and management of data had no format to follow and the different policies governing the different sectors often conflicted. This vulnerability expanded on an international level, creating a platform for cyber warfare resulting in grave implications for national security. The United States can be described as the hub for worldwide data flow and inevitably becoming susceptible to cyber warfare. Between 2014 and 2015 thirteen federal agencies experienced data breaches (Riley Walters), in addition to the business entities such as Sony, Home Depot, JP Morgan and even Ashley Madison that have been compromised from 2014 to 2016. National Security Agency (NSA) is attributed to being one of the most effective lines of defense, currently leading the pack in the Ellis 3 use of cryptology, which is defined as the art and science of making and breaking (NSA.gov) Being members of both the Department of Defense and The Intelligence Community agency the NSA is well positioned to counteract many measures of cyber warfare and hold the most responsibility in developing counter measures. The NSA enacted project PRISM in 2007 which began a consumer surveillance on a massive level collecting data from the likes of Microsoft, Google, Facebook, AOL, and Apple(NSA.gov). The type of data they collected included email, picture, video file transfer, social networking and various forms of metadata. Leaks of this surveillance program led to a great uproar for the public created larger disparities on the issue at hand. This back las lead to the USA FREEDOM Act of 2015 banning the bulk collection under Section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act, however a new mechanism was provided to allow the government to obtain data held by the providers previously listed providers (DOJ). The more our world becomes comes connected to the internet sadly the more susceptible everyone will be to the misuse of their data. The introduction of 5g will bring forth a very complicated hurdle as the range of devices and the number of people connected to the internet will drastically increase. see computing capabilities getting fused with communications everywhere, so trillions of things like wearable devices have to worry about computing power because network can do any processing (Asha Keddy). The economical, innovational and creative growth will come forth in abundance and should create a steady period prosperity for the international economy. Along with this growth comes the need for greater security measurers resources to combat cyber warfare. The potential of cyberwarfare becomes exponentially worse, as another evolution in the type of data residing on the internet comes to fruition. The state of privacy and security will witness further imbalance and expansion on the Ellis 4 dissonance on these rights. Until something is set in place to guide the balance of internet freedom accessibility while ensuring the lawful preservation of human rights online. To combat the potential discourse guidelines regulation the balance between internet privacy and internet security should be drafted from a multi-stakeholder forum with representatives from the most accredited civil societies, business entities and pillars of government. These guidelines should cover the governmental regulation, technical, and educational elements of the internet. These guidelines must bring forth awareness, control, and trustworthiness between the stakeholders being represented (Johannes Buchannan). With the similarities between the growth of the internet and theory behind Law it would be best for a lustrum based period of evaluation. The implications of the growth be felt immediately and a timely review should be conducted on internet governance. New Zealand serves as a great example as their privacy commissioner currently has eighteen worth of backlog complaints to be processed (Winnie Chung), indicating that legislation alone may not solution. Diversity of the governance must exist and its must be properly organized. New Zealand personifies the possible challenges tied into enforcing a legislation that was not drafted in a multi stakeholder form and foreshadows the necessity for an organized and unified front on tackling internet governance and There is no silver bullet to remedy this internet privacy vs internet security dilemma, and the right balance between the two will not appear overnight. With the expected rollout of the firth generation of wireless technology in the year 2020 these stake holders must be proactive in finding the right combination of legislative, educational and technical solutions to achieve privacy and protection on a globally consistent manner (Winnie Chung). The more connected the world becomes the more standardized the governance of the internet would need to be. This Ellis 5 standardization would allow for a fair and due process in prosecuting violators at the state and federal level. The threat posed by radical regimes and other entities that violate basic human rights, would diminish as this joint coalition would have the legislative, educational and technological means to stop them dead in their tracks.