Shapiro 1 Matthew Shapiro Professor Ryan 28 January 2017 ENC 1102 045 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Since back in the day TV viewers have complained to Media Industry for leniency on censorship. Dating back to 1942, Tweety bird was to be redrawn with more plumage to not seem so nude or in 1952 when in an episode of Love the word was not allowed. Moving slightly ahead in the timeline in 1973, in a first season episode of in the the toilet is flushed, not seen, but heard. It is quite shocking how we have evolved through media and its hold on censorship. This argument on censorship is still at hand, even with the complete different dynamic of censorship from then versus now. Motion Picture Association of America is the head when it comes to what the public can or cannot see. This system was formed in 1922 to ensure the absence of offensive material and prevent from government interference in (MMPA) To this day they will support the freedoms of filmmakers by safeguarding intellectual property rights, advancing technology driven innovation, and opening global markets. (MMPA) The idea that one can critique and demand reform when they do not have knowledge in that field is surprising. Editor David Jones of guardianlv.com, writes is a slippery slope when some third party or entity not directly involved with the creative process can suddenly step in and declare a piece of art unfit for public Shapiro 2 This is very insightful. On the other hand, The Parents TV council believe otherwise they believe the viewers should have a voice and emphasize the need for censorship on TV to keep from their children. Their mission statement is protect children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the media, because of their proven long-term harmful Their belief on the inability to accurately rate a show or movie played on the air is what frustrates them. TV-14 and TV-MA does not seem to be divided to well to the organization of the Parents TV Council. They also advocate the findings of many psychologists who found that TV violence and other inappropriate scenes are harmful on children, their childhood, and views or beliefs on some topics. Imagine a child alone flipping through the channel guide and end up on mal-rated show that completely exceeds the parental safety boundaries. The issue at hand is the belief that TV rating systems are not accurate and the ParentsTV council can prove why. Motion Picture Association of America, MPAA for short, is what they describe as the voice of one of the strongest and most vibrant industries. Members of this organization comprise of Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, Paramount Pictures Corporation, Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc. , . As you can see these are some major companies that show most of the movies and shows that our very own childhood would recollect watching. Now for decades they have been the creator of so many famous films and are still to this day. The rating system is overseen by CARA, which is the Classifcation and Rating Administration. They publish the rating on each film and MMPA supports it and abides by it. The Films are always closely considered to make the right decision on whether it is TV-14, PG-13, TV-MA, R, and so on. Just recently the idea of placing small keywords on what they could be expecting. For example, mature Shapiro 3 scenes, prostitution, inappropriate language, display of violence, the list can vary. Which is why the idea that some films be aired is frowned upon by MMPA. The support and speak for all filmmakers and their craft. Without some legal boundaries, the famous award winning films be awarded if it were for stricter media laws. Another stakeholder known to think otherwise would be the advocacy group known as the Parents TV Council (PTC). They have been around since 1995 representing the voice of all angry parents who believe the TV ratings system and the media industry are inaccurate with the ratings and are not happy with their judgment when producing and airing films. Their biggest concern is their inability to completely block a harmful or inappropriate show that is being aired. Most parents who would like to clamp down on what their child watches would use something called the V chip. This is small device in that allow Parents to filter what their children will scroll upon. The use of separate TV accounts has become a go to concept; this will allow everything aired to be filtered and kept away from their children if rated anything higher than TV-14. PTC vision is to provide a safe and sound entertainment media environment for children and families across America (parentstv). They argue that the ratings and filters on the shows are not 100% true to their rank. With research shown to back it up, the issue at hand is that the very same people who make the films that they are upset about are also rating them, overseeing the rating process, and running the board. Since PTC were originated they have always believed the TV system is inadequate for their inability to restrict from showing unwanted an harmful content that is able to be chosen by a child. A study shows that there are fewer programs on prime-time broadcast TV shows rated TV-PG and there is fewer difference between the contents of TV-PG and TV-14 (GIldemeister). With this Shapiro 4 being said, how will a parent be able to monitor their childs tv time when the very device built to filter unwanted content is not removing every single bit of it. It really is not their fault, the rating is and it does say the film requires parental guidance or supervision and these parents understand. Studies show that every hour of content on broadcast television is rated as appropriate for a 14 year old. Although the very same program contains graphic scenes and harmful content, this is not safe and beneficial to the children who are affected by this. The idea of having a voice and wanting to have a second opinion on how the rating system is ran or considered. Compromise between these two companies is to be sought out and I believe with the mutual understanding between both entities would create a less harmful, appropriate media outlet for their children. The updating of the V chip could be very beneficial in that it is modified to scan an entire film and be able to detect one bit of inappropriate or unwanted content. The ratings, although explicitly explained, seem to upset the viewers still. Even though the TV says the rating does say to have parental guidance or supervision when watching these shows. With a new modified smart V chip, the scanning of a program will be able to detect any bad word, explicit content, or any other harmful scenes. The revision of the rating system and the allocation of what program is being aired, when it is, and what channel it would be could bring some resolution to the matter. These two simple concepts would not negatively impact either company, MMPA is already in a league of its own and with the simple modification or allocation of what airs where could bring some ease to the advocacy group and its supporters of the Parents TV Council. Works Cited Shapiro 5 MMPA: The Last Bastion Of Censorship in  Guardianlv.com. Ed. David Jones. David Jones, 31 May 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Lendier, Ian. A Timeline of TV  CNN. Cable News Network, 1 Aug. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gildemeister, Christopher. Protecting Children from  Protecting Children or Protecting Hollywood (2010): n. pag. W2.parentstv.org. Parents TV Council Board. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mpaa.org. Motion Picture Association of America, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.