Dyal 1 Shawn Dyal Ms. Gottlieb ENC 1102 26 January 2017 NCAA Officials vs. basketball and Football Players In world of college athletics, athletes start from the high school level. If they are good enough to be noticed by college scouts, they have the potential to receive a scholarship and play at a well-known school in which they can play for one of the best teams in the nation in their respective sport. The two key sports that society pays attention to are football and basketball. These sports are the ones that get the overall greatest importance in collegiate sports. The problem that is faced today is that the basketball and football players want to be paid for playing and for their likeness. National Collegiate Athletic Association, NCAA, Officials do not want to pay college athletes. The two sides have yet to come to an agreement but the two sides at least are arguing about the same thing, money. Money is the root of the problem and will be the solution to the problem. College basketball and football players have felt that they should be paid. This has been an issue ever since the Ed filed a lawsuit against the NCAA. The lawsuit was regarding images and likeness of college athletes, which stemmed from seeing himself represented in a videogame and was not compensated for his likeness in the videogame files suit vs. NCAA). Players have had the issue of them not being paid come from mainly videogames. Electronic Arts, EA, is the producer of games such as NCAA Football and NCAA Basketball which have brought great economic growth to the videogame industry. The quality of player likeness has improved with better technology that even certain moves they Dyal 2 perform in life can be used in videogames, as seen with players like Braxton Miller and Ezekiel Elliot (A Solution for the Pay for Play Dilemma of College Athletes: A Novel Compensation Structure Tethered to Amateurism and Education). The way numbers reflect their actual team numbers, their likeness in their speed and other measurable skills are as close to the actual player. Between likeness and image, these players feel that they should be paid for what looks like and plays like them. The players also feel that they should be paid because of the revenue they generate for their respected schools and for the NCAA. Schools generate hundreds of millions of dollars from their athletes. Even schools that have a small importance on athletics, athletes are still generating millions of dollars for their school as seen from the 2015 chart in The difference in how much money schools make off of college sports is jarring, and it is the biggest obstacle to paying athletes. Athletes can see that they are a great source of revenue for their school and thus should be compensated fairly. The sports that have been known to bring in the most amount of money, football and basketball, are the two groups that feel they deserve to be paid instead of the other sports. The two sports are in the most spotlight compared to other sports regardless of gender. basketball gains a lot of television time during their tournament, March Madness, and college football games are on most Saturdays along with other days throughout the fall and winter and are put on a greater level of importance during bowl season. Players know that all the money that there is so much money generated through tickets for games, sports apparel, and television time through games combined that there is enough to pay them. Student athletes bring in around eleven billion dollars to the college sports industry vs. The only problem is that NCAA officials disagree with paying college athletes. Dyal 3 The NCAA prides itself heavily on the idea of amateurism competition because that is how they grew to be so important. The NCAA believes that: amateurism is crucial to preserving an academic NCAA officials biggest issue of paying college athletes is the reason of why they should be paid. The NCAA views athletes as student-athletes who are playing an amateur sport The role of the student athlete is to first focus on school and sports is second. In terms of NCAA laws, college sports are important to the college education experience but there must be a fine line between amateurism and professionalism vs. NCAA officials understand that college athletics, especially, basketball and college football, are the main sources of revenue, but that paying them is not right because of their view on amateurism. Another reason that NCAA officials do not want to pay student-athletes is because many athletes at the top level, Division I, are attending school on scholarships. This has been a widely known practice that has been occurring and will continue to occur. The idea that athletes are on scholarships, many top athletes receiving full ride scholarships and still want to be paid is not something the NCAA can fully comprehend. The problem that is faced with being focused on education first rather than sports is that athletes are faced with not getting a full education because there is a greater importance on sports. So, athletes are having others take tests for them or right papers for them just so they can maintain certain grades to be eligible to play Paying College The NCAA is aware of these practices from different scandals that have occurred, and the money that is used for scholarships, which includes academics as a major component, seem to be corrupted and the education that athletes are receiving is not true to what truly occurs. The problem is money and money is the solution. Dyal 4 NCAA officials and college athletes, particularly football and basketball players have been arguing over the issue of paying college athletes. Each side has viewpoints that are based on money. The solution is based off money. From this proposed solution, college athletes that are on full scholarship will be paid for their likeness, if used, and will be paid an equal pay to other athletes at their division level. The money that is paid to them will be put into an account that they cannot use until they are no longer eligible to play either college basketball or football. Their eligibility is determined by either leaving for the professional level early or finishing all their time in college Solution for the Pay for Play Dilemma of College Athletes: A Novel Compensation Structure Tethered to Amateurism and Student-athletes that are not on full scholarship will be paid an equal amount to other athletes. However, instead of not being to use the money, they can use the money for school related purchases and purchases outside of school purchases must be reviewed by a small board. This board would see if the purchase is legitimate and reasonable, this avoids the idea that student-athletes can use the money for whatever they want. If EA were to bring back college sports, players would be paid an honorarium for their likeness being used. This would benefit the players because they are being paid. This benefits the NCAA because they would still be making money and with the idea of making money, more students might take the opportunity to stay in college longer and pursue careers that interest them instead of choosing an easy degree just to get through college to move on to the professional level. The NCAA would still also be making more money if EA were to start making college sports videogames again. This proposed compromise benefits both parties monetarily. With money being the issue of why college athletes are not getting paid, a proposed compromise was found that benefited both parties. Student-athletes thought they should be Dyal 5 getting paid because of their likeness that was used in videogames and that they generated millions of dollars for their school and the NCAA. NCAA officials did not want to pay student- athletes because money would not make collegiate sports an amateur sport and would also take away the importance of education in college. The proposed compromise involved money being distributed at different times that were based on having a full ride scholarship or lack of one. The compromise benefits both parties monetarily. Dyal 6 Works Cited  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 24 Apr. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.org/amateurism>. Anderson, Dave. Top 10 Reasons College Athletes Should Be  Top 10 Lists ListLand.com. N.p., 22 Sept. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.listland.com/top-10- reasons-college-athletes-should-be-paid/>. Barbash, Louis. Pay or play: paying college athletes just fair to players; it could improve college  Washington Monthly 2013: 13. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gaines, Cork. The difference in how much money schools make off of college sports is jarring, and it is the biggest obstacle to paying  Business Insider. Business Insider, 14 Oct. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.businessinsider.com/ncaa-schools-college- sports-revenue-2016-10>. Groves, Roger M. A Solution For The Pay For Play Dilemma Of College Athletes: A Novel Compensation Structure Tethered To Amateurism And  Texas Review Of Entertainment & Sports Law 17.2 (2016): 101-143. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Johnson, Dennis A., and John Acquaviva. Point/Counterpoint: Paying College  The Sport Journal 1 (2012): Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. files suit vs.  The Washington Times (Washington, DC) 2009: Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sheetz, Audrey C.1. Student-Athletes Vs.  Brooklyn Law Review 81.2 (2016): 865-894. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Dyal 7 Wilbon, Michael. College athletes deserve to be  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 18 July 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.