Jack Siambanes The Congressional Parties United Against Big Pharma The two major political parties of the United States Congress, the Democrats and the Republicans, are both in agreement on one, if only one, issue of our healthcare system: Big Pharma is a menace to our healthcare system that must be stopped. The term refers to the profiteering of the pharmaceutical industry through its control over drug prices. Pharmaceutical companies have adversely affected patients in the past by a phenomenon known as which essentially means to raise the price of a drug as much as the companies wish. As a result, many Americans have been forced to pay outrageous costs for their medications far over what the company pays to make the drugs (Philadelphia Inquirer). However, it is hopefully just a matter of time before the Democrats and the Republicans can work together to undo Big abuses of power and make medication affordable for everyone. The only problem is that both parties, each with completely opposite platforms on almost every front, refuses to accept the plan of action in fear of forfeiting their stance on other issues. It is only unfortunate that without cooperation between the Democrats and Republicans there is little that can be done to end the practice of price-gouging, unless they can both come to compromise. The Democratic Party of America has long been a successful cheerleader for affordable healthcare and a forceful opponent against Big Pharma. Looking to implement new and helpful policies, Democrats seek to create a role for the government that is as involved as it is progressive. why the current slogan is That Specifically concerning the issue of high drug prices, Democrats promise, will crack down on price gouging by drug companies and cap the amount Americans have to pay out-of-pocket every month on prescription drugs. (Democrats). Party members such as former 2016 presidential candidates Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton have worked on behalf of Americans to introduce measures that would effectively mark down drug costs through government regulation. This plan would include establishing an oversight committee that would intervene should pharmaceutical companies raise their prices given that the production cost or value of their drugs have not increased. If enacted, this new legislature would keep most drug prices modest for a constant period of time and would make life-saving medication indiscriminately available. According the Financial Express, an action such as this one would be extremely necessary; the economic- centered journal went as far as to say: market mechanisms do not stabilize drug prices and there is a need to regulate drug prices at least of essential To become legal though, this concept must also be accepted by none other than the other half- the Republicans- which is why the need for these two sides to work together is substantially important. The Republican Party, or Grand Ole Party (GOP), is quite the opposite of the Democrats but a great contributor to our political system nonetheless. Working to allow the thriving of the American society and economy, the Republicans aim to minimize the constraints brought about by government. Their theory is that the American people will flourish with as little governing as possible, hence their party slogan Believe In As for overpriced pharmaceuticals, the Republicans are convinced that the best possible way to alleviate the situation is by allowing further competition between drug companies. One route they wish to take on this proposed solution is to reform the U.S Food and Drug Administration so an influx of new drugs may be created and distributed for sale, no longer having to suffer through bureaucratic procedures. pledge to restore the FDA to its position as the premier scientific health agency, focused on both promoting and protecting the public health in equal measure, so we can ensure that Americans live longer, healthier U.S. patients benefit first and most from new devices and For enthusiasts of fair prices and the laissez-faire economy, this approach would be exactly the thing needed to end monopolistic control of drug costs. The variety in drugs on sale would give purchasing power back to the people by letting companies do what they do naturally: try to have the best product at the best price. an idea that has gained traction from both economists and scientists concerned about the issue. the burden of government regulation by opening the drug review process to a third-party, extragovernmental review would streamline and improve the quality of drug evaluation. The result would be earlier access by patients to greater numbers of less costly (American Association for the Advancement of Unfortunately, not everyone agrees with this plan- the Democrats. Until they say nothing will happen and if they work together, the only other option seems to be nothing. The question now becomes not can Congress do to fight Big but are they not doing The answer is simple politics. Republicans will not accept the plan because they believe it gives the government too much power over the drug industry. Democrats will not accept the plan because they believe FDA deregulation would allow the passage of some dangerous drugs. It seems for members of an institution built on serving the public- in which both parties have been forced to work with another throughout this history- both parties are so stubborn and divided that they cannot even see past their own interest to form a unanimous fix. And yet they almost did. Earlier just this year, Congress proposed a temporary reaction to the problem that would allow the importation of medication from Canada. These drugs would compete with American-made pharmaceuticals to lower costs, an idea usually backed by Republican congressmen but unusually led this time by Democratic senator Bernie Sanders. This import failed because members on both parties worried the safety of these new drugs might be overlooked. Senator Bob Martinez explained Food and Drug Administration has testified before the Senate that they are unable to certify that the mass, wholesale importation of medications from other countries, even Canada, would be safe, authentic or efficacious. (USA While this may have just been another disappointing win for Big Pharma, it is calming to at least know senators on both ends of the political landscape care about patient safety from foreign drugs. However, there is still more than one way to achieve the goal of lowering drug prices while keeping users alive. The course of action Congress needs to take is called the Affordable Prescription Drugs Act (APDA). This policy attacks drug companies at the root of where the problem begins: patents. Pharmaceutical companies can patent their drugs for almost twenty years before generic versions are legally able to be made. can no longer stand idly by and allow an already spoiled industry to regulate prescription drug prices by limiting competition through patent The APDA is the optimal implementation plan, which will allow the government to increase the level of competition in the prescription drug market and thus reduce prescription drug prices... (Journal of Law and Under this statute, patents would be shortened, creating more competition and lowering drug costs. While this allows some government intervention, the economic benefits can be supported by the Republicans. The Democrats will benefit from increased regulation of the pharmaceutical industry. For this compromise to finally work, the parties of Congress must only pass this law into effect. For right now, the Republicans and Democrats of Congress remain largely divided when it comes to healthcare. As for the issue of Big Pharma at least, a comprisable measure in the form of the APDA gives both sides equal profit. Republicans and Democrats alike will no longer have to fear of abandoning their stances or letting the other gain control over the dilemma. Works Cited Editorial: Drug Costs Need Philadelphia Inquirer, Published 31 August 2016, Accessed 1, February 2017. control.html Platform- Reducing Prescription Drug Democrats. Accessed 1, February 2017 https://www.democrats.org/party-platform#drug- costshttps://www.democrats.org/party-platform#drug-costs Step, For Drug Prices Need The Financial Express, Published 10 July 2006, Accessed 1, February 2017 http://www.financialexpress.com/archive/Right-step-for-drug-prices-need- regulation/170376/ Platform-Putting Patients First: Reforming the GOP. https://www.gop.com/platform/renewing-american-values/ Accessed 1, February 2017 Miller, Henry L. Competition to Stabilize Drug American Association for the Advancement of Science, 13 July 2001, p. 213-214. Gaudiano, Nicole. Sanders slams Democrats for lacking to fight Big USA Today, 12 January 2017. http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2017/01/12/sanders-slams-democrats-who- voted-pharmaceutical-industry/96506340/ Accessed 1, February 2017. Pinzone, John D. Affordable Prescription Drugs Act: A Solution for High Prescription Drug Journal of Law and Health, 2001-2002, p.145-168.