Aviles 1 Saul Aviles Ms. Smith Composition I 01/29/16 The use of stem cells to cure patients diagnosed with diabetes Diabetes is a disease which affects the inulin producing beta cells inside the pancreas, thus leading to increase levels of glucose in the blood. So far incurable, 350 million people worldwide have the disease while an estimated 3.4 million deaths a year are caused by diabetes alone. Stem cells are remarkable cells with the ability to turn into any cell within the human body, essentially doing the specific function that the original cell was created to perform. By inserting stem cells into a damaged/diseased area, such as the pancreas in patients diagnosed with diabetes, stem cells will begin to function as beta cells, ultimately producing insulin which would in turn regulate the glucose levels in the body, curing them of the disease. There are however, risks as well as criticism associated with the use of stem cells which stall the medical progress of stem cells. Even though the field of stem cells is relatively new, there have been a multitude of break throughs and even more recently, a clinical trial has undergone its first steps in testing whether stem cells will be successful in curing diabetes. Dey, Devaveena1, ddey@mrdg.iisc.ernet.in, and Annapoorni2, anu@mrdg.iisc.ernet.in Rangarajan. Stem Cells: A Dormant Volcano Within Our  Resonance: Journal Of Science Education 12.3 (2007): 27-34. Education Source. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Aviles 2 There are two types of stem cell, Embryonic stem cells, as well as Somatic stem cells (adult stem cells). Embryonic stem cells are derived from inside the blastula, while adult stem cells are taken from tissues found within the human body. The ability to adapt, change, and function as any cell in the human body is why there has been so much focus and experimentation on stem cells usage in the medical field. Due to their remarkable ability to turn into any cell in the body, stem cells have been looked at to possibly curing patients with diabetes. However even though the use of stem cells for curing patients with diabetes seems promising, there are several ethical, as well as health concerns that prevent researchers from using stem cells to their fullest potential. Devaveena Dey is a PhD student with tons of experience in Molecular and Cell Biology. Her main research revolves around stem cells and cancer, and she has published multiple peer reviewed articles about the topics. The author gives credibility to the research paper because she is familiar with the topic and is supported by her scientific peers. The article is relevant to the research paper because it supports the use of stem cells with scientific evidence and reasons, but also highlights the flaws and counter argument. Master, Zubin1, zubin@zubsplace.com, and G.2, g.crozier@gmail.com Crozier. The Ethics Of Moral Compromise For Stem Cell Research  Health Care Analysis 20.1 (2012): 50-65. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Stem cell research is the most promising regenerative treatment in the world today, however, there are many ethical as well as health issues associated with the use of stem cells. First off, the use of Embryonic stem cells is seen morally wrong, because in order to retrieve the cells, the embryo (debatable life) will have to be destroyed. Many see an embryo as a life or possible human being, thus by destroying it, a life is essentially being taken away. There are also Aviles 3 health issues that can come from the procedure, such as: ovarian hyper stimulation syndrome, abdominal pain, strokes, renal failure, heart attacks and possibly ovarian or uterine cancer. In order to avoid the moral debate, many researchers look towards somatic stem cells which are taken from adults, who can give consent. However, there is one major issue with using somatic stem cells, cancer. Stem cells and cancer cells share many identical traits, thus there is a possibility that when stem cells are placed within a human, the stem cells can become cancerous. Zubin master holds a PhD in Cell and Molecular Biology from the University of Toronto. He has written tons of articles and papers on stem cells and ethical concerns, thus knows what he is talking about and what he says is accepted by the scientific community. This article focuses solely on the ethical as well as health issues involved with the use of stem cells for curing incurable diseases such as diabetes, which the source above only lightly touches on. El-Hossary, Nancy, et al. Intravenous Vs Intraperitoneal Transplantation Of Umbilical Cord Mesenchymal Stem Cells From Jelly In The Treatment Of Streptozotocin- Induced Diabetic  Diabetes Research & Clinical Practice 121.(2016): 102-111. CINAHL. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article describes an experiment done on mice to test the curing abilities of stem cells and whether or not they will be successful in curing diabetes in humans. Umbilical stem cells were gathered, cultured, and prepared for weeks. They were than injected into the mice, either intravenous or intraperitoneal and the results were measured, recorded, and compared (control group) over a span of 56 days. Overall, the experiment was a huge success and the stem cells not only reduced the glucose levels of the mice, but also fixed damage done to the pancreases tissue. Even though the experiment was successful in mice, which are completely different from humans, the results show the promise in using stem cells to cure diabetes. Aviles 4 The article is of high importance because it forms the backbone for the research paper and the claim of using stem cells to cure diabetes. The article provide scientific facts and evidence that support the claim, thus giving credibility to the statement. Although the author of the article has only recently begun publishing, the peers she worked with on the experiment are renown scientist with multiple published works, which have been accepted in the scientific community. Vanikar, Aruna V., Hargovind L. Trivedi, and Umang G. Thakkar. Stem Cell Therapy Emerging As The Key Player In Treating Type 1 Diabetes  Cytotherapy 18.(2016): 1077-1086. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article describes different sources of stem cells, how they are acquired, the pros and cons of each, as well as the outcomes of the experiments each was used in. The stem cells have been used on either animals or humans, and have had temporary successful affects but no definitive cure. Although the end goal has not been reached, the research and experimentation done on stem cells is by far the most promising form of treatment of diabetes. Aruna Vanikar has published over 200 articles and citations, as well as being a huge influential researcher in the medical community. She has also received several awards/recognitions on her stem cell research articles and contributions. The article is important to the research paper because it gives scientific data and results which give hard core evidence of using stem cells to cure diabetes. It also supports the precious citation by further providing proof of the use of stem cells.