Rodriguez !1 Michelle Rodriguez Ms. Aranda ENC 1102 5 February, 2017 Immigration Laws Immigration issues have been around for hundreds of years, however, they have become particularly controversial recently. While it is undeniable that the United States of America is a country made of immigrants, our policies regarding immigration have become of particular concern. This is primarily because there are millions of undocumented aliens currently living in the United States and that number is growing every day. These numbers even include the millions that legally immigrate to the United States. Two stakeholder organizations that address immigration issue are the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) and the National Immigration Forum. FAIR feels that in immigration to pre 1965 immigration levels is necessary and that laws must be reformed to better sever the needs of current and future (fairus.org) The National Immigration Forum, on the other hand, focuses on supporting immigration to the U.S. and policies that protect immigrants. (immigrationforum.org) In spite of FAIR and the National Immigration very diverse approaches to immigration, it is clear that they both understand that the current immigration system is flawed and that compromise is necessary to balance the various interests involved. Whether one tends to agree with FAIR or the National Immigration Forum, it is clear that while immigrants will keep coming to the United States, our policies must address the growth factors and implement a process which is somewhat more selective. Not only are immigrants affected by this drastic Rodriguez !2 decision, but so are millions of American citizens therefore, it is important to find common ground. Immigration is a very difficult and complex issue which touches upon sensitive and emotional issues for many. It is no wonder that there are organizations on both sides of the spectrum with very diverse views. One such organization which was founded in 1979, is Federation for American Immigration Reform or main goal is educate and increase public awareness of immigration issues, present solutions, hold our leaders accountable for answers, and ensure the voice is (fairus.org) While FAIR recognizes how important immigrants have been to the foundation of this country, it believes that legal immigration must be drastically reduced in order to make immigration affordable, manageable, and to make certain other government funded programs will continue to exist. The organization sees the growth of immigration as an issue which must be addressed or which may otherwise result in the undermining of our entire system. FAIR believes that if we manage immigration, we may get to the point where we may not be able to benefit from their own government. As Tom Cotton, a writer for The New York Times and the Wall Street Journal, points out the United States will need to implement large reduction in legal immigration and a reorientation toward ultra-high-skill in order to better the lives of U.S. citizens. (Cotton) On the other side of the spectrum is the Immigration which views immigration in a very different way. Its mission is to promote federal immigration policies, addressing economic and national security needs while honoring the ideals of our Founding Fathers, who created America as a land of (immigrationforum.org). Rodriguez !3 The National Immigration Forum focuses on four main concerns which are: immigration reform, citizenship, interior environment, and immigration developments. It emphasizes the many positive impacts immigrants have had on so many industries and the country as a whole and seeks to protect immigrants. to an analysis by the Center for Immigration Studies, immigrants account for 35 percent of workers in building cleaning and maintenance, but only 10 percent in the corporate and financial sectors; 24 percent of workers in construction, but only 8 percent of teachers and college professors; 23 percent among food-preparation workers, but only 7 percent among The National Immigration Forum advocates for immigrants to enter the country, have equal opportunities, so they can succeed and thrive in this new environment. While their opponents point out that the continued expansion of the number of immigrants may seem fair but is simply not practical. Even though these two organizations may have diverse views with respect to the United States immigration policies, they agree on one thing, that our immigration system is in need of reform. been a quarter-century since congress substantially reformed the immigration system. In that time, the population of people who are in this country illegally has nearly tripled, to more than 11 million. also accepted one million legal immigrant annually- and a vast majority are unskilled or low (Cotton) Recognizing that the current system is not working is only the beginning. The two stakeholders have this as a common ground that which will hopefully lead to various solutions to this issue being provided. There are many factors to consider including, how other components of our society are affected by immigration. For example, it is unquestionable that while we hope to balance the growth of immigrants in this country that our economy is somewhat dependent on the immigrants who take lower paying jobs Rodriguez !4 and that there are economic impacts to our immigration policies. We must also think through issues involving enforcement of these policies. With the agreement that our immigration system is in need of reform there it is also likely that some type of compromise is necessary to address the immigration crisis. FAIR would like to reduce immigration to less than 300,000 people a year from the current almost a million people a year which is a return to pre-1965 immigration levels. (Wiesberg) FAIR will likely need to compromise on this figure because there is no way to immigration can be cut by two thirds in such a short period of time. The nation will need to implement a comprehensive program which will limit legal immigration, control illegal immigration and enforce our policies with respect to each other. The National Immigration Forum will have to accept that can not accept so many of these immigrants and still have the American people continue their way of life. Rodriguez !5 Works Citied About FAIR Federation for American Immigration  About FAIR Federation for American Immigration Reform. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Cafaro, Philip. The Progressive Case for Reducing  Chronicle of Higher Education 23 Jan. 2015: B9+. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Cotton, Tom. Fix Immigration. What Voters  The New York Times 2016: 23. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. National Immigration Forum Practical Solutions For Immigrants And  National Immigration Forum Practical Solutions For Immigrants And America. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Weisberg, Jessica. Guilt By Association: The Most Influential Anti-Immigration Network In America Tries To Convert Liberals To Its  The American Prospect 5 (2010): 25. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.