Wood 1 Mallory Wood ENC 1102 Prof. Angelica Aranda 2 February 2017 So many of the species of animals around today are rapidly going extinct. According to the Center for Biological Diversity dozens of animals are going extinct every day with approximately 30 to 50 percent of the species may be extinct by the middle of the century. Extinction is a natural part of evolution but nowadays the extinction process has been sped up mostly by the activities of humans. It is mentioned in the Encyclopedia of Science that the four main causes of extinction are: the excessive hunting of a species, the destruction of habitats, introducing new species into a different habitat effectively driving them away, and new, different diseases that are exposed to the animals. The World Wildlife Federation (WWF) and the International Fund for Animal Welfare both address the major issue of hunting animals excessively. The issue with their approaches is that while they focus on stopping this issue, they do not put as much effort into preventing the destruction to the species. The WWF was formed in 1961 by 16 conservationists to fund the protection of the environment through fundraising internationally. They have been a part of many successful rescuing projects including saving black rhinos in Africa to black bucks in the Himalayas in Asia. This organization is all about rescuing and rehabilitating animals to protect species and preserve the natural wildlife. In an effort to effectively save the environment, the WWF focuses on of the most ecologically, economically and culturally important species Wood 2 in the This organization makes a big impact on the environment, providing people with the opportunity to experience and be made aware of all the various species of animals so important to our eco-system. The IFAW was founded in 1969 in the UK and is an organization, aimed towards the rescuing of animals. They strive to achieve a world in which animals are respected and kept safe. IFAW has over 40 projects in countries all around the world in progress to save and advocate for the safety of animal populations. They have a program to save tigers in Russia and India, as well as Elephants in India and Kenya. In order to provide people with opportunities to learn about some of these species who are endangered the IFAW provides educational opportunities such as whale watching. If efforts such as these were not in place, not only would animals go extinct, they would do so at such rapid rates with most of the human population not even knowing they exist/existed in nature. These stakeholders work towards the same goal and take many of the same approaches to the issues that are being faced by the animals. IFAW and WWF have worked together a few times to advocate for the safety of animals. In 2016 they worked together to go against the illegal online trafficking of animals. Though the two organizations work towards the same goal they do not work together very often as they individually have many successful projects. Both organizations have in common, what they are striving towards, and they also have shortcomings in common, while they try to remove animals from harmful situations, they do not have many programs in place to stop them from being in these situations. While the rescue and repair aspect of protecting the animals may seem like the most important, prevention is just as important as this will stop there being so much of a mess to clean up in the long run. When the animals are rescued after being mistreated, sometimes they are too badly injured to be healed Wood 3 fully, and, despite being just animals, psychologically hey are affected as well, so putting in place plans for prevention is also important in preserving the health and wellbeing of species. Animals are an integral part of our ecosystem. They provide a balance, the rapid extinction rates will soon cause an imbalance in the system causing disruption to the environment. While many animals have already gone extinct, there are many still out there that can be saved and protected. With these efforts, animals may be able to start in the repopulation of their species and making the earth get back in balance with the species all living how they are all supposed to. Wood 4 Works Cited IFAW - International Fund for Animal  Home IFAW - International Fund for Animal Welfare. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Center for Biological Diversity. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Wildlife  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Tischauser, Leslie V. Endangered  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science (2016): n. pag. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.