1 Genevieve Rodriguez Professor Aranda ENC1102 February 5, 2017 Animals do it Alone This world is made to be shared by all of its inhabitants. Species die off and no longer exist through natural selection normally. As human interaction becomes more obvious, the world becomes a smaller place for its inhabitants. Organizations like People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and Defenders of Wildlife (DW) seek to stop or slow down the process of the ever growing endangered species list. These two stakeholder organizations have different ideas as to how they want to save the Earth. DW works a lot with trying to pass laws to save habitats while PETA uses pathos to entice people to protect all animals. I propose that these two stakeholders can work together and to create a social campaign that can reach all of the places that are effecting nature in a negative way. With social media presence and strategic planning and proposing laws they can, together, help those animals in need. Blasted across social media PETA uses graphic images of animals in pain. Guy Bergstorm, a seasoned reporter of political controversies, states in the article is PETA and How do They Target a Global that there are four audiences that PETA goes for when sending out a brutal message of a slaughter house. Everyday people, businesses, lawmakers, and mass media. When these audiences react PETA can accomplish the amazing. Animals are no longer tested on for beauty products due to this method (Bergstorm). strong social media presence allows them to showcase their mission statement loud and proud. focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the 2 entertainment (PETA.org) This stakeholder has been around since 1980 in Norfolk, Virginia in the hopes of ending animal cruelty as well as endangerment. At PETA they are not afraid to be the unpopular opinion or be the voice for the innocent. That is what makes them such a memorable force in social media. They use a very narrow focus in their media outputs to really get their point across which can really aid my compromise. PETA does claim to be all serving to animals but a lot of the time it forgets those animals in the wild who need help too. That is where the Defenders of Wildlife (DW) come in. DW is to the protection of all native animals and plants in their natural (defenders.org) DW works with lawmakers to make sure habitats are preserved. They contently make strides to adding animals to the endangered species list so that big companies turn a blind eye on helpless animals. (defenders.org) There is a recent article that showcased how DW used their activism to make wolverine habitats protected in 2013! Recently, J. Weston Phippen an ASU Journalism degree graduate of 5 years, wrote an article in the Atlantic about how wolverines are making a comeback once again in the United States. Work Cited Phippen, J. Weston. Great News For Wolverines, and a Lashing For U.S. Fish and  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 8 Apr. 2016. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Lee, Jieun, and Ilyoo B. Hong. Predicting Positive User Responses To Social Media Advertising: The Roles Of Emotional Appeal, Informativeness, And  International Journal Of Information Management 36.(2016): 360-373. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. 3 Bergstrom, Guy. What Is PETA and How Do They Target A Global  The Balance. N.p., 6 Aug. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Https://www.facebook.com/DefendersofWildlife/. Help Rescue Starving  Defenders of Wildlife. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.