Sustek 1 Nicholas Sustek Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 January 29 th , 2017 Project 1: intermediate draft Many cosmetic companies such as Cover Girl test their products inhumanely on animals to ensure the products are safe for human use. Organizations like PETA are pushing to get rid of animal testing because it is cruel to the animals being tested on. Both stakholders would like cosmetic products to be safe for human use. The main difference is PETA want animals to be harmed in any way whereas the company, Cover Girl, thinks the suffering of the animals is worth the payoff of having products that are safe for humans to buy and use. A possible solution to this conflict according to the official PETA website is vitro testing, sophisticated use of human cells and Not only does vitro testing replace the need to test on animals so they no longer are harmed, but it is also a more cost efficient and accurate way to test a products safety for human use. Testing cosmetic products on animals has proven itself to be a terrible candidate for a procedure to ensure human safety when using cosmetic products. Animal testing is expensive, it takes longer to get results, and in some cases it fails to find potential hazards in products for example in a study discussed by the new England anti-vivisection society (NEAVS) where they did animal testing to find if glass fibers were harmful to humans the experiment showed that the glass fibers were safe. However the Ocupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) have determined the fibers were carcinogenic, or Sustek 2 contain cancer causing particles (neavs.org). Vitro testing on the other hand can determine results much faster at a cheaper cost and no sentient beings are harmed in the process. According to the humane society a vitro test can determine results for a chemical corrosivity test as quickly as three minutes, but typically take hours to days to determine results. Compare that to the speed of animal testing which can take months to years with the quickest results taking weeks to obtain (humanesociety.org). The benefits of vitro testing could be reaped by both stakeholders in this sense. Cover girl would take less time to develop cosmetic products and PETA would be glad to see that no sentient beings are harmed in the process, All the while cosmetic products are tested for safe human use more efficiently which is a positive point for both stakeholders. Not only does animal testing take longer to acquire results it is also much more expensive. According to all-creatures.org the cost comparisons of animal test and vitro tests for skin corrosivity are 1800 dollars per assay and 725 dollars per assay respectively. The cost comparison for genotoxicity(tests that show if the substance is toxic to deoxyribonucleic acid, otherwise known as DNA.) tests shows animal tests of chromosomal aberration costs 30,000 dollars per assay where the alternative vitro test is two thirds of the cost at 20,000 dollars per assay. Tests of sister chromatid exchange have animal testing at 22,000 dollars per assay where the vitro alternative test is almost a third of the cost at 8,000 dollars per assay. Tests of unscheduled DNA synthesis are a similar proportion to that of the sister chromatid exchange tests marking animal testing at 32,000 dollars per assay and vitro alternative tests at 11,000 dollars per assay. The cost comparison for pyrogenicity (if the substance causes fever) put animal tests at 400 dollars per assay and vitro test alternatives at 110 dollars per assay a mere fourth of the cost of Sustek 3 animal testing(all-creatures.org). These numbers clearly show that vitro alternative tests are in the best interest of both organizations like PETA and cosmetic companies such as Cover Girl. If Cover Girl spends less money on testing their products to make sure they are safe for human use they can dedicate more resources to providing more product for their customers which will ultimately help them accomplish their goal of giving every girl the means and resources necessary to be a cover girl their mission statement according to their official Facebook page is girl is a cover In order to stay true to their mission statement they need to be able to supply a variety of product and if they are spending all their money on animal testing they cannot give as much of a variety to their customers. Alternative vitro testing is extremely more accurate than animal testing when determining if cosmetic products are safe for human use. The biology of hamsters, monkeys, guinea pigs, and mice (common animals used for animal testing.) are much different to that of humans some products tested on these animals may show results of being safe for the animals but then have fatal effects on humans. Vitro testing uses human cell cultures or human tissue samples which offer much more precise results since it tests to see how the product effects human biology as opposed to somewhat similar biology of certain animals. Animal testing only flawed in biological terms but there are also environmental factors that can play a role with the results for example the animals could react negatively to a product simply because of the stress caused by having tests done to the animal. According to vivisection.org vitro testing is done in a controlled environment that is a test tube. Controlled environments offer more precise results because there are no outside factors or confounding variables that can alter or invalidate the results of the Sustek 4 experiment. Vitro testing alternatives again prove to be the better option for both stakeholders. Cosmetic companies like Cover Girl could benefit from using Vitro testing alternatives because if the company decides on using animal testing and the results show that the product is safe for human use but then it is later found out that the product is carcinogenic or otherwise fatal to humans that company could have a class action law suit on their hands which could potentially force the company to cease doing business. There would also be a abundance of legal fees the company would have to pay on top of that they would have to hire a public relations firm to manage the incident if the company wishes to continue business and not ruin its reputation. All of these potential consequences can be avoided simply by deciding to use vitro alternative tests as opposed to animal testing. In culmination, the conflict between cosmetic companies like Cover Girl and organizations like PETA could be solved by replacing animal testing to ensure human safety when using cosmetic products with alternative vitro testing. Vitro testing offers a lot of benefits that animal testing cannot. Vitro testing can obtain results exponentially faster than animal testing. Vitro testing is a fraction of the cost of animal testing making it a much better candidate for companies. Vitro testing delivers more accurate results than animal testing since it is done in the controlled environment of a test tube. Most importantly vitro testing is cruelty free so no sentient beings are harmed in the process of ensuring safe use of cosmetic products for humans. The advantages of alternative vitro testing are clear and plentiful in every aspect over animal testing. Both stakeholders PETA and Cover Girl can only gain from using vitro testing in place of animal testing. Sustek 5 Work Cited test time the humane society, 19 Oct. 2016, Accessed 26 January 2017. The humane society is stating the fact that vitro alternative testing is obtains results from experiments faster than animal testing obtains results from experiments and backing it up with hard numbers. On this web page the humane society shows how the importance of time efficiency matters when deciding if the company should choose between animal testing, alternative vitro testing, or any other alternative method to test if a cosmetic product is safe for human use. On the web page the humane society gives specific quantitative figures showing exactly how much faster the process of vitro alternative testing is compared to the process of animal testing. The Humane Society is a non-profit organization that is against animal cruelty and pushes for an end to cruel actions taken upon animals or other sentient beings. The Humane Society was established in 1954 and is a current organization. The Humane Society is responsible for the creation of some federal legislation such as the humane methods of slaughter act. The Humane Society has a long history in association with animal rights and cruel actions against animals. The Humane Society is also recognized on a federal level which is plenty of merit to establish the organizations credibility. testing cost All-creatures, Jan. 2007, www.all-creatures.org/articles/ar-alt- compar.html. Accessed 25 January 2017. Sustek 6 All-creature.org states the statistical figures of the cost differences between animal testing and vitro alternative testing. The web page elaborates on significant the differences of the costs between the process of animal testing and the process of vitro alternative testing are and the web page shows what ways the companies that choose to use animal testing as opposed to vitro alternative testing could use the saved money to better their business for example they could use the money to develop more cosmetic products for their customers. The web page also shows how both organizations against animal testing and cosmetic product companies can benefit from switching to vitro alternative testing from animal testing since it is the obvious choice between animal testing and vitro testing being that vitro testing a fraction of the cost of animal testing All creatures organization is a dedicated organization that pushes cosmetic companies to pursue more humane testing methods such as the vitro alternative testing method. The web page is kept up to date with all of the statistics and information by the founder of the organization whose occupation is a biologist. Since the administrator of the web page is a professional scientist the information is all gathered from credible sources and therefore is credible itself. New England Anti-Vivisection Society, 12 Dec. 2016, www.neavs.org/alternatives/in-testing. Accessed 26 January 2017. The New England Anti-Vivisection Society state on this web page that there are differences in the biology of the animals used in the process of animal testing and the biology of human beings. This web pages goes on to show the importance of understanding this fact by stating that some products that may result as safe to use for human through animal testing may not be safe to use for humans because the animals can Sustek 7 react differently to the products than how humans would react to the cosmetic products since the biological factors vary between species. The web page goes on to show that given this information it would be smarter to use a process based on human biology such as vitro alternative testing The New England Anti-Vivisection society is a non-profit organization focusing on animal protection founded over a hundred years ago in 1895. The New England Anti- Vivisection society was responsible for ending use of chimpanzees in invasive biomedical research. The organization has a rich history of finding alternative humane methods of research. The higher ups of the organization all have received a degree or higher. The organization web page is always kept up to date and heavily monitored to ensure accurate information is being provided by the website. environments of Vivisectioninfo, 3 Mar. 2015, Accessed 25 January 2017. The vivisection info web page provides insight on how there could be other environmental factors or confounding variables that contribute to the results from animal testing such as stress levels of the different animals. The web page also shows that process of vitro alternative testing is done in a controlled environment like a test tube where they take into account confounding variables and environmental factors and make sure the results are not effected by outside influences. The web page shows how the assurance of no outside influence is important because it could mean that the company is establishing a causal relationship between the product and the animals reaction when the cause of the animals reaction could have been from some other influence so by using a Sustek 8 controlled environment the company is eliminating the risk of determining a false causal relationship. Vivisectioninfo.org is a web page created by a research team that dedicates work to find experimental methods that are one hundred percent humane. Each and every member of the research team that provides information for the web page is a professional scientist. Some of the scientists on the research team were members of the team that contributed to the development of the vitro alternative testing method. Girl misson cover girl, 25 Jan. 2017, https://www.facebook.com/pg/covergirlcosmetics/about/. Accessed 25 January 2017. is vitro PETA, 21 Oct. 2011, www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for- experimentation/alternatives-animal-testing/. Accessed 27 January 2017. On this web page PETA explains what vitro alternative testing is and how the process of the test works. The web page covers everything from what materials are involved in the testing process, how long the process typically takes, how much the testing process costs, and the availability of the materials needed for the vitro alternative testing process. PETA shows on their web page the amount of scientific research and backing of the vitro alternative testing process has an abundance of more reliability than that of animal testing it is shown that the vitro testing process is the animal testing superior in every aspect. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals or PETA is an international nom- profit organization that fights for the rights of animals. PETA is the largest animal rights organization in the world. PETA is responsible for the passing of the Animal Welfare Act in 1985. One of four core focuses is on animal testing to which they have done Sustek 9 extensive research on and have a plethora of knowledge about. PETA must stay informed on current issues associated with animal rights so the organization is always up to date with their statistics in order to properly fight for animal rights