Mahmood 1 Ahmed Mahmood Kristina Rouisse Composition 2 28 January 2017 Gun Control America has been facing problems because of the right to bear arms which is the second amendment to the united states Every mass shooting and act of terror is an opportunity for liberals to push gun (The Federalist). The government needs to protect its citizens from crimes and deaths. Organizations like The Brady Campaign want to forbid guns to make a safer America and cut the gun deaths in half by 2025. Both the National Rifle Association and The Brady Campaign do not want crimes and murders happening because of guns. However, The National Rifle Campaign defends the second amendment and educates the youth about gun control but does not want to forbid it. Therefore, both The Brady Campaign and the National Rifle Association must put certain laws and have strict background checks for people that want to have guns. The Brady goal is to cut the number of united states deaths for guns in half by the year 2025. They have three strategies to stop the wrong people from having guns. These strategies are mentioned in their website a policy focus to Finish the  so that life-saving Brady background checks are applied to all gun sales; (2) to Stop Gun  the 5 percent of gun dealers that supply 90 percent of all crime guns; and (3) to lead a new national conversation and change social norms around the real dangers of guns in the home, to prevent the homicides, suicides, and unintentional shootings that happen every day as a (Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence). The Brady Campaign has Mahmood 2 already managed to decrease the gun deaths from these strategies. However, they struggle because of organizations that support having guns. The National Rifle Association is an organize that has a primary goal which is promote and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific (NRA) according to a magazine editorial written by Church who is a Union veteran that co-formed the organization. They promote interest in the shooting sport to the youth by having rifle clubs at major military academies, colleges, universities. They are the leader in firearms education with 125,000 certified instructors now train about 1,000,000 gun owners a (NRA). Though this organization does not do any background checks for guns because they believe that background check systems stop criminals from getting firearms. This organization defends second amendment rights and works on educating people about gun control. However, people still miss use the guns which has been a problem to this organization and that is why they have federal penalties for firearms misuse. The National Rifle Association and The Brady Campaign have different goals to achieve, but they still share some similar interests. Both organizations want to decrease gun deaths and do not want people to miss use guns. The Brady Campaign wants to make an expanded brady background checks and effective anti-trafficking policy so that guns can be kept away from people with bad intent. The national Rifle Association has the Eddie Eagle GunSafe program which educates kids that if they see a gun they be near it and should tell a parent or a grown up (Eddie Eagle Program). They also have other safety programs that are by more than 125,000 NRA Certified Instructors and Range Safety Officers nationwide, reaching over one million program participants (NRA). The Brady campaign also want to make legal action to decrease the amount of deaths from guns like stopping bad apple gun deals, defend effective laws, and overturn dangerous laws. Mahmood 3 So, that there can be less gun casualties and guns not being in the hand of people with bad intent both the organization need to come together and create a back-ground check for people that want to have guns. The Brady Campaign should hold the back-ground checks, if they pass they can have a gun. In that way, both organizations will benefit since there will be less bad people with guns. Back ground checks prevented more than two million convicted felons and other prohibited purchasers from buying (Coalition to Stop Gun Violence). People with bad records will likely not try to buy a gun when they know there is a strict back ground check. They should also carry on educating the youth about guns and how they should not touch a gun and tell a grown up if they see one. The National Rifle Association and The Brady Campaign both impacted gun control significantly and have made changes to the laws to the right to bear arms. However, they both want people to be educated about the subject and want less people to die from guns. To ensure this, The National Rifle Association and The Brady Campaign should work together to make strict background checks for people that want to buy guns. They should also keep educating the youth about gun control. In that way, the two organizations benefit from this and less people will die. Word Count: 852 Mahmood 4 Works Cited 4 Major Problems with Gun Control  The Federalist. N.p., 22 June 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Universal Background  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. NRA  NRA About the NRA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  About Brady Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Program, Eddie Eagle Eddie Eagle  NRA Explore Eddie Eagle. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.