Clary 1 Dominique Clary 1 February 2017 ENC 1102 Instructor: Madeline Gottlieb Vegetarian Lifestyle vs. Non Vegetarian Lifestyle The typical America meal most likely will contain one choice of meat, a vegetable of some sort, and a starch. These are all viable options in which we choose to eat everyday of our lives, we have endless choices at our fingertips. For those who choose to refrain from eating meat, there are now alternatives for anything you can think of. PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) supports the movement to become vegetarian and even vegan. They offer viable information about the treatment of animals and the benefit of this lifestyle change. Contrary to that there are a plethora of supporters of the non-vegetarian movement, people such as Lierre Keith who wrote the In this book Keith discusses the negative effects of taking part in this vegetarian lifestyle. As a compromise the public must be educated on the pros and cons of eating meat or of being a vegetarian. As well as being educated on what exactly is being put into their meat. In a world where food production is rapidly changing the choice to eat meat or not is one to be considered. Many may assert that a vegetarian lifestyle is not healthy for the human body because it will deprive it of vital nutrients such as protein, iron, zinc, and so forth. Or that just eating vegetables will not provide such vital nutrients. However, PETA counteracts these accusations in various ways. On official website under its article it states, year in the U.S., more than 27 billion animals are slaughtered for food. Raising animals on Clary 2 factory farms is cruel and ecologically devastating. Eating animals is bad for our health, increasing the risk of developing various diseases and illnesses, including heart attacks, strokes, cancer, diabetes, and These are all very serious that can develop over the course of time. In this part of the text PETA touches on the major issues of meat eating in its article. It is evident that the consumption of meat not only causes harm to the human body but also the animals themselves. In terms of the effects on the animals PETA explains how animals are neglected in various forms, they are unable to see sunlight and graze outdoors, they are placed in small crammed spaces, and drugged to grow at a rate that is unhealthy for them. on factory farms do not see the sun or get a breath of fresh air until they are prodded and crammed onto trucks for a nightmarish ride to the slaughterhouse, often through weather extremes and always without food or Here PETA explains how the animals are not handled with care but simply as cargo instead. This unjust treatment is something that PETA goes into extreme detail with by talking about how they are slaughtered and the actual transport of these animals. The article then goes on to explain the benefits of turning to a vegetarian lifestyle for your health. Many of the major diseases that affect most people today are things such as stroke, high blood pressure, and heart disease. These are all linked to the buildup in the arteries from the meat. As a result of these factors our environment is affected deeply as well. According to website, staggering 51 percent or more of global greenhouse-gas emissions are caused by animal agriculture, according to a report published by the [World Institute. More than half of the water used in the United States today goes to animal agriculture, and since farmed animals produce 130 times more excrement than the human population, the run-off from their waste is fouling our Clary 3 The issue of the effects of the meat industry on the environment are highlighted. Not only are vast amounts of water being wasted but also the fecal matter from the animals are polluting clean water that is left. Additional to the issue of water, forestation is being affected as well. In order for there to be proper meat production there must be space to do so. As a result multiple forests are being cut down to make room for these industrial farms. As well as being used to feed these animals, 70% of our agriculture goes into feeding these animals In support of this according to Michael Allen Fox in his article titled and Planet he states that all of the grains used to feed the livestock could be used to feed five times as many people. It is evident that PETA has made it clear that the eating of meat has such a tremendous effect on not just the animals but on the diet of humans, and the environment. Lierre Keith introduced to the world his book the in which he speaks on his experience as a vegetarian and the negative effects of this diet. In the first chapter entitled This he touches on the idea of how vegetarians feel that they are doing the environment good by not eating meat. truth is that agriculture is the most destructive thing humans have done to the planet, and more of the same save us. The truth is that agriculture requires the wholesale destruction of entire ecosystems. The truth is that life possible without death, that no matter what you eat, someone has to die to feed Here Keith makes asserts the argument that no matter if one is to eat meat or not some form of life will be harmed regardless. He then goes on to touch on the beneficial qualities that eating meat has helped with as we began to evolve as a species. We were able to find many more nutrients in the meat than we were actually able to in plants. This has allowed our brain to grow twice as large thus giving way to the fact that our bodies were built off of nutrient rich foods (p. Clary 4 140). In support of this assertion author Steven G. Kellman states in his article titled Flesh, and Foul: The Anti-Vegetarian about the pain you cause to carrots? Do you get enough protein and vitamin This statement just goes on to further justify claims about the fact that sustenance from vegetables alone cannot provide the proper amount of nutrient to the human body. He then goes on to speak about the diet that so many vegetarians use as support for their alternative lifestyle. One version of the vegetarian myth posits that we were gaining more sustenance from plants gathered by women than from meat hunted by men. This rumor actually has an author, one R.B. Lee, who concluded that hunter-gatherers got 65 percent of their calories from plants and only 35 percent from animals. This 65:35 figure has been repeated endlessly across disciplines, and it simply true (p. 146) Here Keith negates the possibility of a vegetarian proclaiming that the hinter gather diet was more so nuts, berries, and other vegetable substances. As a result of this Keith exclaims how the vegetarian diet and motives are not backed by truth or valid reason. As it may be the choice to eat meat or not is own decision. These two groups struggle to make a compromise due to the gray are in between. That being the ethical treatment of animals and the idea of where one is able to receive better nutrients. However, as a compromise for the two each side should educate the public on the pros and cons of being a vegetarian as well as not being a vegetarian. Additionally the amount of harmful steroids, chemicals and dyes used in the meat production should be dramatically reduced. PETA stated in their online article titled People who consume animal products are also at increased risk for many other illnesses, including strokes, obesity, osteoporosis, arthritis, multiple allergies, diabetes, and food This in turn Clary 5 will eliminate the negative effects that meat has on the human body. All in all despite the claims made by each stakeholder the choice to be a vegetarian is ultimately up to each individual. Clary 6 Works Cited Keith, Lierre. Vegetarian Myth, edited by Lierre Keith, PM Press, 2009. ProQuest Ebook Central, https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/usf/detail.action?docID=445338. Vegetarian  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. http://www.peta.org/living/food/vegetarian-101/ Kellman, Steven. G. Flesh, and Foul: The Anti-Vegetarian The American Scholar. Vol. 69, Issue 4, p. 85-96. United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa. 2000 Fox, Michael Allen. and Planetary Ethics and the Environment. Vol. 5, Issue 2, p. 163 174. Indiana University Press.