Diamond !1 Alexia Diamond Professor Ryan ENC 1102 January 28th, 2017 Standardized Testing: Helpful or Hurtful? Standardized testing has been a huge part in assessing schools, students, and teachers for a very long time, however, since 2002, those who are being tested believe that these standardized tests are doing more harm than good. Students take about 112 mandatory tests from pre- kindergarten to the end of their high school career. The Civil Rights Group is committed to a unbiased, and accurate data (civilrights.org 2015) to determine class placement, college admissions, and college scholarships and they believe that these standardized tests are the best instrument for that. However, the National Center for Fair and Open Testing believes that these tests are unnecessary as they waste time in the classroom, narrows the curriculum, and causes many students to drop out of school (fairtest.org 2017). They believe that there is a better way to assess a students performance without the use of unnecessary testing. Standardized testing has been the tool the federal government has used for many decades to test schools, teachers, and performances, however, is it crucial for education? The Civil Rights Groups believe that standardized testing is the only consistent and fair source of data for students that are a minority, for students of color, low-income, disabilities, and those who are just learning English. They strongly advise that parents do not of these tests because they believe it contradicts the efforts to improve schools for not only their child but students everywhere (civilrights.org 2015). These tests may be seen as unnecessary, but it is the Diamond !2 most consistent, unbiased, and reliable way to obtain data to improve curriculum, schools, and teachers for a better education. Most of these exams are taken on computers, where the background of the student known; it know if the student are of color or if they are having financial issues at home, the scores are completely based on the material given to them by the student (School and Child Care Search Service 2013). Taking these tests not only give students an opportunity to show what learned, but something that can help improve their schools and education (Brown 2015). They help teachers determine what students need more help with and when they should teach it. Students go into the test not knowing the material, they are given spelling test and math quizzes based on what they learned. Because of these standardized tests, we are able to see if a child is struggling in one subject but is thriving in another and it helps us see if a teacher and school are able to provide the education these students deserve. Standardized testing is a part of a large strategy to improve education and focus on setting clear standards for schools. The tests consists of multiple choice questions that allows students to think, analyze, and figure out how to solve a problem (Williams 2000). Public schools depend on standardized testing to give an accurate indication on whether or not a student is not only memorizing, but is also able to apply what they learned . According to the Vice President for the Cleveland Teachers Union, the problem the tests itself, the problem is that some States design the tests based on standards, they put together tests without creating a curriculum based on standards and just expect students to pass it. When putting test together, a designed a curriculum based around certain standards should be created and then a test should be designed that will assess what the children have learned. If those who are creating tests are just Diamond !3 putting random questions down without giving teachers a curriculum based around the test, there is no way students will be able to pass them (Johnson 2000). However, the National Center for Fair an Open Testing urges parents to or refuse the mandatory tests. A lot of futures depend on these test scores; whether a student passes a grade, gets admitted into college, receives the scholarship they may desperately need, whether a teacher keeps their job or receives a bonus, and whether a school remains open or gets closed down. The article Say No to Standardized states, the message that school time should be used for teaching and learning, protests harmful uses of standardized demands better ways to assess and promote students and prevent test results from being used to harm students, teachers and (fairtest.org 2017). Before, a test contained information every student was supposed to learn when they had taken the respective class, however, now teachers have been so focused on helping students pass their standardized exams, the education is more about the exams instead of the actual material. The focus on test preps take away hands-on projects, collaborative and interactive activities. These high-stake test teacher frustration, increases student drop-out rates, reduces classroom instructional time, narrows the curriculum, widens the achievement gap, and promotes (Phelps 2015). The exams asses creativity, critical thinking, collaboration, or leadership (fairtest.org 2017). In 2002, Bush signed a Child Left Behind requiring a test based on math and reading for every student from third to eighth grade to take. This test closed down schools who failed to make progress on these tests. As of 2011, almost half the schools nationwide were labeled as failing and was closed down (Mullholland 2015). The number of parents that have opted their child out of taking these tests have grown enormously Diamond !4 over the past decade and the number keeps growing. They argue that this civil disobedience is the best way to change the overemphasis on tests in the public (Brown 2015). Nearly every state in the United States have a group of parents, students, and teachers boycotting these tests. These groups believe that although they have a right to public education, standardized testing is grueling and unnecessary and is in fact, hurting the education. Although, both sides believe in the same form of assessing a performance, they both want to see students and the education system do well. In an attempt to ease the tension, standardized tests are minimized to just the basic subjects, math and reading, and test preparation are kept to a minimum in classrooms. Students will take two government-mandated standardized tests annually and the scores will continue to be posted to the public so parents are aware of how well their child and school is doing, however only one test score at each grade can determine if a school is struggling and needs change (USA Today 2015). This compromise appeases to both stakeholders as it only changes what is necessary. By making this compromise, the state is able to test students and schools without taking away classroom time and changing the curriculum to fit the test. It takes away unneeded stress on students and allows teachers to focus on teaching and the education itself. Standardized testing is a piece to a huge puzzle for improving schools and education. There are still standardized tests that students will take to assess the students and schools performance, but students feel as much pressure to do well. This will not only benefit a education, but also do right by the children. Diamond !5