Project 1 Intermediate Draft Abortion. As defined by the CDC (Center for Disease Control), abortion is intervention performed by a licensed clinician (e.g., a physician, nurse-midwife, nurse practitioner, or physician assistant) that is intended to terminate an ongoing pregnancy (cdc.gov). The people who fight for the banning of abortion are known as and the people who fight for the right to have an abortion are known as Abortion may seem like it have been a problem, women have been getting abortion for thousands of years, however it was not until the 1800s that laws were starting to get passed that were aiming to make abortion illegal. This was done due to the fact that back in the day, these procedures were unsafe. Hospitals were not as accessible as they are today and the procedures were often carried out in unsafe, and unclean environments, putting the life of the woman in danger. However there were many other reasons why they were pushing to make abortion illegal at the time, including that some states feared that the children of immigrants would dominate the population. Several decades later there is a breakthrough in abortion laws with the famous Roe v. Wade case that gave the woman the right to abortion in all states in 1973. However, there are people who fought this case, and neither side has been able to settle on a decision after all these years. A primary stakeholder in the fight for the pro-life cause would be NRLC (National Right to Life Committee). The NRLC is the oldest pro-life organization in North America they work to fight for the unborn right to live through legislation and providing educational camps about their cause. A primary stakeholder in the fight for the right to give woman a choice about abortions is NARAL (National Association for the Repeal of Abortion Laws) Pro-Choice America. NARAL Pro-Choice America fights this cause through congress to make sure that their voice is heard. While these two groups share what is seemingly no common ground, a common enemy could be found in sex education and reform, and allowing women to educate themselves and be provided access to sexual safety. The fight for the life of unborn fetuses has been fought on many different fronts, by many different groups The oldest formal committee to take on fighting for the pro-life cause is the NRLC. The NRLC was founded in 1968 and fights for the right of the fetus through education of women as well as fighting through legislation. The mission of National Right to Life is to protect and defend the most fundamental right of humankind, the right to life of every innocent human being from the beginning of life to natural death. The NRLC has worked hard since it first formed and currently has over 3,000 chapters scattered throughout the 50 states. The official website of the NRLC has several fact sheets on topics of abortions ranging from how abortions can affect your body to the different techniques there are when getting an abortion. The NRLC works very hard to promote education, ensuring that anyone who wants to find out more information about the topic of abortion has information that is readily available. They offer people who want to help their cause sign up and work with NRLC state affiliates and get their voice heard. They work to promote their pro-life cause and stop initiatives. One of their biggest victories was allowing for Tennessee to be the first state to outlaw abortion as a health plan benefit. David N. Ph.D., executive director of the National Right to Life Committee, had this to say about the bill when it first passed, Polling continues to show that the public is opposed to the use of public monies - be they in the federal or a state treasury - to pay for or subsidize  (nrlc.org). This organization has done great deal for the pro-life cause, and still does today. On the opposing side of the issue is NARAL Pro-Choice America. NARAL Pro-Choice America was first founded in 1969. The basis of the pro-choice movement is that they want the power to be given to the woman, as to whether or not they should be allowed to have their baby. According to Major et al (2009), Seven studies were based on samples that are largely or exclusively U.S. based. Cohan, Dunkel-Schetter, and Lydon(1993) examined responses of 33 women one month following a pregnancy test, 21 of whom had terminated their pregnancy and 12 of whom had continued their pregnancy.Almost all had reported that their pregnancy was This is one of the reasons many of the pro-choice groups out there fight, so women are not forced to keep a child they do not want to. While not as big as the NRLC, NARAL Pro-Choice America is still a very large pro-choice organization. According to Junior research scholar Marianna Karakoulaki, every chance the republican controlled legislatures have, they change their state laws in order to make it more and more difficult for a woman to have an abortion or even take who wanted to have the abortions or prevent babies were met with a hard time. The pro-choice movement gained a lot of momentum in the landmark supreme court case of Roe v Wade , which made abortions legal in the first trimester of pregnancy, claiming that abortion was to be umbrellaed under a right to privacy. They also organize groups to help make sure that the voices of pro-choice people are heard by the lawmakers. NARAL Pro-Choice America, works mostly through congress and fight to make sure that lawmakers that get elected are pro-choice and they try to defeat the ones who are not. Magazine called NARAL Pro-Choice America of the top 10 advocacy groups in on its track record of successful advocacy, legislative activism, and political (nextmark.com). Like the NRLC, NARAL Pro-Choice America has worked hard to make sure that men and women are educated about sex, pregnancy, childbirth and abortion. The two groups while they do not realize it share some common ground. In order for these two stakeholders to find some common ground a lot of things need to change for a compromise to take place. For instance Women need to be given equal rights to men, in this country they are still being heavily looked down upon. According to Baker (2011), the value and treatment of human life is of great importance to cultures throughout the human race and the growing life inside a woman is viewed by many as sacred, including by the woman herself,) In order for both sides to get what they want, their needs to be sacrifice. The NRLC and Naral Pro-Choice America, would need to give up fighting each other and fight to represent the lack of education and material that help deal with the problem. The NRLC would be giving up their major believe that abortion is illegal and fight to prevent the pregnancy, in a sense, in the first place. While NARAL Pro-Choice America, would be giving up power to allow for both pro-choice, and pro-life, to have equal power so there is balance and one does not overpower the other. The final step would be for the government to issue things such as birth control, for men and women, contraceptives for free to those who need it at health centers across the nation. Lastly they should implement an educational reform, learning from our European neighbors who teach sexual education as early as the age of four (pbs.org). When these elements all come together, a compromise can be had. Sex education and easily accessible contraceptives, are key to a compromise between the stakeholders of the NRLC, and NARAl Pro-Choice America. While they do have less in common than they do different, they still have something in common nonetheless. With a great deal of effort and time such a compromise is not something that is completely out of the question. Works cited. Karakoulaki, Marianna. Abortion and Rights in the  - Share research . N.p., 15 June 2012. Web. CDCs Abortion Surveillance System  for Disease Control and Prevention . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 16 Nov. 2016. Web. Major, Brenda, Mark Appelbaum, Linda Beckman, Marry Ann Dutton, Nancy Russo, and Carolyn West. Abortion and Mental Health: Evaluating the  Psychologist (2009): n. pag. Web. Baker, Aspen. How to Resolve the Abortion  Huffington Post . TheHuffingtonPost.com, 25 May 2011. Web. America, NARAL Pro-Choice. NARAL Pro-Choice  Pro-Choice America . N.p., n.d. Web. The oldest & largest pro-life  Right to Life . N.p., n.d. Web.