Bond 1 Jazz Bond Professor Van Winkle ENC 1102 27 January 2017 Animal Testing There have been different viewpoints about animal testing and how it affects the animals. There are tons of organizations that are against or for animal testing but the two main organizations that are well known are PETA and Pro-Testing. PETA focuses on protecting animals that are neglected in the laboratories, food industries, clothing trade, and entertainment industry (peta.org). On the other side Pro-Testing pushes for animal treatment so that there are medications for humans. In order to come to a common ground these organizations need to figure out a way that animal testing can provide medications for people while not harming the animals. Animal testing is a very sensitive subject that offers a lot of different opinions from people. On animal-testing.procon.org, they give great pros and cons that tell us how animals are treated and also how they help in the medical field. One of the top pros being that animal testing has contributed to many lifesaving cures and treatments. Without chimpanzees there would not be a vaccine for Hepatitis B (Abee).The unfortunate part about that is when animals are tested most of them are treated cruel and inhumane. Animals are being forced to eat, drink, and go through terrible things such as neck breaking just for treatments. In order to find common ground there needs to be some sort of agreement between the two organizations. There needs to be cures and treatments for humans, but at the same time people do not want to hurt animals. Most of the animals being used are normally monkeys, farm animals, cats, dogs, ect. So instead of hurting Bond 2 pet dog or their horse, scientist could only use rodents that can be found living outside in the wild. Pro-Test may be for testing animals but they do not want to harm the animals. If there is a way to make cures and figure out treatments for humans without harming the animals, there could be an agreement where testing animals would be okay. PETA mentioned that animals were kept in small cages in the laboratories and were forced to go through procedures they did not want to go through. Animals should be able to move freely in a reasonable amount of space and not forced to be treated on when they do not want to. Also as mentioned before, the organizations that choose to perform experiments should try to experiment only on rodents. The reason for this is because most animals that get experimented on could be pet. People then see those animals get cruelly treated and respond with wanting to band animal testing. A story on website tells us about a Texas A&M University experiment where they bred dogs to develop different types of muscular dystrophy. The dogs were treated unruly, caged alone, and barely fed. Some of the dogs that had the disease were experiencing progressive muscle wasting and weakness. Work Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pro-Test.  Pro-Test: standing up for science. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.