Reges 1 Caroline Reges Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102.05 29 January 2017 A Deeper Look at the Death Penalty The death penalty is legal in 31 states within the United States, and is a very controversial issue within the country even today (States and Capital Punishment). In general, the death penalty can only be applied when someone commits a first-degree murder, or having committed other aggravating factors, which vary from state to state. The Southern Baptist Convention is a supporter of the death penalty. They believe in the for an rule, where if you take a life then you deserve to lose your own life. They believe this is the most effective way for people to know not to commit murder. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty is against the death penalty. They believe that killing a murderer is ineffective and helping society become safer. They believe education and new policies will help improve society. When looking at the controversial issue of the death penalty, the Southern Baptist Convention and the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty have extremely different views. Despite these differences, they have common ground when it comes to only wanting the actual murderers put in jail, so they could solve their problem by having a sentence for life instead of the death penalty. The Southern Baptist Convention is a supporter of the death penalty, one that is rightly applied and believe it is effective. The Southern Baptist convention believes that one who intentionally takes life by murder forfeits the right to his own (Allen). They are very strict about this law, though, because they do believe that the death penalty should only be applied when the evidence very clearly shows that the person on trial committed the murder. The person Reges 2 on trial must have multiple witnesses (Capital Punishment: An Overview of Christian Perspectives). They want race or economic status to influence whether or not the person gets the death penalty. One of the leaders of the Southern Baptist Convention, Albert Mohler, believes that many americans think the death penalty is very effective, while he believes that it is the best punishment. Sociologist Ernest van den Haag would agree with Albert Mohler, who believes that most people have conscience, which threatens them, should they do what is den Haag). He agree with replacing the death penalty with lighter punishments, because action of violating rules tends to exceed the disadvantage of being (Van den Haag), and the person may choose to commit the murder because they afraid of the punishment. The Southern Baptist Convention feels that having the death penalty is the morally right thing to do. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP) believes that the death penalty needs to be abolished and laws need to be changed. They want safe neighborhoods which would be able to address the root cause of crime and violence (About Us). They hope to stop the problem before it even happens to reduce the amount of murders within the US so the court even need to think about having to think about using the death penalty.The want offenders to have to be held accountable for their actions, but allow them the chance to change in prison and give them access to mental health services. In a study done by Michael Radelet and Ronald Akers of Northwestern law, they found out that 92% of the population believes that life sentence prisions have more of an effect on deterring homicide than the death penalty (Radelet 14). Very few people believe that the death penalty system is effective. The NCADP wants dignity for the criminal justice system, including judicial and prison systems (About Us). They believe there needs to be more trauma support systems to help the victims of the crime and their Reges 3 families. Also, many people in the prison system involved with executions have problems with PTSD, so they believe that there should be support for them as well. They want rational policies based on evidence. Ever since 1976, every ten people who have been executed, at least one person was wrongfully sentenced to death and then set (About Us). Overall, this group just want to abolish the death penalty, they want a safer society so people even make such extreme actions so the death penalty even need to be applied in the first place. Even though both of these groups have their differences, they do have some common ground. They both believe that a person who commits a murder needs to suffer for what they have done. They both believe it should be done in different ways, but there should be some sort of severe punishment. They also both believe that the courts should be very careful on who they give the death penalty to. The case for someone who may be given the death penalty needs to be very thorough to ensure that someone who commit their crime is wrongfully executed. The compromise between the two stakeholders would be the without punishment would become the new and would be the highest form of punishment a government can give. This punishment would strictly be given to people who committed murder, no other cases. This would help make both sides happy because the murderer would still be given the new but not kill them. A program could be started to help educate the public about how horrible life in prison is and why people want to commit murder and end up in prison for life. The Southern Baptist Convention was worried that if people have a harsh enough punishment, they be intimidated enough by the punishment to not commit the murder. This system would help make sure that the people really know what getting into if they commit a murder. The funding of this program would come from the money saved by the without system. In an estimate done by the Palm Beach Post, Reges 4 they found out that Florida would save $51 million a year if the death penalty was replaced with life without parole (V). This compromise would support both groups because it would help ensure that the punishment is rightly applied. Sometimes cases bring up evidence until many years after, and by then the person may have already been executed. This program is good for the community because it supports families and prison workers. Because there is a long wait for the court case and the execution, families would sometimes spend years in a period of uncertainty before they know whether or not their loved one is going to be executed (Covey 1100). This would help the families be more at ease so they at least know what is going to happen soon after it happens. This would help reduce the amount of PTSD within the prison system, so people have to become executioners or be involved with the executions. This would satisfy the NCADP because they want to keep the community happy, not just the ones involved with the execution. In order for this new system to work, both groups would have to give up something. The Southern Baptist Convention would have to give up the death penalty, which is something very big for them. The NCADP would still have to deal with the fact that these people who committed a murder are spending their life in prison, with no chance of being rehabilitated or released. Both sides may not love the compromise being made, but this is at least some sort of middle ground that both groups could possibly agree to. The Southern Baptist Convention does follow parts of the Bible very literally though, and it says in the Bible that if someone kills someone else, the killer should be killed as well. It depends how open they are to interpretation, and if the NCADP is willing to agree with life in prison, as it much better than the death penalty. Overall, it can be seen that the two groups, the Southern Baptist Convention and the NCADP have some very opposing opinions relating to the death penalty. The Southern Baptist Reges 5 Convention would like to keep the death penalty and ensure the penalty is only applied to the correct person. The NCADP would like to abolish the death penalty and make a safer community. Having the parole for life punishment for murderers would be the best compromise for both groups. It would ensure the correct person is put into prison, it ensures they suffer for what they did, and saves the government money that can be spent to educate the public. This compromise may not be perfect, but it is one way that both groups can benefit. Works Cited Allen, Bob. SBC Leader Says Christians Should Support Death  Baptist News Global. 2 May 2014. Web. 22 Jan. 2017, https://baptistnews.com/article/sbc-leader-says-christians-should-support-death- penalty/#.WI6DDGQrJWM. Reges 6 Bob Allen graduated from Southern Illinois University and Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. He has been part of Baptist News Global since October 2008. From 2002 to 2008 he was managing editor of EthicsDaily.com, a Baptist center for ethics website. He has a lot of background with baptists, so he should be able to clearly explain what the Southern Baptist Convention leader says, but could be biased in support of Baptists. About  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. n.d. 22 Jan. 2017 http://www.ncadp.org/pages/about-us. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP) was founded in 1976. They currently have 90 million members and are growing. Recently they had their Killing the campaign to get rid of the death penalty for juveniles. Capital Punishment: An Overview of Christian  ERLC. 29 May 2014.29 Jan. 2017, http://erlc.com/resource-library/articles/capital-punishment- an-overview-of-christian-perspectives. Formally known as the Christian Life Comission, the Ethics and Religious Liberty Comission was founded in 1988 to help churches understand the gospel and answer moral and social problems. They now have 16 million members in 43,000 different churches. Covey, Russel D. Death in Prison: The Right Death Penalty Georgia State University Law Review 5th ser. 28.4 (2011): 1099- 102. Accessed 29 January 2017 Reges 7 Russel D. Covey got his A.B. at Amherst College, his M.A. at Princeton University, and his J.D. at Yale Law School. He is now a professor of law at Georgia State University College of Law. He is a member of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. The Georgia State University Law Review has been running since 1984, and is published out of Atlanta. This helped me figure out a compromise possible since Covey has a lot of background in law. Radelet, Michael L., and Ronald L. Akers. Deterrence and the Death Penalty: The Views of the  The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 87.1 (1996): 10.2307/1143970 14. Accessed 29 January 2017 Michael L Radelet got his BA in Sociology at Michigan State University, his MA in Sociology at Eastern Michigan University, and his PhD in Sociology at Purdue University. He is now a Professor and Associate Chair at the Department of Sociology of the University of Colorado at Boulder. In 2006, he received the Paul Tappan Award Outstanding Contributions to the Field of The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology was founded in 1910 and is published out of Evanston Illinois. This journal is through a law school, so they should be reliable when it comes to the death penalty and the rules. States and Capital  NCSL. National Conference of State Legislatures, 11 Sept. 2016. 28 Jan. 2017 http://www.ncsl.org/research/civil-and- criminal-justice/death-penalty.aspx. Reges 8 The National Conference of State Legislatures is a bipartisan non- governmental organization. It was founded in 1975 and is located in Washington DC and Denver. V, S. The High Price of Killing  Palm Beach Post. Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau, 4 Jan. 2000. 29 Jan. 2017 http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/node/2289. The Palm Beach Post is a newspaper that was founded in 1916. They currently have 750,00 daily readers in the Southern Florida area. Van Den Haag, Ernest. On Deterrence and the Death  The Journal of Criminal Law, Criminology and Police Science 60.2 (1969): 142-43. 10.1111/j.1740-9713.2014.00733.x. Ernest van den Haag got his MA in economics at University of Iowa. He died in 2002. Originally established in 1910, the Journal of Criminal Law, Criminology and Police Science is published by the Northwestern University School of Law in Evanston, Illinois. His paper lets me know reason in support of the death penalty that just religious.