Susan Adepoju 2/4/17 Project 1: Intermediate Draft World Wildlife Fund and Save the Elephants Animal preservation has been a major source of conflict in the past few decades due to people not taking care of the environment and that some animals are being hunted for money. For my first stakeholder, I chose World Wildlife Fund (WWF) which is the leading organization for wildlife conservation and endangered species, their mission is to conserve nature and reduce the most pressing threats to the diversity of life on Earth. My second one was Save the Elephants (STE) which works to secure a future for the elephants and to battle the current problem been caused by ivory poaching. Both organizations have similar goals with helping the wildlife so by working together they can make their mission even bigger. World Wildlife Fund and Save the Elephants should work together because then be able to bring awareness to both sides since they are all equally important. By coming together, it will allow them to raise a large amount of money for the endangered species and the elephants effected by the ivory poaching. For the past 50 years, World Wildlife Fund has been known for protecting both endangered species and nature. WWF is placed in over 100 countries with one million members in the U.S. but five million globally. Their main goal is to not only do things locally but try to spread the work out worldwide. The six areas that they focus on are forests, marines, freshwater, wildlife, food, and climate. These areas have helped work from saving species and landscapes to addressing the larger global threats and forces that impact (World Wildlife Fund) All their work is centered around people so they can help make sure that nature can provide for every living thing. Working globally, they can help educate and influence people so that they can learn to make better choices about the environment. In the Washington post article Darryl Fears mentions that all the products that we buy every day and the goods that are in stores all come from areas where monkeys, toads, and wild cats live. (Fears 1) This shows how destroying the environment day by day. Ivory poaching has become a concerning problem for the elephants in Africa, the reason for that is because that they are being hunted just for money. In an article written by David Frey a freelance writer he states that poachers locals looking for a windfall. international criminal cartels, well-armed and ready to (Frey 2) Most poachers are from other countries coming to Africa to look for elephants. Save the Elephants is an organization trying to stop the poaching from happening. mission is secure a future for elephants and to sustain the beauty and ecological integrity of the places they live; to promote delight in their intelligence and the diversity of their world, and to develop a tolerant relationship between the two (STE) Their organization is primarily based in Samburu National Reserve, Kenya but most of their projects run across Africa. If ivory poaching stopped, then elephants could be completely gone within a single generation. World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and Save the Elephants (STE) are both very dedicated to saving wildlife and nature but they worked together as one. Since their mission statements are very similar there seem to be any conflict between the two organizations. The only difference between the two is that one is more focused on elephants, while the other is geared more towards endangered species. The common ground between the two is that they want to make the environment a better place while protecting the animals around the world. Since they opposing each other, instead of coming up with a compromise I would rather come up with a project that they can both do and benefit from. Most importantly, a project that I believe WWF and STE can do is to merge their interests and start a charity to raise money for both organizations. They can raise monetary donations for their charity by collaborating once a year and holding an auction that will allow large organizations to provide contributions for the endangered species, elephants and nature. Doing an auction would probably be best the choice because then they have split the money raised in two ways, but the people that attend will have the decision on which company to assist. Prior to the auction, there can be a short presentation on the history of both groups, so they can raise awareness while also increasing their funds. Each presentation from WWF and STE can include descriptions on their past projects, their goals, and what accomplished at the end of them. Overall, WWF and STE both are suitable companies for saving wildlife, despite their slightly different intentions. WWF mainly desires to protect nature and decrease the amount of destructive threats that the life on Earth faces, while STE chooses to target saving the lives of elephants that are being murdered for the profit that ivory poaching provides. I believe it would be a useful idea for them to join forces and create a new charity that will help both these causes at the same time. They can increase their donations by having an annual auction that will give people the chance to choose which organization they want to provide aid to, after they have direct exposure to what both of them represent in a presentation. The presentation can include projects that these groups have been engaged in before, what things they want to achieve, how they will achieve these missions, and the results that obtained so far. Works Cited 1. Darryl Fears about everything you buy came at the expense of an endangered Washingtonpost.com N.d. Web 5, February 2017 2. WWF - Endangered Species  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017 3. Save the  Save the Elephants. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. 4. Ivory Poaching Rears its Head