Henry Trent Instructor Gill ENC 1102.077 1/29/2017 Project 1 Intermediate The death penalty, also known as capital punishment, is a very complex issue in the United States. Capital punishment is the process by which the government sanctions the legal termination of an individual life who is found guilty for the punishment of a serious crime. Individual states determine whether or not they wish to utilize capital punishment. However, in federal cases, some crimes are punishable by death independent of states rights. The death penalty is not only used as punishment, it is also intended to prevent people from committing heinous crimes. However, capital punishment is controversial with regards to whether or not it is a just, constitutional, and beneficial system. The two main opposing stakeholders in the matter of the death penalty are the Republican Party, which calls for the continued practice of capital punishment. However, the Democratic Party calls for the abolition of the death penalty at both the federal and the state level. Both parties share a common ground in that they both want to keep society safe and keep American cities safe. The death penalty is not a just, nor constitutional practice, and in no way benefits society. The Republican pro-death penalty ideology arises from a desire to discourage murder and lower the murder rate in United States cities. The Republican Party uses the death penalty as a tool to strike fear in potential murderers with the goal of preventing murder. The Republican Party aims to use the death penalty as both a form of punishment, as well as deterrence, scaring American people into submission. The Republicans disagree with the Democrats in that the death penalty is in fact constitutional. In the Grand Old Party (GOP) platform the Republicans specifically state their position on the issue as well as their view on the death constitutionality. constitutionality of the death penalty is firmly settled by its explicit mention in the Fifth Amendment. With the murder rate soaring in our great cities, we condemn the Supreme erosion of the right of the people to enact capital punishment in their (GOP Platform), they also state that the abolition of the death penalty in some states is actually an infringement on our rights. Newly elected Republican President Donald Trump stated that will expand the death penalty to those who kill police (Daily Record), not only is the Republican platform explicitly in favor of the death penalty, our new president intends on expanding its use, which will result in even more people facing capital punishment. On the other hand the Democratic Party calls for the abolition of the death penalty. The Democratic Party wishes to abolish the death penalty because they believe that it is unconstitutional. One reason they believe capital punishment is unconstitutional is found in the eighth amendment to the Constitution where it is stated that no citizen shall be subjected to cruel and unusual punishments, and being sentenced to death is the cruelest punishment one can face. According to the Democratic National platform the death penalty constitutes as a form of cruel and unusual punishment, and is more expensive than sentencing a criminal to life in prison (DNC Platform), therefore the death penalty should no longer be legal within the United States of America. According to Antoinois Kouroutakis, author of abolish the Death Penalty? Arguments from Madisonian Thought, the death penalty goes against that which our country stands. Our country was built upon a representative democracy with majority rule but minority rights, or keeping the minority from becoming oppressed by the majority. However, having pro-death penalty policies in place, totally neglects this (Kouroutakis 43). The death penalty neglects minority rights because, the minority of the population that, commits crimes grave enough to warrant the death penalty, has all rights stripped from them and are sentenced to death. Any compromise will be difficult to reach, however there is one clear that is in fact reachable. Completely abolishing the death penalty, on both a state and federal level, and replacing it with life in prison without possibility of parole. This is a clear compromise on more levels than just the fact that another human life is not being taken. Not only is a human life being spared but life in prison is less expensive than sentencing and carrying out the death penalty (Covey 1113). However there is also the possibility of someone wrongfully convicted of murder being put to death. It is also beneficial to society in that a murderer is off the streets and will be behind bars for the rest of his/her life. Another aspect to take into account is if the possibility of facing the death penalty deterred criminals. In Brian study on effectiveness of the death deterrence he concludes that balance the death penalty does not have a perceptible influence on the homicide 938), therefore the number of people deterred from committing homicide so insignificant that it does not make a difference. This disproves the thought that having a death penalty deters people from committing said homicide. Which is further reason that the death penalty should be abolished. The death penalty is an outdated practice, that could possibly be unconstitutional, that puts innocents at risk, and creates a staggering cost to society. Homicide is the most severe crime that can be committed, and the death penalty is the most severe punishment. However, a belief held by many is that the state should justly have the power to end a life, and in addition to having the power, doing so is not beneficial to society. In some regards it is in truth adverse to society. Capital punishment is adverse to society in that it is ending a human life, costs the taxpayers more than life in prison, and in several cases innocent people have mistakenly been put to death. Although both the Republican and Democratic parties disagree on the issue they agree that they both want to keep society safe. The best compromise would be a sentence of lifelong incarceration that is not subject to revocation for However, the Republicans concern with this compromise that the criminals could in someway get out of said life sentence. The death penalty is not a just, nor constitutional practice, and in no way benefits society. Citation Page The death penalty promises to make a splash in campaign 2016 Rep.  Record 1 Aug. 2016: n. pag. Print. 2016 Democratic Party Platform  . N.p., 21 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kouroutakis, Antonios. Why Abolish the Death Penalty? Arguments from Madisonian  Journal 29 (n.d.): 43-46. Libraries . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Covey, Russell D. DEATH IN PRISON: THE RIGHT DEATH PENALTY  Georgia State Law Review 28.4 (2012): 1085-122. libraries . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Frost, Brian . Symposium on Current Death Penalty Issues: Capital Punishment and Deterrence: Conflicting  of Criminal Law and Criminology 74 (1983): 972. libraries . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Republican Platform  . Republican Party, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.