Hansen 1 EJ Hansen Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 2/4/17 Medical Marijuana Medical marijuana has become a very controversial topic in recent times and whether it should be legalized or not. The public opinion of marijuana use is very negative, but there are organizations that aim to change the perspective of this issue. They want to change this for the better, that way people who use marijuana instead of medication can use it without backlash. The Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana (CALM), an organization against the issue, main goal is to prevent the legalization of marijuana. This organization can cause problems for people who use marijuana for medical use, like the prevention of seizures, and use marijuana instead of prescription drugs. However, there are organizations out there that are fighting to get marijuana legalized to help people who use it medically. One organization that is fighting for this is Medical Marijuana Association. The mission for this organization is promote and support the use of Medical Marijuana by providing patients with information about its many (MMA). All though these two stakeholders have much in common, they can reach a compromise by legalizing marijuana but have restrictions on attaining it such as being a certain age and having a clear medical diagnosis. Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana is an organization made of parents, medical professionals and individuals that think legalizing marijuana would be bad for the United States. This organization believes that the government led federal laws should be stricter on marijuana control through processing and transporting in the United states. According to the DEA Hansen 2 is a schedule 1 drug which can lead to abuse and is not currently accepted for medical use in treatment and shows a lack of (CALM). Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana is opposed to any state law that tries to undermine the Federal Controlled Substances Act. The Federal Controlled Substances Act is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated. The state of California is an example of this because they cannot collect taxes from marijuana sales, this can have a large effect on the local economy. Drug abuse from marijuana use is causing employers 81 billion dollars annually. This is because marijuana sales are under the table and are majority cash based buys from dispensaries and growers. Medical marijuana however is different. To receive Medical Marijuana, you must have a script from a doctor. Multiple studies have been done by the National Academics of science to test the actuality of medical marijuana helping people. Only two disorders were shown to improve with the use of Medical Marijuana which are chronic pain and nausea/vomiting from chemo therapy. The study went on to say that growing support for legalization efforts, the review found numerous and serious health and social consequences for marijuana (CALM). This strays people away from using cannabis as opposed to prescription drugs. The Medical Marijuana Association has different reasoning and why you should use Medical Marijuana. The Medical Marijuana Associations is an organization committed to the use and legalization of Medical Marijuana. The organization provides you with the tools and expertise to have a conversation with your doctor about the use of Medical Marijuana and its benefits. One of the tools provided to you is a questionnaire and a packet you can bring to your doctor before the appointment. This will allow the doctor to recommend the best type of marijuana and strand for your circumstance. According to the MMA marijuana provides effective relief for Hansen 3 people who are suffering from chronic or terminal illnesses and should be readily available to patients who need (MMA). This shows that the doctors give the prescription to anyone. Patients should be able to receive a quality product, but this product just from anyone. The marijuana the doctors prescribe are monitored and grown for a specific purpose or person. This type of marijuana is not just recreational which you can purchase of the street or the black market. The organizations resources provide a page and search engine full of different types of strands of marijuana. This resource can help determine what stand works best for you and will give you the best result for your illness. The Medical Marijuana Association is hoping for the improvement of the government policies so they can begin helping people across the country. The increase in Medical Marijuana research has made it easier for people to except marijuana can help people for the better. One main reason people use Medical Marijuana is because it is less harmful than prescription pills and tobacco. These products have been proven to cause cancer and other health related issues. According to Abraham M. Nussbaum from the University of Colorado of medicine Department of Psychiatry use is associated with anxiety, depressive, psychotic, neurocognitive, and substance use (A. Nussbaum). Therefore, states are fighting to legalize it because it can benefit many people. Medical Marijuana continues to be a controversial topic but there is a way to find a compromise between the organizations for and against Medical Marijuana. One of the biggest ways the two stakeholders can compromise would be to allow the legalization and distribution of Medical Marijuana. This would allow the companies to not only collect taxes but this would allow for an increase in revenue and local economy. This fixes the billions of dollars lost from under the table deals done by growers and will pump back into the community. Another solution is to regulate who receives Medical Marijuana and how they receive it. One option would be to Hansen 4 put an age restriction on it such as 21 or on the severity of the circumstance. This would regulate the marijuana from being abused and allow just anyone to receive it. Also you would have to have valid and good insurance before you can go through the process of acquiring the Medical Marijuana. To acquire the Medical Marijuana you would have to go pick it up from a dispensary and produce a valid card of membership and a prescription from your doctor. This all can happen with the legalization of Medical Marijuana. Medical marijuana can help to save lives but we need to make it available to people or else the black market will continue to rise. The legalization will also decrease the crime rate because the drug dealers will battle with the doctors to produce a similar product. The legalization of medical marijuana can help more people than we realize. This is an untapped market that will get the local economy booming and the health of people increasing. Medical Marijuana is safer than taking prescription pills this will also drive the drug companies out because they will lose business. Medical marijuana is the future and we need to help it succeed. Hansen 5 Works Cited Marijuana, Medicinal. About  Medicinal Marijuana Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017 National Study Finds Little Proof of Medical  CALM USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Nussbaum, Abraham M., et al. Use And Diversion Of Medical Marijuana Among Adults Admitted To Inpatient  American Journal Of Drug And Alcohol Abuse 2 (2015): 166. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.