1 ENC1102.026 29 January 2017 A Fashion Revolution Comes to an Agreement Fast fashion retailers, such as Forever 21, are known to quickly transform the constantly changing runway trends from bold and expensive to casual and cheap. Consumers are drawn into fast fashion retailers because of their affordable prices. Most consumers do not realize that the inexpensive clothing pieces are significantly lower because retailers will use cheap materials and labor to produce their products. This strategy is not only terrible for the workers who get placed in poor conditions, but the environment takes a toll as well. There are some organizations, such as Fashion Revolution, who are fighting against fast fashion. Although fast fashion retailers have noticed the consequences taken on the environment, it is still hard for them to completely stop since they are making a profit. In order to help the environment through this dilemma, there would have to be a donation center that takes in any kind of textiles. This has not happened yet because there are already existing thrift stores that have a similar purpose. However, thrift stores are known to resell only a small fraction of the clothes and throw away the rest into the landfills. By creating this donation center, it only save Forever 21 from switching material that could hinder their success, but it will also help the environment by not getting polluted with un-used or worn clothes. Forever 21 is one of the main stores who partakes in fast fashion. The main goal is become an $8 billion company by 2017 and open 600 stores in the next three (Forever 21). By reaching their goal, Forever 21 particularly would not want to change their supply chain because otherwise the number of their consumers will decrease. In a study about fashion branding, Larry Meyer mentions want the customer to feel always going to be 2 something new and exciting (Comunale 8). Some aspects of fast fashion, like taking Fashion Week styles to affordable prices, will not change since that is what draws Forever consumers into building their success. Although, on the Social Responsibility section of Forever official website, they discuss many topics in reference to fast fashion. They discuss not only facts about the store, but also acts that they follow and what they do not obey in terms of the labor. Most of what they say shows how they notice and understand the consequences of fast fashion. However, there are some things that Forever 21 does not mention that organizations, like Fashion Revolution, disagree with. For instance, Forever 21 uses genetically modified (GM) cotton and polyester that ends up getting wasted by consumers (The True Cost). They undoubtedly will not change this aspect because these kinds of materials are cheap, which keeps their retail prices low. Without their low prices, there is a chance that the number consumers who shop at Forever 21 will decrease. On the other hand, Fashion Revolution is a non-profit organization who is completely against fast fashion. Their mission statement is believe in an industry that values people, the environment, creativity and profit in equal (Moore 19). This organization not only promotes others to the fashion but also provides a research study they conducted on how some retailers are unaware of many aspects of their company. Fashion Revolution rated many retailers on aspects such as their standards are for the protection of workers and the environment, how well the company knows its supply chain, how the company deals with suppliers who fail to meet the standards, how the company presents this information to their consumers, and what checks and balances the company (Moore 5). The organization 3 is against every aspect of fast fashion and wants to show consumers how the fashion industry is hindering the environment in every aspect possible. The Fashion main question to people who are interested in what they are taking a stand for is made my They want to show consumers the transparency of fast fashion retailers and how they make their products. According to a study conducted by Grete Birtwsitle, were unaware of the need for clothing recycling, however, they did agree that there was a general lack of knowledge of how and where clothing was disposed of, or even how it was (214). Fashion Revolution wants to show both consumers and retailers how fast fashion should completely stop. Despite Forever 21 and Fashion differences, they both can agree on one thing; the fashion industry is destroying the environment tremendously. Both stakeholers are focused on how to help the environment through the fashion industry. Forever 21 has made the effort in showing their consumers that the company is fully aware of the situation. However, they are not doing everything that Fashion Revolution wants to happen. In fact, Fashion Revolution gave Forever 21 a low rating that represented that they are making to no evidence that the company has more than a Code of Conduct in (Moore 6). Both of these stakeholders are at complete odds with each other, but they show a mutual agreement that can connect into a compromise. In order to have a balance on what both stakeholders want, a donation center that will collect and use all textiles donated can benefit in this situation. The goal of this donation center would be to reduce the amount of wasted textiles that are getting tossed into landfills. Opening a donation center that collects 100% of the clothes and materials would be feasible because it would just be a matter of promoting the center to all consumers who decide to get rid of their 4 clothes. If the advertisement of the donation centers presented the reasoning behind it and why they should choose giving away their clothes here and not someplace else, there is a good chance that people will choose these donation centers over thrift stores. This compromise will work for both stakeholders because Forever 21 would not have to give up using the materials that keeps their clothing prices low, while it is helping the environment like Fashion Revolution wants to happen. There are many donation type centers, such as thrift stores, that already exist. Most of the thrift goals are to resell second-hand items that consumers donate. However, thrift stores are known to only resell a small percentage of their clothes and throw out the rest to the landfills. In a study that Yvonne Steinbring conducted about second-hand clothes, she mentions effort helps; however, clothing and textiles will continue to go to the (37). Most thrift stores base their donated textiles off of how clean it is in order to be able to resell the item. With the donation center, they will find a way to use the material that will not be able to get re-sold. Some of these ideas may include blankets, recycled bags, etc. The fashion industry is hurting the environment through fast fashion in many aspects. Forever 21, one of the main retailers participating in this dilemma, has attempted to become more sustainable for the sake of it. However, there are many things they are still doing many things, like the materials they use, that Fashion Revolution disagrees with. The common ground between the two stakeholders is that they care for the environment. Therefore, in order to make improve this situation, opening up a donation center that used all donations would reduce the amount of wasted clothing consumers throw into the landfills. Not only would Forever 21 be content since they would not lose their consumers, but Fashion Revolution would also be satisfied by the amount of clothes being wasted has decreased. 5 Works Cited Birtwistle, Grete, and Christopher M. Moore. Fashion does it all end  International Journal of Retail & Distribution Management, vol.35, no.3, 2007, pp210- 216. Comunale, Amanda. You Are Who You Wear: A Conceptual Study of the Fashion Branding Practices of H&M, Forever 21, and Urban  Journal of the Re-tail Image, 2008, pp1-12. Forever21. Careers Forever 21, Forever 21. Moore, Bryony. Transparency FASHION REVOLUTION FASHION TRANSPARENCY INDEX, Apr. 2016. Steinbring, Yvonne, and Margaret Rucker. Utilization of post-consumer textiles and  Journal of Family and Consumer Sciences, vol.95, no.2, 2003, pp33. The True Cost. Directed by Andrew Morgan, 2015.