Stokes 1 Jesse Stokes Karen Hanson ENC1102 1.22.17 The Electoral College: A System of Controversy The topic of the Electoral College is one of much controversy in present times in our country. With a surprising turn of events in the recent Presidential elections, we saw one candidate secure the popular vote, however not the White House, resulting in many to wonder if our system is due for a reformation. With as divided as our country already is, however, it is time to come to a consensus on both sides of the argument for the betterment of the longevity of our nation as a whole, not as a nation spilt between the red and the blue. The best possible, and most formidable way of doing so is by implementing sanctions on Presidential campaigns that mandate the amount of time and perhaps more importantly, dollars, spent in each state. Diving further into the compromise, take a look at the background of each of the topics of discussion, those who hold stake in the aforementioned issue at hand. With this topic comes many of Stakeholders, including some broad ones, of which would include: currently, or to-be elected officials, as well as the voters electing them to office. Yet, by digging down deep, you can find where the passionate and more focused groups lie. First, fighting out of the red-corner, is the Our organization (SOS). This group strongly believes in the constitution and feels that the Electoral College was put into place by our founding fathers with the idea of power distribution in mind, therefor the system should remain unchanged, and anyone who thinks otherwise is a legitimate threat to democracy as we know it. Stokes 2 And their opponents, fighting out of the blue-corner, is the non-profit organization collectively known as, National Popular (NPV). Spearheaded by expert lobbyist and founder of the scratch-off lottery tickets, John Koza, this group has a collective thought, much indicative by their name, that it is time for the Electoral College to shut the school-house doors once and for all, and leave the power in the hands of the all of the people, by enacting a Popular Vote, nation-wide in regards to electing someone to the office of the President of the United States of America. (National Popular Vote) is the result of a group of people who care about the United States and are dedicated to preserving constitutional federalism because it helps protect our In short, the group, appropriately abbreviated has taken on the task of unswervingly impacting Mr. Koza, and his group of change-makers. The SOS means no harm to anyone that opposes them on a personal level, however have no problem causing harm to their belief systems, as they are fighting the good fight to prevent the big, like-voting states, such as New York, California and Illinois from running the proverbial board and ultimately deciding each and every outcome of the elections at the national level, while leaving the little guys, mostly mid-country states, behind. On the rebellious side of things, stands the National Popular Vote corporation. The mission statement is concise and to the point by stating the following: Popular Vote Inc. is a 501(c)(4) non-profit corporation whose specific purpose is to study, analyze and educate the public regarding its proposal to implement a nationwide popular election of the President of the United States. (National Popular Vote) To elaborate, the group fears that politicians are spending far too much time by only concerning themselves (and their dollars) with the battle ground states (ex. Florida, Ohio, North Carolina, etc.). Koza and his colleagues are of Stokes 3 the impression that imposing a popular vote would prevent such occurrences from happening, thus resulting in the Presidential candidates paying more attention to the American people of non-battleground states, which in-turn would help the issues of citizens spread across the entire nation, including the often forgotten fly-over states, not just the coastal regions. Egotistical personality traits and tunnel vision are to blame for the reason that these two stake-holders are at odds with one another, instead of working together on a common goal. John Koza (founder, National Popular Vote, inc) is widely-known to have one of the largest egos and money hungry personalities in the business and science worlds. As a result, he has created many enemies over the years: some he knows personally, and some can be easily determined as nothing more than an internet troll. Nevertheless, his reputation may prove to be the downfall of his own corporation for a cause. (Reviews in Computational Chemistry) On the other end, with SOS, that is where the tunnel vision comes into play. It is clear that their organizer, Trent England, the director of the Oklahoma Council of Public Affairs, is attempting to make name for himself for his future in the political arena at the expense of Mr. Koza. This is evident on the SOS website, which has a direct link to the personal bashing and internet crucifixion of John Koza. However, if these two gentlemen would lose their personal agendas and feelings, I believe that they would find their common ground. Both sides argue that their proposed model, whether it be the Electoral or Popular Votes, have the intention of preventing the battleground and states from holding too much power within their borders. Mr. England and SOS are doing so to prevent the few overly populated, like-voting states from speaking for the country, and forcing their beliefs on all other Americans. MR. Koza and NPV, inc. are acting to prevent the overlooking of the states like Wyoming and Oklahoma (the home state of Trent now would you look at that, another point of commonalities already). Stokes 4 Finally, the compromise. As mentioned earlier on, the most easily achievable action that would bring both England and Koza, as well as their groups together, would be to enforce mandates, nation-wide, on Presidential Candidates, which would dictate the amount of time and dollars that each candidate/campaign is permitted to spend per state. Thinking locally, it is clear that the residents of Idaho are not treated in the same manner, nor bombarded with the same number of political attack ads as those of us in the widely-diverse and populated i-4 corridor regions of Florida. In fact, according to a recent study done by a bi-partisan group, during the 2012 elections the Obama/Biden and Romney/Ryan campaigns made 40 stops in the Sunshine State, second only to Ohio who had a whopping 73 visits from the executive branch hopefuls. Referring back to Idaho, the state was not even listed in study. Rather, it was grouped with 38 other states, all of which did not include one single stop from either campaigns. (Presidential Tracker 2012) This proposed compromise would benefit group by ultimately forcing the candidates to pay closer attention to those that they hope to govern all over the country, not just in a centralized location. This would too assist group because the Electoral College (and constitution) would remain intact. The time for divisiveness in our country is over. It is abundantly clear that we are a nation of citizens with opposing views and outlooks, and come from differing backgrounds and support systems. The key word there, being: Regardless of social-class or political party, we, as Americans have one undefeatable commonality in our patriotism. We recognize that this nation is the land of the free, because of the brave. We have seen our ancestors overcome trials and tribulations that lead themselves down a path of unthinkable triumph. We are brothers and sisters of different races and religions, however we all bleed and blue! There are far more pressing matters in our country than how and why people vote the way that they do, and it is our Stokes 5 responsibility to come together, and heal all divides so that we live up to the potential that our founding fathers and bloodlines fought for and blessed us with. Stokes 6 Works Cited 1. About  Save Our States. Trent England, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. 2. National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. 3. National Popular  National Popular Vote. N.p., 22 Jan. 2017. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. 4. Presidential Tracker  FairVote. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. 5. Reviews in Computational  Google Books. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. 6. What is Popular  Save Our States. N.p., 22 Mar. 2013. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.