Katherine Peterson Peterson 1 Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Right to Die (Physician Assisted Euthanasia) Since the late the topic of physician assisted euthanasia began to rise because people have access to die differently nowadays compared to our years ag (ERGO). Euthanasia is defined as the painless killing of a patient suffering from an incurable and painful disease or in an irreversible coma (Merriam - Webster). Euthanasia can be passive or active with passive referring to the retraction of life sustaining equipment and treatment and active which involves drug administration. Organizations such as HOPE and The Hemlock Society are associated with euthanasia but are on opposite sides of the idea as HOPE is against euthanasia and The Hemlock Society argues for euthanasia. As organizations, they both face the problem of communicating with the public and are trying to protect the safety of the people. However, each organization goes about different ways of portraying their message. HOPE and The Hemlock Society should both consider creating safeguards pertaining to euthanasia and assisted suicide laws and then inform the public about these safeguards. HOPE is a single issue group that argues against euthanasia and assisted suicide. This organization exists to build a well-informed broadly-based network of groups and individuals to create an effective social and civic barrier to euthanasia and assisted suicide (HOPE: Preventing Euthanasia & Assisted Suicide Inc.). This group believes that euthanasia and assisted suicide presents risk for all vulnerable people and that doctors have a responsibility to keep their patients alive under the Hippocratic oath. With euthanasia and assisted suicide as an open option in most Peterson 2 states with no set rules, some believe this power will be abused in certain situations. HOPE also believes that if euthanasia and assisted suicide laws were to be enacted, elder abuse will increase. Elder abuse is already an increasing problem around the world and HOPE fears that with these laws, society will be aiding and abetting elder abuse which comes with extremely grave consequences (HOPE: Preventing Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Inc.). HOPE also believes by implementing these laws, the older population will assume they have become a burden to our society and the laws are a way to lift the trouble they are causing the general public (HOPE: Preventing Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Inc.). This organization is doing as much as they can to prevent euthanasia and assisted suicide laws from being passed. They are using media to inform the public to contact their state senators and to join their fight against the implementation of these laws. Despite the efforts of this organization, there are still many supporters of euthanasia and assisted suicide that are doing everything they can to continue the implementation of these laws. Unlike Hope, The Hemlock Society is among many other groups and organizations that are for euthanasia and assisted suicide laws. The Hemlock Society branches off from a larger organization called Final Exit Network. The Hemlock Society was organized in 1980 and believes in death with dignity (Final Exit Network). Death with Dignity is defined as an end of life option that allows certain eligible individuals to legally request and obtain medications from their physician to end their life in a peaceful, humane, and dignified manner (Death With Dignity). Other societies who have similar beliefs to The Hemlock Society are Compassion and Choices as well as Final Exit Network. Compassion and Choices focuses on changing and/or persuading legislature to pass more laws for the right to die while Final Exit Network focuses on recognizing the need for compassionate support and death with dignity education in all states Peterson 3 (Death With Dignity). These organizations offer education about what assisted suicide is, how it is used for those in need, and the choices one has. They also make society aware of the chronic diseases that involve prolonged suffering with less quality of life who would qualify for euthanasia and/or assisted suicide. Some of these diseases include Disease, Multiple Sclerosis, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Cancer, and disease (Death With Dignity). People should have the right to choose whether or not they want to suffer and/or live in pain (Girsh). These groups have issues with figuring out worldwide guidelines that would support their approach to euthanasia and assisted suicide. Hope and The Hemlock Society have opposite views on euthanasia and assisted suicide, but they do share a similarity. Both organizations want what is best for society and for the people who are directly affected by this phenomenon. Each organization has taken steps towards this process. HOPE has begun campaigns that are getting people to confront their senators in the anticipation that this will create a large enough affect that the government will stop and think before implementing euthanasia/assisted suicide laws. The Hemlock Society and Final Exit Network hosted a biennial conference of the World Federation of Right to Die Societies in Chicago in which people from all over the country to talk about opportunities for self determination (Final Exit Network) and to also talk about how to further educate the public about death with dignity. To benefit society and the people who are directly affected by euthanasia and assisted suicide laws, HOPE and The Hemlock Society should come together to develop safeguards that help protect everybody. Safeguards are defined at the measure taken to protect someone or something or to prevent something undesirable (Merriam Webster). These safeguards would have to explain how people qualify for euthanasia and assisted suicide, how these request will be Peterson 4 reviewed (preferably by an independent body), and the steps needed to be taken before coming to the conclusion that euthanasia and assisted suicide is the best option for the patient. For example, once doctors confirm the diagnosis and or mental competence of a patient and have made sure that all treatments and care options have been explored, then the patient can decide whether or not euthanasia and or assisted suicide is the right option for them. Creating safeguards is an easy way to avoid mistakes and misunderstandings. They would also help people who are confused about whether or not euthanasia and or assisted suicide is just. Both organizations, despite being different play a significant role in euthanasia and or assisted suicide. They have influenced the community with their campaigning strategies and skills and will continue to do so as euthanasia and or assisted suicide begins to become more of a controversy. To ensure that these organizations continue to influence the community, HOPE and The Hemlock Society should work on implementing safeguards together to educate the public on how euthanasia and assisted suicide works and to show those at ease that euthanasia and assisted suicide is taken seriously and not used to end life when hard. These safeguards will benefit HOPE and The Hemlock in different ways and will help each organization reach their goals for the future. Word Count: 1,132 Peterson 5 Work Cited Assisted Suicide - Information on right-to-die and euthanasia laws and  Assisted Suicide - Information on right-to-die and euthanasia laws and history. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.assistedsuicide.org/>. Deathwithdignity.  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://www.deathwithdignity.org/faqs/>. Farewell to Hemlock - Killed By Name - Assisted  Farewell to Hemlock - Killed By Name - Assisted Suicide. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.assistedsuicide.org/farewell-to- hemlock.html>. HOPE. We can live without  Home - HOPE: No Euthanasia. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://noeuthanasia.org.au/>. Procon. Euthanasia -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://euthanasia.procon.org/>. Urgent Need for Safeguards in Physician-Assisted Suicide to Respect and Protect Vulnerable Persons with  Urgent Need for Safeguards in Physician-Assisted Suicide to Respect and Protect Vulnerable Persons with Disabilities Inclusion BC. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.inclusionbc.org/whats-new/urgent-need-safeguards-physician-assisted-suicide- respect-and-protect-vulnerable-persons-d>.