Esaian 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC1101 27 January, 2017 Project 1 Early Draft Depression is a very often, but also a very serious psychological and psychic disorder. It was known since ancient times as early as the time of Heraclides and Hippocrates, but at that times it was considered and included as a form of quiet insanity. Serious scientific research had started only in the last 100-150 years. (as of 2017). The modern understanding and the concept of depression is understood as a clinical syndrome, but without specific etiology, with appreciation of both biological and psychological factors. The depression is also included in several major official disease or disorder classifications that shows that depression is appreciated as a real disorder. Depression is often caused by psychological factors, such as, for instance, childhood traumas, posttraumatic (physiological and psychological) causes, uncertainty in some major questions, such as self-determination, ignorance of future. The last one is a major concept for this project as a typical student (not only college level student, but high school student or graduate student generally 16-25 years old) has several factors that can affect his psychological health major changes in life, social misunderstanding, self-misunderstanding, the fear and/or ignorance of a his or her future. The statistics shows that roughly 44 percent of American students report or had reported symptoms of depression. And that is why it is so important to understand the nature of depression the depression can be silent for everybody, but not for the patient. The research question is simple, but is very important What are available treatments or techniques in a modern world can be used to help a student with a depression? Annotated Bibliography Esaian 2 WCES-2010: The Effectiveness Of Teachers To Recognize The Symptoms Of Depression For Their Depressive  Procedia - Social And Behavioral Sciences 2.Innovation and Creativity in Education (2010): 2371- 2376. ScienceDirect. Web. The study researched the effectiveness of teachers evaluating and recognizing the symptoms of a clinical depression in their students. The study was conducted in 4 high schools. There was a questionnaire in need The study collected data by using a two-stage technique. The conclusion is mixed there is no clear level of knowledge how to depression, the outcome was mixed. This study is close to the research question study questions the level of knowledge of depression symptoms and knowledge how to distinguish the depression and that is one of techniques of helping the student with a possible depression. The study included a valid two-step research, data was evaluated by using frequencies, ratios, percentages and referred to well-known authors, is a professor of counselling psychology, Osmangazi University, so the credibility is high. A, Velayudhan, Gayatridevi S, and Bhattacharjee Rita Rani. Efficacy Of Behavioral Intervention In Reducing Anxiety And Depression Among Medical  Industrial Psychiatry Journal, Vol 19, Iss 1, Pp 41-46 (2010) 1 (2010): 41. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. This study included two randomly selected groups of totally 120 people to research the depression, thoughts of suicide and anxiety (which is often is a symptom of a depression). The study tried to determine is behavioral intervention by counseling can cope up with depression and anxiety and that is one of the major techniques in the Esaian 3 modern world that can help a student with a depression and that is our research question. Study includes various information and ways to evaluate the data statistical analysis including tables, analysis of variance (known as ANOVA). A, Velayudhan is a professor at the Department of Psychology, Bharathiar University, Coimbatore, India. This study was also cited by other researchers of behavioral of the specific social group students The study concluded that the intervention program helped the students they had lower level of depression and anxiety compared to the beginning of the program, their self-confidence raised and the abilities to adjust and establish their place in new circumstances. The study suggested that intervention program should be included in any educational courses. Alvarez, Luz et al. Computer Program In The Treatment For Major Depression And Cognitive Impairment In University  Computers In Human Behavior 24.Instructional Support for Enhancing Information Problem Solving Ability (2008): 816-826. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. A program was created and applied to three groups of University students with major depressive disorder the first one is the people with non-medicated MDD, the second one is treated by the program and anti-depressants, the third is only treated by anti- depressants. The intervention amount was measured by several methods Weschler Adult Intelligence Scale, Beck Depression Inventory, Attention Problems Assessment Scale, Spieberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, Externalized Problems Assessment Scale for Adolescents and Young Adults. All variables and outputs were analyzed by ANOVA for repeated measures. Esaian 4 All three groups patients showed remission of their depression, but only the group who had received cognitive treatment and anti-depressants showed increase in intellectual performance (by measuring IQ). The study itself states that it needs to be repeated using more refined tests because it is hard to measure depression and cognitive levels without precise neuropsychological evaluation. The study included very detailed tables and information with accurate numbers for every measurement. The author Luz Alvarez is a professor at Psychyatry Department, Medicine School, National University of Jose F. Cortes Sotres is a researcher at National Institute of Psychiatry de la Fuente so the credibility is high. Li, Xiaowei, et al. Mild Depression Detection Of College Students: An EEG-Based Solution With Free Viewing  Journal Of Medical Systems 12 (2015): 1. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 The study tried to develop a more accurate, objective, and precise method for the depression detection. 36 volunteers from the Lanzhou University, China. Their depression states were measured by the Beck Depression Inventory. 9 subjects were evaluated to be in mild depression, 25 considered non-depressed. The study used EEG signals with Hanning Filter. The study selected stimulus materials from Chinese Facial Affective Picture System a database of face pictures with different emotions. This technique is very new and there is a future research to be done, but the results were very accurate 99.1%.