Alshamsi 1 Hamdan Alshamsi Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 02-05-2017 Global Warming All creatures on the earth, including humans, live in the era of global warming that much is certain. Atmospheric levels of heat-trapping greenhouse gasses have increased due to human activities, and lots of climate changes are now clear. Over the past century, global mean temperatures have increased a lot, and sea level has risen negatively. Glaciers are melting worldwide, the major ice sheets in Antarctica and Greenland are shrinking at their edges, and the imagined Northwest Passage may soon open. In many areas around the world, rainstorms are increasing, and summer heat waves have become more powerful while winters are less severe. At the same time, dry areas are becoming more popular, possibly contributing to the current increase in prices of food. Species like butterflies and birds that move fast are feeling the global warming. Those animal species that cannot fly or live in limited ecosystems, for example, polar bears, may be stuck in a hostile environment and slowly disappear from existence. Given the importance of the issue of global warming, in this semester, I have decided to dig deep and investigate how global warming specifically affects climate change and animal extinction. My research question for this semester is: How does the global warming affect the climate change and animal extinction? Alshamsi 2 Held, Isaac M., and Brian J. Soden. Robust responses of the hydrological cycle to global  Journal of Climate, vol. 19, no. 21, 2006, pp. 5686-5699. This article sets out the scientific basis for understanding global warming and its effects on climate change. As such, it is a mixture of extensive field of knowledge that includes the science of the climate, how global warming is contributing to climate change and why the climate is changing, and the consequences of global warming and changes in climate. Robust Responses of the Hydrological Cycle to Global Warming involves the study of the workings of the atmosphere and ocean and the interactions between the two and the other partsof the Earth, such as its temperature levels. The article also focuses on the study of heat transfer in the atmosphere and explores in detail how the atmosphere of the Earth is currently experiencing increased heat levels. Robust Responses of the Hydrological Cycle to Global Warming makes use of the experiments on climate change done for the Fourth Assessment of the Intergovernmental Board on Climate to consider the major features of the changes experienced in the hydrological cycle that are common across the world. Some of the features examined within the article include the rising levels of horizontal rain and greenhouse gas transport, the increased industrial discharge of greenhouse gasses, and guides of water evaporation in the atmosphere. These features are considered in the setting of the increased atmospheric temperature, how they contribute to global warming, and how global warming consequently contributes to changes in the climate. The article acknowledges that the future of the climate depends directly on ability to control greenhouse gas emissions and emissions from fossil fuels, which contribute to global warming and consequently to climate change. Alshamsi 3 Held and article is becoming especially for research into how global warming affects climate change. Moreover, direct to the point and takes a broad approach to studying global warming and climate change. The article appears to target undergraduate students in beginning courses on climate or in more general courses in which climate is a major part. It covers a thorough picture of global warming and climate change. These features make Held and article even more suitable for researching my research question for this semester and for learning more about the scientific basis of our current understanding of global warming and climate change. Urban, Mark C. Accelerating extinction risk from climate  Science, vol. 348, no.6234, 2015, pp. 571-573. There is surely a strong interest in gaining an understanding of how animal species might respond to global warming and climate change. In the article Accelerating Extinction Risk from Climate Change, Urban examines at least 130 studies to explore how global warming and changing climate affect the survival and extinction of animal species. The researcher also makes an attempt to identify the risk level that global warming models to the animal species and the specific features of global warming that contribute to the risk of extinction. According to the article, if the current trend in global warming continues as predicted, one in every six animal species could become extinct. The article points out to several regions worldwide, including Australia, South America, and New Zealand, where global warming models the greatest risk of animal extinction. In his article, Mark Urban admits that global warming, which guarantees to change climates; increase the risk of life for all the creatures. According to the article, a long- term warming direction due to global warming changes the appearance of life on the planet Earth Alshamsi 4 as warmer habitats expand and colder ones shrink. Accordingly, some species are likely to become common, and others are likely to face extinction. Urban considers extinction of an animal species to occur once all members of that type have died. The author points out to some interacting factors that affect the survival of individual animals. In this way, the persistence of their species for animals, such factors are inclusive of water, shelter, and food from weather limits, and they determine whether enough individuals will survive. article emphasizes on the continuing course of global warming, drying, or cooling. The article presents a strong argument to support the idea that global warming will lead to extinctions that might otherwise not take place soon. Urban admits that current predictions of the risks of extinction from global warming vary broadly depending on the geographic focus. However. Because it is difficult to predict exactly what the global warming conditions will be like in any given place, at any given time in the future, the author admits that it is even harder to predict which animal species will become extinct as a direct result of global warming. However, according to Urban, the bottom line is that global warming significantly contributes to extinction. The point of view that Urban adopts in his article will greatly contribute to the research of how global warming affects animal extinction. Urban joins a large number of published studies to provide a calculation of a global average rate of extinction and determine which features contribute the greatest risk to global warming-induced extinction risks. The results from study suggest that the risks of extinction will increase with future global warming and global temperatures, acting a threat to one in every six animal species. According to article, current trends in global warming poses the greatest extinction risks in New Zealand, Australia, and South America in particular, and in various other regions of the world. As such, Urban emphasizes an urgent need to adopt Alshamsi 5 and do strategies that restrain further global warming if we are to avoid an increase of worldwide animal extinction. Collins, Mat, et al. The impact of global warming on the tropical Pacific Ocean and El  Nature Geoscience, vol. 3, no. 6, 2010, pp. 391-397. In this article, Mat Collins and his partners measure how global warming affects the mean climate of the Pacific region and El Nino patterns. The authors give special importance to the effect of global warming on the El Nino-Southern, which is an instability that occurs naturally in the climate system and starts off in the Pacific area, affecting agriculture, ecosystems, the amount of fresh water, hurricanes, cyclones, and other harsh weather and climatic conditions. According to the article, shows the current influence of global warming on worldwide climatic conditions, and the average climate of the Pacific region is likely to experience important changes. It is expected that global warming will reduce the Tropical Easterly Trade Winds, cause surface sea temperatures to warm faster near the central region and more slowly away from the middle, and result in the shoaling of the tropical thermocline that exists between the deeper layers of the ocean and the wind mixed upper layers. According to Collins and his colleagues, due to global warming, the rise in temperatures across the thermocline is also likely to be steeper. The Impact of Global Warming on the Tropical Pacific Ocean and El Nino provides detailed understandings on how global warming affect tropical climates. As such, the article is relevant to the research topic and will be a helpful source of information for leading research into how global warming affects climate change. It is relatively current and up-to-date with information about the influence of global warming on tropical climate change. Additionally, the Alshamsi 6 article is scholarly, simple in language, and detailed. All these aspects make it a credible source of information for undertaking research into the effects of global warming on climate change. Sinervo, Barry, et al. Erosion of lizard diversity by climate change and altered thermal  Science, vol. 328, no. 5980, 2010, pp. 894-899. It is predicted that global warming and its effects on climate change will result in the extinction of animals in the coming decades. However, research data to support these claims are somewhat rare. In Erosion of Lizard Diversity by Climate Change and Altered Thermal Niches, Barry Sinervo and his colleagues compare historical and current research studies of various lizard species to discover if indeed global warming and its impact on the climate are causing the extinction of animals. The researchers especially focus on 48 different species of lizards found in Mexico and living in 200 different sites. Findings from the research study show that extinctions resulting from global warming and its effect on climate change are at present, reducing worldwide lizard diversity. According to the article, changes in temperature have been so quick in the Mexican region that change rates have failed to keep pace with global warming and its effects on climate change. Although the article by Barry Sinervo and his colleagues specifically focus on how global warming affects lizard populations, it provide the basis in which one can argue about the impact of global warming on animal extinction. Moreover, the article shows to be a relevant source of information that will inform research into how global warming affects animal extinction. Published in 2010, the article is relatively current and provides information about the impact of global warming on the survival of animals that is up-to-date. Moreover, Sinervo et article makes use of a language that is easy to understand, as it does not involve complex idioms and difficult vocabularies. The article is peer-reviewed, which means that it is scholarly; in this way, Alshamsi 7 it is a good source of information that will help the researcher explore how global warming affects the destruction of animals.