Sarah Dalla Costa ENC 1102 U76818437 Analyzing the Fight Against Genetically Modified Organisms (GMO) While walking through the produce section in the grocery store, most people may not realize that most of the produce passing is probably genetically modified (GMO). This can be defined as process of forcing genes from one species into another entirely unrelated according to GMO-Awareness.com. An example of this would, be strawberries being injected with genes derived from fish, this was done with the aim of protecting the fruit from freezing. GMOs have been the center of controversy concerning its dangers to health firstly, and secondly the lack of knowledge about it. With non -profit organizations such as The Non-GMO project and GMO producing companies such as Monsanto on either side of the battle. Both sides believe they are creating a positive impact on the issue of sustainability and food production globally in their own sense and perhaps the only compromise that may work can be through fair labelling and factual information about GMO products. The Non-GMO Project is one very prominent stakeholder in the debate against whether genetically modified organisms should be an acceptable product. They describe themselves as a organization committed to preserving and building the non-GMO food This aim is to consumers and the food industry to help build awareness about GMOs and their impact on our health and food According to the history page it was created in 2007 when two grocery stores who were passionate about selling non-GMO products to the public, discovered that most producers were not being honest on their labels. To allow the project to get the support they needed, they worked with the Global ID Group, who are the leaders for non-GMO testing. In the 2010 the first products with the Non- GMO signature butterfly was released to the public market and has since grown exponentially. On the opposing side of this argument stands the corporate giant Monsanto, they were the first to genetically modify organisms, they define GMO as taking a beneficial trait that helps a living thing thrive in nature, like the ability to use water efficiently, and adapts that trait to a new plant so it can better survive in its It was created it to aid in pest control, believing it would in turn increase crop yields. They produced a crop known as a which eradicates pests when they bite into the crop itself. This characteristic of the crop could be beneficial to farmers who are being affected by pests, such as India where Monsanto has had a major impact in the agriculture sector by providing farmers with seeds that grow pest resistant crops. With respect to agriculture mission statement, posted on their website is as follows: are proud to be a sustainable agriculture company. We offer solutions to complex issues by developing better seeds and systems to help farmers with productivity on the farm and grow more nutritious food while conserving natural According to Monsanto they have benefitted farmers by increased productivity and reduced costs by yield, improving protection from insects and disease and increasing their crops tolerance to heat, drought and other environment Although Monsanto promises beneficial attributes to the farming community, they were infamously linked to a high suicide rate in Indian indebted farmers supposedly to do with the sale of unsuccessful cotton seeds to poor farmers in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Both sides also completely disagree on whether GMOs should be consumed or not. When asked about if feeding children came up response in summary stated that them and their workers care for their safety and are all confident in feeding them to their children due to the thorough testing to ensure the safety of the products that team of specialized scientists study and work on. The Non-Gmo project on the other hand has different views on this and believe that people should keep their kids away from genetically modified foods, they list of nutritious foods like soy, corn, papaya, zucchini, yellow squash and potatoes have been genetically The most viable compromise in my opinion would be the honest labelling of GMO products, countries with over 40% of the population already label genetically engineered according to the Label GMOs organization; however, this has not yet been achieved in America. Mainly because the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not require labelling of GMO foods, they currently believe that GMO products do not impact human safety, unless it has been shown to cause allergies. Because of this GMO labelling remains unrequired by the FDA. This entity is the determining factor to if this compromise will ever be reached. I believe labelling and provision of factual information will be a fair compromise that will allow consumers to decide for themselves whether they want to buy GMO or not as many people are all for knowing what they and their children consume. Also with concerns to farmers who may be uneducated on the topic, providing them with the right information about the seeds they may buy and the crop that the seeds produce, allowing for them to make an informed decision is only fair. This will prevent a recurring situation like that of in India. I think providing facts are important, as some people do not fully understand what the Genetically Modified Organism term means and may just get scared and lean towards Non-GMO products naturally. Secondly the labelling must be consistent and from a third party to avoid any bias between the two parties. For example, the Non-GMO project may not agree with a particular product and may not allow them their signature label just because of that and on the other hand Monsanto may not fairly label a product and may omit some ingredients. So to avoid this a party unlinked to either of these should be set up to conduct own testing and implement the criteria that please both the Non-GMO project and Monsanto. Work Cited Page About The Non-GMO  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.  Our Commitments. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. GMO-Awareness.com. GMO  GMO Awareness. N.p., 11 May 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Agricultural Innovation and Sustainability. Monsanto, 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. By Monsanto. Conversation Questions About  Discover Monsanto. N.p., 01 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Robyn Mermelstein. Look at Those  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. N.p., Aug. 2016 Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Davis, Chelsey. Mandatory GMO Labeling: Pros and  TraceGains: A Food Safety & Quality Assurance Management Solution. N.p., 27 Mar. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.