Zimmerman 1 Matthew Zimmerman de Carion ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 Opioid Abuse in the United States When people think of health epidemics the common response is to think of a uncontrollable plague caused by some unknown virus. Another type of epidemic however is one that is caused completely by humans, these are especially deadly as only way to stop them are for different people to come together to identify and fix the problem. Currently there is a major human caused health epidemic, opioid abuse in the form of prescription painkillers. This issue came about as a result of misinformation spread about the safety of the drugs as well as their effectiveness to treat pain. Even though the Center for Disease control and prevention (CDC) has condemned the practices of large pharmaceutical companies such as TEVA Pharmaceuticals (Teva), who also recognize the issue, they refuse to make any real substantial changes. The CDC has taken a very bold stance regarding the issue and is not going to allow for lax regulations regarding distribution to remain in place.. For this issue to be resolved Teva needs to understand how their industry contributed to the problem and the CDC must realize that Teva is a business that needs to make money, if the two come to the realizations then they can begin to negotiate rules that can protect patients and keep the company profitable. Profitability is an aspect that the CDC, the primary United States government agency concerned with the health threats, does not give much thought into. One of their core pledges is Zimmerman 2 the benefits to society above the benefits to our (cdc.com/pledge). This allows the CDC to handle its findings in an objective way, placing the health of people above the amount of money people will make off a product. This is where they may begin to have issues with the private pharmaceutical industry who like the CDC wants to help people but, also make a profit. In the view, this causes them to negate the long term impacts their products may have. The issue is nowhere more noticeable than in the the market for prescription painkillers known as opioids. The CDC has found that since 1999 the amount of opioids sold in the U.S. has almost quadrupled but the rate at which people are seeing doctors about pain has not significantly changed. (CDC.com/opioidbasics) This shows that the only thing changing about opioids is how easy it is for a patient to get them prescribed. The CDC has recognized this and wants this to be changed. The government has taken some steps to fix this issue as a result of the findings. Recently the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery act was passed and it began to limit prescriptions, as it proposed that at risk people be mandated to only be able to get their prescription filled in one place (Traynor, 1292). These steps are only the beginning of what the CDC ultimately wants which is drug companies actively reducing their role in the sale of the drugs. The pharmaceutical industry spends an enormous amount of money promoting their drugs to doctors. Teva Pharmaceuticals alone has spent approximately 26.1 million dollars since 2015 on direct meetings with doctors who they want to sell their product (Data.cms.gov/teva). The extreme persistence of companies like Teva putting pressure on doctors to prescribe their drug is something the CDC wants eliminated, this would reduce the rate at which the drugs are prescribed, especially in scenarios where a less potent form of a drug could be used. The CDC has shown that long term effectiveness of opioids is not fully understood and in some long term Zimmerman 3 chronic pain scenarios they are now the go to drug, despite the risks (cdc.com/persctiptionopioids). Reducing the amount prescribed in these instances would be a major victory for the CDC. The primary goal of reducing the amount of prescribed painkillers is the exact opposite of what pharmaceutical companies like Teva want. They are very open about their goals of a patient first mindset but they are at their core a business. It costs a great deal of money to develop a drug and to be profitable they must recoup the costs of its development. If they have no sales they are stuck with the entire cost of the research with no chance to make the money back (Nuijten 36). The potential for these losses may be the reason that the companies push the products that work so much. On its website Teva says it produces billion tablets and This number which is very large, may be necessary for them, without making a large profit they be able to create new products that could have a profound effect on life. Teva puts a large portion of its investment money into the development of low cost generic painkillers as they claim to be the number 1 company to sell generics in the world (teva.com/about). This is one of their primary ways they make a large profit they need to continue investment. The large profit comes from the amount that doctors prescribe and they have no way of controlling who can or cannot be prescribed. The lack of influence in the actual prescribing is why they do not feel they are responsible for the opioid epidemic that is currently so widespread. Even though they place an enormous amount of pressure on doctors to prescribe them, the company still wants the health of the patent first. To reflect this they have changed the way their drug functions by reducing its effects and increasing the time it takes to be effective, they have sent it the FDA and hope to bring it market in 2017(teva.com/responsiblityhighlights). Zimmerman 4 This innovation would allow them to make an attempt at helping the problem without taking responsibility. The CDC as well as Teva have one main goal in common and that is the public health. Both can easily agree on this but they have yet to come to any form of resolution. Teva and other pharmaceutical companies do not feel like they are directly responsible and do not want to risk losing money by cutting sales. The CDC does not understand why the industry as a whole can not come to an agreement on the issue and how to prevent it from getting worse. A potential solution for the two stakeholders that could be beneficial would be one where the CDC could get the Food and Drug Association to reclassify painkillers as over the counter drugs, meaning that all painkillers would require a prescription. (Creech par 34). Doing this will prevent people who already have a prescription from buying more than what they can take. As a result companies who would be affected by the regulation change would be allowed to charge more for the drug. The change in cost can help negate the losses the companies may experience, the losses will also be in the short term, long term all the companies will have the regulations so competition in the market may not change radically. Also the CDC could potentially offer some form of subsidy for companies that actively try to help the problem of finding a longer term solution for the addictive nature of the painkillers. This compromise is very possible if the CDC can provide subsidies and if regulations are passed by the FDA and accepted by Teva and other drug companies. Zimmerman 5 Works Cited Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Company Profile - Open Payments Data -  OpenPaymentsData.CMS.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Creech, Increasing Access To Naloxone: Administrative Solutions To The Opioid Overdose Administrative Law Review Vol. 68, No. 3, 2016. pp 517-550. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Traynor, Kate. New federal law aims to stem opioid American Journal of Health-System Pharmacy. Vol. 73, No.17, 2016. one source. Nuijten, Mark The Potential Impact of Current and Future Pharmaceutical Policy Changes on Cash Flows for Innovative Medicines Journal of Private Equity. Vol. 18, No. 1, 2014 Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson)