Laurie- Ann Benjamin Professor Dubois Enc 1102 January 29, 2017 Physician Assisted Suicide: A Necessary Step Physician Assisted Suicide has been a debate around the United Stated of America for a long time. This debate became most prominent when a 29 year Californian woman, Brittany Maynard, with stage 4 glioblastoma decided to use Death by dignity act. Glioblastoma refers to a condition where malignant tumors develop in the brain. After discovering her new reality, Brittany and her family moved from California to Oregon since California did not have a right to death by dignity. In a YouTube video, Brittany Maynard explains her choice to use physician assisted death. She lists reasons such as limiting the financial and emotion stress that comes with staying alive and being able to die in the company of her husbands and parents. With these reasons in mind Physician Assisted Suicide should be legal in all the states. Adults that are mentally capable of considering all factors in the decision-making process should be allowed to take control of their lives. After all, they are the ones experiencing pain and majority of the stress not state officials. Compassions and Choices realizes this problem within the legislatorial system and aims to make physician assisted suicide legal with in the United States of America. Compassion and Choices is an organization that promotes end of life choices and advocates for it to be legal in all the states. This organization focuses on legislative change to make dying rights more accessible. Compassion and Choices make the patient the center of attention. Everything done is directed towards making the patient as comfortable as possible and allows the patient to be in full control of their health affairs. In 1993, Compassions and Choices was the first organization in the United States of America to organize end-of-life consultancy program. This program educates interested parties about all options accessible to them whether it be palliative care or end-of-life. The state of Tennessee, amongst other states, has laws in place that prevent terminally ill persons such as Brittany Maynard from ending their life on their own terms. Under Tennessee law, a person commits assisted suicide, if they supply the person who wants to die, hereby called the adult, with substances or methods that will cause the death. In 2015, Senator Tate proposed a by Dignity but it was not passed. In this bill, terminally ill persons over the age of 18 and lived in Tennessee for over a year could request death by dignity. The adult would have to be declared terminally ill by two physicians and present a written letter stating the drugs needed for the adult to take their own life. This bill was rejected that adults deemed personally ill could live on for years. It was also rejected because victims of abuse that have been classified as terminally ill could be coerced into physician assisted suicide out of fear of their abuser. Another reason for denying the bill was the fact that if one doctor declared the adult as mentally incapable, the victim could simply seek a consult from another doctor and receive the approval needed. Clearly, Compassion and Choices and the State of Tennessee disagree on the terms of physician assisted suicide but they can both draw lessons from each other. The state of Tennessee needs to consider physical, emotional, and financial turmoil that the adult and their family experiences when the adult is sick. The impeding death weighs heavily on the mind of the adult and prevents them from enjoying their last days. The state of Tennessee had a very good point in saying that adults could keep seeing different physicians until they find two that will declare them mentally capable of making the decision to request death by dignity. To combat this, there should be physicians identified to declare whether or not an adult is capable of making such a decision. Another valid point by the state of Tennessee was the issue of coercion. This issue can be covered by doing background checks on the family, home and work environment. Along with legalizing physician assisted suicide, the law could implement a minimal age that an adult must be in order to use this right. Brittany Maynard was only twenty-nine years old when she decided to use this right. Normally, adults in the senior years are the ones that choose end of life options when they are terminally ill. States such as California, Colorado, Montana, Oregon, Vermont, and Washington have all legalized physician assisted suicide to an extent. In all the states except Montano, the adults are required to be at least 18 years old, a resident of that particular state, mentally capable of making such a decision, and expected to die within six months. The adults desiring physician assisted suicide must give two verbal requests that are at minimal 15 days a party and one written request. The state of Colorado voted on legalizing end of life options on November 8 of 2016 and was supposed to come into effect January 2017. In order to successfully request physician assisted suicide, the adult must satisfy the previously mentioned requirements. According to Procon.org, the physician must require the adult to show proof of Coloradoan residency, refer the patient to a licensed mental health physician. The adult must also see another be referred to another physician. The patient must also be informed that the medication must be taken in the presence of another person. Most importantly, the request for physician assisted must be completely voluntary. Physician Assisted Suicide is an intense topic. Understandably, family and friends would not want person dearly close to them to request medicine that will end their life. At the end of the day it is up to the suffering person to decide the best option for them. As mentioned the person the suffering person is the one experiencing the pain from their illness. It can be agreed that family and friends would be experiencing emotional and financial stress as well but it is important to keep the suffering feelings at the forefront. As far as state legislature goes, the right to death should be considered in the same light as abortion. The adult in question should be in control of what happens to their body. People often see suicide as an easy escape. For a terminally ill person, the aim is to just have peace of mind and come to terms with the reality that they are going to die. Most also consider how expensive the cost of staying a live would be. Staying alive means continued doctor visits and continued treatments which most terminally ill persons wish they could stop. Choosing to die with dignity is an enormous decision and should be respected by the state, friends and family. Works Cited & Compassion & Choices. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan 2017. of the Surrealist Choice Reviews Online 40.03(2002):n pag. Web. Brittany Maynard Fund. Brittany Fund About Comments. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. Patients Rights Council. N.p.,n.d. Web. 29 Jan 2017. YouTube. YouTube, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017