Ward 1 Robert Ward Mr. Brendan Jackson ENC 1101 29 January 2017 Project 1: Annotated Bibliography (Early Draft) As technology gets more advanced, only natural to assume that the technology will be used to make our lives easier, or more comfortable. Since the beginning of recorded history, man has created new technological innovations in order to find more food, to be more comfortable in our homes, and to defend ourselves from danger. The line between science-fiction and fiction is becoming more blurred by the day, as some of our brightest minds come up with ideas and innovations once deemed impossible. And to that, I have one question. How will industrial automation impact the American working class as technology continues to get more advanced? Clague, Ewan. Social And Economic Aspects Of  Labor Law Journal 12.9 (1961): 795. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. In Ewan and Economic Aspects of article, Clague presents various industries that were affected by technological advances in the industrial revolution, and how industrial automation is affecting those of certain trade skills, such as glass blowers. Due to changes in technology, materials that were once very expensive in both time and labor to mass produce could now be produced much more efficiently and at a substantially lower cost. article is perfect for my topic, due to the historical context alone. Published in 1961, this article proves that technological advances can and will appear to happen overnight, and that full automation is very real possibility, and not something of just science fiction. While Ward 2 technological advances will help humanity overall, there could be potential ramifications for the working class. Coeckelbergh, Mark1, mark.coeckelbergh@dmu.ac.uk. The Tragedy Of The Master: Automation, Vulnerability, And  Ethics & Information Technology 17.3 (2015): 219-229. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Markl Coeckelbergh approached automation using the master-slave dialectic in his journal, Tragedy of the Master: Automation, Vulnerability, and He touches on various points, such as distance from the environment, as well as vulnerability to dependence on the master-slave relationship. This is a much newer source than my previously listed citation, and I find it amusing that they mention a few of the same issues with automation, such as worker drive, and dependance on the automation itself. This journal expands more on the timeframe in automation, and I will use to expand on certain ideas that are relevant to my topic question. Lipstreu, Otis, and Kenneth A. Reed. A New Look At The Organizational Implications Of  Academy Of Management Journal 8.1 (1965): 24-31. Business Source Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. With the implementation of automation processes in factories, the average worker saw a drastic change in their work environment. New streamlined processes coupled with new technologies changed the face of our industrial sector in a very short amount of time. During this time of transition, Lipstreu and Reed recorded observations for Company X in their case study New Look at The Organization Implications of which is another source I can use to show one of the oldest historical concepts of automation, and the removal of the human factor. The two major concepts I will be presenting from their work will be Ward 3 Reduces the Size of Work Crews or as well as Leads to Increased Isolation of I will also briefly touch on the changes in labor and supervisory roles with the implementation of automated processes and technologies. This case study was published in the Academy of Management (Academy; AOM), a leading professional association for scholars dedicated to creating and disseminating knowledge about management and organizations, who have been actively publishing since 1936. Their work being published in this peer reviewed journal, is a testament to their knowledge in this field. Oesterreich, Thuy Duong, and Frank Teuteberg. Understanding The Implications Of Digitisation And Automation In The Context Of Industry 4.0: A Triangulation Approach And Elements Of A Research Agenda For The Construction  Computers In Industry 83.(2016): 121-139. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. the Implication of Digitisation and Automation in the Context of Industry 4.0; A Triangulation Approach and Elements of a Research Agenda for the Construction will touch on one of the major topics of my paper, and the implications and effects of automation in a labor intensive work environment for your average working class employee, such as construction. This journal entry goes in depth into how the industry has drastically changed due to automation and digitisation, effectively employing the Industry 4.0 concept. Computers in Industry is a peer reviewed journal that discusses the potential changes and implications that could be derived from the introduction of technology into a variety of industries. While this specific entry covers the construction industry, I feel that it ties along perfectly with my research topic, the effects and implications of automation and the average Ward 4 working class worker. Due to the popularity of the journal, Tueteberg and publication is a testament to their superior knowledge on the subject.