Aggad 1 Tareq Aggad Erika Staiger ENC 1101 01 /29 /2017 How Abortion Can Affect Maternal Health Abortion has been considered as an arguable facet, which is found to have implications on the society in general. Hence, with abortion being a controversial topic, multiple sentiments and perspectives have emerged in increasing rates. Considerably, with abortion being a broad topic, it has been periodically involving radical elements and perspectives. In particular, a contemporary argument has originated as to whether abortion accompanies health risks or health benefits. In this particular case, several organizations have been founded to argue about abortion in correlation with health matters. For instance, IPAS Health. Access. is an organization standing for reproductive health, which endorses safe abortion in an effort to promote reproductive health. In other words, IPAS argues that safe abortion eliminates multiple reproductive and maternal risks, which can potentially occur when abortion is difficult to access or is illegal. Therefore, one of the primary objectives of IPAS is to provide an access to safe abortion in an endeavor to shun any health risks. With this matter, IPAS has a tendency to raise awareness towards the relation between unsafe abortion and maternal disorders. At the opposite side of the argument, AAPLOG association of pro-life obstetricians and is another organization standing for reproductive health, which views abortion as a dire element affecting reproductive health. AAPLOG has the contention that abortion leads to adverse Aggad 2 consequences correlated with maternal health such as the possibility of breast cancer, high rates of maternal deaths. Hence, this organization concentrates its effort towards the limitation of abortion in order to have less grave health consequences. As can be seen, although both organizations have expressed different stances, they both share a mutual facet rooted in their primary goal. Particularly, both IPAS and AAPLOG have intensified their efforts to diminish reproductive disorders. Importantly, with these organizations being concerned with maternal health, the compromising solution would be fulfilled in a country undergoing dire consequences of abortion and reproductive disorders. In this case, India has seen high rates of maternal deaths and reproductive consequences due to the lack of accessibility to a comprehensive reproductive care. In fact, although India has liberal abortion laws, women still have not obtained an adequate access to reproductive care and safe abortion. With this being said, both stakeholders share a mutual goal in India based on the safety of women in regard with reproductive services and abortion. The solution can be efficiently fulfilled in India through a program unifying efforts of several sides. Specifically, the program will aim towards the elimination of reproductive and maternal disorders by enhancing the safety and the accessibility of abortion in India. However, the program will also reinforce birth control programs in order to eliminate further possible consequences occurring with abortion. Importantly, this program will not merely diminish maternal rates but will also enhance the quality of reproductive and maternal services in India. For this reason, both organizations will attest to the necessity of this program. It can be seen that both IPAS and AAPLOG have different sentiments toward abortion. However, both organizations share a mutual goal, which propels the community Aggad 3 to eliminate potential risks correlated with abortion. Furthermore, both organizations aim towards the enhancement of reproductive services along with addressing maternal needs. For instance, as shown in the website of AAPLOG induced abortion has a tendency to spring up multiple reproductive and maternal concerns such as an increased vulnerability of breast cancer, premature births, and sterility. Observing the opinion of AAPLOG, it can be indicated that this organization is mainly concerned with reproductive issues along with possible risks on mothers and her children. Therefore, it is belief that lower levels of abortion would be associated with less maternal and reproductive issues. Similarly, multiple scholarly articles agree with point of view in regard with abortion. In fact, the article The abortion Cancer written by Joel Brind shows a significant correlation between breast cancer and abortion. As concluded in article, women undergoing abortion may potentially experience a higher vulnerability for being diagnosed with breast cancer (Briend). Furthermore, another article named Growing medical evidence of abortion medical impacts on and written by Byron Calhoun illustrates the negative implications, which may arise with abortions. For example, this article acknowledges that possible blood clots or blood loss may occur with some cases of abortion (Calhoun). Observing these findings, it can be concluded that the main goal of AALPOG is to insure the avoidance from reproductive and health disorders tied with abortion. Similarly, IPAS has been functioning to provide accessible reproductive services. As shown on website IPAS endeavors to lessen the exposure of women to maternal disorders or reproductive risks. In order to effectively fulfill this task, IPAS aims to insure an improved access leading to better reproductive services for women. However, Aggad 4 IPAS has a different stance towards abortion, which encourages safe abortion for medical reasons. Specifically, IPAS has the contention that safe and researched abortion would save lives and would increase the avoidance from grave risks occurring with unsafe abortion. For example, as claimed by IPAS, lack of safe abortion would result in deleterious and illegal practices and therefore resulting in medical consequences. In this case, there are multiple articles supporting the validity of this point of view. The article what an unsafe abortion environment does to which is written by Erin Shumaker, establishes a pivotal link between unsafe abortion and dire health consequences on women. As illustrated in the article, 8 to 15 percent of maternal deaths in burgeoning countries are attributable to unsafe abortion (Shumaker). Therefore, IPAS aims to enhance the accessibility to safe abortion in an effort to constrain illegal and unsafe abortions, which evidently accompany grave medical consequences. As can be seen, both sides of the argument believe in the necessity of reducing the serious risks seen with abortion. This will facilitate the compromise, as both sides would effectively collaborate together towards the elimination of abortion risks in India. Taking into consideration the compromising resolution, the potential agreement between IPAS and AAPLOG should be formed on the basis of reproductive services and maternal protection in India. Particularly, the compromise should unify both efforts in order to provide a desirable level of reproductive care, eliminating risks faced by women. The compromise will involve the creation of a health care program regarding reproductively and abortion in India. The main reason as to why the compromise should be fulfilled in India is that India has witnessed a high proportion of maternal disorders and deaths emanated from the inaccessibility to reproductive care Aggad 5 and safe abortion. With the reproductive care being a common ground, both stakeholders will intensify their contributions to provide an adequate accessibility for women to honed reproductive services and safe abortion in India. In order to efficiently fulfill this task, both IPAS and AAPLOG should initiate the implementation of the program by establishing medical centers in India geared towards the improvement and the accessibility of reproductive services with emphasis on safe abortion. Specifically, the function of these medical centers is to provide a sufficient accessibility to an advanced abortion, which would not result in any adverse consequences. Both organizations have taken a similar approach by recruiting doctors specialized in maternal health. However, this program will unify their efforts to conduct researches in regard with safe abortion. Enhancing the viability of the compromise, an increased access to safe abortion in India will effectively compact a substantial number of cases involving maternal risks. In particular, unsafe abortion preformed via illegal practices or unqualified practitioners has been the main source, which prompts maternal deaths and deleterious consequences. In fact, a recent article written by Anjani Travedi Every two hours in India, a women dies from unsafe seemingly reveals the major source in India emanating maternal concerns. Anjani in his article evidently indicates that the high percentage of maternal deaths in India is attributable to the lack of safe abortion. Supporting his point of view, Anjani in his article acknowledges that less than 20 percent of clinics in rural parts of India provide a lawful abortion (Anjani). With this being said, there seems to be a distinct need for both IPAS and AAPLOG to enhance the access to safe and legal abortion in India in an effort to eliminate maternal risks. In addition to safe abortion, these medical centers, which will be potentially founded by both organizations in India, Aggad 6 will simultaneously promote birth control programs in an endeavor to eliminate further maternal risks, which can possibly occur in some cases of abortion. With these efforts merged together, health risks resulted from abortion in India can be highly anticipated to diminish. For this reason, this compromise is expected to resonate with both stakeholders since they both aim toward the protection of women from abortion consequences. However, in order to achieve this agreement, both stakeholders have to give up something and contribute to the common goal. For instance, AAPLOG has to attest to the fact that an enhanced access to legitimate abortion in India will shun a substantial proportion of maternal risks. On the other hand, IPAS has to comprehend the effectiveness of birth control programs in regard with the elimination of potential health risks on women. At the same time, both stakeholders would attain some of what they desire through this program. For example, while an increased access to safe abortion will resonate with IPAS, birth control programs will satisfy AAPLOG. Given the fact that both stakeholders gear toward the termination of reproductive risks, they are highly projected to mediate between their differences and to collaboratively contribute to their mutual goal. The implementation of the compromising program requires several steps along with multiple collaborations from many sides. The first step is to collaborate with the health ministry in India in order to procure licenses for the medical centers, which both organizations would establish in India. Regarding this step, there are multiple factors facilitating the establishment of medical centers in India. For instance, since IPAS is a global organization maintaining relations with several countries, IPAS has the capability to engage the health ministry of India into this program. Since India has liberal abortion Aggad 7 laws and therefore encourages safe abortion, the health ministry of India is projected to be collaborative and supportive towards the program. Within this step, while IPAS concentrates its effort on obtaining medical licenses for the clinics from the health ministry, the role of AAPLOG is to financially contribute into the establishment of the medical centers. Once the medical centers are established with lawful licenses, the second step is to hire physicians specialized in reproductive and maternal services. Importantly, within this step, both organizations have to provide a comprehensive training in regard with safe procedures of abortion since an access to safe abortion requires maximized skills from physicians. Fortunately, since both organizations currently provide training programs for different health care providers in relation to reproductive services, this step will be facilitated and efficiently fulfilled. Moreover, once the medical centers acquire adequate resources to preform safe abortion, the following step is to incorporate birth control programs into the medical centers. Regarding birth control programs, these programs will require hired physicians to constantly assess and monitor their patients in order to achieve desirable outcomes and to prevent any potential risk arising with abortion. Also, to further enhance the accessibility of Indian women to safe abortion and birth control programs, both IPAS and AAPLOG should collaborate with health insurance companies in correlation with abortion and birth control programs. Specifically, as both stakeholders incorporate their services into medical insurance plans in India, an enhanced access to safe abortion and birth control will be noticed. In conclusion, it is a vivid fact that abortion has been an arguable topic involving multiple sentiments. However, although abortion seems to be a broad topic, there is a distinct need to address the particular health-related implications of abortion on women. Aggad 8 In this case, both IPAS and AALPOG have conflicting presumptions regarding the correlation between abortion and maternal health. Particularly, while IPAS believes in the necessity of a broad access to abortion, AAPLOG claims abortion to prompt dire maternal risks. However, with these stakeholders sharing a mutual concern, the unification of their efforts would effectively result in a decline of maternal risks. Since India has been undergoing severe implications of abortion-related cases, both stakeholders share a common mission to be fulfilled in India. About the compromising program in India, an enhanced access to a legal abortion along with birth control programs will satisfy both mutual goal, which aims to eliminate maternal risks. This way, both stakeholders are expected to mediate between their differences and to contribute to the fulfillment of the program. Aggad 9 Work Cited Brind, Joel. The abortion Cancer  NRL News Today Four part series on the abortionbreast cancer link ABC link Comments. N.p., 23 May 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Calhoun, Byron. Growing medical evidence of abortion medical impacts on  N.p., 5 May 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ipas Health. Access. Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Prolife OBGYNS - AAPLOG - American Association of Pro-life Obstetricians & Gynecologists. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Shumaker, Erin. What an Unsafe Abortion Environment Does to  N.p., 20 Aug. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Trivedi, Anjani. Every Two Hours in India, a Woman Dies From an Unsafe Abortion  Time. Time, 13 July 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Aggad 10