Paul 1 Jessica Paul Professor Penuliar Composition II 29 January 2016 The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics versus the North American Meat Institute are what you This is becoming more and more true as American diets create health issues that prior generations have never faced before. Some people believe cutting out meat and sticking to a vegetarian diet will help benefit their health and the environment. While others believe that meat is an essential part of human needs and provides a large amount of nutritional benefits. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics claims that a vegetarian diet is healthier than one with meat, but on the other hand the North American Meat Institute (NAMI) believes that consuming meat is not creating negative health effects. While these two organizations may disagree, there is a chance for a compromise to be found. It may seem impossible for these two to find a compromise on meat consumption, they both can agree that eating health is an important part in any diet. is the position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics that appropriately planned vegetarian, including vegan, diets are healthful, nutritionally adequate, and may provide health benefits in the prevention and treatment of certain (Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics) The Academy also encourages American citizens to follow a vegetarian diet not only for health benefits. They recognize that vegetarian dietary resources are easily replenishable and leave less of a detrimental impact on the environment. Those who disagree that the vegetarian diet is healthy often claim that the lack of certain nutrients, such as protein and Zinc, but with proper planning, meatless diets can contains as much of these nutrients as someone who Paul 2 consumes meat. The position paper provides a list of nutrients that vegetarian diets actually have an abundance of compared to non vegetarian diets. However, many vegetarian products, especially ones designed to replace meat products are often processed and artificial. While these contain iodized salts, which can be beneficial, they have an large amount of them. vegetarians tend to be slimmer, appear to be in better health, with reduced risk of chronic diseases and greater longevity when compared with Health Nutrition, 2287-2294). Many vegetarians are observed to have lower chances of certain diseases. The Public Health Nutrition study tracked that vegetarian diets lead to lower cases of CVD and Type 2 Diabetes. However, there was not enough evidence in the study that following a vegetarian diet would lower the chance of certain cancers. The Academy also recognizes that the vegetarian diet can be helpful for both men and women, and at a variety of ages. children and teens are at lower risk than their non vegetarian peers for overweight and Considering this is an issue that Americans are facing more and more each day, a change in diet, especially in early childhood, could produce a healthier generation for the future. The Academy believes a vegetarian diet benefits the health, environment, and reduces risks of disease. However, the North American Meat Institute (NAMI) believes that eating meat can be beneficial. They understand not all meats are great for your health, but they believe meat can be a great source for certain nutritional values. The NAMI represent a large amount of meat companies, both red meat producers as well as poultry producers. Their vision is, the preeminent source of information, education, and services that enable meat and poultry companies to nourish people around the world with safe, nutritious, and sustainable While vegetarians do get protein from substitutes, meat provides the human body with a protein and low carbohydrate Science) This provides humans with Paul 3 leaner muscles. While many believe consuming red meat can create a higher BMI, studies show that if a subject controls other weight gaining factors, there will not be a large BMI change as a result of red meat consumption. As in many cases, any food in extreme excess will create unwanted and unhealthy side effects. Unlike protein replacements, protein from red meat is associated with lower blood pressure. They also create a more stable supply of iron for your body, and due to the importance of iron to cellular processes, having a less than optimal amount of iron can create long lasting negative health effects. Supplements provide some of the nutrients provided by meats but, is clear that red meat is a nutrient rich food, supplying valuable amounts of protein, haem iron, zinc, B vitamins, selenium and retinol, with increased bioavailability than found in other dietary Science) Another issue most people have with meat consumption is the effect that meat production has on the environment. However, livestock production accounts for 4.2 percent of GHGs stands for greenhouse gases. For all of the meat consumption in the United States, it only contributes 4.2 percent, which is miniscule compared to the American transport greenhouse gas emission. Emissions from livestock contribute not only to meat production, but other animal byproducts. Consuming meat not provides a large amount of nutrients necessary to growing stronger and leaner muscles in humans, but producing it does not leave a fatal carbon footprint. With an argument that has been debated and morally justified for decades, there is no simple solution. Creating a completely vegetarian diet for all Americans would take any an entire industry into obsoletion and create backlash from those who still wish to consume meat. On the other hand, forcing everyone to consume meat would create backlash in the vegetaryian/vegan communities and possibly create an increase in certain diseases. The question present is: how can Paul 4 there be a compromise? In observation, both the Academy and the NAMI push for American citizens to eat healthier. The best way for these two companies to compromise is to work together to inform and push Americans into a healthier diet. I propose that they both push society towards the paleo diet. The paleo diet supports clean eating and a diet that is closer to what our ancestors ate in the Paleolithic era. The paleo diet focuses on vitamins, fats, protein, carbohydrates, antioxidants and (Salem Encyclopedia) This would combine the best parts of vegetables from the vegetarian diet and the healthier lean meats from meat consumption. Many believe that this helps the body function at a healthier, more optimal pace since it was at the early stages of evolution that our body could process these natural foods over processed foods. If these two stakeholders work together to push together to make a paleo diet more appealing to everyday citizens, a healthy and beneficial compromise can succeed! With both arguments and potential compromise acknowledge, there is only hope that a healthier future can be worked out. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics believes that a vegetarian diet is the healthiest choice when it is well planned and balanced. The North American Meat Institute says meath provides lots of necessary nutrients and does not harm the environment in an overt fashion. Together they can combine to create a healthy paleo diet balanced. What path will you follow when the time comes? Paul 5 Works Cited About  North American Meat Institute. North American Meat Institute, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.meatinstitute.org/index.php?ht=d%2Fsp%2Fi%2F204%2Fpid%2F204>. Academy of Nutrition and Dietietics. Eatrightpro. Position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics: Vegetarian Diets. Eatrightpro. Eat Right, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. ctice%20papers/position%20papers/vegetarian-diet.ashx>. McAfee, Alison J., Emeir M. McSorley, Jullie Wallace, Geraldine J. Cuskelly, Bruce W. Moss, Maxine P. Bonham, and Anna M. Fearon. Meat  Meat Science 63.2 (2003): n. pag. Elseveir. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McEvoy, Claire T., Norman Temple, and Jayne V. Woodside. Vegetarian Diets, Low-meat Diets and Health: A  Public Health Nutrition 15.12 (2012): 2287-294. CambridgeCore. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Warnes, Kathy, Phd. Paleolithic Diet  Salem Press Encyclopedia. N.p.: Salem, 2003. Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=863f5e5e-40a0-40b2- bfc9- 124be1877815%40sessionmgr103&vid=3&hid=122&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU %3d#AN=89550620&db=ers>.