Humphreys 1 Lucelle Humphreys Instructor DuBois Composition II 28 January 2017 Mental Illness in America According to the National Alliance on Mental Illness, million adults experience mental illness in a given (National Alliance on Mental Illness). Mental Illness is a huge issue in America and the world yet not much is being done to solve it. Mental health issues are something that carry a negative stigma with them. When more than 3000 Americans were surveyed about mental illnesses, schizophrenia was identified by a majority (75%) [as a mental Simple schizophrenia was identified as a mental illness by only 34%, alcoholism, by 29%; anxiety neurosis, by 18%; by 14% and compulsive phobia, by (B G Link). It is clear that many Americans are not well informed about mental illnesses. The National Alliance on Mental Illness is an organization that works daily to support and educate those with these afflictions and raise awareness about this widespread issue. Mental Health America is an organization dedicated to identifying these conditions and providing the necessary care for those who are presently dealing with them. Mental illness is an epidemic throughout the nation. NAMI is an organization dedicated to the awareness of such illnesses and MHA is an organization dedicated to providing care for those with it. These two organizations need to start a campaign that merges both of their goals in order to solve this widespread issue. The National Alliance on Mental mission is raise awareness and provide support and education that was not previously available to those in and they are to building better lives for the millions of Americans affected by mental (National Humphreys 2 Alliance on Mental Illness). This organization focuses on the awareness of mental illness throughout America to support those suffering. This is important because treatment comes after being aware that there is an issue in your mind. NAMI was founded in 1979 and is largest grassroots mental health made up hundreds of local affiliates, state organizations and (National Alliance on Mental Illness). The size of the organization is what makes it so successful. To accomplish their mission, they focus on four areas; educating, advocating, listening and leading. Their programs ensure hundreds of thousands of families, individuals and educators get the support and information they (National Alliance on Mental Illness). Education is something that is vital to lessening the effects of untreated illnesses. Many Americans are not properly informed about what mental illness is and how to get support if they need it. To advocate shapes national public policy for people with mental illness and their families and provides volunteer leaders with the tools, resources and skills necessary to save mental illness in all (National Alliance on Mental Illness). In the United States, there enough public policy to protect the millions of Americans suffering from psychological illnesses. NAMI has a toll-free help line that allows them to personally to hundreds of requests each year providing free referrals, information and (National Alliance on Mental Illness). This help line is something that people can use when they have no idea where to go to get the help they desperately need. To lead, NAMI has awareness events and activities . . . successfully fight stigma and encourage understanding. [They with reporters on a daily basis to make sure our country understands how important mental health (National Alliance on Mental Illness). This area works hand-in-hand with education but on a wider scale. This organization has worked hard to spread awareness on a large scale for the millions of Americans suffering every day. Humphreys 3 Mental Health mission is promote mental health as a critical part of overall wellness, including prevention services for all, early identification and intervention for those at risk, and integrated care and treatment for those who need it, with recovery as the (Mental Health America). This organization is focused on the treatment of those Americans who are affected by this issue. One of their main principles is that to achieve overall wellness you must treat mental illness and promote mental health. MHA was founded in 1909 and is leading community-based nonprofit dedicated to help Americans achieve wellness by living mentally healthier made up of 200 affiliates in 41 states, 6,500 affiliate staff and over 10,000 volunteers, are a powerful voice for healthy communities throughout the (Mental Health America). Their large scale makes it possible for them to accomplish their goals. MHA has a philosophy called B4Stage4. They believe health conditions should be treated long before they reach the most critical points in the disease (Mental Health America). They think that mental health should be treated just as any other major illness is treated. MHA wants to . . . symptoms early, identify the underlying disease, and plan an appropriate course of action on a path toward overall (Mental Health America). This philosophy is something that sets Mental Health America apart from other organizations. MHA has identified that leaving mental illnesses until they are in later stages contributes to this epidemic. It is obvious that both of these organizations are dedicated to helping solve the mental illness problem in America. These organizations have approached solving the issue in very different ways. National Alliance on Mental Illness is focusing on raising awareness about mental illness in America and supporting individuals and families who suffer with it whereas, Humphreys 4 Mental Health America is focusing on treatment of these ailments. These two different methods make these organizations not see eye-to-eye. In order to solve this epidemic, these organizations need to come together for their common goal. Creating a campaign that brings both of their missions together is a great way to start. This campaign will be called and Treat Mental and will bring together B4Stage4 philosophy and dedication to educating the population on mental illnesses. This campaign will travel nationwide for multiple months visiting many states. They will host conventions that will offer free mental health screenings, seminars on different types of mental illnesses, classes on the B4Stage4 philosophy and offer a place for many of the doctors and clinics to come together and offer their assistance. Another large part of this campaign will be news and social media coverage along with public service announcements. They will have to make social media accounts so they can spread news about their campaign, advertise the dates of their conventions and inform more people about the statistics of mental health in America. They will contact national and local news companies to inform people of their campaign and conventions. National public service announcements will allow them to educate a large portion of the United States about mental health and remove some of the stigma about metal illnesses. These two things will make a large difference in the large scale effect these organizations can make when they team up. In 2012, the Colorado Office of Suicide Prevention collaborated with the Carson J Spencer Foundation and Cactus for a campaign called Man Therapy. This focus is on abuse and suicide among (MPH@GW Staff). This campaign is dedicated to education and treatment. According to MPH@GW Staff, goal of the campaign to provide men, and their loved ones, a place to learn more about mental health, to examine their own wellness and to consider a wide array of actions designed to put Humphreys 5 them on a path to treatment and (MPH@GW Staff). They did this by creating a website that men and their families could access. After evaluating the effectiveness of this campaign, the collaborators found that months after launch, more than 19,000 visitors had accessed crisis information using the site, and nearly 20,000 had used the about resource. Close to 60,000 18-point head inspections were completed. The pop-up survey found that 83 percent of visitors would recommend the site to a friend in need, and 51 percent agreed or strongly agreed that they were more likely to seek help after visiting the (MPH@GW Staff). It is clear that organizations coming together to start campaigns is effective. These campaigns are able to reach a large number of people and actually help these companies reach their goals. Mental illness is an epidemic throughout the nation, NAMI is an organization dedicated to the awareness of such illnesses and MHA is an organization dedicated to providing care for those with such diseases. These two organizations need to start a campaign that merges both of their goals in order to solve this widespread issue. Both organizations are dedicated to solving the mental health issue in America but in two very different ways. Through the and Treat Mental campaign these two organizations will be able to come together and fulfill both of their missions. Humphreys 6 Works Cited B G Link, J C Phelan, M Bresnahan, A Steve, B A Pescosolido. Conceptions of Mental Illness: Labels, Causes, Dangerousness, and Social American Journal of Public Health 1999, Vol. 89, No 9, pp. 1328-1329. ajph.aphapublications.org/doi/pdf/10.2105/AJPH.89.9.1328, Accessed January 27, 2017. Mental Health America. Mental Health America. 2016, www.mentalhealthamerica.net, Accessed January 27, 2017. MPH@GW Staff. Health Campaigns That Change GW Public Health Online, November 08, 2016. publichealthonline.gwu.edu/blog/health-communication-campaigns/ , Accessed January 27, 2017. National Alliance on Mental Illness. National Alliance on Mental Illness. www.nami.org, Accessed January 27,2017.