Quintana 1 Madeline Quintana Professor Penuliar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Gun Control Laws: A Possible Compromise According to the National Institute of Justice, there were 467,321victims involved in a firearm crime in 2011, which was an increase of about 52,000 from the previous year (Gun Violence). Gun control laws and gun violence have started to become more of a prominent issue in society due to the amount of crimes committed that involve fire arms. There are currently many different companies and organizations that are arguing against one another in an effort to decide what happens nationwide in relation to guns. Two of the most contradictory stakeholders present in this controversial issue are The Brady Campaign and the National Rifle Association. Although The Brady Campaign believes that there should be very extensive background checks done to all gun sale, and the National Rifle Association believes that the right to own a gun of American citizens should be protected, they both have the main focus of safety in common and can compromise by creating background checks that only allow citizens to purchase a firearm if they are in the right state of mind and can safely operate, shoot, and handle a gun. The Brady Campaign was created in order to a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence). Currently the Brady Campaign works under the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, also simply known as the Brady Law. This Act was put into place in 1993, and states that a licensed dealer may only sell, transfer or deliver Quintana 2 and handgun to an unlicensed owner only after they have waited five days, this is only put into effect in states that do not have an alternative way of doing background checks on those purchasing a handgun. A Brady Background check is when the vendor of the firearm contacts the FBI and has them check the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), ultimately notifying the vendor if the intended customer is a felon, fugitive, domestic abuser or dangerously ill human being. By doing these background checks, it prevents guns from being placed into the ownership of dangerous people. President Bill Clinton signed this act into law in 1993 and it went into effect in 1994. (Brady Law) Since the Brady Law was put into effect more than 2.1 million handgun purchases have been denied, about 340 or so each day. According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, over one million of the attempts were by felons, about 300,000 were domestic abusers, and about 120,000 were fugitives. Even though these Brady background checks have stopped so many gun purchases there are about two-fifths of gun purchases that require it, for example guns sold online and at gun shows. There is a wide public support for expanding background checks to these two means of purchasing guns; however there is no law put in place (Brady Campaign). The main goal for the Brady Campaign is to ensure there is a safer nation for Americans. The National Rifle Association (NRA) is most commonly known as foremost defender of Second Amendment However, the NRA does more than just defend one right in the constitution. This organization has also been funding firearm education programs for the youth, law enforcement training, and civilian training courses. The National Rifle Association is focused on creating a safe environment around firearms, for example programs such as Eddie Eagle Program and Refuse To Be A seminars have helped many citizens, ranging from pre-kindergarten to adults, to learn to be safer in situations Quintana 3 containing firearms. The Eddie Eagle Program has taught over million pre- kindergarten to fourth grade children have learned that if they see a firearm in an unsupervised situation, they should TOUCH. RUN AWAY. TELL A (National Rifle Similarly, the Refuse To Be A seminars have helped hundreds of thousands of adults to use common sense strategies to create an effect and safe plan in case something happens. The National Rifle Association has millions of members that help support the Second Amendment and all the programs that the NRA provides to further educate the society (National Rifle Association). The Brady Campaign and the National Rifle Association differ in their beliefs because the Brady Campaign leans more towards the idea of stricter background checks and preventing the selling of firearms from unlicensed gun dealers, while the NRA focuses more on educating the public about firearms and also defending the second amendment. While they both have different views on guns they both ultimately want safest for the community at a whole. They just take different approaches on safety. The Brady Campaign focuses on safety through implementing background checks for every handgun sold, the organization originally planned on expanding background checks to every kind of firearm; however, the Brady Act only requires background checks on hand guns. The National Rifle Association emphasizes safety by providing an abundance of educational programs ranging in age groups in order to help the general public, as well as law enforcement, be able to stay safe during a dangerous situation involving firearms. The two contradicting sides in this scenario do not have to be seen in opposition of each other; meanwhile they can compromise and reach their common goal together. In order to reach a compromise each party would have to make certain concessions. The National Rifle Quintana 4 Association and the Brady Campaign would have to agree on the idea that every firearm purchase in the United States requires a background check of some form as well as every person purchasing a firearm must take a safety and education course based on the firearm they are purchasing. For example, someone buying a rifle would have to take different safety and educational classes than someone buying a handgun. This new law would allow those capable of owning a gun to purchase one, but also it would reinforce the common sense education on firearms. Also this law should prevent unlicensed dealers to sell firearms without conducting background checks; i.e. online sales and gun shows. Currently, there are only states and D.C. have extended the background check requirement beyond federal law to at least some private (Universal Background Checks). This is a step in the right direction however there are still many states that have allowed an open that can easily allow criminals, or those not in the right state of mind to purchase a firearms through unlicensed vendors. According to the ATF during a period of a little over two years, unlicensed vendors were connected to about 20% of illegal gun trafficking scenarios involving about 23,000 guns (Universal Background Checks). By implementing this new compromise, there would be a huge increase in safety amongst the society, as well as a decrease in crimes involving guns. Gun control has been a very controversial issue and has many stakeholders that are avid about their view points on this issue, making it difficult at times to come to a peaceful compromise. However, by enforcing stricter background checks and making safety and educational courses a requirement, the Brady Campaign and the National Rifle Association can agree that it will result in a safer and more educated society, thus ultimately reaching a common goal while staying within their personal beliefs. Quintana 5 Works Cited Brady Campaign. 28 February 2014. 27 January 2017. <http://www.bradycampaign.org/inthenews/brady-campaign-releases-a-report-analyzing- 20-years-of-effective-background-checks>. Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. Brady Campaign. 2016. 27 January 2017. <http://www.bradycampaign.org/about-brady>. Brady Law. 22 September 2016. 27 January 2017. <https://www.atf.gov/rules-and- regulations/brady-law>. Gun Violence. 2011. 27 January 2017. <https://www.nij.gov/topics/crime/gun- violence/pages/welcome.aspx#nonfatal>. National Rifle Association. 2017. January 27 2017. <https://home.nra.org/about-the-nra/>. Universal Background Checks. 2016. 27 January 2017. <http://smartgunlaws.org/gun- laws/policy-areas/background-checks/universal-background-checks/>.