Rodriguez1 Rachel Rodriguez Dr. Theodosiou ENC 1102.050 Spring 17 1/28/17 Death Penalty Since the year 1976, 1,445 individuals have been executed in the United States alone (Death Penalty Information Center). The Death Penalty is among one of the most controversial topics to date. As seen through two organizations with very opposed viewpoints, the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty(NCADP) and the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation(CJLF), the death penalty has become an increasingly large topic of debate. The NCADP works to abolish the death penalty in not only the U.S, but all over across the world(National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty). Meanwhile, the CJLF works to defend the law which qualifies an individual for capital punishment (Criminal Justice Legal Foundation). Whether it is believed that the death penalty should be kept or abolished, both sides share one common goal, to protect the people. With that, a compromise can be made to appeal to both sides of the issue, and that is to sentence these convicted felons to life in prison without the possibility of parole. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty is the oldest organization dedicated exclusively to the abolition of the death  (National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty). According to the NCADP, for over 40 years, they have been working toward one goal, to abolish the death penalty in the United States and support efforts to abolish the death penalty  Through the use of campaigns, informational training opportunities, and general education to the public they are trying to provoke a nation in favor of eradicating the idea Rodriguez2 of using death as punishment and instead, alter our responses to violence and crime. They are a non-profit, tax exempt organization in the United States. Like all other organizations with the same goal of prohibiting the use of capital punishment, the NCADP sees the many flaws and failures behind the inhumane  including: racial the possibility of innocence, and the mental/emotional health of families and those involved in the execution process. As stated by an individual from the New York Times paper, It is time Americans acknowledged that the death penalty cannot be made to comply with the Constitution and is in every way  Those standing against the death penalty, stand extremely strong in their beliefs. On the contrary, the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation primarily works toward creating a balance between those accused of crime and rights throughout our criminal justice system, as a whole. However, in terms of capital punishment in particular, goal is to defend state and federal laws which qualify the worst murderers for the death penalty and encourages the removal of legal obstacles unrelated to a guilt or timely enforcement of the  (Criminal Justice Legal Foundation). As a non-profit organization, they are made up of well-educated individuals whom all have a background in the criminal justice system. As a common belief for all pro-death penalty organizations, CJLF defends the idea that the death penalty reduces rates of recidivism, reduces crime and murder rates, as well as creates a sense of closure for victims families. It is very apparent that both the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty and the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation contain extremely opposed ideas and beliefs when it comes to justifying for and against capital punishment. Although, when you dig deeper and pay close attention to what they stand for, it can be seen that both organizations want justice for the people. Although for different reasons, they both work toward creating a sense of relief to Rodriguez3 families. This commonality is especially crucial in creating a compromise for an issue as critical to our society as the death penalty. Contrary to common belief, a compromise can be made for something as controversial as the death penalty. All it will take is for the NCADP and CJLF to come together and realize that among many differences in beliefs, they share one common goal, to defend and protect the people of not only America, but all over the world. With that in mind, to appeal to both sides of the argument, the United States of America can adopt a policy in which those who have committed harsh, murderous crimes and would have previously been sentenced to death, will instead, be sentenced to life in prison without any possibility for parole. A professor from Georgia State University College of Law, states regarding life in prison without possibility for parole, it would save money, enhance equity among offenders, eliminate the risk of wrongful executions, and increase the odds that persons wrongfully convicted of capital crimes can obtain eventual redress. Death-in-prison would also increase the sense of closure and reduce years of stress and uncertainty felt by families awaiting imposition of capital sentences without reducing either the retributive or deterrent functions of  This shows the explicit positive effects of this new punishment to both sides to the argument. However, along with every positive comes drawbacks. As far as this compromise goes, the NCADP will be unhappy with the fact that there are still racial biases occurring in the justice systems. Likewise, the CJLF will be unhappy with the fact that people are not able to be punished as  for their serious crimes. As far as going through with life sentencing without the possibility of parole, the process will remain the same, in that, those convicted will go through trial where the judge will dictate whether or not a person is guilty or not. Then, if they decide a person is guilty and deserves Rodriguez4 severe punishment, they will be sentenced to life in prison without parole instead of capital punishment. There is rising debate over the cost of the death penalty in comparison to life sentencing without the possibility for parole. Although there is no telling which method of punishment actually costs more, we should still bring awareness to our communities about the issue. With that, along with life imprisonment without parole, the NCADP and CJLF will need to come together and raise awareness to others in their communities, they should host events where they will raise money for the whole court processes. In order for these diverse groups to come together, they need to realize that they are more similar than they think and they need to be willing to accept the fact that this new method of punishment will fulfill both of their goals, to protect the people. For the past 41 years, the death penalty has been an extremely controversial topic with no set solution. Organizations such as the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty stand strongly against the racial, legal, and mental aspects of the death penalty while the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation works to defend all legal and social aspects of the death penalty. Among their many differences, they have one crucial thing in common, they both want a safer environment for the people and to bring awareness to this issue. With a new sentence: life in prison without the possibility of parole, both these organizations will fulfill their goal of protecting the people. All that is needed is for them to put their differences aside and understand the benefits our society will experience from this compromise of life In prison with no parole. Rodriguez5 Works Cited And Indefensible  New York Times. The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/26/opinion/an-indefensible- punishment.html?nl=todaysheadlines&emc=tha211. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. This online newspaper article was published and written by the staff of the New York Times. It can be questionable whether or not this type of source is trustworthy, however, newspaper articles can be a reliable source of information. It is hard to tell since the author is unknown. This article is exceptionally helpful in backing up the argument of the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. The argument which this author argues is very common to those who are against the death penalty and it helps to validate the argument and position of this organization. Covey, Russell D. Death in Prison: The Right Death Penalty  Race, Racism, and the Law. &catid=140&Itemid=155. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Russell D. Covey is a professor at Georgia State University College of Law. With that, it is clear that he is a very well-educated and trusted source of information especially in terms of the law. He has written many articles and conducted lots of research in regards to criminal law. Previously, he worked inside the courtroom along side a judge. Rodriguez6 This article provided me with the idea of my compromise and helped me to validate the idea. He provided a substantial amount of evidence to support why this compromise would be useful which helped to guide me through my paper and research. Criminal Justice Legal Foundation. Criminal Justice Legal Foundation, http://www.cjlf.org/. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. The Criminal Justice Legal Foundation is a non-profit law organization that works to assure that people guilty of committing crimes receive swift and certain punishment in an orderly and constitutional manner. The staff is made up of many attorneys and other individuals whom all have a higher education in criminal law. This organization was one of the main stakeholders for my paper. They provided me with a string argument in justification of the death penalty and helped me to build up a basis for argumentation. I used this source to help guide my research and support the argument for the death penalty. Death Penalty Information Center. The Death Penalty Information Center, http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, http://www.ncadp.org/pages/about-us. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty is a non-profit, tax exempt organization that works to abolish the death penalty. This organization is made up of more than 90 million supporters all whom share the same goal. Their staff is Rodriguez7 made up of well educated people who have all received a higher education in law and have some experience in the field. This source helped me to build up my argument against the death penalty. It provided me with loads of information and resources to help guide my research. From this site, I was able to provide the evidence I needed to show why the death penalty should be abolished.