Ana Maria Hurtado Robert Ryan Composition ENC 1102 27 January 2017 Pro-Life and Pro-Choice Common Ideas Imagine waking up every morning feeling that the life that living not your life, the choices that taking are not your choices, and the future that have its not the one that you want. You are a woman, you are pregnant, but you wish you were not. It matter what where the causes that make you being in this position, what really matter is that are thinking of getting an abortion. Since 1973 women are able to have a save, legal and accessible abortion in USA. The decision of legal abortions has reduced the mortality, infections and even abortions over the years. However, there has always been a disagreement about it. It is a controversial topic that is divided of moral issues against social issues. Pro-life groups such as The Secular Pro-life fights for the concept that everyone has the right to life and the life starts since the moment of conception; therefore, it is murder to realize an abortion (About SPL para.1). By the other hand pro-choice groups such as The National Abortion Federation defends the idea that the body belongs to herself, she is the only one who can decide what happens with her body, and a fetus is not a human being because it is not self-sustaining (About NAF para.1). On the surface, the pro-life movement seems to impact the reproductive rights, but ironically it is not. Both groups have the goal of reducing abortions by improving the social awareness, sexual education and accessible birth control. Hurtado 2 The Secular Pro-life is a nonprofit organization that fights against abortion and embryo abuse. Its mission is to protect and defend the humankind since the moment of conception until natural death. It matter if it is born, unborn, seek or healthy, everyone has the right to live. The SPL look to achieve its mission by decreasing elective abortion by increasing the common knowledge of fetal development, abortion risks, abortion alternatives and sexual education as long it is not explicit. It is an organization that searches to protect pregnant women in crisis. It argues that is important for the government to paid high maternity leaves, increase the resources for pregnant college students, and other measures to help (About SPL para.1) It also creates space to religious, atheists, agnostics and humanists. It is declare as a feminist pro-life organization that wants to unify the common goals of all the women. (About SPL para.1) By the other hand the National Abortion Federation is a nonprofit organization that promotes the health and justice for women. It provides information about pregnancy, parenthood, adoption and abortion. Its main goal is to ensure accessible, legal and safe abortions by resources for women seeking abortion care, initiating groundbreaking educational programs for health care professional and protecting providers and patients from anti-abortion (About NAF para.1). Its member includes not- profit clinics, public hospitals, women heath centers, Planet parenthood affiliates and offices. It is an organization that defends the idea that every woman has the right to decide over her own reproduction and a fetus is not recognized as a person. The organization supports the fact that there is not a scientific consensus that explain when the human life or personhood begins; it is just religious belief that it starts at conception. (About NAF para.1). Hurtado 3 Nerveless, both organizations share the common goal of reduction the abortions in USA. First my improving the social awareness in schools and communities about what is an abortion. The health issues made a study on 639 women of 14 to 44 years in order to evaluate their knowledge about abortions, pregnancy and birth (Kavanaugh, Megan L., et al. 1) The result of the study showed that 81% of women had knowledge about pregnancies and births, but only 35% of the women had knowledge about abortions (Kavanaugh, Megan L., et al. 4). The article states that most of the participants overestimate their knowledge, they knew what was an abortion, but they did not recognize what were the stages of a fetus and what were the pros and cons of getting an abortion (Kavanaugh, Megan L., et al. 6). The article concludes that the lack of knowledge about abortions may influence a high risk of safeness in women (Kavanaugh, Megan L., et al. 8). Second the importance of birth control in women in the reproductive age. The journal Population & made a study of abortion during 2010 to 2015 in England and France, where teenage abortions where more frequently in England than in France due to the lack of contraceptive, but legal abortions (Tomkinson 1). According to John Tomkinson the purpose was to evaluate the behavior of women over abortions in France when they were more able to get birth control (Tomkinson 2). The article concluded that when contraceptive where more accessible for teenagers the rate of abortion reduced 15 % over the years of 2010 to 2015 (Tomkinson 6). Third, the value of sex education. The International Perspectives On Sexual & Reproductive Health made a study that examined 2,934 married women aged 15 to 49 (Erfani 1). The purpose was to determinate the rate of abortion in women with good sexual education and women with lack of it (Erfani 1). The results presented that in the past 30% of the women who had received a complete sexual education had an abortion, and 70% of the women who had lack of it had Hurtado 4 the procedure before (Erfani 9). The article concluded that it is important to improve the sexual education in less resources communities in other to protect the sexual health of the women (Erfani 11). Therefore, it would be a good strategy to implement better social awareness, birth control and sexual education in order to reduce the rate of abortions. Furthermore, the compromise of both organizations would be important because together they could grow as an organization, receive more donations, and win more recognition. In addition, more people that are between of the pro-choice and pro-life ideas would be able to participate. However, both organizations would need to give up in some ideas. The Secular Pro-life would have to change the theory that sexual education need to be explicit, and the American pregnancy association would have to renounce to the belief of not showing what would happen to the fetus and what are the functions during the moment of the abortion because it is not consider a human being. Both organizations would win befits in the agreement and together they would be able to help more women than by themselves. Finally, Abortion is one of the heaviest topics discussed over the years. Pro-life and Pro choose groups support their missions on rights and there is not an appropriate way to solve this topic. However, groups such as The National Abortion Federation and The Secular Pro-life are organizations that share common the goal of minimizing the rate of abortions in USA. Both want to improve the health of the women by giving better social awareness, sexual education, and contraceptives. Even though both organizations would have to give up to some ideas, they will not lose its identity, and a common agreement would open the beginning of safe discussions. A total agreement is not realistic, but if both can start to think differently a change can be made. Hurtado 5 Work Cited Prochoice, 2017, prochoice.org/education-and-advocacy/. Accessed 27 Jan.2017 About 2017, secularprolife.org/about. Accesses 27 Jan 27. Erfani, Amir. Levels, Trends And Correlates Of Abortion In Tehran, Iran:  International Perspectives On Sexual & Reproductive Health 42.2 (2016): 93-101. Academic Search Premier. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Kavanaugh, Megan L., et al. Original Article: Connecting Knowledge About Abortion And Sexual And Reproductive Health To Belief About Abortion Restrictions: Findings From An Online  Health Issues 23.(2013): e239-e247. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Tomkinson, John. Fewer Teenage Births In England And Wales: A Convergence Towards  Population & 536 (2016): 1-4. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 27 Jan. 2017.