Hall 1 Samantha Hall Professor Robert Ryan English Composition 1102 28 January 2017 Sexual Education in Schools Sexual Education has been an issue of controversy across the nation and the topic of educating the youth about it has been argued for years. Now it is not just whether it should be taught but how and which version, abstinence or comprehensive sex education, should be placed in schools. The two types of sexual education out today are abstinence-only sexual education and comprehensive sexual education. ASCEND is an organization that focuses on abstinence-only education which is a form of sex education that teaches the youth about not to have sex until marriage and excludes talking about birth control, safe sex and the health part of the reproductive education. On the other hand, Advocates for Youth is an organization that focuses on comprehensive sexual education which teaches all of the information surrounding sexual education including, but not limited to, decision making, human development, disease prevention, contraception and relationships. Sexual education should be taught in schools and to the public completely with all of the pieces of health, diseases, contraception and abstinence allowing the youth to receive the most that they can out of the course and all of the information that they need to stay safe. The first organization is ASCEND, being an abstinence-only organization, focuses on the adolescents and giving them the opportunity to become certified in Sexual Risk Avoidance, SRA Hall 2 (Huber 2007). According to ASCEND, SRA is an educational program on the prevention of the risks involved with sexual intercourse by educating on abstaining from sexual activity until marriage (Huber 2007). The program shows the importance of waiting until, and the costs, both emotionally and physically, that come with having sex. The aim is to discourage adolescents from having sexual relations by showing them the importance of family values (Huber 2007). The mission of ASCEND is to serve, protect and support the adolescents to remain abstain; they give them SRA certifications for choosing to wait until marriage and aim to be seen in a positive light by the public (Huber 2007). Their SRA program holds its members to a code of ethics to guide the youth in avoiding any sexual activity before marriage, and they conduct themselves with integrity and compassion, and give the students the best information to have the best health outcomes (Huber 2007). ASCEND does not believe in birth control or protection and no safe sex, and it does not teach about that type of sexual and reproductive health. In September of 2015, ABS News conducted a study on the effectiveness of abstinence-only sexual education with teenagers, the result was that the abstinence message is a critical part of the education and the value of abstinence (Livni 2015). On the other hand, Advocates for Youth is a comprehensive sexual education organization that helps teens make responsible when it comes to sexual activities by giving them the necessary tools and knowledge (Hauser 2008). The mission of Advocates for Youth is rights, respect, and responsibility when it comes to sexual education, and for the public to understand their stance on sex education (Hauser 2008). The Advocates for Youth believe that the adolescents have the right to know about their body and the services that are offered to them. The organization wants to enable adolescents to protect themselves, and helps them by giving the information that they need. Advocates for Youth believe that adolescents Hall 3 need to know the risks of sexual behavior, such as pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases, as well as be provided with the tools to prevent these (Hauser 2008). The organization does not just focus on the sexual education aspect, but also on ways to delay the sexual activity while increasing the use of condoms or birth control. If the youth are aware of these it will lower the amount of teen pregnancies. According to David W. Hall, the increase in teen pregnancy and sexual transmitted diseases is only one example of how important comprehensive sexual education is because it addresses the risks (Hall 2011). Hall says that these topics need to be discussed in order to lower the rates of pregnancy and He refers to sexual education as alcohol; why not talk about the risks and educate people on how to take precaution (Hall 2011). ASCEND and Advocates for Youth are both sexual education organizations. Even if they have slightly different views, they make sure it is all about the youth and that they come first. Of course they always see eye to eye when it comes to how sexual education should be taught, but when it comes down to making a difference in the lives of the teens and their education they have similar views. Both organizations want the teens to have successful and honest relationships with others, and they want to give the teens the choice and responsibility to take what they have learned and apply it to their lives. Whenever sexual education comes up to the public, there is a negative reaction making it difficult for any version of this education to be heard due to the fact that it is automatically shut down once the people realize what the topic is, thus preventing the teens from learning. One common goal between ASCEND and Advocates for Youth is to raise awareness and to reduce teenage pregnancy rates and the rates of sexually transmitted diseases. The organizations want to protect teens from hurting themselves and want to give to the youth. Hall 4 Throughout the years Sexual Education has and probably always will be a controversial topic with the public, teens, and parents, but the difference between now and the future is what action is taken today. Sexual education needs to be taught to teenagers nationwide. Right now there is a high pregnancy rate, and rising STD rates and it stems from the lack of this education. We just teach the teens abstinence only, but we also just teach a comprehensive sexual education class. In order for these to lower there needs to be a change in the way the adolescents see the sexual education programs. The way to get through to students and teach them the information needed to keep them safe is to have a sexual education class put into schools. That class will be comprehensive, and an abstinence program should be combined to give the students every tool they need to protect themselves. Abstinence-only is not the answer because studies have shown that students who receive an abstinence-only sex education class have a higher likelihood to engage in risky sexual behavior (Kohler, Manhart, & Lafferty 2008 344-351). However, that does not mean that comprehensive sexual education is the sole answer. The organizations need to compromise and work together to do what is best for the youth. They cannot just continue to sit back and argue with each other, waiting for someone else to come change the mind. If they take action to get this program places in schools, they will be in good standings with the public by showing that they care about what is best for the teenager. In conclusion, sexual education should be taught completely including health, diseases, contraception and abstinence so that the youth have all the information they need to stay safe. ASCEND and Advocate for Youth can work together to make this happen and they can do it while accomplishing their goals for the youth and the public. The purpose of these sex education classes are the reproductive and sexual health. The adolescents will get multiple options like abstinence, protection and birth control, and they will have the skills to protect themselves. Hall 5 Works Cited Hall, David W. Abstinence-Only Education and Teen Pregnancy Rates: Why We Need Comprehensive Sex Education in the  Abstinence-Only Education and Teen Pregnancy Rates: Why We Need Comprehensive Sex Education in the U.S. Kathryn Stranger, 14 Oct. 2011. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Hauser, Debra. Advocatesforyouth.org. Edward Carporal, 14 July 2008. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Huber, Valerie.   We Ascend. John Lyman, 24 Jan. 2007. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Kohler, Pamela K., Lisa E. Manhart, and William E. Lafferty. Abstinence-Only and Comprehensive Sex Education and the Initiation of Sexual Activity and Teen  Journal of Adolescent Health 42.4 (2008): 344-51. Web. Livni Ephrat. Abstinenence-Only Sex Ed ABC News. ABC News Network, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.