Daugherty 1 Julian Daugherty Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102 1/29/2017 Government Surveillance: Balancing Safety and Privacy Recent advances in technology have allowed information to flow at an incredible speed. Legislation to regulate the improvements has struggled to keep up, and existing laws are obsolete. The United Government has attempted to counter individuals using surveillance techniques, however the surveillance conducted on the population is a double-edged sword. The government find a balance between safety and privacy. The National Security Agency (NSA) aims to protect citizens by observing many elements of lives. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) argues that the lack of regulations set for the NSA permits them to infringe upon the Constitutional rights of American citizens. Both stakeholders seek to achieve what they think is best for the citizens in accordance with the Constitution, but differ through strategy. The NSA and similar agencies view lesser privacy as a necessary sacrifice. The EFF considers rights and security for internet users of paramount importance, which contrasts with the NSA. A solution for these stakeholders involves restructuring the government agency without rendering their methods useless. The NSA strives to secure welfare as stated in the Preamble of the Constitution. On the website, they express their mission is this expertise- from our people and technology- that allows us to accomplish the goals of discovering secrets, protecting U.S. secrets, and outmaneuvering our adversaries in cyberspace while at the same time Daugherty 2 protecting the privacy rights of the American (NSA.gov). They act as an essential asset from their ability to predict the behavior of individuals, gather intelligence on criminals, and prevent critical systems from cyber-based attacks. The missions conducted are for the greater good, but privacy must be given up to maximize safety. The NSA is skilled at locating hostile groups because they monitor vast quantities of people. The Electronic Frontier Foundation intends to protect rights to use cyberspace with as much freedom as possible. They stand against virtual government surveillance organizations, such as the NSA. On the website, it states work to ensure that rights and freedoms are enhanced and protected as our use of technology (EFF.org). The EFF sends representatives to voice their opinions to members of Congress to influence legislation regarding cyberspace. For active government agencies utilizing surveillance, they demand the agencies release any requested information. With the Freedom of Information Act, they encourage members and citizens to make numerous requests. The EFF understands that criminals may be encouraged with less surveillance, so they fund programs aimed to fully secure the online world. Government surveillance has maintained an essential role in the field of intelligence. The NSA and other agencies have saved several lives by being able to anticipate attacks. To do so, agencies gather all information as possible to maintain a collection of records to be referenced at later times. Laws such as the Patriot Act permit agencies to continue to carry out their collection of data without legal consequences. The collected data may reveal what other know about the NSA, which would allow them to improve the mentioned strategy. As a part of the Department of Defense, the NSA shares important information with the military and other government agencies. In various situations, the data has saved countless lives, money, and hardship. The Daugherty 3 surveillance conducted is a valuable asset, but some question whether the practice infringes on the Constitutional rights. To find a needle in a haystack, the NSA examines every straw. This is an effective technique, but some citizens are uncomfortable knowing their information may be under examination at any time. As stated in the United Constitution, right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and (law.cornell.edu). The practice employed by the NSA is considered to violate the Fourth Amendment at times. The EFF is fighting for cyberspace to qualify as a private space that the government cannot intrude. In an article reviewing mass surveillance technologies and the Fourth Amendment, Alex Brown states Katz v. United States, the Supreme Court held that Fourth Amendment protects people, not (Brown 269). The distinction that cyberspace is a place allows agencies to collect information. They treat the online realm in a manner similar to cameras in cities. Brown also mentions that individuals expect their online activity to be private. He uses an analogy comparing the online space to a phone booth. Individuals may be in a public area, but the conversation inside the booth is expected not to be monitored. Much of the legislation regarding online interactions is out of date. There is no clear definition specifying what cyberspace exists as. The conditions to revise and pass laws exist, but a compromise is still required. Surveillance must still be allowed, but at a level that does not violate the rights of citizens. The NSA must have more regulations that define cyberspace. Distinctions between areas such as social media and financial information. With clearer boundaries, the agency must be restructured to define and identify suspicious activity. The NSA may request information from military intelligence departments to refine their search parameters for suspicious individuals. Instead of Daugherty 4 having to sift through the information of millions, they can use a sample of known activity and predict variations. Mischievous individuals will likely adapt to be unpredictable, so criteria to observe these individuals for a short period should be in place. If no activity is found within a short phase, the surveillance should cease. To remain transparent, the Freedom of Information Act will remain an asset for citizens to use. They will be able to request information that will not compromise security measures. Initial responses must be revisited to ensure the laws adapt alongside the technology. The EFF will have assurance that privacy will be respected and government agencies will remain safely transparent. The NSA will continue to protect the denizens of the United States, while the boundaries act as guidelines for them to follow. The citizens will experience continued protection with more effective definitions for computer based technologies. Breakthroughs in communications technologies have released more effective ways to manage information. Regulations have not kept up the pace and the deficiency allows malicious activities to thrive. The NSA and EFF both seek to provide security to the citizens of the United States, but differ on how to approach the subject. The seeks to improve safety at the cost of privacy. The EFF aims to end surveillance and defend freedoms by passing regulations that would render agencies like the NSA ineffective. A solution for the benefit of both stakeholders requires regulations for the NSA, but surveillance to continue. Surveillance has proved to be efficient at predicting actions of ill intent, but the vagueness of the guidelines is unsettling to citizens and the EFF. With newer regulations acting as instructions, the EFF will have their regulations and the NSA may conduct regulated surveillance. Daugherty 5 Works Cited we National Security Agency, 29 Jan. 2017. https://www.nsa.gov/what-we-do/ About  Electronic Frontier Foundation. Steve Jackson, 29 Oct. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Bruce, Thomas R. Fourth  LII / Legal Information Institute. Legal Information Institute, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Brown, Alex. NEW METHOD TO CONSIDER THE FOURTH AMENDMENT IMPLICATIONS OF MASS SURVEILLANCE DERIVATIVE- CONSENT DOCTRINE AND OPEN WINDOWS. Vol. 66, no. 1. 2015 http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=49d5fafd- 5fd4-4aae-a8e3-f9ec007a5225@sessionmgr102&vid=3&hid=108