Student 1 Student Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Fortune Photo Analysis Fortune began as an idea between Briton Hadden and Henry Luce, founders of Time, to publish information based on politics and business practices occurring at the time. Despite death, Luce eventually published the first issue in 1929 just months after the stock market crash. Instead of black and white pages filled with numbers and statistics, Fortune featured photographs and articles that were of interest to businessmen but also important to the time Information Fortune Magazine in the Continuing with their tradition, Fortune has progressed into the technological age posting articles on their web page daily oriented around business and politics that would be of interest to businessmen and intellects alike. To promote their goal, Fortune uses photographs to convey their opinion and inform the reader through visual representation. Essentially, Fortune is promoting the possibility that legislation will pass, legalizing marijuana across the nation. One image (Figure 1) that appeared at the top of the article How Marijuana is Sweeping the U.S. in One Map, features Snoop Dogg, now Snoop Lion, exhaling a heart-shaped cloud of marijuana smoke. The image uses two powerful rhetorical tools; color scheme and Snoop Dogg as a celebrity image. Colors in general, have the ability to affect the audience by conveying a specific image (Pack 350). In this image, few colors are used: black, white, red, and green. The lack of color enhances the image of the heart shaped smoke cloud because it essentially pops out the most. Snoop Dogg is the only piece of the image that has any color at all, encompassing each Student 2 color except for the white cloud of smoke. His attire suggests he is of a higher economic and social class. His green, dark lensed sunglasses convey the idea that Snoop Dogg is to be considered cool compared to other figures. Snoop Dogg can be seen wearing a red overshirt and black pea coat. Red tends to convey power and the pea coat would suggest that the weather is on the colder side, meaning that smoking marijuana will give you both warmth and power. Throughout the image, it is easy to see how rhetorical appeals, such as ethos, pathos, and kairos, are used profusely. Ethos is conveyed through the usage of Snoop Dogg as the person of interest, knowing that his large fan base and easy recognition would attract many people, from adolescents to older adults. Pathos is represented by the heart shaped cloud of smoke. By creating the heart, Snoop Dogg visually shows the audience his love for marijuana. Americans tend not to judge others for what they love, so by creating a heart, Snoop Dogg visually represents his appreciation. As for kairos, the heart shaped cloud is visibly beginning to thin, signifying the end of the cloud and the preparation of another to be exhaled by Snoop Dogg. It can be conveyed at the same will happen for marijuana legislation; the end of the first wave of legalization is coming to an end, but the next is just waiting to begin. The second image (Figure 2), appears in the heart of the article, and features a map of the United States that represents the number of states that have already legalized marijuana, or were undergoing the legalization process. The image uses the color blue, and its variety of shades, to signify the states and their various levels of legalization. Since blue generally represents the progressive movement, it can be assumed that Fortune is trying to convince the audience that only states that follow suit are contributing to the future, and all those who oppose are remaining in the past. However, the audience will likely note that the states passing legislation are dense with young adults and are the only reason such legislation would even be considered. Student 3 While the image makes use of text, it is not as important as the color scheme due to its legend-like nature. Most of the text is used only to inform the audience of what each shade of blue is to mean. However, the title of the image is of great importance as it is a play on words: Pot instead of Plot could be considered a euphemism for the amount of marijuana is likely to be sold in each state, as pot is a slang term for marijuana. Similarly to Figure 1, Figure 2 makes use of rhetorical appeals, such as pathos and kairos. Pathos is perhaps most important for this image because it to the experience of or sensitivity toward (Jane et al. 22). For this image, pathos is used through the color scheme: blue. Historically, blue represents the progressive movement; towards the future for a more promising life. Commonly, Americans tend to work towards the American dream in which they will eventually be prosperous and their family will live in luxury. By using a blue scheme, Fortune is playing on dreams of prosperity and persuading them that support of the legalization of marijuana is the way to the future. Kairos is easily spotted in Figure 1 due to the use of patterns. Since each state that has passed, or considered adding legislation to the ballot, is a shade of blue, it can be assumed that eventually, every state in the United States will be of some shade. Although each pattern of blue represents a different stage of legalization, it can be conveyed that it is only a matter of time before marijuana is legal. By adding very specific images to the article, Fortune successfully persuades the reader that marijuana legalization is going to sweep the nation and that the reader should be in support of the process. The legalization of marijuana would be of financial value to Fortune as it would play into the theme of their empire; appeals to business and politically based stories. Although seemingly objective, Fortune shows its bias by the wording of the article title, as well as the content of each photo associated with the article. (Word Count: 1003) Student 4 Works Cited Background Information - Fortune Magazine in the  University of Virginia, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Huddleston, Tom, Jr. Legalized Marijuana is Sweeping the U.S. in One Fortune. Fortune. 30 June 2016. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. Jane, Emily, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyrem Kate Pantelides, and Kendra Gayle Lee. The Rhetorical N.p.: n.p., n.d. 20-26. Print. Pack, Jenna. Breaking Down an N.p.: n.p., n.d. 345-51. Print. Student 5 Figure 1. http://fortune.com/2016/06/29/legal-marijuana-states-map/ Student 6 Figure 2. http://fortune.com/2016/06/29/legal-marijuana-states-map/