Lasso de la Vega 1 Gabriela Lasso de la Vega Professor Ryan ENC 1102.001 1/27/17 PETA and AZA: creating a compromise on zoos Many Americans love to visit the zoo each year. According to the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA), around 186 million people visit their zoos each year. People find that visiting zoos is a way to learn about and connect to exotic animals that they would not normally be able to see in person. Some people and organizations believe that zoos are unethical because they keep wild animals in captivity. Animal lovers have to wonder if they are supporting something morally wrong when they visit a zoo. Two main groups that disagree on this issue are PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) and AZA (Association of Zoos and Aquariums). While these groups have seemingly very different agendas when it comes to zoos, there is room for compromise due to their shared love of animals. When it comes to protecting animals, PETA is the group that always has a strong opinion to provide. According to website, they are the largest animal rights organization in the world. They focus their efforts on four main areas which are protecting animals from the food industry, clothing industry, labs, and entertainment. Zoos count as entertainment to PETA, so they are strongly against them for a few reasons. They believe zoos deprive animals of their natural instincts and behaviors because in captivity an animal is not able to hunt, scavenge, fly, and run. When animals are deprived of these natural rights, they quickly develop a condition called PETA explains that many zoos, even accredited ones, capture animals from the wild, which is a practice that they do not approve of. Another issue PETA has with zoos is Lasso de la Vega 2 that baby animals tend to bring in more visitors, so zoos will sometimes have breeding programs that force animals to have more babies. Zoos then will place older, less appealing animals in to where they are sold as roadside attractions. Ultimately PETA would like to shut down all zoos worldwide. One group that appears to have a very different view of zoos is The Association of Zoos and Aquariums. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) is a nonprofit organization that accredits zoos that they believe meet their standards. Per website, there are over 230 AZA accredited zoos in the US. For a zoo to become AZA accredited it must fill out a questionnaire that asks about the policies, procedures, records, lists and reports. It takes six months for AZA to evaluate the zoo, and then they send a team of inspectors and veterinarians to assess the zoo. The inspection team looks carefully at an living conditions, health, and nutrition. They also require animals to be provided with enrichment activities for their mental health. The benefit of being an accredited zoo is that you are highly respected by the public and also eligible to receive funding. In addition to supporting high quality zoos, AZA also has launched a program called AZA SAFE, which is designed to conserve animal species and work to save them from extinction. AZA believes that zoos and aquariums play a key part in conserving animal species and educating the public about the animals. Although these two groups seem to have very different opinions when it comes to zoos, they do have some shared interests. Both AZA and PETA care greatly about animals. Both groups include in their mission statement that they are dedicated to animal welfare. Neither groups want to see animals suffer or be harmed in any way. Education is a huge part of these organizations because they believe that change can be made when the public is more aware of the issue. In case, they want to educate the public about unfair and unethical conditions Lasso de la Vega 3 that animals are put in. AZA wants to educate the public about animal species conservation and other environmental issues such as habitat destruction. AZA even has an animal welfare committee who has very similar goals to PETA when it comes to keeping animals happy and healthy. In the past, many zoo habitats were little more than a small concrete enclosure with some food and water. In recent years, more effort has been made to design habitats that are large and look more like the natural environment. AZA has made it a requirement for all accredited zoos to provide animals with enrichment activities to maintain mental health, which is necessary for an well-being. Senior Vice president of AZA has said that modern zoos work hard to keep animals from being bored or becoming This is a huge step in the right direction, but PETA has more concerns about zoos that still need to be addressed. Before a compromise can happen, PETA needs to understand that zoos are a key component in animal conservation. Species such as black-footed ferrets, horse, and California Condor have been saved from extinction due to zoos (Kelly, zoos AZA will have to create a more specific set of requirements if they are to compromise with PETA. This can be costly and they may lose a few zoos that do not want to comply with the new rules. An approach at compromise that been tried before is to have the president of PETA meet with the president of AZA and have PETA help make a new set of standards that will benefit the animals in zoos. If PETA set some of the standards for zoos, then they could address their concerns about how animals in captivity are treated. Both parties will benefit from this because they both state in their mission statement that animal well-being is a top priority. PETA will benefit from knowing that animals will no longer be taken from the wild or forced to breed, and that the living Lasso de la Vega 4 conditions of older, less desirable animals will be greatly improved. AZA will benefit from having happier, healthier animals. When the animals at zoos are doing well, the public will naturally want to donate money and visit zoos to support them. PETA claims to have over 5 million supporters, including celebrities such as Paul McCartney and Mary Tyler Moore. Zoos will be able to gain back these potential visitors when they make changes. In order to make this compromise happen, PETA and AZA will have to meet in person and discuss concerns with zoos. PETA has stated that some of their main objections are breeding programs and taking animals from the wild. AZA can use these suggestions to write a new set of accreditation standards. For example, AZA accredited zoos will only be allowed to house animals born in captivity, and they will not be able to put older animals in warehouses to make room for babies. Whatever they come up with together can be implemented in January 2018 so that zoos and plenty of time to adjust and decide if they want to stay accredited. It is not as money efficient to practice these ethical behaviors, but zoos must ask themselves what their goal is. If it is to make profit at the expense of lives, then they will want to continue this unethical practices. Zoos with the intention to conserve animal species and treat animals humanely will find the resources to do so (Croke, A consideration of policy implications: a panel discussion). Although PETA and AZA seem to be on opposite sides of the fence, there is room for compromise. When these two groups work together, they can accomplish many great things for animals and the environment. No matter what side of the argument a person is on, they can agree that change can be beneficial. It is a matter of enough people supporting the change, and showing that they appreciate the zoos efforts. The future for animals in zoos seems hopeful, and there have definitely been improvements over the years. Lasso de la Vega 5 Works Cited Animal Rights Uncompromised:  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Strategic  Strategic Plan. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Are zoos  Junior Scholastic/Current Events 2016: 22. Academic OneFile. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Are zoos bad news? Tiger attack spurs  Current Events, a Weekly Reader publication 2008: 7. Academic OneFile. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Croke, Vicki. A Consideration Of Policy Implications: A Panel  Social Research 3 (1995): 801. Academic OneFile. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.