Oyarvide 1 Xochitl Marysol Oyarvide Robert Ryan ENC1102-001 29 January 2017 Compromise on the Death Penalty The death penalty has existed in the United States since the creation of The Constitution. There are debates about whether the death penalty should be abolished. These debates include statewide, national, and international concerns about the death penalty. One group that argues against the death penalty on a state level is Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty. One group that can arguably support the death penalty is the Florida Legislature. Both groups exist because of their interest in the well- being of the citizens of Florida, and they can reach a compromise to help the citizens by creating and passing a bill that will be in the best interest of Floridians. According to their website, Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty (FADP) is an organization that hopes to decrease the use the Death Penalty until it is ultimately FADP values humanity, education, and actions involving the death penalty. FADP uses their website to spread information about the death penalty and to bring people together to end the use of the death penalty. According to the Constitution of the State of Florida, Florida Legislature was created to pass laws that will help insure domestic tranquility, maintain public order, and guarantee equal civil and political rights to all The laws created by the Florida Legislature include the death penalty. According to the Death Penalty Information Oyarvide 2 Center, Punishable by the Death in Florida include: murder; felony murder; capital drug trafficking; sexual As previously stated, Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty and the Florida Legislature were both created to help insure that the people of Florida live under the best conditions as possible. Even though one group disagrees with the laws created by the other group, they both are trying to ensure that people are treated fairly. In Chance article, the author discusses the Marshall Hypothesis and how this hypothesis argues that it is difficult to determine the constitutionality of the death penalty. The article argues that it is difficult for the public to determine the death constitutionality, because not everyone is aware of the process used to execute someone on death row. Just like the argument made in article, FADP is aware that not everyone is informed about the death penalty. Without being informed, people cannot make sound judgements about issues discussed. FADP and the Florida Legislature use their public websites to help inform people about activities these groups are involved in. In an article by Michael L. Radelet and Margaret Vandiver, the authors discuss the reinstitution of the death penalty in Florida. Laws were created to ensure that the rulings were fair and with as little bias as possible. While the article does note some inconsistencies in court rulings, it still mentions attempts to keep rulings as fair and consistent as possible. As stated in the article, Florida Legislature has passed laws that have allowed for more consistent rulings when working with cases that might involve the death penalty. These laws have been created to help the people be tried under the best system possible. Oyarvide 3 In 2016, Supreme Court ruled that death penalty law unconstitutional, because it did not require a jury to impose a death sentence. The Florida Legislature will have to create a new law that will allow the use of the death penalty. Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty will not agree with Florida Legislature if it passes a law to constitutionalize the death penalty. FADP can propose a law that will require a longer process used to impose the death penalty. Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty might consider creating a bill that requires a unanimous vote by the jury in order to impose the death penalty. FADP also might consider including mandatory lessons for the jury to be better informed about the specifics of the death penalty. The Florida Legislature is going to pass a law that will make the death penalty constitutional. Since the Florida Legislature should have the best intentions for Floridians, the Legislature might consider the ideas that FADP might have to offer involving the death penalty. The Florida Legislature creates laws such as the death penalty in Florida. Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty wants to abolish the death penalty in Florida. But the Florida Legislature and Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty were both created for the interest of the well-being of Floridians. If both groups can be aware that they both want the best system possible for Floridians, then they might be able to create a law that will work better for the interest of those who might be sentenced to death.