Solving the video game violence issue Video games and violence are such big issue nowadays with violence in this world on a rise and the videogame industry taking off in the recent years with the advancement in technology. People are making the correlation and debating that playing video games with violent tendencies will make you violent in the real world (PBS). With that being said let me introduce you to the two opposing stakeholders in this issue, the stakeholders are Rock star games and the Parent Television Council (PTC). These two stakeholders have different views when it comes to the issue of videogames and violence. Rock star games is a game publisher that is most famous for their titles: Grand Thief Auto (Like the felony), Red Dead redemption, LA Noire and many more titles that are considered games, Sandbox games are games that let the gamer walk around an open world and do anything they want including violent things (Techopedia). The Parents Television Council is a non-partisan education organization advocating responsible entertainment. They advocate against video games and violence, media and violence and much more regarding entertainment. You can see why they are in a disagreement when it comes to this issue. One supplies the violent videogames and the other is an advocate against it and believes in the correlation that violent videogames will make you a violent person. To benefit both companies, I have come up with a compromise, my compromise is putting settings in the videogames that reduce the amount of violence/Blood and gore or activate a were no violence can occur in the video game. Rockstar games is arguable one of the number one game publishers in America or even the world. Most of their titles they release go popular quick. They are most famous for their series Grand Thief Auto and Red Dead Redemption. These two games they are most famous for are games, where the player controls and even styles a character in the way of his choosing and goes through the game as if you were living in the real world. The player can dress himself, drive, swim, play sports and talk to other player, This seems all fine and dandy but where the issue is or controversy with rockstar games is with these world you can commit numerous amount of crimes, about 75 percent of crimes are violent. Your probably asking yourself can a publisher make a real life crime generator as a well to answer that questions there are 2 factors at play. Number one: Rockstar puts ratings on its games and the two titles I named and most of their titles say what this means is Mature 17, you have to be 17 or older to buy these games. Number two: people buys these games because they want to play them they think their interesting and fun. As a fellow gamer I own a Grand Thief Auto game, I own it because I like and find the open world real life aspect interesting and I am of age to buy it. Rockstars mission statement on their official website is Rockstar Games label was founded in 1998 to create the most innovative and progressive interactive (Rockstar Games) not to provide violent video games or show violence is good. They are just trying to come up with the next best video game to be honest. The Parent Television Council was founded in 1995 and headquarted in Los Angles California is a non-partisan education organization advocating responsible entertainment with around 12,000 members (PTC). They are not just against video games and violence, they are also against media and violence and much more. The Parent Television Councils Mission statement is protect children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the media, because of their proven long-term harmful (PTC). because of their proven long-term harmful are the 9 key words out of their mission statement that prove the argument or prove the debate that violence in videogames cause violent actions in real life. The Parent Television Council prove or show there cause through many outlets, they mainly show this through the internet. They have a lot of campaigns and links on their website, The Parent Television Council are very active in advocating for their cause. Rockstar is just one of the many companies that they are against or want to advocate against when it comes to protecting children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the media, because of their proven long-term harmful effects. Videogames deal with media and if they want advocate against these things they will have to advocate against the hundreds of game publishers. Rockstar though is one of the biggest publishers so they would start with them. With all this being said Rockstar and The Parent Television council do have a commonality. That commonality is the word both stakeholders want to help out entertainment business in this world. Rockstar wants to produce videogames and The parent Television Council want to advocate against graphic sex, violence and profanity in the entertainment business. They are both doing their part in the entertainment aspect of this world. Rockstar and the parent television council have not come to a resolution or compromise because of one big factor, that factor being the market for videogames. Why would Rockstar stop producing violent videogames or videogames that portray violence or violent actions if it makes the company money and successful, if the company is making money and becoming successful, because of the people, the people are buying the games so they obviously have a problem with it. The market for video games is the reason for no solution between the two stakeholders. But I have a compromise to the issue regarding violence and videogames. The compromise is putting settings in the videogames that reduce the amount of violence/Blood and gore or activate a were no violence can occur in the video game. This compromise will work and become great for a few reasons. Number one, it satisfies both stakeholders. Number two, both stakeholders give little, no stakeholder is getting more out of the compromise and lastly three, both mission statements can still be what they are with these stakeholders still working after the compromise. What this compromise means is Rockstar can still produce the games they always produce but they would have to add setting where they player can activate it and it would reduce the amount of violence/blood and gore or activate a were no violence can occur. Both stakeholders win in the fact that Rockstar can still produce the same games and be successful and the Parent television council has gotten there word across and just have to tell people to activate the setting instead of, bashing Rockstar or videogames in general. All in all, the issue of video games and violence needs to be address and videogames need to stay strong to their rating system and only let people that are of age to purchase these violent videogames. Violence is inevitable (Legacy), the way portrayed that is the problem and why the issue of video games and violence is even debatable and argued/correlated. You can be violent and never play a violent videogame in our life. Violence has been around forever and videogames have only been around for about 30 years, so why blame it on videogames? Works Cited Legacy. IS VIOLENCE INEVITABLE? 2017. http://www.legacyproject.org/guides/violence.html. 1 February 2017. PBS. Can Violent Video Games Play a Role in Violent Behavior? 2017. 1 February 2017. PTC. Frequently Asked Questions. 2017. http://w2.parentstv.org/main/About/FAQ.aspx. 1 February 2017. Homepage. 2017. http://w2.parentstv.org/Main/. 2 February 2017. Rockstar Games. Corporate Information. 2017. https://www.rockstargames.com/corpinfo. 1 February 2017. Techopedia. Sand Box. 2017. https://www.techopedia.com/definition/3952/sandbox-gaming. 2 February 2017. Word Count: 1249 content, 1315 Total