Alida Mogollon ENC1102 Section 032 1 Project 1 Intermediate Draft: Legal Drinking Age youth are the leaders of Mandela. For this reason, the United States invests billions of dollars in initiatives such as education and Drug Abuse Programs (Press Office ). Currently, the legal drinking age in the United States is 21 years of age, established in 1984 by the National Minimum Drinking Age Act (NIAAA). The reasoning (Trudeau)behind this act is to protect youth from the potential dangers of drinking at an early age, such as brain deficits (Trudeau) or the increased risk of physical and sexual assaults (CAMY). Recent research, however, suggests that maintaining the legal drinking age at such a late age is doing little to prevent teenagers from drinking and is instead fostering unhealthy drinking habits that carry into adulthood (SSDP). This has gotten to the point where a compromise needs to be made, to avoid teenagers from further endangering themselves both in the short term and the long term. Organizations such as the Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth (CAMY) not only fully support maintaining the drinking age at 21, but they advocate for changes in the alcohol market, as certain jeopardize the health and safety of (CAMY) Students for Sensible Drug Policy (SSDP) have an opposing view on the subject, as they claim that a legal minimum drinking age is ineffective and unsafe drinking (SSDP) Both organizations want what is best for youth, a conflict appears, however, because of all the contradicting evidence that is presented by each organization. If both organizations came together, they could agree to a lower drinking age, as long as the drinking occurred under adult supervision, and if the implementation of other rules occurred, such as new educatory courses, so that adolescents could be explicitly informed about the effects of binge drinking at an early age, and the reduction of underage drinking exposure in the media. Alida Mogollon ENC1102 Section 032 2 The primary argument is the fact that (SSDP) Almost 70% of adolescents have reported drinking at least once by the age of 18 (too smart to start), a statistic which proves that underage drinking is a problem that is affecting most of the youth in the United States. And, the fact that in 2015 approximately adolescents received treatment for an alcohol problem in a specialized (NIAAA) suggests that many of these teenagers are not only drinking, but they are being unsafe while drinking. The fact that get drunk twice as fast as and that they have more difficulty knowing when to stop (MADD) is what leads to teenagers drinking at an unhealthy level, something which, according to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, often results in them fatally injuring themselves- approximately 5000 adolescents under the age of 21 die from alcohol related injuries per year (NIAAA). This might be the result of a lack of education. Because it is illegal for adolescents to drink or to purchase alcoholic beverages, adults often dismiss the necessity of teaching adolescents to be safe when drinking. It is important to educate teenagers of the consequences that binge drinking can have as they have a lot of exposure to alcohol in their schools and universities. Although knowing how harmful alcohol can be does not explicitly mean that drinking rates will decrease, the fact that smoking in the United States has decreased because of media campaigns and less exposure to smoking in the media might suggest that a similar trend would occur for drinking. Another argument by the SSPD is that the current legal drinking age contradicts the idea that we become adults at the age of 18 (SSDP). Upon turning 18, a person can vote, join the army, and enter a legally binding agreement. At 18, a person also has the choice of smoking Tabaco products. Tabaco has just as many long-term effects as alcohol and its fumes are harmful Alida Mogollon ENC1102 Section 032 3 to those who inhale them, even if it happens unwillingly. Giving an 18-year-old the option to hurt (Press Office )themselves and others with Tabaco products but not allowing them to drink creates a double standard. On the other hand, CAMY argues about all the potential risks of making alcohol accessible to an already unpredictable age group. They argue that puberty already brings along an increase in sensation-seeking, and erratic and that frequently plays a role in these adverse outcomes and the human tragedies they (CAMY) Approximately half of sexual assaults, for example, include alcohol consumption by one or both parties (NIAAA). Although this statistic only include adolescents, it proves that people are more likely to make immoral decisions when being influenced by alcohol. This statistic is especially important when considering that one in three college women aged 18-24 are sexually assaulted (RAINN). Alcohol also often places adolescents in dangerous situations, as they often drink at house parties, which are full of other intoxicated teenagers. The current problem with underage drinking is how common adolescents are engaging in binge drinking, over 90% of the alcohol consumed by young people is consumed by binge drinking (NIAAA). Binge drinking can lead to death through alcohol poisoning, loss of memory and impaired decision making. Drinking in this manner also creates an unhealthy drinking pattern, which is often carried on into the adult life. In Europe, where the drinking age is lower, 15 and 16 year olds are reported to drink more often per month, but there are fewer occasions of dangerous intoxication (ChooseResponsibility). A compromise should exist so that young people stop seeing alcohol as a forbidden fruit and instead see it as something normal. If teenagers are introduced to alcohol earlier by their parents, a healthier drinking culture can be created, one where binge drinking is reduced. This might also help with the drinking problem at Alida Mogollon ENC1102 Section 032 4 colleges, as teenagers will know how to consume alcohol in a healthy way before they start living away from home. This compromise would also give parents the option of choosing whether they would like to legally introduce their children to alcohol at an earlier age, an option that they currently do not have now. Implementing new programs to educate adolescents on both the short term and long term consequences that alcohol can have on their lives is an important part of this compromise. Although educating people of the effects does not eliminate binge drinking all together, it does have a positive correlation with preventing erroneous behavior. Smoking rates, for example, are at an all-time low in the United States, which can be attributed to media campaigns and less exposure to smoking in (Egan) This suggests that all the anti- smoking campaigns that have aired in recent years have influenced smoking behavior, something which could be done with inappropriate alcohol consumption. If the Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth and Students for Sensible Drug Policy were to work together, they would both benefit, as it would create a healthier drinking habit for adolescents. Teenagers being taught how to drink responsibly by their parents, and this behavior being reinforced by the media and through educatory programs run by schools, will minimize the binge drinking culture that currently exists in America. Alida Mogollon ENC1102 Section 032 5 Works Cited CAMY. Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth. n.d. 03 February 2017. <http://www.camy.org/resources/fact-sheets/consequences-of-underage-drinking- surgeon-general/>. ChooseResponsibility. chooseresponsibility. n.d. 03 February 2017. Egan, Sophie. New York Times. 25 June 2013. 03 February 2017. <https://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/06/25/why-smoking-rates-are-at-new-lows/>. MADD. Mothers Agaisnt Drunk Driving. 2015. 03 February 2017. <http://www.madd.org/underage-drinking/why21/?referrer=https://www.google.com/>. NIAAA. Alcohol Policy Information System. n.d. 3 February 2017. tml>. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. n.d. 03 February 2017. <https://pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/arh25-1/43-51.htm>. NIAAA. January 2017. 03 February 2017. <https://www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol- health/overview-alcohol-consumption/alcohol-facts-and-statistics>. Press Office . U.S. Department of Education. 13 February 2012. 3 February 2017. <https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/us-department-education-2013-budget- continues-investments-strengthen-workforce-a>. RAINN. RAINN. 2014. 03 February 2017. <https://www.rainn.org/statistics/campus-sexual- violence>. SSDP. Students for Sensible Drug Policy. n.d. 03 February 2017. <http://ssdp.org/campaigns/lowering-drinking-age/>. too smart to start. samhsa. n.d. 03 February 2017. <https://www.toosmarttostart.samhsa.gov/families/facts/statistics.aspx>. Trudeau, Michelle. NPR. 25 January 2010. 03 February 2017. <http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=122765890>.