Cramp 1 Hayden Cramp Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 1 February 2017 Public and Private School Parents, students, and even the United States Government argue about which type of schooling is superior, public school versus private school. There are many arguments supporting both sides and a compromise between the two competing views can be made. Schooling in America is extremely important and is the foundation for the future of the country. All of the next leaders and workers will have to go through school so it is very important that the schooling systems are the best that they can be. Both public schools and private schools have the same overall goals, which is to educate its students so that they can be successful in the future, however, they compete against each other because they operate differently. Some stakeholders who have opposing views in this issue is the public school board and the different private school organizations. Public school boards are the governing body for most public schools. From the Center for Public Education, local school board is a critical public link to public schools. Whether elected or appointed, school board members serve their communities in several important (Center for Public Education). The school board looks out for their students by focusing on education over everything. When the board makes decisions for the schools, boards incorporate their view of what students should know and be able to (Center for Cramp 2 Public Education). School boards are open to the public and are responsible for the performance of their schools, they ensure that students get the best education they can get for the tax dollars spent (Center for Public Education). Public curriculums are made by the state/county they abide in. Public education means a tuition-free, publicly funded system that must provide an education to each child in a neighborhood school within a publicly governed school system. The academic standards, the teachers and administrators, the values and methods of operation employed in these schools are all subject to oversight and direction by public policy-making bodies. (Center for Public Education) Since public schools are payed for by taxes, students and families do not have to pay anything extra for schooling. This is especially helpful to low-income families because they have to worry about paying bills for their education. Public schools are accessible to everyone and require no admission process. The school board attempts to standardize education to it is similar to every public school. Private schools in the United States are not controlled by local and state governments but run themselves. They are usually affiliated with religious groups and are funded privately by its students through tuition and are not for profit. State University.com provides some statistics on private schools, school students numbered 5,162,684 in the fall of 1999, representing approximately 10 to 11 percent of the total elementary and secondary enrollment in the United States. Approximately 49 percent of these students were in Catholic (StateUniversity.com). This information shows us that there is a large population of students that attend private schools. Private schools can come in many different forms based on information from Matt Donnelly, schools in America today consist of a wide variety of different Cramp 3 types such as preparatory (prep) schools, Waldorf schools, Montessori schools, parochial schools, Christian schools, Hebrew schools and Islamic (Donnelly). Each type of these private schools are run differently but they all share the same common goal of educating their students. Some argue that private schools perform better than other public schools. They argue for this because when people pay an extra amount of money for private school, it makes the parents more involved and the students perform better. Students at private schools are also more likely to be in the middle to upper socioeconomic class because they can afford to pay the high amounts of money for tuition. However, if needed lower-income families can get grants to put their children into private school. An example of a private mission statement can be found from Bell Shoals Baptist Academy, The mission of Bell Shoals Baptist Academy is to provide a Christ-centered education and serve as a guiding compass that helps us express a direction and points everyone to that direction. We strive to train students to excel in academics, fine arts, athletics, and technology while fostering a biblical worldview throughout all aspects of our program. (Bell Shoals Baptist Academy). This shows what some private schools are about and what their main goal/mission is. This differs from public school because private schools are allowed to teach more openly about religion is they want to depending on the school. In the argument of public versus private schools, the two stakeholders of the public school board and private schools have many differences and similarities. A compromise can be reached since they share the common goal of educating their students. A compromise would be that they could both come together and instead of competing about which system of schooling is superior, work out a plan to use both of their methods and make an even better system. They Cramp 4 combine the accessibility and low cost of public schools with the teaching style and technology that private schools have. This would benefit both by working to their goals of educating students in the best way possible. Something similar to this exists today and they are called charter schools. Charter schools are a form of public school authorized by a governing body, such as a local school board, state department of education, nonprofit organization, or (in several states) a for-profit corporation. They are chartered for a period of time, with renewals based on performance. Charter schools are distinct from traditional public schools in two respects: they are free of many of the bureaucratic entanglements, and they tend to use more innovative educational techniques. Put another way, charter schools are left free to experiment in exchange for greater : (Donnelly, Matt) Charter schools are a good compromise because they are affordable because they are payed for through taxes and have private school-like teaching styles that students perform better at. Charter schools are becoming more and more popular as time goes on and it is for these reasons. Some research was done by Philip Gleason on the growth of charter schools, charter school sector in the United States has grown steadily since the first charter school opened in 1992. As of the 2015-2016 school year, more than 6,800 charter schools served nearly 3 million students in forty states and the District of (Gleason, Philip M). In conclusion, the argument of public versus private schools is very important and involves two main stakeholders, the public school board and private school organizations, they have opposing views on what system of schooling is superior but can come to a compromise. The compromise of both organizations coming together and working on one school system would be very beneficial to all of their students and it accomplishes both of their main goals of Cramp 5 providing the best education possible. The advantages of both public and private schools outweigh their opposing views and would help make a very good compromise. Cramp 6 Annotated Bibliography About  Bsbacademy. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Bell Shoals Baptist Academy asserts its mission statement. This showed the mission statement of a privately owned private school organization, the evidence is textual. The author is showcasing the beliefs and mission of the private school. The intended audience is for students, staff, and parents of this private school. Donnelly, Matt. Charter  Research Starters: Education (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Matt Donnelly asserts information about charter schools and gives an overview on what they are for and about. This talks about charter schools and gives information and statistics about them. The authors purpose is to inform people about charter schools in order to make people more aware about the issue. The intended audience is teachers, students, and parents interested in learning about charter schools. Donnelly, Matt. Private  Research Starters: Education (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Matt Donnelly asserts information about public schools and gives an overview on the things they are about. This article talks about private schools and provides information on their history and gives statistics. The authors purpose is to inform people about private schools. The intended audience is teachers, students, and parents interested in learning about private schools. Cramp 7 Gleason, Philip M., and Inc. Mathematica Policy Research. The Secret Ingredient? Searching For Policies And Practices That Make Charter Schools Successful. Working Paper  Mathematica Policy Research, Inc (2016): ERIC. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Philip Gleason asserts statistics on charter schools. This article gives statistics and information about charter schools and why they are successful. The authors purpose is to inform the readers about charter schools. The intended audience is teachers, students, and parents interested in learning about charter schools. Private Schooling - What Is a Private School?, History of Private Schools in the United  StateUniversity.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Asserts information about the history of private schools in the United States. Gives statistics and background information on the history of private schools. The authors purpose is to provide people with information on the history of private schools. The intended audience is teachers, students, and parents interested in learning about the history of private schools. The Role of School  Center for Public Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Asserts information on the role that public school boards have on public schools. Gives ways in which the school boards lead public schools. The authors purpose is to provide people information about the role of the school board in public schools. The intended audience is teachers, students, and parents interested in learning about the role that the school board has in public schools.