Trotter Duce Project One Intermediate Draft One of the biggest topics of discussion in politics and society since the middle of the 20 th century has been climate change. There is much evidence that supports this theory, as there has been extensive research conducted on the subject. The stakeholders in this situation can be, in a broad sense, split into two groups. The first can be defined as those who believe in climate change and are actively trying to stop it. This group is made up of environmental activists and many people with more liberal stances on social issues. The other group is those who do not believe in climate change or at the very least believe the effects of it are marginal. This group is mostly comprised of people who think that concerns over environmental safety should not outweigh the needs of the economy, and that any legislation regulating the environmental practices of a company is coming to interfere in the way the economy flows. Both of these groups have vested interest in the outcome of the debate, whether that be more environmentally friendly sources of energy or requirements regarding emission reduction. One way to compromise between these two sides is to employ a solution that benefits both. A good way to do this is by providing tax breaks or other financial incentives to companies that use more environmentally friendly practices. This way, companies lose money investing in cleaner production alternatives, while the government is still able to regulate (to a certain degree, at least) some of the bigger causes of climate change. The side of this debate that considers itself the people gets its influence from early grassroots movements in the and such as the Green Party and Greenpeace. Research was beginning to come out suggesting that the Earth was slowly getting warmer, and emissions were to blame. Fast forward to modern day, and the trend has continued. Statistics continue to show an alarming trend. The average global temperature has risen 1.7 degrees Fahrenheit since 1880, land ice is disappearing at a rate of 281 gigatonnes per year, and to top it off, 2016 was the warmest year on record (NASA). These statistics make for a very strong argument when it comes to lobbying for the interest groups that work on legislation to be passed. This led to the passing of the Kyoto Protocol, in which President Bill Clinton, along with over 150 other world leaders signed a treaty to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 5% by 1990. However, in 2001 President Trotter Duce George W. Bush withdrew from the agreement due to fear that reducing greenhouse gas emissions could harm the United States economy. This action exemplifies the whole debate. As represented by the actions of President Bush, those who think climate change poses a big threat are mostly concerned with the potentially harmful economic effects. This side too has a major influence on Capitol Hill and in popular culture. Trotter Duce Works Cited NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Background of the Issue - Climate Change Debate -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.