Bryan 1 Erin Bryan Instructor Brendon Jackson ENC 1101 1/26/17 The long-term effects of human trafficking on the lives of those enslaved Human trafficking is a worldwide epidemic in which people are forced into performing acts of labor or sex work. Comparable to present-day slavery, victims are sold into these situations and often find extreme difficulty getting out of the cycle. With the threat of or their lives being held against them, finding refuge may appear almost impossible to victims. Although it is noted to be difficult to find accurate statistics on human trafficking due to its secretive nature, it is estimated that annually, 600,00-800,00 victims are put intro trafficking. 80% of these victims happen to be women, whilst 50% happen to be minors Human  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition)). Many survivors experience the negative effects of going through trafficking in their daily lives. Often coerced or abducted into trafficking, victims are put to work with little to no pay, long labor hours, and physical and/or mental abuse. Many offenders use a false sense of trust to lure victims into their ploys; statistically, more offenders tend to be women than men. My research question for the semester is: what long-term effects does human trafficking have on the lives of those enslaved? Vejar, Cynthia. Human  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition). N.p.: Salem, 2015. N. pag. Ers. Web. Accessed 25 January 2017. Bryan 2 In this article, Vejar explains the profile and coercion process of many victims. Traffickers use un-employment as a large pin point, promising victims chances at starting anew and receiving bountiful employment. The largest destination for traffickers to seek out victims is Europe and East Asia, as many unsuspecting victims may jump at the opportunity for a possible career and new life in the United States. They are lead to believe that they have a choice, but once joining, may realize that they are being held against their will. Traffickers, who exploit victims to earn money, coerce them into silence with physical abuse, poor living conditions, threats of turning them in to the government (if they are illegal), and threats of harming their families. Stated by the UNODC, the gender-based statistics of trafficking victims make up 66% women, 13% underage girls, 12% men, and 9% underage boys. These statistics may vary depending on the origin of victims. In many cases, traffickers and victims may be the same nationality, which traffickers use as a way to reel victims in, as well as seek out local alliances in means of threatening families. Cynthia Vejar, the author of this essay, graduated with her doctorates degree from Virginia tech. She specialized in a behavioral modification program whilst working as a school counselor. Her field of work gives her credibility in effects of human trafficking, as she is trained in counseling at-risk youth and families. This article ties back into my topic because it gives background information in how citizens get caught up in human trafficking, as well as statistics of the victims. These are both vital pieces in creating a case for my paper. Bryan 3 Ottisova, L., S. Hemmings, L. M. Howard, C. Zimmerman, and S. Oram. Prevalence and Risk of Violence and the Mental, Physical and Sexual Health Problems Associated with Human Trafficking: An Updated Systematic  Epidemiology and Psychiatric Sciences 25.4 (2016): 317-41. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article goes deeper into the specifics of the mental effects that victims may experience during or after being trafficked. It also touches on the matters of physical and sexual health post-trafficking. Within victims, the most prevalent mental disorders are anxiety, depression, and PTSD. There is also a high right of sexually transmitted diseases and infections within women who are forced into sex trafficking and are sold and/or traded for their bodies. In Moldova, 55% of documented cases of women experienced mental disorders averaging after 6 months of their return from trafficking. Within trafficked children, it is found that the most prevalent mental disorders are PTSD, affective disorders, and stress and adjustment disorders. Many of these disorders in men, women, and children root from combined physical, sexual, and mental abuse on victims. Many victims are also forced into taking various drugs and alcohol, which not only affect their mental health, but often deteriorates their physical health as well. Within this article, multiple graphs and statistics on the physical and mental effects of human trafficking and sex trafficking are provided. Authors L. Ottisova, S. Hemmings, L.M. Howarf, and S. Oram are affiliated with College London in the Health Services and Population Research Department, whilst author C. Zimmerman is affiliated with London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine within the Department of Global Health and Development. This qualifies them to research and write accurate information on the mental effects of Bryan 4 those victimized by trafficking. This article also corresponds with my topic question because it gives multiple answers to the question itself by giving statistics on what victims experience physically and mentally after being caught up in trafficking. Shelley, Louise I. Human Trafficking : A Global Perspective.. Cambridge ; New York : Cambridge UP, 2010., 2010. Cat00847a. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. In this article, author Louise I. Shelley explores the harm that human trafficking has on not only victims, but their families and communities as well. When trafficking is orchestrated by personal friends or family members, it puts a heavy and often irreplaceable dent in the trust of said people. Common in China, some families trade or sell family members to traffickers to earn money or for personal reasons, sometimes with false hopes of seeing victims again. When taken from their country, it seldom occurs that women are returned to their countries of origin. In the case that they are able to escape trafficking, they often will not have the means or funds to return home. According to Shelley, in some cases, victims receive a stigma after being trafficked, and find it difficult to adjust back to their normal lives if returned. For example, in Egypt, the majority of previously trafficked women who were forced into marriage cannot be re-married. The article also speaks on the threats that victims face, such as being re-trafficked, beaten, or even murdered. Author Louise I. Shelley is a graduate of University Pennsylvania and Cornell University, receiving the award of Guggenheim fellowship for Humanities, US & Bryan 5 Canada. She is currently a professor at George Mason University, and founder/director at Terrorism Transitional Crime and Corruption Center, which gives her a credible view and understanding of the emotional and social trauma that trafficking victims suffer. Seeing as my research question focuses on the long-term effects on victims, this book gives multiple explanations as to what they experience; seeing as my other sources focus on the mental effects, this book focuses on the effects trafficking has on society and families, and victims socially. Omole, Christina. Human Trafficking: The Health of Men Forced into Labor Trafficking in the United  Thesis. ProQuest Information & Learning, n.d. Dissertation Abstracts International: Section B: The Sciences and Engineering 77.6-B(E) (2016): n. pag. PsycINFO. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This source focuses on the initiatives that the community / legal force is taking to put an end to trafficking, as well as the main causes of trafficking. It also gives details on the trauma that victims experience afterwards, as well as health related issues and stigmas. According to Omole, the main causes for trafficking are poverty, unemployment, technological advance, and globalization. Many citizens that fall under these categories are coerced into false or overseas job opportunities, desperate for financial help. Statistically, one of the most common groups of trafficking victims are immigrants, desperately seeking employment opportunities. Impoverished women, another high rate of victims, often fall for false ads created by traffickers looking to lure in unsuspecting women. Within men, often they are seeking jobs requiring little to no experience when being coerced into trafficking. Signed into law on 10/28/10 was the Bryan 6 Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA), created to put an end or limit the amount of cases of human traffic to any degree. The United States government is actively making an effort to spread the TVPA to other governments. This report was researched and written by Walden Christina Omole. Seeing as she specializes in Public Health, Omole has a credible and valid understanding of the mental and physical effects on trafficked victims. With extensive research Omole used within her research report, she was able to gather multiple credible statistics on human trafficking. This report gives information on not only the effects of human trafficking, but also the cause of it, high risk groups, and prevention acts. It also goes in depth on the different divisions of trafficking, including labor, sex, and male trafficking. All of these factors not only give valid answers to my research question, but provide background information as well.