Velez-Camacho 1 Antonio Velez-Camacho Kimber Wiggs ENC11.1 02/03/2017 The internet is such an integral part of our everyday life that sometimes it goes unnoticed and taken for granted. Its omnipotent power is at times poorly understood. We make decisions everyday based off information such as what clothes to wear because of the weather, what route to take because of traffic, or what things to buy because of commercials or ads. All of this information takes a path and that path is not unmonitored or unregulated whether it be by your ISP or work environment. In theory if one could control the information an individual receives, could they not control their actions? This is one of the issues we face today: Is internet censorship good or bad for society? In an article by Robert Epstein, a Research Psychologist at the American Institute for behavior Research, he speaks of how Google is the new internet censorship. Whenever a search is made on google not all information is returned but rather only what they allow you to see. So imagine how this can affect someone perhaps looking for information on a political candidate. They may make a different choice based of what google or whatever search they choose, decides. Epstein speaks of how google is gateway to and not another mom and pop store which placed certain expectations on them. There are some practice that do raise questions such as the autocomplete and news blacklists which takes away information. Society does not benefit from internet suppression based of business decisions to promote or hide information. China is a scary example of how internet censorship can go with nearly 700 million users. China has enacted internet censorship to a level that has resulted in the installment of a position of who controls what information is let out on to the internet. Simon Denyer of the Washington post notes how nearly one third of all internet users are subject to some form of internet censorship. Denyer also notes how the Chinese use a to block content from domains such as Facebook, twitter, google, apple, and many more. Of course this does not stop the use of VPNs and other means to access information the general public would otherwise not have, therefor making it seem as if the government is wasting time and resources. It cannot be good for the general public if the government is wasting money on suppression that work America is considered one of the more free counters by internet freedom according to business professional Gus Lubin. Lubin goes to show how we differ from other countries such as Russia and china to name large counterparts. But Lubin also goes to show that the problems is widespread and affects many other countries one would not think of at first such as Iran, India, Sudan and Egypt. All of these are countries who can hold significant weight on the world stage but suppress information to maintain a knowledge power gap over the citizens. Those without information cannot plan and therefore cannot act. Velez-Camacho 1 Works Cited Denyer, Simon. Scary  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, 23 May 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Lubin, Gus. Internet Is Incredibly Free Compared to Most  Business Insider. Business Insider, 14 July 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Epstien, Robert. The New  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.