Jonathan Good Instructor: Brenden Jackson ENC1101 01/26/2017 How Music Affects the Brain My topic is how music affects various aspects of the brain. Music has been known to affect how people think, learn, and process information. A common test that is performed is how music effects the cognitive performance of [insert age group My topic, however, is not Music Affects Your Academic it is Music Affects the therefore I will be discussing not ONLY the cognitive side effects, but also the medical and emotional side effects of listening to music, and any other aspects that may arise during my research. Dastgheib, Samaneh, et al. The Effects Of Music On Interictal Activity In Epileptic Patients: Systematic Review And Meta-Analysis Of The  Current Neurology & Neuroscience Reports 14.1 (2014): 1. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Per Samaneh Dastgheib, music not only has a positive effect on the brain of the mentally sound, but also on the mentally unsound. Ms. Dastgheib conducted a test on epileptic patients. The test involved having 12 patients listen to various pieces by Mozart. The purpose of the test was to see if listening to Mozart would reduce the strength and the frequency of (interictal epileptic discharges). After conducting the test, it was to be found that 84% of the patients decreased in strength. However, even after these tests were done, Ms. Dastgheib still set on claiming that music was clinically efficacious. The source is tied to my topic in that it discusses the medical applications of music in mentally ill patients. This source is not only proof that music can help the mentally unstable, but also solid proof that music affects the brain in general. The source is credible since Ms. Dastgheib is a Research Assistant at the Shefa Neuroscience Research Center in Iran and is a member of the Society of Neuroscience and the International Brain Research Organization. Another one of the authors, Mr. Ramin Sadeghi, also makes the article more credible. Mr. Sadhegi is A Nuclear Medicine specialist at Mashad University of Medical Sciences. Teppo Mari Tervaniemi, Sari Laitinen, Anita Forsblom, Seppo Soinila, Mikko Mikkonen, Taina Autti, Heli M. Silvennoinen, Jaakko Matti Laine, Isabelle Peretz, Marja Hietanen; Music listening enhances cognitive recovery and mood after middle cerebral artery stroke. Brain 2008; 131 (3): 866-876. doi: 10.1093/brain/awn013 Per the article, after experiencing a stroke, your brain will change, dramatically, over the next few months, and not for the better, however, music can apparently help with the mental changes since listening to music requires several parts of the brain to work together. This work was tested among various people who not only experienced strokes but also people with dementia, dyslexia, etc. and the tests yielded significant results. In the experiment conducted, 60 patients with a left or right hemisphere MCA (Middle Cerebral Artery) stroke were randomly assigned to a music group, a control group, or a language group. Over the course of two months, the music and language groups listened to self-selected music or audio books every day. The control group received no listening material what so ever. ALL patients, regardless of the group, received professional medical care and rehabilitation during the two-month long experiment. The results concluded that the music-listening group did make the most progress in their recovery. I find the article to be relevant in that it displays solid evidence proving that music can help keep your brain healthy overall. I also find the source to be credible since every single author that helped write the journal article is either part of a Cognitive Brain Research Unit, works in the Department of Music at their appropriate University, or works in their Neurology or Radiology department at their corresponding University. Mokhtari, Pouneh, Zahra Chaharbaghi, and Ali Tayebi Meybodi. The Effect Of Music On Associative Learning Motor  Advances In Environmental Biology (2013): 4429. Academic OneFile. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. Doctors Pouneh Mokhtari, Zahra Chaharbaghi, and Ali Tayebi Meybodi conducted a series of tests based on the theory of specifically, determining the effects of music on the associative learning of a three-step pivot layup. The type of test subjects used in the tests were very specific, all the test subjects were right-handed, female, non-athletes, that musicians, and were within the age range of 15 years old to 18 years old. All 90 of the test subjects were divided into six groups, each with 15 subjects. There were 5 experimental groups and one test group. The rules of basketball were taught to the test subjects in two sessions. After the preliminary sessions, the groups were separated and five of the six groups performed the same task of doing 12 exercise sessions. The control group get to listen to music, warmup, or exercise before performing their pre-layup test and their post-layup test. Each of the experimental groups had been influenced by either the introduction of stimuli or the lack of stimuli. (I.E. one group does exercises WITHOUT warming up, another group does exercises WITH a pre-exercise warmup). The results were that the fourth group performed the best out of all six. In the experiment, group 4 was the only group to listen to music while exercising and after exercising. This test makes it very apparent that music can affect how the body performs in sports and sports related activities. The source is connected to my topic in that music just affecting the body during the muscle memorization process, it is also affecting the mind. When group four was subjected to music DURING their exercises and after their exercises, they associated their muscle movements with music, just like memorizing things by turning them into a song. I find my source to be reliable since it was published by the American-Eurasian Network for Scientific Biology and it was written by three authors, one is Dr. Ali Tayebi Meybodi. He is a neurological surgeon and has a Ph.D. in Neurology/Neuroradiology. The other two authors Dr. Chaharbaghi and Dr. Mokhtari have both co-written an extensive list of reports that revolve around Psychology. Andersson, Pernille K., et al. Let The Music Play Or Not: The Influence Of Background Music On Consumer  Journal Of Retailing And Consumer Services 19.(2012): 553- 560. ScienceDirect. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. According to an experiment conducted by Mr. Pernille K. Andersson, music can affect how much time and how much money you spend in a store. Mr. experiment also tests the emotional influences of music playing in store, however, in the experiment, there was no meaningful difference in emotions between music in store Vs. no music in store. Mr. Andersson conducted the experiment out of curiosity that had stemmed from previous research conducted by two other scientists, these scientists were Albert Mehrabian and James A. Russell. Albert Mehrabian is the current Professor Emeritus of Psychology at The University of California, Los Angeles, and James A. Russell is an American psychologist. Dr. Russell graduated from UCLA with a Ph.D. Together these two men revealed the underlying theory of emotional stimuli. Mr. Andersson decided to test their theory with his own experiment. Mr. Andersson developed the hypothesis, many other variables are present, does music playing in the background still have a detectable He tested his hypothesis by running the tests in a Swedish home electronics store over a four-day period. In those four days, Mr. Andersson had the store alternate from playing music on one day to playing no music the next. He then had the consumers fill out a questionnaire after visiting the store. The test results concluded that when playing music in store, the consumer is more inclined to spend money and spend more time in the store. This source is relevant to my research in that it does prove that music has a profound effect on the mind in a seemingly uncontrolled environment. My source is credible since Mr. Andersson was a Ph.D. candidate at Karlstad University in Sweden at the time the article was written. The co-writers Per Kristensson, Erik and Anders Gustafsson, are all professors at Karlstad University.