Atkinson 1 RaeAnn Atkinson Aranda ENC 1102 February 3, 2017 Standardized Testing for College Admissions A big debate in education today is about standardized testing and if it useful for college admissions. Seniors are prepping for college by taking the SAT. Some students take these tests multiple times and even pay to get private tutoring before sitting down to take the four-hour test. The purpose of these tests is to prepare students for college and to see how they score for college admissions. A stakeholder organization that would have a say in this situation would be the College Board because they actually create the standardized test. Another would be college admissions boards that decide if the student is admitted to the college or not. Both of these stakeholders want success for students, but have slightly different ideas of how, so if these stakeholders could come to a compromise it could benefit both of them and students. The College Board is an organization that wants to be able to prepare students for college. Their purpose is to prepare middle and high school aged students to get ready for the admissions process of college. The College Board mission statement states, College Board is a mission-driven not-for-profit organization that connects students to college success and (Collegeboard.org). The College Board is a non-profit organization, but many students pay other people or tutoring businesses to have tutoring for this test. Private tutoring runs at about $115 an hour (Pittsburgh Post-Gazette). This means that they want success for students. The College Board says that the purpose of the SAT is to be able to monitor Atkinson 2 progress. This is a good way for college admissions boards to be able see how students preform since all students take the same test. After the test is taken, the students will receive a report of how they did. The scores are in three areas which are math, reading and writing. These categories are then broken down even further so that students can see the exact topics they struggle on and need to study more for the future. The way the SAT is scored helps students see where they need to improve. Overall, the College Board uses the SAT to help students succeed and get prepared for college. The second stakeholder who would have an interest in this topic would be college admissions committees. When applying to St. Leo University, it is not required to submit SAT scores to be considered for admissions. Although it is suggested, St. Leo says, you choose not to submit scores, you will receive full admission, and must meet additional requirements, as explained in the full Test-Optional (Stleo.edu) This is great for students who do not test well, but perform well in their everyday classes. This may be a disadvantage because the admissions board will not be able to see how well the students take tests, but it would be an advantage though because most of the time the score on an SAT does not tell how good of a student will be. test scores in particular do not measure creativity or predict likely success in fine or performing (Syverson 61). This means that a college admissions board may turn someone down because of their test scores, when actually they are a good student and could be an asset to their college. The purpose of the optional test is for students to be less worried about how well they performed on the SAT, because if they did not do well they just will not submit them. Both of these stakeholders want success for students who are soon entering college. The College Board created the SAT for students to get prepared for college and uses the test as a way Atkinson 3 to measure success. College admissions committees want students to be prepared and do their best because they want successful students at their university. A compromise that would benefit each stakeholder organization would be to still have students take the SAT, but not take into as much consideration as it is now. Some students do not get into the college of their choice because of their SAT score even though they did well in their classes through high school. Some colleges weigh it very heavily in their decision for admissions. In the article, The Role of Standardized Tests in College Admissions, Syverson says less frequently is a college representative asked about the average GPA or high school class rank of their freshman This is saying that most incoming students really only worry about SAT scores and not anything else that could be taken into consideration for them to get into college. I think colleges should still take a look at the SAT scores to see how prepared the student is, but count out other things such as grades, grade point average (GPA), extracurricular activities and community service. These things, as well as SAT scores, should all be considered when admitting a student into the college. Students already pay so much money for college admissions that they should not have to pay for hours of tutoring as well. St Leo University is a good example of how this can work. Although, it is not quite like the comprise suggested, they make it optional to send in SAT scores. An article from the radio show All Things Considered, tells how SAT scores do not prove how well of a student you will be. Bill Hiss, the vice president for external affairs at Bates College says, third of our classes enroll with no testing. The difference in grade-point averages between submitters and non-submitters is 5/100ths of a GPA (National Pubic Radio). This shows that a compromise like the one proposed can work. College Board can benefit from this because they would still be creating the test for students to take, but they could also focus on the preparing students more for college. This would be free for all students because Atkinson 4 they would integrate it into everyday class. Instead of focusing mostly on the student taking the test, they could shift their focus to tutoring and exercises for students to improve each year so that grades and GPA go up and there is a greater chance for college acceptance. In conclusion, both stakeholder organizations want success for students to be able to get into college. If the organizations came to a compromise it would benefit both of them. Students could still take the SAT, but college admissions boards could take it into less consideration than they do now. College admissions boards could take into consideration grades, GPA and extracurricular activities and the SAT all equally. This could be good for both stakeholder organizations and overall benefit more students. Atkinson 5 Works Cited Collegeboard.org Commentary: Case against the use of standardized test score for college  All Things Considered, 4 Jan. 2005. Literature Resource Center, College Board jumps into SAT coaching as test changes  Pittsburgh Post-Gazette [Pittsburgh, 3 June 2015. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 Stleo.edu Syverson, Steven. The Role Of Standardized Tests In College Admissions: Test-Optional  New Directions For Student Services 2007.118 (2007): 55-70. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.