1 Sarah Abdulkadir Alfalatah Modlin-Jackson ENC1101 1/29/2017 The Relationship Between Being Diagnosed With A Mental Disorder And Criminal Behavior Mental illness, as known by a lot of people comes in many forms and types. There is a complex relationship between mental illness and committing crimes, most people assume that people who are diagnosed with any type of mental disorder usually are at higher risk for demonstrating violent behavior. The major concept of this research is to provide evidence that it is not necessarily true that anyone who is diagnosed with a mental disease will commit a crime, however that is a risk factor that must be taken under consideration. In fact a lot of people who suffer with mental diseases go through their life without engaging in any sort of criminal behavior. This does not mean that people who are diagnosed with a mental disorder are incapable of committing crimes, but the fact of them being mentally ill does not determine that they will engage in that kind of behavior. Until now there is not any research that determines that mentally ill people either commit or do not commit crimes because the relationship is more complex than that one fact. My research question for this semester is: How does being diagnosed with a mental disease effect an chance of committing crimes and engaging in violent behavior? 2 Shepherd, Stephane M. And Purcell, Rosemary. What Are The Factors Associated With Criminal Behaviour For Young People With Mental Health Problems? Psychiatry, Psychology and Law. vol.22, no.6. 2015. pp. 869-879. DOI: 10.1080/13218719.2015.1015399. Over time, there has been studies to establish the relationship between mental health problems in young people and their criminal behavior. This article is based on a study done in Australia the participant ages ranged between (12-25). It focused on risks associated with police contact and this study proceeded by carefully studying and analyzing certain measures that the participants have completed either when they were interviewed or by self-information. The measures taken into this study were clinical and psychosocial measures, regression was also taken into matter and analyzed to show the strongest relationships with self-reported criminal charges. Most non-forensic mental health facilities do not focus on their outcome relating to criminal behavior and police contact, if they were to pay more attention and focus on that matter it will help reduce and almost prevent any criminal or offending behavior. Results of this study have shown that factors like using drugs or being abused by family or even suffering through a severe trauma increases that individuals risk of engaging in criminal act. Providing the help needed to those people in time almost eliminates the risk and possibility of being involved in any kind of criminal behavior. This matter is very serious and a lot of young people have been going through this since many years ago. Shepherd and Purcell, both have done so much research in their field, Shepherd has a PhD in Forensic Psychology and an MA, BA in criminology. Purcell also received her PhD in Forensic 3 Psychology as well as engaged in a lot of research that relates to criminal behavior, such as stalking. They are both experts in Forensic psychology which is perfect for the article they published from the Swinburne University of Technology in Australia. They acknowledged in the article that most non-forensic mental health facilities do not pay enough attention to the outcome behavior of their patients that could later on turn into criminality. This article demonstrates how the society has an impact on criminal behavior and if the correct effort was made they can be part of improving this matter. The article relates to my research by how it is a real study done on different individuals and it proves that there is a relationship between criminal behavior and mental health as (Vogel, Matt) mentioned in his article too. Vogel, Matt. Illness And Criminal Sociology Compass. vol.8, no.4. 2014. pp. 337-346. DOI: 10.1111/soc4.12140. Crimes were tragically committed in Aurora, CO and Newtown, CT which both crimes were committed by offenders with mental health problems. Unfortunately the society looks at most people that suffer with any kind of mental disorder as they are more likely to commit crimes and they define them by their mental disease or disorder. Research in this article shows that some but not all people with mental illness could have a slightly higher rate for committing crimes, however there is also other reasons stated in this article which do not relate to having any kind of mental disorder. One of the three trends mentioned in this article is that individuals who have been in contact with some sort of criminal justice system while suffering from a mental disorder have a higher chance of committing crimes. Secondly mentioned people who are alcoholics or drug addicts also have a higher rate for engaging in criminal behavior and they could sometimes have a higher rate than people with severe mental disorders. Finally shown in this research was 4 that the fact of being diagnosed with a mental illness does not necessarily determine that the person will commit any sort of crime but it is a criminogenic risk factor. The relationship between criminal behavior and mental illness is complicated and more complex than most people think, there are always more factors that could influence violent behavior and not only the fact of having a mental disorder. Matt Vogel, received a PhD in Sociology from the University at Albany. Vogel is also an assistant professor at the University of Missouri St-Louis he teaches criminology and criminal justice. He has participated in many and his research has been published in Quarterly, Journal of Quantitative Criminology, and Youth and The research he did was on a variety of topics such as: mental health, juvenile delinquency, person-context research, and the relationship between population dynamics and crime. Vogel is an expert in his field and is one of the best, his research helps me because it relates to my research question and provides evidence to help me answer it. The tragedies in Colorado and Connecticut from his research are an example of people who have mental illness can commit crimes. Not only does Vogel have a doctorate degree, but his article has been peer reviewed by other experts who also specialize in the same field he does and that makes it even more credible. Vogel confirmed in his research that the relationship between criminal behavior and mental illness is a complex and complicated relationship and finding a relationship between that is the main purpose of my research Peterson, Jilllian And Skeem, Jennifer L. And Vidal, Sarah And Keith, Felicia. Offense Patterns As A Function Of Mental Illness To Test The Criminalization Psychiatric Services. Vol.61, no.12. 2010. pp. 1217-1222. DOI:10.1176/ps.2010.61.12.1217 5 Based on the research done in this article by Peterson this study focused on testing a hypothesis that implies that the main reason for criminal behavior is psychiatric symptoms that are untreated. There was a total of 220 participants who were all criminals released under certain circumstances, almost 50.45% of the participants were diagnosed with a serious mental illness and the other 49.5% had never been diagnosed with any sort of mental illness. The participants were divided into five different groups depending on their offending life time behavior. Results in this study prove that about 7% of the participants support the hypothesis, on the other hand the majority of the participants do not commit crimes based on their mental illness. Both groups have demonstrated criminal behavior effected by emotional reactions to a certain situation and lack of restraint and loathing for others and drug addiction. Psychiatric service linkage may decrease the possibility of committing crimes for a small percentage of the participants, methods to lower impulsivity and other criminal triggers for the majority of the groups may be required. Like any other criminal, mentally ill criminals commit crimes based on heterogenous facts. Focusing on all the various facts that lead to committing crimes possibly could lower the rate of criminality despite the fact of either being diagnosed with a mental disorder or not. According to Jillian article and her peers the hypothesis was not fully proven and supported because of the low percentage. Peterson is highly educated in criminology and criminal justice which she has received her PhD in that major. Hamline University in ST. Paul is where Peterson is an assistant professor for teaching her major, she also provides research in forensic psychology. Skeem, Hart, Vidal, and Keith, all are familiar with psychology and criminal justice or and that helps to imply that they are good peers to engage into research with. The article written by Peterson has been peer reviewed and that fact increases the 6 credibility of this article. The article points out that being diagnosed with a mental illness does have an impact on the fact of committing crimes, however Peterson did mention that this fact the only fact that could have an effect on criminal behavior. The article helps me with my research and determining whether or not being diagnosed with a mental disorder increases the risk of engaging in a criminal behavior or not engaging in that kind of behavior at all. Junginger, John And Claypoole, Keith And Laygo, Ranilo And Crisanti, Annette. Of Serious Mental Illness And Substance Abuse On Criminal Psychiatric Services. vol.57, no.6. 2006. pp. 879-882. DOI: 10.1176/appi.ps.57.6.879. Criminal offense in many jail facilities is linked to the fact of being diagnosed with a mental illness this study tests that criminal hypothesis in a post booking jail diversion in Hawaii. The hypothesis implies two major possibilities for offending, first that people are arrested and incarcerated because they obtain a mental illness, second that the effect of a mental disease increases and motivates criminal behavior. The purpose of this study was to focus on the effect of substance abuse and mental illness and its impact on violent behavior and being imprisoned based on these factors. National Alliance of Mental Illness (NAMI) believes that offenders that suffer from a mental disorder should not be imprisoned, however they need to be taken into facilities so they can receive the appropriate treatment and help they need. Results distribute that mental illness and substance abuse have a minor effect on criminal behavior, but the possibility of committing a crime because of substance abuse is more likely. The hypothesis needs to be reconsidered unless there are facts that can provide enough proof that mental illness is associated with behavior that will lead to criminal behavior and arrest, and it should consider other risk factors that may occur. 7 Junginger, Claypoole, Laygo, and Crisanti all have received their in psychology, psychology is a very important element in their study. The ability to understand how and why a person committed a crime and if it is effected by facts such as mental disorders or substance abuse is very important. Junginger and his peers point out that after testing their hypothesis that mental illness is not a direct and certain reason for engaging in criminal behavior. The research provides evidence like tables and charts to help make the information easier to understand and provide proof of the results of their research. Junginger suggests that if the hypothesis in the future consider other risk factors of offenders the results might differ from their study. Relating to the main purpose of my research Junginger and his colleagues provide me with evidence that will help me answer my research question. The article is very helpful and has been peer reviewed by experts in this field and acknowledging that will increase my confidence through out the time I work on my research. 8