Cruz1 Alan Cruz Mrs. Hanson Section 013 30 January 2017 Violence in television There is a television is in the corner of the room, while the mother is holding the baby in her arms. Coming out the womb the television is one out of the many objects that humans technically see first and it also plays a tremendous role in their lives. Whether someone is watching Animal planet or MTV they are gaining some type of information and exerting it in some way. Nowadays, the question that is being brought to the table is whether the television broadcastings becoming too violent and not showing things that are for television. Due to the fact that violence and some type of nudity are being shown, a tremendous amount of people believe that this affects the mind of children and many teenagers. For instance, the television Council(PTC) is a non- partisan education organization that advocates responsible entertainment. There website contains many tabs in which parents or whoever can get help choose the channels they want on their cable, tips for parents, and TV picks of the week. Too add on, the opposing organization is the Federal communications commission(FCC) and instead of broadcasting things that will only benefit the youth they broadcast what the people want as a whole. Both television Council and the Federal communications commission stand for two different objects. Even though this is true PTC is showing parents what their kids could and should be watching, while FCC is broadcasting the shows everyone wants to see including the ones for children. Many put the blame on the Cruz2 youth and media violence on those who get to choose what is being chosen for broadcasting, but despite the fact that they do play a slight role parents are the ones who raise children not the television. There is plenty of information in which validates that broadcasters are showing things that would not have been shown five years ago. It is said that what is being shown has effects that are complex and people will act out emotionally depending on what they are watching (Johnson 1). For example, if a child watches a show that has to do with ninjas and they are constantly fighting it is said that the thoughts will act on aggression. This not only affects what the thoughts but what he or she does too. Furthermore, television is showing different stereotypes that deals with toughness and aggression. It shows Aggression being a characteristic that is often associated with the masculine. (Fine 154) The word aggression is not supposed to have a gender but people tend to align different kinds of aggression with gender. This also adds on to gender inequality and that is just being shown from what type of genre being shown on television. Due to all of the information being shown above the television Council is trying to prevent all of this from happening. They make sure that all these shows being broadcasted are not manipulating the mind of the youth. However, the youth now loves playing video games and making sure there are no enemies alive. Videos games are being broadcasted on televisions and trying to get kids to always buy the new game. Both video games and television broadcasters show attributes of violence. It was shown that video games have become more widespread over the decades and yet the youth violence has dropped. (Ferguson 390) The violence and the drop of youth violence may not have a direct correlation. The fact that video games are Cruz3 becoming more complex, and becoming more graphic the violence rate still dropped. Clearly stating that what is being watched is not going to be portrayed by a child or young adult. It is also detected to be spotty with the long terms affect. (Ferguson 389) In addition, if study shows that video games are not contributing to the violence how could television broadcasting do any harm if they are the ones showing and not making people do anything harmful. This also applies to the Federal communications commission which is just broadcasting the interest. Both sides of these two organizations have validity. The resolution to this must be dealt with the parents. The reason being is due to the fact that television broadcasters do not raise kids. There are other things that can play a role to a Childs behavior. For instance, a child or teen that has aggressive traits and is in a bad mood are more prone to behaviors of bullying. (Beresins 1) Knowing this, one could assume that this kid is attracted to playing video games and watching shows or movies that have violence in them. This does not mean that his or her life is predicted by playing games in real life. The games, shows and movies are just correlated to the kids wanting to play and watch. There are also senators wanting to do further research on the correlation with the games and television broadcasting. Next, both are trying to make television viewing accessible for viewers. The television Council is mostly looking out for adults with kids. To add on, the Federal communications commission broadcasts shows and movies depending on the ratings. These ratings could be altered by the organizations as long as they give their opinions and rate what they want to watch. The Federal communication commission has different tools on their website that can help viewers with any problems they are having. Cruz4 Also having the rating set in categories will help with the accuracy of what particular age groups should be watching. Cruz5 Works Cited Fine, Kerry. She Hits Like A Man, But She Kisses Like A Girl: TV Heroines, Femininity, Violence, And  Western American Literature 2 (2012): 152. Project MUSE. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ferguson, Christopher J. Video Games And Youth Violence: A Prospective Analysis In  Journal Of Youth And Adolescence 40.4 (2011): 377- 391. ERIC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Johnson, Roger N. Bad News Revisited: The Portrayal Of Violence, Conflict, And Suffering On Television  Peace And Conflict: Journal Of Peace Psychology 2.3 (1996): 201-216. PsycARTICLES. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Eggerton, John. Senators push to study TV, video-game  Multichannel News 2013: 3. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.