Bethany Collins Ms. Poston ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Gun Control The issue of gun control is a very prevalent topic in the United States of America, especially with the recent presidential elections. Current President Donald Trump was very highly supported by the National Rifle Association, which most likely hoped to gain protection from gun control by doing so. The main two stakeholders in this issue are the National Rifle Association, or the NRA, and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. With guns becoming ever more common in the streets, gun control groups such as the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, are looking to eradicate guns from citizen ownership. Other groups, such as the National Rifle Associate, disagree with this view, stating it is a constitutional right to own firearms. The way to keep both groups happy is to implement stricter background checks, prohibition of sales to the mentally ill and firearm safety education. The main group that is known for being against gun control and gun laws is the National Rifle Association. The NRA can be seen as the strongest supporter of the second amendment which states, well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be (NRA Second Amendment). The National Rifle Association believes that it is a constitutional right that individuals can have firearms for self defense, whether it be handguns or assault weapons. They are also a strong supporter of the Right to Carry laws. These laws allow gun owners to carry a concealed weapon in public without a permit, or with a permit issued by the gun state (NRA Concealed Carry). Finally, the NRA is very serious about gun safety and states on its website, NRA is recognized nationally as the gold standard for safe firearm (NRA Firearms Training). It has over 125,000 instructors, with more than 15 training facilities within a 50 mile radius of Tampa, Fl (NRA Firearms Training). Finally, the NRA believes that gun violence is a result of mental illness and improper care. got the mass shooting problem, which generally speaking it is a result of the breakdown of our mental health (Gun Control). Since the NRA believes that the right to own arms is a constitutional right, they are very reluctant and opposed to any laws that restrict access, sale, or possession of firearms. The other stakeholder in the issue of gun control is the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, also known as the CSGV. This pro gun control organization focuses on the lack of universal background checks, the sale of assault weapons, right to carry laws and the misinterpretation of the second amendment. The website states, 40% of gun sales are made without any background (Issues), which greatly upsets the group and many pro gun control advocates since essentially anyone can buy a gun. They attribute this to the fact that at private gun shows, most of the time there is no background check done and people who should probably not have access to firearms, can purchase one. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence also holds the belief that assault weapons should not be sold to the public, as they are designed for the military. In most shootings, assault weapons tend to be the weapon of choice since it can cause a high amount of damage, in a short period of time. weapons... make it easier for the shooter to fire a sustained, high volume of rounds into a wide (Issues). Another major focal point of the gun control issue are the right to carry laws, which allow gun holders to possess a firearm, in public with or without a permit, depending on the legislature. While the NRA views this as protecting themselves, the CSGV views it as a way to intimidate others and an increase to gun violence. Finally, the last main focal point is the idea of the NRA and other gun activists misinterpreting the second amendment. Erwin Chemerinsky, a constitutional scholar and law dean at the University of California at Irvine, states that rulings [District of Columbia v. apply only to the right of individuals to keep guns in their homes for the purpose of personal (Choo). The CSGV saw this supreme court ruling as it was stated, whereas the National Rifle Association, read more towards the of personal and use that to apply in public as well. It is clear that there is a clear divide among the two main stakeholders, the National Rifle Association and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, in the gun control debate. Both have opposing views on almost everything including right to carry laws and background checks. What they do agree on is the idea that both and its supporters want to feel safe and protected, whether in public or at home. For the NRA, the members feel safer having the ability to carry and purchase firearms, and for the CSGV, their members feel safer without the idea of guns in public and in general. This concept of wanting to feel safe and protected and the limit on sales to those who have a mental illness, are the common beliefs that are held between both stakeholders and all of its members. A proper compromise for both groups would be to require more detailed laws about people with mental illness from buying guns, more education on guns and universal background checks. Jeffrey Swanson, author Gun Violence, Mental Illness, And Laws That Prohibit Gun Possession: Evidence From Two Florida Counties , states that the only real way to reduce gun violence is by more precise, risk-based criteria for prohibiting certain people from possessing firearms and requiring universal background checks at the point of (Swanson). This compromise is a basic start to reducing gun violence and it does not favor one group more than another. It still allows both the NRA and the CSGV to uphold their beliefs on gun rights and will hopefully make the United States of America a safer place. While the debate on gun control has been going on for years, it has become more prevalent in everyday life within the last ten years or so. Stakeholders such as the National Rifle Association, believe that the second amendment of the constitution allows American citizens to purchase and possess firearms as a basic freedom. The NRA also believes that guns should be allowed in public, as a means of protecting themselves from crime and any other dangerous situation. On the other hand, stakeholders such as the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, believe that gun advocates are misinterpreting the constitution and that firearms should be allowed only in homes, after propering screening and background checks, for personal safety. Both stakeholders firmly uphold their beliefs and do not intend on letting one of their opponents get the upper hand by compromising. In order to maintain the safety, rights and freedoms of all individuals, both groups should bend a small bit to allow universal background checks, no sale to those who have mental health issues and the limit of assault weapons to the public. While this solution is not going to solve all crime and gun violence, it is a great start to slow and decrease it, and to start heading towards a safer America. Works Cited Choo, Kristin. Gun Control Advocates Search For Policies Which Pass 2Nd Amendment  Journal 100.5 (2014): 1. Source Alumni Edition . Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Gun Control: The View From The  Edition Sunday , 17 Feb. 2013. Resource Center , go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&i t=r&id=GALE%7CA319617971&asid=cb2f82d757a8cc2d68da6541f4f7e13b. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017.  to Stop Gun Violence . Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. NRA Institute For Legislative Action. Second  . National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. NRA Institute For Legislative Action. Concealed Carry  . National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. NRA Explore. NRA Firearms  Firearms Training . National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Swanson, Jeffrey W., et al. Gun Violence, Mental Illness, And Laws That Prohibit Gun Possession: Evidence From Two Florida  Affairs 35.6 (2016): 1067-1075. Source Alumni Edition . Web. 25 Jan. 2017.