Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Advocacy and Awareness of Military Related Post Traumatic Stress Disorder There are many issues involving active military and veterans that need to be brought to the public eye. Thankfully, there are concerned organizations that bring awareness to these issues and work to keep military personnel, veterans, and the public educated. One major issue that affects military personnel and veterans is Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). An alarmingly high number of military personal develop PTSD while deployed. One stakeholder in particular, Military Connection, is active in the education of combat related PTSD that effects a lot of active servicemen, servicewomen, and veterans. Military implied claim is that there needs to be more public awareness of combat related Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and that veterans and military personnel need better mental health care for their illness (Gregory 2015). This claim can clearly be seen by two images used on the website. These images depict the effects of PTSD on veterans and military personnel and suggests that a normal, happy life is possible. The combined visual rhetoric used in these images (ethos, pathos, logos and kairos) are directly related to the goal because they are used to make the viewer aware of the symptoms and effects of PTSD and show that proper treatment for Post- Traumatic Stress Disorder can lead to a happy, normal life. The first image used by Military Connection is a head-shaped word cloud that is composed of words and medical terms that describe the effects and symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, with PTSD in bold font in the middle of the cloud (Gregory 2015). The shape, Student 2 words, and medical terms used in the word cloud depict Post Traumatic Stress Disorder as a serious mental illness. This descriptive image of PTSD is directly related to the goal of educating and spreading awareness of this illness and the effect it has on military personnel and veterans. Visual rhetoric is abundant in this image. One of the main rhetorical devices used in the image is logos, or logical appeal (Hoffman et al. 2016). The human head shape of the word cloud and the words and medical terms used in the image form a logical appeal because they describe the symptoms and effects that PTSD has on military personnel and veterans. The human head shape logically depicts Post Traumatic Stress Disorder as a serious mental illness. Another rhetorical device used in this image is pathos, an emotional appeal (Hoffman et al. 2016). Pathos can be seen in this image by the inclusion of words and symptoms like and (Gregory 2015). This gives the viewer an idea of the constant emotional trauma that people experience with PTSD. The next rhetorical device present in the image is ethos, an ethical appeal or an appeal to credibility (Hoffman et al. 2016). The most predominate way ethos is used in this image is by the inclusion of medical terminology in the word cloud that describes the effects and symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Examples of terminology used are and (Gregory 2015). The inclusion of these medical terms give the whole word cloud a more professional sound, like it was composed by a psychiatrist or medical professional who is well versed on PTSD. The last rhetorical device used in this image is kairos, an appeal to timeliness (Hoffman et al. 2016). The main way kairos is present in this image is by the inclusion of time sensitive words, such as and (Gregory 2015). These words give the viewer the feeling that Post Traumatic Stress Disorder is a time sensitive mental illness that needs quick action so the sufferer can learn how to cope. Together, all of the rhetorical Student 3 devices used in the image convey one of the goals, which is to educate people about Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. This is accomplished by showing the viewers the emotional impact of the illness, proving credibility through medical terminology, appealing to logic by describing the symptoms of PTSD, and by urging veterans and military personal to seek help immediately. Another image the stakeholder uses to support its goal of PTSD education and treatment advocacy is an advertisement for the study of a new experimental drug for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder called Stellate Ganglion Block (Gregory 2016). In this image, a man in a military uniform is smiling while surrounded by a brightly colored, sunny doorway (Gregory 2016). The smiling soldier and the bright colors on the doorway represent happiness and recovery. The soldier stepping out from a dark doorway into the sunshine represents moving toward a brighter future for those with PTSD. This message is directly related to the other implied claim, which is that military personnel and veterans with PTSD need more treatment options and better mental health care (Gregory 2016). There are many different rhetorical devices used in this image to convey the message. The most obvious rhetorical device in this image is pathos. Pathos is used by incorporating the image of the smiling solider surrounded by bright colors and the transition from the dark into a bright, sunny day. This image appeals to the emotions by showing that a bright future is possible, even when suffering from PTSD. The next rhetorical device used is Kairos because the image sends a message to people that a brighter, happier future is possible if they participate in this study as soon as possible. Another rhetorical device used is logos, which is present in this image because the quicker a patent acts the faster they will recover form Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. The final rhetorical device used in ethos, which is present because this image advertises an experimental drug, Stellate Ganglion Blocker, which is backed Student 4 by the Pentagon (Gregory 2016). All of these devices relate back to the implied claim that there needs to be better treatment of PTSD because it advertises the study of a new drug that can provide a bright future for those who suffer from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (Gregory 2016). Both of these images are used by Military Connection to support different parts of their implied goals regarding PTSD. The image with the head-shaped word cloud supports the PTSD education and awareness goal (Gregory 2015) while the PTSD drug study advertisement is used to show the goal to advocate for better PTSD treatment (Gregory 2016). Individually, the images depict the effects PTSD has on military personnel and veterans by using either descriptive words and medical terminology (Gregory 2015) or by a dark vs light metaphor (Gregory 2016). Together, both images show the whole implied goal regarding PTSD, which is to educate the general public about the illness, promote awareness of PTSD (Gregory 2015), and to advocate for better treatment and metal health care for military personnel and veterans (Gregory 2016). In conclusion, both images are used to depict the implied claim or goal of spreading awareness of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, educating the public on military PTSD, and to advocate for better treatment and mental health care for military personnel and veterans. All of these goals are supported by the visual rhetoric included in the images used on the Military Connection website, such as the use of color to represent emotion (Gregory 2016) and the logical description of the effects of PTSD (Gregory 2015). These images show that rhetoric does not have to be verbal or written, it can be visual as well. (WC: 1199) Student 5 Work Cited Gregory, Debbie. for PTSD Awareness and Treatment: Military Military Connection, Gregory Media Inc., 20 June 2015, www.militaryconnection.com/blog/6040/resources-for-ptsd-awareness-and-treatment- military-connection/. Accessed 21 January 2017. Gregory, Debbie. Wanted for PTSD Study of Treatment Some Call a Military Connection, Gregory Media Inc., 24 Nov. 2016, www.militaryconnection.com/blog/8450/volunteers-wanted-ptsd-study-treatment-call- miracle/. Accessed 21 January 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Accessed 21 January 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Accessed 21 January 2017.