Roberts 1 Alexandria Roberts Martha Heiser ENC1102.069 31 January 2017 A Permanent Home for Elephants Elephants are the largest living land mammals, and can be seen in almost any zoo or conservation in America. However, in the last few decades the organization PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) has been trying to outlaw the keeping of elephants in zoos. A zoo in particular, Lowry Park Zoo, has been housing elephants since 2003, but belief is that many zoos successfully care for these creatures in all aspects. Therefore, the question presents itself: What kind of arrangement can PETA and Lowry Park Zoo agree on that will accommodate them both? The solution may be as easy as transforming zoos into sanctuaries. PETA is the largest organization in the world for animal rights. They were founded in 1980, and have since worked to protect animals of all types and in many situations. operates under the simple principle that animals are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, or use for (PETA). The organization is dedicated to helping animals in any way possible. Their website even includes a way to report if an animal is in danger with specific details in order for an investigation to take place. The other types of investigations that PETA has conducted are diverse by type of animal and situation that they are met with. The most recent investigation was the return to the Ringling and Barnum and circus. Roberts 2 PETA has targeted Ringling for over three decades, holding protests outside every performance; publicizing photos and videos showing trainers beating, striking, hooking, whipping, and roughly handling animals; and lobbying for bans on bullhooks and animal performances (PETA). Investigations like these are working towards better conditions for a happier life for these animals. website also showcases ways for people to live their lives with alternatives that harm animals in any form. There are different categories such as: fashion, food, beauty and even entertainment that any viewer on the website can click on to learn about how to make changes that will not only impact their own lives, but the lives of animals. In the entertainment category, the website showcases a popular trend that PETA wants to put an end to. The trend is having a live elephant come to an event such as a wedding or party for rides or entertainment purposes. It sound too bad until the methods of punishment and discipline are revealed to the public. The combined efforts of members and supporters can end many mistreatments, but it is yet to be determined if Lowry Park Zoo will be the permanent residence for the elephants they house. (merge it all to fit together) Lowry Park Zoo has been in operation roughly since the early 1930s. They now receive about a million guests annually, and continue to be one of the most popular zoos in the Southeastern area. The zoo houses animals of all types including amphibians, birds, fish and reptiles. Their website helps to educate the public about these animals so that they can be conserved in the best possible way. The website also showcases the original continent, diet, and status by endangerment. An important part of Lowry Park conservation method is to get children involved for them to truly understand what endangerment means. Education is just as important as donations because the children would need to know the efforts Roberts 3 that they can take to help the animals they are seeing. 2003, Lowry Park Zoo and San Diego Safari Park imported 11 African elephants from Swaziland in southern Lowry Park Zoo) The elephants that were put into the exhibit in Tampa are a big part of the educational methods to help them from going extinct. There are many programs that get kids of all ages involved, in hopes that the future generations can help escalate the process of saving the animals. Lowry Park Zoo also offers a donation-based program for their elephants called an In this program, guests can choose a package based on what they would like to spend to help provide enrichment and care for the elephant herd for a year. The lengths that Lowry Park Zoo has gone to help their animals seems to be enough to convince anyone that they are being taken care of. response is that zoos have elephants at all. They believe that due to the lack of roaming space, types of discipline methods (bullhooks or hotshots), forced breeding, and inadequate Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) requirements that elephants are better off in the wild. One of their biggest claims is also that putting an animal on display in the exhibits going to invoke enough emotional appeal and convince the public to make an effort to save them. Zoos, however want to get the point across to organizations like PETA that taking in some animals are saving them. The 11 elephants that were taken from Swaziland the elephants from being culled (killed), in an effort to reduce the size of the Lowry Park Zoo) as well as elephants that are killed for their ivory tusks. There are many ways that an agreement can be made about best for elephants. The one that stands out the most is converting zoos into sanctuaries. The idea of it sound so great at first, especially to the zoos themselves, but truly for the animals. PETA Roberts 4 agree to the captivation of many animals, but had any arguments towards sanctuaries, and instead supports them. For example, an elephant named Asha at the Natural Bridge Zoo has been living in solitude for years and has been denied any access to socialize with any other elephants. After hearing story, PETA is doing everything in their power to move her to a sanctuary so she can retire with better living conditions. On website, they urge: speak up for today and help ensure that she spends the remainder of her days at an accredited sanctuary, where she will have the space, companionship, and care that she (PETA). This kind of arrangement would make some zoos stop listening immediately, but zoos and sanctuaries that different. The reason why sanctuaries are better than zoos to groups like PETA are because they are similar to a human retirement home. They places where young elephants are shipped over for human amusement, but places where animals are free to be the way they are in the wild, while still being viewed by the public. Zoos usually buy, sell or trade the animals they have in their exhibits, but sanctuaries keep the animals they have until they have passed. Zoos are known for breeding their elephants so much that the calves eventually die, but in sanctuaries, that a problem. The placement of elephants is important to know about because without the proper education, elephants could become extinct in a time where humans could have stopped it. Conservation and Preservation methods are vital when dealing with an entire species that is slowly vanishing away. It is important as humans to seize every opportunity that we have to keep these animals alive for years to come. Roberts 5 Works Cited Gomez, Sharon I. Urge Natural Bridge Zoo to Retire Sole Elephant to  PETA. People for Ethical Treatment of Animals, 14 Sept. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Henning, Kristy J. African  Lowry Park Zoo. Lowry Park Zoo, 13 June 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Marino, Lori, Gay Bradshaw, and Randy Malamud. The Captivity Industry: The Reality of Zoos and  Best Friends Magazine Mar.-Apr. 2009: n. pag. Print. PETA lashes out at zoo for alleged abuse of  PR Week 5 Aug. 2002: 02. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Sullivan, Dan. LOWRY PARK ZOO PLANS $10 MILLION EXPANSION; A 12,000-square- foot complex will house an animal hospital and animal science  St. Petersburg Times [St. Petersburg, 4 Dec. 2010: 1B. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 1 Feb. 2017.