Kyaw 1 Aung Myo Kyaw Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 1.26.2017 The impact of NAFTA on economic growth of participant countries (USA, Canada and Mexico) NAFTA (North America Free Trade Agreement) is the earliest and biggest free trade agreement between three North America countries: United States, Canada and Mexico. It was started by President Ronald Regan in 1988 and signed by President George H.W Bush in 1992 but President Bill Clinton was the one who signed the agreement into the law in 1994. The goal of NAFTA was to eliminate tariff on imports and exports of the countries and other trade barriers between the countries to be the most competitive and beneficial trade agreement in the world. At first NAFTA was working really well as planned. Both economics and GDP of the participant countries were growing really first after the agreement. The exports and imports between three countries went up more than double compared to the saturation of that before NAFTA. Even though the agreement worked really well at first, too many problems and trade tensions between the countries (moving factories from the US to Mexico due to cheap labors) have involved as the agreement getting older and older. Nowadays, NAFTA has become one of the most controversial and debatable issue in the world because some experts and politicians from the US argue that other two members of the agreement are taking advantage of the US. My research question for the class for this semester is: how does NAFTA affect the economic growth of the participant countries (USA, Canada and Mexico)? Kyaw 2 Source 1 Casey, Jr., William L. The Effect Of The North America Free Trade Association On Foreign Direct Investment Flows And Economic Development In  International Journal Of Business & Economics Perspectives 11.1 (2016): 1. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The academic article, Effect of the North America Free Trade Association On Foreign Direct Investment Flows and Economic Development in was written by Dr Casey and published in 2016. In this article, the author examines the impact of NAFA and inward foreign direct investment (FDI) especially from the United States, on the economic and GDP growth of Mexico. To find out the impact, he is using pre and post agreement data of economic growth and development. Then, he analysis the data by comparing and contrasting them. He states that NAFTA and FDI have both positive and negative effects on the economic growth and development of Mexico. He concludes that Mexico need to reform its foreign investment policies and regulate multinational corporations more strictly to get most benefit from the agreement and FDI unless the economic growth and development of the country would be really slow. This article is really reliable because the author had used the most reliable data and information (such as World Bank data base and bank) to write this article. The author himself is a professor who is teaching economics at Babson College in Massachusetts. He is also an author of two famous books: Entrepreneurship, Productivity and the Freedom of Information Act (Lexington Books, 1983) and Beyond the Numbers: Foreign Direct Investment in the U.S. (JAI Press, 1998). This article has really important and valuable data and information to support my research question. For example, information about the impact of NAFTA on the economic growth of Mexico which may answer and fulfil nearly one third of my research question. Kyaw 3 Source 2 Rosario, Jorge and Romero-Morett. NAFTA Trade (And Some Extra NAFTA Trade) In Value Added And Its Distribution, 1995-  Journal Of Economic Structures 5.1 (2016): 1-22. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. DOI: 10.1186/s40008-016-0059-2 This article focus on the impact of NAFTA on the economic growth of three participant countries (The United States, Canada and Mexico) in term of value added and its distribution among work force, local and foreign investments. The authors are using Input Output Database and the Input-Output to make the research on the impact. As a result, they state that based on their research, the profit and deficit of the countries are mainly relying on the amount of extra value that added to the price of exports and imports. Even though Mexico exports more added value goods to the United States and Canada, worker are the one who get the least amount of distributions from the goods that they export compared to the workers from the United States and Canada. The authors conclude the article by discussing which country and its workers tend to have more profit and share from the agreement (NAFTA). All three authors have degree on Economics major and all of them are from University of Guadalajara, Mexico. They have also done several researches on their relative field: economics. Since this article is focusing on the impact of NAFTA on the workers and capital of the countries in term of the countries valued added exports and imports, it has really useful and valuable information that I need to support my argument to answer my research question. Kyaw 4 Source 3 Vasquez Galan, Belem I., and Olajide S. Oladipo. Have Liberalization and NAFTA Had a Positive Impact On Output  Journal Of Applied Economics 12.1 (2009): 159-180. EconLit. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article focus on the role of exports and foreign direct investment (DFI) in explaining the growth of Mexico economic in the age of economics liberalization. The authors are using a bunch of time series analyzing techniques such as Granger Causality which is a statistical concept that predict value of something based on its related good value, impulse response functions, and variance decomposition. The authors also prove a hypothesis that states that growing in exports led to grow in economics of a country. After analyzing the situation of the economics by using above techniques, the authors found out that all of the techniques came out with same ideas or answers which prove and explain that liberalization and NAFTA have positive effect on output growth of Mexico. Because they can increase the export of a country that led to promote GDP and economics growth of a country, in this case Mexico. The author, Belem I. Vasquez Galan, is a researcher at El Colegio de la Frontera Norte Research Center, Mexico City. She has a PHD degree in Economics. Another author, Olajide S. Oladipo, also has a PHD in Economics and International Finance. He is an Economics and Business professor at The City University of New York. Both of the authors have already published numerous articles and also participated in a ton of research projects which focus on their expertise fields, Business and Economics. I have chosen this article for my research project because it has explained variety of ways and steps to prove the hypothesis that supports increasing in exports can promote the GDP and economics growth of Mexico. The steps and ways to prove the hypothesis and other data in this article can help me to answer my research question with really good evidences. Kyaw 5 Source 4 Blank, Stephen, and Barry E. Prentice. NAFTA At 20: Time To Open The Internal Borders Of North American to  Research In Transportation Business & Management 16. Transportation and Trade Across International Borders (2015): 4- 14. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. DOI: 10.1016/j.rtbm.2015.07.002 In this article, the authors state that the economics growth of North America countries, especially participants of NAFTA, depends on efficient good transport systems between the countries. Even though it has been 20 years since NAFTA was singed, cabotage is still restricted by a bunch of regulations that against the free movement of goods, people, services, and even the free trade agreement. Cabotage is a right which allow a foreign freight transporter to provide transportation or services in the host countries or borders freely without any barriers and restrictions. The authors provide three types of carbotage transportations: truck, air and ship, in this article. They also mention impact of each carbotage transportations on the economic growth of the countries. In the conclusion, the authors conclude that cabotage or free movement of good systems should be allowed between the countries without any restriction to enhance the rate of economic growth. The author, Stephen Blank, is a collaborator on Energy, Research and Policy at the University of Ottawa, Canada. He has PHD degree in Global Business from Harvard University. He is also an author of many books and articles in his fields. Another author, Barry E Prentice is a professor of Supply Chain Management, at the I.H. Asper School of Business, University of Manitoba. He is an author and co-author of more than 250 research reports and academic articles. This article talks about the economic growth of NAFTA participant countries in term of unrestricted freight transportations or carbotage. Since efficient transportation is one of the most important aspect of NAFTA, the article includes many information and data that I need to answer my research question. Plus, there are also economic policies that can be used in my research paper.