Al-Khaldi 1 Mansoor Al-Khaldi ENC1101 Mrs. Cat February 5 th , 2017 Online Booking a Positive for Businesses in Travel and Tourism The Internet has offered travelers and tourists the opportunity to make travel arrangements directly with the service provider through online booking. Online booking has enabled people from the tourism industry to avoid the traditional approach of using travel channels such as the travel agencies. Currently, many players in tourism sector encourage their customers to book their tickets directly online from their respective websites. Online booking has various advantages that have revolutionized the industry including avoiding the 10% commission paid to the travel agents in ordinary circumstances, despite high seasons. The research analysis will try to answer how online booking services influenced players in the travel and tourism industry and either positively or negatively? The unbeatable benefits of online booking make it a highly competitive phenomenon, threatening the traditional travel agencies. Customers using the online booking services enjoy the convenience and do it at a button click from the comfort of their rooms. Moreover, besides the aspect of convenience, the online booking channel is cost-saving as well as a resourceful platform. Accessibility is a guarantee through the advanced technology, especially the Internet. Travelers and tourists have the chance to compare and distinguish various services offered and their respective rates from different service providers. Notably, the ability to make comparison before committing to a particular provider enables the customer to make better decision and Al-Khaldi 2 choice. The online service providers facilitating online booking services offer better discounts and competitive rates due to the low operational costs. The ability to get a broad range of information over the Internet makes it user-friendly for working professionals who have enough time going by themselves to make their travel arrangements as the case with contemporary travel agents. Has online booking services influenced players in the travel and tourism industry positively? Molchanova, Violetta S. The Use of Online Service Booking in Tourist  European Journal of Social and Human Sciences vol 2. n.o 2, 2014, pp:75-80. In this article, research was conducted on the possibilities of online booking services through the Internet in travel and tourism enterprises. Further, the author demonstrated algorithms for the online booking of tours, airline tickets, and hotels. As a result, the article summarizes a practical characterization of the use of online booking services through the OOO Anastasia, a tourist company (Molchanova, 75). The analysis of the firm focused on booking procedures, convenience, and effectiveness based on user feedback. There is a critical relation to online booking and the performance of the business in this era of globalization. Online bookings bridge the geographical gap that traditionally obstructed people from making tours and travel arrangements with companies far away. Millions of tourist arrivals are witnessed every year around the world. The use of information technology in the tourism business through practices such as online booking allows ordinary people to explore the world (Molchanova 78). Therefore, online booking has largely simplified the consumption of tourist products in the form of travel tours, transfers, board arrangements, tourist transportation, and room bookings among others. Al-Khaldi 3 The achievement of online booking services from ticket based reservation to full tour booking has occasioned a dynamic expansion of commercial activities in the travel and tourism sector. Mostly, the modern technology has revolutionized electronic commerce to a primary sales channel; the online booking functionality can evidence this. Such a position has in return complemented the traditional face-to-face communication among clients and business enterprises (Molchanova, 79). Notably, besides acting as a compliment, it has expanded the potential for the delivery of distant personal services. Also, the use of online booking systems and facilities has enhanced the possibility to check and confirm the available seats on flights and rooms in hotels. As a result, it is easier for the travel agents and travel companies to provide a tour based on the customer wishes, send and receive instant validations, and stay competitive in the industry. There is no company will stand a chance to successfully compete in a highly competitive tourism industry without coping with the latest information technology. The most important idea of this advanced technology is the online booking concept. Currently, travel agencies are sunk in the desire to assume online booking technology (Molchanova 80). The Internet has a massive impact on the booming of the tourism sector across the globe by offering travel and support services. Online booking is now a full-time participant in the travels and tourism bazaars, marking a great impact on the positive development of the industry. Crnojevac H, Igor, Jadranka and eTourism: A comparison of online and offline bookings and the importance of hotel  Journal of Information and Organizational Sciences, vol 34. n.o 1, 2010, pp: 41-54. Al-Khaldi 4 The authors conducted an experimental research to determine the required impact of travel and demographic physiognomies of hotel visitors regarding offline and online reservations. Further, they examined the significance of hotel attributes in hotel selection as well as the differences in priorities between the guests who made online and offline reservations. Primarily, the key element was to look into the value of online booking in the modern tourism world. Data collection was facilitated through surveys from different guests and hotels in Dubrovnik. The results depicted that the decision on whether to rely on offline or online booking predicated on the nature of travel. However, online booking is a dominant feature that allows people to make comparisons and arrive at informed decisions. The use of Internet facilitates online booking by acting as a valuable tool for information searching as well as a platform for the purchase of tourism products. Further, tourism exists as one of the fastest growing industries in the world due to technological advancements. Features such as online booking are creations of information technology advancements. The Internet ensures endless significance in the tourism sector. Information technology has supported online booking that offers important avenues for planning and executing travel arrangements. Fundamentally, customers, market segments, as well as the nature of travel, need to determine the online booking strategy (Crnojevac et al. 51). Moreover, both offline and online booking methods facilitate client service; however, online booking supersedes all other forms as it capitalizes on reliability and profits maximization. The Internet offers all travelers the opportunity to put together accurate and reliable information and give them a possibility of making travel arrangements in a time conscious manner. Most importantly, expenses and inconveniences are drastically reduced as opposed to the conventional methods. The significant development of information technology and the Al-Khaldi 5 subsequent emergence of online booking have led to the creation of  tourists utilizing the feature that gets value for their time and money (Crnojevac et al., 43). Online booking enables people to satisfy their timetables and desires as opposed to pursuing or following the masses. Potential tourists enjoy a broad range of planning tools and information to plan for their visits through online booking platforms tailored to accommodate the needs of each client. Ye, Q., Law, R., Gu, B., & Chen, W. The influence of user-generated content on traveler behavior: An empirical investigation on the effects of e-word-of-mouth to hotel online bookings. Computers in Human Behavior, 27(2), 2011, 634-639. doi:10.1016/j.chb.2010.04.014 The article by Yet et al. (634) focuses on the role that the increased usage of web 2.0 has for various online users. Firstly, the researchers recognize the role the internet has played towards generating numerous sales for various products among the movies and books. The basis of the study, however, relies on an realistic study where the researchers seek to identify the significance of online user-generated reviews to performance. Research findings show that ten percent of online viewing by travelers increases online bookings with over five percent. Additionally, other findings emphasize the importance of making use of user-generated reviews for the purpose of increasing an performance in tourism. The study took place in China with the focus directed towards online tourism and travel organizations. While the previously discussed sources put significant emphasis on the changes in the tourism industry that result from the existence of online booking, the article examines the source of increased online bookings and the consequent increase in business performance in the tourism industry. The article is thus essential for the current study in that it sheds light on what tourism Al-Khaldi 6 businesses should focus on to ensure increase on online booking. The credibility of the article emanates from the fact that it is a peer-reviewed article from in Human Furthermore, the data used in the study to examine business performance was extracted from an existing player in tourism; online travel agency located in China (Yet et al., 635). Ha, H., & Janda, S. The Evolution of Expectations of and Attitudes Toward Online Travel Agencies Over Time. Journal of Travel & Tourism Marketing, 33(7), 2015, 966-980. doi:10.1080/10548408.2015.1075457 Other than focusing on the direct impact of online booking of both travel and tourism, Ha and Janda first realizes the changes and sets to understand whether it will lead to a decline of physical tourism and travel agencies based on the aspect of satisfaction. The tenet of the study is satisfaction as customers always tend to follow the route where they become more satisfied. The researchers relied on the use of longitudinal data collected from 353 clients who used of online travel agencies over time. Study findings reveal that customers measure expectations based on pre and post travel assessments with satisfaction culminating to repeated service inquiry (Ha and Janda, 978). As such, it is indicative that customers will continue using online bookings provided their expectations are met. The article is essential for the current study in that it gives the possible trend in respect to online booking in the travel and tourism industry. On one side, it is indicative that physical agencies will decline as a result of increased online booking activities. Secondly, the service providers on the internet must meet customer expectations to ensure satisfaction and repeated service demand. The credibility of the article emanates from the fact that it is listed in of Travel & Tourism a publication that lists peer-reviewed Al-Khaldi 7 Works Cited Crnojevac H, Igor, Jadranka and eTourism: A comparison of online and offline bookings and the importance of hotel  Journal of Information and Organizational Sciences vol 34. N.o1, 2010, pp: 41-54. Ha, H., & Janda, S. The Evolution of Expectations of and Attitudes Toward Online Travel Agencies Over Time. Journal of Travel & Tourism Marketing, 33(7), 2015, 966-980. doi:10.1080/10548408.2015.1075457 Molchanova, Violetta S. The Use of Online Service Booking in Tourist  European Journal of Social and Human Sciences vol 2. n.o 2, 2014, pp: 75-80. Ye, Q., Law, R., Gu, B., & Chen, W. The influence of user-generated content on traveler behavior: An empirical investigation on the effects of e-word-of-mouth to hotel online bookings. Computers in Human Behavior, 27(2), 2011, 634-639. doi:10.1016/j.chb.2010.04.014