Analisa Lee Professor Karen Hanson Composition 1102 29 January 2017 Government Surveillance To keep America safe people have tried coming up with countless different solutions but have yet to find one that works for everyone and gets the job done. A big factor that gets in the way is government surveillance and infringing upon the 4th Amendment and privacy. It is a big debate on whether or not we should allow government access to our personal phone calls and messages or not. One side believes that the only way to put an end to terrorism these days is to go below the surface and obtain information from phone calls and messages. Meanwhile, the other believes that the government digging into our personal lives is demolishing the 4 amendment and the government should not be allowed access to citizens personal lives like that. The National Security Association (NSA) is a government organization that is responsible for controlling and monitoring government surveillance and obtaining information to achieve security for our country. The Stand Against Spying (SAS) is an organization that is against government surveillance and is in the works of getting something passed to ensure our privacy. However, these two may conflict with each they each have a goal to ensure that the countries safety is prioritized. To satisfy the urgent need for both organizations to put a stop to terrorism, an independent 3rd party review and approval for suspicious evidence to access spying would be a fulfilling compromise. Stand Against Spying is an organization that believes is contrary to freedom and democracy We Stand The SAS strongly stands by the fact that the government having access to our personal records and collects our conversations undermines the US Constitution. The goal is to let the public know what the government is up to and increase persuasion on congress to take away or restrict the National Security Association. They want to stop any bill that could help increase surveillance. According to their website, standagainstspying.org, they propose that the government should: strong legislative reform to outlaw mass surveillance (including phone record surveillance and Internet surveillance), reform the FISA court (the secret court that signs off on the secret surveillance), prohibit the NSA from undermining international encryption technologies and standards and hacking into technology companies, and promote We Stand The strongest point is that goes against the 4th Amendment and they dont trust that the NSA follow the rules. Their ultimate goal, however - like most Americans, is to put a stop to terrorism. The SAS wants this country safe just as much as anyone else, they just want to give up their freedoms with it. Contradicting the SAS is the National Security Association (NSA). This government controlled organization is intact to monitor and collect information through technology. The goal and reasoning behind surveillance is order to gain a decision advantage for the Nation and our allies under all and Their main mission to surveil private records(E-Mail, phone calls, text messages, etc.) through technology is to make decisions based on the information recorded to keep the country safe. The NSA believe what they are doing is right. They know many people are skeptical and werey of what they do but they ensure core values in everything they do. They ensure honesty, they understand the people hzve a lot of faith and trust in them so they want to do anything to lose that bond. They also promise to respect the law, everything they do is in guidance with the US Constitution. They ensure integrity and promise to have good judgement in what they do. They also guarantee transparency and aim to make certain the citizens are safe, secure, and free. The NSA stands by all of this but there has been controversy on how honest they are, which caused the SAS and others to make a stand. The two may disagree on how but they both agree that we need to keep the American people protected and free. In recent years, there has been a lot of stress put on terrorism, for example, ISIS, and how we should stop them. However, there has also been more controversy on the government to find a solution. Author, Neil M. Richard, says protect our intellectual freedom to think without state over-sight or interference, we need what I have elsewhere called Dangers Of This what the SAS are afraid of. They do not way to lose the freedom to essentially Author for The Washington Post, Marc A. Thiessen says, the critics think the NSA should be collecting this information, perhaps they would like to explain just how they would have us stop new terrorist attacks. Terrorists have armies or navies we can track with He says that the only three ways to stop the terrorist is interrogation, penetration, and signals intelligence (monitoring the phone calls and Internet communications). The first two options work anymore that leaves us with our only option government surveillance. The National Security Association and Stand Against Spying may seem to butt heads on everything, but both want one thing US safety. A satisfying compromise for the two would be to have an independent 3rd party to review any suspicious evidence and give a warrant to allow surveillance. The goal is to not allow the government access to on anyone they want but only those who have solid reasons. For instance, it would not be right or acceptable to allow the government access to spy on an innocent man who has no contact with anyone suspicious but, it would be reasonable to surveil someone who has been contacting someone related to ISIS. I think if a person is giving reasonable and heavy support to potentially be a threat to the safety then I find it reasonable to spy on such person. According to a Washington Post Pew Research poll, 45% of Americans say the government should have access to more of our lives if it means stopping terrorism, however, majority of 52% of Americans say they need to stop It is a close call on what the people want, so I believe this would be a good compromise for not only the NSA and SAS, but the American citizens, as well. Giving up freedom can be a terrifying thing to do and it is a big decision to debate whether we should give it up for our safety. Many people do not know the consequences that can come with allowing the government access to our personal records, but there is just as many consequences to just sitting back and letting the terrorists do their thing. It is hard to ask either one of the sides to give up one or the other. However much we can give to the government does not always guarantee us safety. Dwight D. Eisenhower says you want total security, go to prison. There fed, clothed, given medical care and so on. The only thing lacking... is why I believe that a good common ground for the two organization would be an independent 3rd party to review any suspicious activity and approve of the evidence to allow the NSA to spy. Works Cited Stand Against Spying. N.d. 29 Jan. 2017. https://standagainstspying.org/about/ We Stand Stand Against Spying. N.d. 29 Jan. 2017. https://standagainstspying.org/about/ Goals For This Stand Against Spying. N.d. 29 Jan. 2017. https://standagainstspying.org/about/ Richards, Neil M. Dangers Of Harvard Law Review. 20 May. 2013. 29 Jan. 2017. http://harvardlawreview.org/2013/05/the-dangers-of-surveillance/ And National Security Association. 3 May. 2016. 29 Jan. 2017. https://www.nsa.gov/about/mission-strategy/ Thiessen, Marc A. Thiessen: Leaks, Not The NSA Programs, Deserve The Washington Post. 10 June. 2013. 29 Jan. 2017. https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/marc-thiessen-leaks-not-the-nsa-programs- deserve-condemnation/2013/06/10/e91d09ac-d1c9-11e2-a73e- Cohen, Jon. Americans Back NSA Tracking Phone Records, Prioritize Probes Over The Washington Post. 13 June. 29 Jan. 2017. https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/most-americans-support-nsa-tracking-phone- records-prioritize-investigations-over-privacy/2013/06/10/51e721d6-d204-11e2-9f1a-