Bryanna Dejorge Lorie Jewell ENC 1101 February 5, 2017 How does the use of Social Media affect young adults in society? Social Media. something all come in contact with in some way or another. In the past twenty years, but the last decade especially, social media has become such an influential part of our daily lives. Social media has done everything from feeding us information about going on around the world, to giving us an online communication platform, to just being a source of entertainment when we have absolutely nothing better to do. Society as a whole has been influenced by social media in both positive and negative ways. Sometimes easy to forget the negative effects that such rapid and easy access to so much information can cause. For example, there are some studies relating social media to drug abuse or even mental illnesses. Many primary and secondary sources have shown evidence for both positive and negative connotations of social media. These following articles will help to explain any existing correlation, good or bad, between social media and the way young people think and behave. By the end of this research, I want to better understand how exactly the use of social media affects young adults in society. This article has evidence for the idea that social media has a correlation with drug abuse. The evidence includes relevant information about pop culture, influence, peer pressure, as well as statistics to back up its stance. It shines a light on the fact that today, social media has made peer pressure so easy to get pulled into. Back in the day when peer pressure was simply defined as the and try moment at a while now you scroll up and down Instagram seeing all these wild party posts that makes you want to become part of the fun. Of course, when someone is receiving a bunch of praise on their posts by and it makes others feel like how to become person in society. This article also lightly touches on how social media has made it so much easier to buy and sell drugs just the simply click of a button. This source also included statistics from a survey conducted by David Tran and UCLA of young people in substance abuse programs in Los Angeles. Engaged in Social Networking: 92% Posted drug-related content: 44% Their friends posted drug-related content: 94% Drug content on social media made them want to try drugs: 66% This article shows real relationships between social media and drug abuse. a credible source because it was published by a resource center for adolescents seeking recovery from drug abuse. The publication date also shows that it was published in the past year, therefore, the data is pretty fresh and up to date. Ridings, Amy. Drugs and the Rise of Social Media - Adolescent Rehab Louisiana - Drug Abuse Treatment Centers  Adolescent Rehab Louisiana Drug Abuse Treatment Centers Louisiana. N.p., 19 Feb. 2016. Web. 11 Sept. 2016. This article includes evidence of how social media can cause mental disorders as well as fuel already existing ones. A woman named Donna was interviewed in this article and she explained how social media fueled her disorder. Donna struggled with bulimia nervosa, and she spoke about how took part in online discussion forums where people compared weights, binged together, and helped one another avoid (PP2). As many people know, social media sites often have groups for people with similar interests of any kind. This was a group for those with eating disorders. However, instead of seeking help, these individuals used social media in order to fuel each disorders. The growth of social media has made it easier for people worldwide to find a place where they think they belong and are accepted. Statistics in the article show that eating disorder related hospitalizations have increased 24% in the past decade alone. However, although this article talks about pro anorexia sites, it ends with an explanation of a newer site, NEDA, where recovering individuals are able to tell their battle stories and their way to a healthier lifestyle. This news article is credible because the interviewed woman acts as a primary source. She told the story of her battle and stuff she experience first-hand. The article also includes other relevant statistics and information about social media sites in which people with these disorders post. It relates to my research question by showing a positive correlation between social media and eating disorders, which coordinates with the mentality of society. Marcela Rojas, The (Westchester County, N.Y.) Journal News. Social Media Helps Fuel Some Eating  USA Today. Gannett, 01 June 2014. Web. 11 Sept. 2016. This journal article contains plenty of information explaining the reason behind young infatuation with social media. The reading begins with a real-life situation of a young 13-year-old girl who had become highly addicted to the use of social media through some online chat rooms she had been involved in. She changed from an innocent and athletic over-achiever, to a hostile and violent child who had been taken to the psychiatric emergency room not once, but twice within a week. It then moves on to explain how and why social media is able to cause mental problems including addiction and depression. The article states, connection is not only the most essential part of being human, it is also a key ingredient in happiness and As humans, we have a natural need for novelty, called neophilia. This need is met through viewing tweets, pictures on Instagram and posts on facebook, because of all the new information we are getting at once. The reading speaks of how we as a society are replacing real human interaction with communication behind a screen and explains why being cut off from actual contact can cause psychological and emotional problems. In a nutshell, although social media gives us the same satisfaction as interpersonal socialization, it is not a proper substitute for it because it causes individuals to miss out on real life skills, which may lead to mental disorders such as but not limited to depression and social anxiety. The author of this article, Nicholas Kardaras is an internationally known addiction expert. the executive director of one of the top rehabs, and the founder of a progressive adolescent treatment program. Kardaras has appeared on multiple news and talk shows sharing his knowledge with the rest of the world. a credible source due to his expertise on the subject written about. KARDARAS, NICHOLAS. Z: ONLINE AND AT Scientific American Mind, vol. 27, no. 5, Sept. 2016, pp. This report was about the reduction of blogging among teenagers and young adults. Ever since the new age of Facebook and Twitter, the percentage of people using blogs has been cut in half. The move from one social media platform to another seems to have cause this rapid change. The young crowd switched from MySpace, which was set up as a blogging medium, to Facebook which was created to socialize with people via internet, and then Twitter, whichhad not yet become quite popular with the young crowd. This could be due to the fact that a complete 180 turn from being able to post long drawn out posts, to having a very brief word limit. With young people especially, easy to get involved and move on to the next new thing. This was the rise of social media where the internet became more about socializing with friends through messages rather than communicating with the world about real life issues. The article showed some statistics predicting that some teens may get back into blogging as they mature and grow into adulthood. This article was written by Mary Brophy Marcus, a health journalist at CBS news network. Her work is credible due to the fact that her area of expertise, and a known professional. For this article she included primary sources such as quotes from real people spoken to, which credits her article even more. Marcus, Mary Brophy. Gives Thumbs down to USA Today, 4 Feb. 2010.