Washington 1 Karon Washington Enc1102 1/27/17 Project 1: Intermediate Draft Hydraulic Fracturing or is a process used by oil and gas companies to extract natural gas embedded in rock formations known as shales. The process consists of fracturing the underground rock with a pressurized liquid, that funnels the natural gas up the well and to the surface where it is transported and used for various reasons. The United States relies heavily on fossil fuels to operate everyday machinery, therefore such as The Independent Petroleum Association of America (IPAA) want to expand the fracking industry across the nation. In contrast with the IPAA, is the Food and Water Watch an organization dedicated to ceasing all fracking projects due to its hazardous effects on groundwater. To integrate the stances of both organizations, fracking sites must be regulated by Food and Water Watch and destruction to potable water sources must be reconditioned with Oil and Gas corporation funds. Hydraulic Fracturing is an expanding industry due to a high demand for natural gas. The demand for natural gas is expanding across the nation, and the fastest growing source of natural gas is shale gas. Shale gas is natural gas trapped inside of shale formations. Shale formations are sedimentary rock composed of clay, quartz, calcite, and other minerals. The shale formations are the source and the container of the natural gas, which is mostly 90% methane with traces of other hydrocarbons such as nitrogen, CO2, H2S and other gases (Gregory, Vidic, & Dzombak 2011). Economically feasible natural gas production from shale formations is accomplished through drilling and hydraulic fracturing. The Drilling process involves drilling vertically, followed by horizontal drilling to increase the contact between the shale gas and the wellbore. The horizontal drilling decreases the number of vertical wells needed, therefore reducing Washington 2 production costs and risk associated with the vertical drilling process. The fracking process consists of pumping fracturing liquids through the vertical and horizontal well, to increase the fracture pressure of the rock. The tension from the pressurized liquids causes the cracks in the rocks to expand and release gas into the well. After the process is complete the fracking fluid returns to the surface through the well along with the gas. The fluid used in fracturing shale gas is commonly a combination of water, fracturing chemicals, small particles of sand or other materials like ceramic, that flow with the aqueous solution to ensure the well-pores remain permeable for proper gas absorption (Gregory, Vidic, & Dzombak 2011). The Independent Petroleum Association of America (IPAA) is dedicated to ensuring that the economy has a secure supply of energy. The IPAA represents the thousands of crude oil and gas producers in the United States. The producers develop 95 percent of domestic oil and gas wells, produce 54 percent of domestic oil and produce 85 percent of domestic natural (Ipaa.org). U.S independent producers and IPAA members have a critical role in strengthening the American economy and energy security. To maintain their prestige in the American economy producers, use various technologies for drilling oil and gas wells. In 2012, 59% of oil and gas wells drilled were used for hydraulic fracturing, 41% used horizontal drilling, and 12.9% used multipad wells (Ipaa.org). The IPAA and its members are devoted to maintaining the American economy, energy supply and profiting from their investments. Their concerns are solely monetarily motivated, therefore the various technology that is used by the corporations are to increase profit, not improve the environment. The Food & Water Watch organization is against all threats to communities and the environment. Food & Water Watch advocates healthy food, clean water and rising up against corporations who deem profit over people. They are the first organization to call a ban on Washington 3 fracking, and initiated the formation of America Against Fracking. These organizations simply want to end fracking nationwide because of its effects on groundwater/drinking water (Food and Water Watch). Fracking has severe effects on communities drinking water and ground water. The drilling components of a well require large volumes of water to maintain pressure, cool the drill, and remove drill cuttings (Gregory, Vidic, & Dzombak 2011). These large quantities of water are usually obtained from surface water and municipal places. This is a huge concern for rural areas with limited water sources because it strains the accessibility to useful water. The other concern with fracking is the management of flow back water. Flow back water is the fracking fluid mixture that has been used in the fracturing process. The composition of flow back water varies with site location, typically they contain salts, metal, grease, oil, and other toxic/nontoxic organic compounds. The fluid is usually collected at the surface for disposal, or reuse. The contaminated water can be injected back underground, or it may be released into a body of water after treatment. However, due to the large amount of water and soil composition of the sites, the fluid manages to contaminate underground water reservoirs and poses a potential health risk to humans (Gregory, Vidic, & Dzombak 2011). Fracking poses serious health risks to humans and animals exposed to the chemicals. In 2009 the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) notified the residents of Pavillion, Wyoming that their drinking water wells had been contaminated by toxins used in fracking fluids. The community had complained for nearly ten years about rare cancers, miscarriages, nervous system disorders and seizures that was plaguing their area. The EPA confirmed that three of the drinking water wells were contaminated with 2-butoxyethanol, a substance contained in fracking fluid. Another instance of fracking damaging a community occurred in Caddo Parish, Louisiana during Washington 4 the same year as the EPA notification to Pavillion, Wyoming. Seventeen cattle were found dead near a fracking site, regulators concluded that the well leaked fluid and it flowed into a neighboring field and the companies involved were fined $22,000 (Rahm 2011). The risk that fracking poses on human and animal health does not equate to the profit earned. Fracking has a history of damaging communities and ruining the environment surrounding the sites. Stricter regulations and expensive fines does not reduce the expansion of fracking sites across the nation nor do they assist the people affected by fracking. To integrate the stances of both organizations, fracking sites must be regulated by Food and Water Watch and destruction to potable water sources must be reconditioned with Oil and Gas corporation funds. The Food and Water Watch regulates the fracking sites by ensuring that chemicals used in the fracking fluid is nontoxic and disposed of properly. Therefore, whenever there is a spill the fluid is not toxic enough to harm any animals or humans. Also, the companies involved in the fracking site must provide potable drinking water to all people whose drinking water contains traces of fracking fluids. Washington 5 Works Cited  Food & Water Watch. N.p., 12 Aug. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Gregory, K. B., R. D. Vidic, and D. A. Dzombak. Water Management Challenges Associated with the Production of Shale Gas by Hydraulic  Elements 7.3 (2011): 181-86. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Ipaa.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Rahm, Dianne. Regulating hydraulic fracturing in shale gas plays: The case of  Energy Policy 39.5 (2011): 2974-981. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.