Page 1 Lauren Skeoch 28 January 2017 Professor Lisa DuBois ENC 1102 Intermediate Draft Drug addiction is an issue that is omnipresent across the globe. There are so many negative consequences to addiction, and that is why there are many organizations determined to assist those who struggle with addiction to overcome it, and obtain sobriety. One of these organizations is Natural High, an organization that uses peer influence as well as fun activities such as scuba-diving, fishing, rock climbing, etc. in order to cure addiction in individuals. This organization operates in as many locations as possible and works by instead of relocating the addict, they work in the community to help each individual find their Another organization that works to combat addiction is Phoenix House. This organization is more well known, working to combat addiction using your traditional rehabilitation methods such as relocation and isolation. The methods that these two organizations use are drastically different but both are intended to have the exact same outcome, so there is no reason for these two organizations to be at odds any longer. Instead, Phoenix House should use their many facilities to house addicts while they find their and are allowed to have family visits regularly so that they are not as isolated. Both Natural High and Phoenix House want to cure addiction, but have different methods of doing so; this compromise allows them to come together by relocating addicts to a camp where they are allowed to see family and friends while discovering their at this location. Page 2 Phoenix House works on combatting addiction by using a approach, as stated on their website. They hold onto traditional values when treating addiction, while also being sure to treat every patient the way that will best benefit them. This organization also strongly believes in evidence-based treatment, and sees addiction as a disease rather than a moral flaw, which unfortunately is a common misconception when looking at the field of addiction. The organization also places emphasis on treating the person as a whole rather than just focusing on the addiction within the person, and leaving the treatment there; this is a large part of their multidisciplinary treatment plans and their holistic approach that they stress on their information page. This is also known as Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, as described in Truth About and Drug by Scholastic Scope. This publication addresses that Behavioral Therapy also can help individuals deal with depression and other mood or anxiety disorders that sometimes go hand in hand with a drug (The Truth About and Drug Addiction 3). This holistic approach seems to be a key for the success of this organization as well as their residential programs. On Phoenix website, it reads, care may be the best course for some, while outpatient care may be advised for (www.phoenixhouse.org). Even on their mission statement page, they write that they even have a residential program for teens and accredited high schools for these students to attend and continue school in. Their website states that they have been working with addicts for more than 45 years, and they obviously have had success with their methods. Phoenix House is a large organization that has been able to grow and expand in many ways, as made apparent on their website. However, there is always room for improvement and this compromise with Natural High may be that wiggle room. In essence, there that much that the organization would have Page 3 to change, except the visitation rules, and weaving in other methods besides evidence-based treatment. There is so much more to gain than there is to lose. Natural High is an organization that is not as well known in the field of addiction, but are becoming more popular as opposed to standard rehabilitation centers, such as Phoenix House. What is unique about this company is that instead of relocating and isolating the addict, they work in the communities of these addicts to rework their addictive natures towards something more productive, or something that is at least better for their health than drugs. As their mission statement states on their website, mission is to inspire and empower youth to find their natural high and develop skills and courage to live life (www.naturalhigh.org). At a first glance, it looks like this organization that only helps the youth in communities. However, when you look deeper into the workings, you see that they are helping many other age groups as well if they need it. The only reason that older addicts may not be able to comply with this program is if they are too old to do the activities that this organization pushes their addicts to do in order to find their but if older people are able to participate in the activities, then they are more than welcome to do so. Although this program may not have as high of success ratings as organizations like Phoenix House, it is definitely a drastically different approach to curing addiction and can be equally effective with some help. This compromise would mean that the natural high followers would have to stay at a camp, but they would be allowed access outside. The compromise proposed between Natural High and Phoenix House could be what the organization needs to spread their ideas further across the world. Partnering with an organization that has a strong following like Phoenix House does could be a great thing for their cause. Page 4 The proposed compromise between Natural High and Phoenix House could lead to the benefit of so many people across the globe. Ideally, the sites used for Phoenix House addicts could also be used for Natural High Participants. In these camps, the addicts would find their natural high, while still following Phoenix holistic approach to combatting addiction. Addicts that attended these camps would ideally be able to visit with family and friends outside and inside of the camp in order to make them feel less isolated from the outside world. The addicts would be encouraged by going on field trips to different locations to help them find their natural high, all while at the same time, visiting with the doctors that Phoenix House provides in order to further help the addict in recovery. The addicts would only have to spend a minimum of 14 months at these camps in order to obtain a full recovery, as this is the average recovery time as recorded by the recovery research institute on their website (www.recovery answers.org). There are so many options for recovery when these two organizations come together. Even in corporations that have come together, it has been seen to benefit everyone. For example, in an article written by Megan Ruesink of Rasmussen College, Exxon and merge was one of the best corporate merges in recent history, only did it become the largest company in the world, it reunited its 19th century former selves, John D. Standard Oil Company of New Jersey (Exxon) and Standard Oil Company of New York (Ruesink). These two companies went from being competitors to being basically the same company, and they are still reaping the rewards for this merge. What this shows is that it is entirely possible and beneficial for two organizations to come together as one. Although Natural High and Phoenix House have completely different ideas on how to properly combat addiction, there is such a simple solution as to how these two organizations can work together to promote healthy living among addicts. Both of these powerful and positive Page 5 organizations want to cure addiction, but have different methods of doing so; this compromise allows them to come together by relocating addicts to a camp where they are allowed to see family and friends while discovering their at this location. Drug addiction is real and harms more people every day, and with compromises like these, we are closer to ending it. Page 6 Works Cited Ruesink, Megan. Rasmussen  Rasmussen College - Regionally Accredited College Online and on Campus. N.p., 28 Sept. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Natural High. N.p., 2017. Web. 24 Jan 2017 Drug Addiction, Alcohol Abuse Treatment & Rehab Phoenix House. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan 2017. The Truth About  & Drug  Scholastic Scope 57.14 (2009): 20-22. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Recovery Research Institute >Mass General Hospital Harvard Medical  The Brain in Recovery Recovery Research Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.