Degas Ewing Ewing 1 ENC1102 23 January 2017 Euthanasia/ physician assisted suicide in currently only legal in 5 states but certain groups of people such as terminally ill cancer patients are advocating for it to be legal everywhere. Others such as an organization called is an illusion are at odds because they are attempting to prevent the euthanasia movement. They both have the fact in common as they would like a more comfortable dying experience. A decent compromise would be that only patients that were deemed terminal by several medical professionals and have undergone extensive therapy about their choice can opt for assisted suicide. One stakeholder that finds the issue at hand extremely important to be resolved for personal reasons is terminally ill patients that would like physician assisted suicide. Physician assisted suicide is currently legal is Vermont, Montana, California, Washington, and Oregon. There are numerous accounts of terminally ill patients leaving their home towns with their families to seek refuge in a state where they can live out their final days in peace and die as they wish. The problem with this is some people do not want to leave their state, home, friends and family to die and would rather have physician assisted suicide in their own state. Dying is enough of a physical, economic, and emotional toll to the patient as well as family and friends and moving just adds to the traumatic situation. According to The Permanent Journal many people in their dying days start to deteriorate not only physically but also mentally and having family members see that deterioration is almost inhumane. Dying with dignity is a basic human right and no one should have to be forced to live only to face an imminent and humiliating deterioration leading to death. There are countless reasons why these patients deem physician assisted suicide the way to go about concluding their last days including the fact that Science Direct makes the assertion that physician assisted suicide is painless and short. Patients are often faced with the choice of spending a few fewer days, weeks, or months in comfortable conditions with a proper mental and physical state with their family or possibly a few more days, weeks, or months but in pain and suffering. Additionally, knowing the exact day one is going to die makes getting everything in order a bit easier for some. This stakeholder thinks it seems the obvious solution is to cut back on pain and suffering by legalizing physician assisted suicide throughout the United States. They believe denying people the right to die in infringing on their basic human rights. However, there are opposing organizations such as is and Illusion that feel just as passionately about the process of dying but oppose physician assisted suicide vehemently. Just the name of the organization alludes to the fact that giving terminally ill patients the choice to die is a lie due to outside influences that can often pressure the ill to go through with physician assisted suicide. This organization is very wary of the opportunistic, greedy feeders off of their loved deaths and illnesses. One large issue that is an illusion addresses is the concept of vultures. A vulture would be for example a family member that wants an inheritance and therefore pressures an elderly family member to end their life prematurely. There is also the possibility that a family member or members would pressure an elderly family member to get physician assisted suicide because they do not want to care or pay for care for them. There are a lot of dystopian ideas across the internet of the possibility of if we allow physician assisted suicide to be a norm the possibility of capping off ages and not letting them live past a certain age and other crazy possibilities. However, vultures and the possibility of getting physician assisted suicide when the patient lived due to medical advances or pure luck is far more realistic. The anti-euthanasia organization makes the assertion that deaths double when a country legalizes euthanasia. These anti-euthanasia organizations all make the assertion that comfortable death is possible in hospice care and a more humane and better option than euthanasia, which is seen negatively throughout many religions and is something so inhumane its almost animalistic. One big point that is an Illusion makes is that there is always the slightest chance that the terminal patients could have survived had they not gotten euthanasia. According to the Vermont Alliance for Ethical Healthcare misdiagnoses are all too common and they detail several cases where people got physician assisted suicide but it was later found out they were misdiagnosed and would not have died. This stakeholder has interest in preventing physician assisted suicide at all cost. They have a problem with the morality, some of the organization for religious reasons and others with the concern of vultures, and have a large problem with the possibility of ending a life that could have been full in prosperous if not for a fateful misdiagnosis. is an sees hospice care and love and support from families as a more humane alternative to physician assisted suicide. They stress that there is always a chance of survival with upcoming technology and medicine in addition to corrupt family members that see financial advantages in their family death. Both parties are very opposing in seemingly all outlooks however, there is one matter they agree upon. They both want a more comfortable dying experience for terminally ill patients. On one hand the terminally ill patients want euthanasia so they will be able to have a more comfortable, happier dying experience and on the other hand is an Illusion wants patients to have a more comfortable dying experience by not being pressured to die by corrupt family members and the help of hospice care. My proposal is that only terminally ill patients should be allowed to get euthanasia. This would essentially fix the problems of the number of deaths increasing because if only people with imminent deaths are allowed to get physician assisted suicide. This would take away the problem of vultures, old people dying because their family wants their inheritance or simply does not want to pay for their care. Now the anti- euthanasia suicide should be upset at this point because the misdiagnosis that are all too common. To fix this problem to get euthanasia you must be diagnosed terminal by at least 3 separate doctors and go to therapy about your decision. Families cannot be involved in the therapy process but should, for their best interest, undergo extensive therapy to deal with the death of their loved ones. Having three doctors doing tests to get a diagnosis alleviates the idea that there could be a misdiagnoses. Of course there is always the small possibility but it is very unlikely with three doctors, separate and not working together, input. The multiple diagnosis reduces chances of misdiagnosing a patient that could have a possibility of living tremendously. Additionally, all doctors must say that there is a zero percent chance of survival to sign off on the patient getting physician assisted suicide. The therapy session will insure that the patients really want to get physician assisted suicide and are not being influenced by their family even though family should already be a minimal issue since physician assisted suicide will be exclusive to terminal patients. Since both parties want a higher quality of life for dying individuals the problem of making dying individuals do time- consuming therapy and medical tests may not be serving that purpose. However, these are necessary if both parties want the most favorable outcomes. There should be options to have therapists come to the hospital where the patients are located to ensure quality of last days will be adequate and not be made worse by the extensive therapy. The therapy should probably be able to be conducted in two sessions of an hour each unless the therapist sees a problem in that they are unsure the patient is in good emotional health and confident about their decision in getting physician assisted suicide. In summation an adequate compromise involves only allowing terminal patients to get physician assisted suicide and making sure they are terminal by using several diagnoses by several medical evaluations based on medical testing and also therapy to ensure family does not have an influence or is pressuring the situation in any way. Both parties will not get exactly what they want but they should both feel more confident about certain criteria such as the happiness and comfort of terminally ill patients, which should improve. Terminally ill patients will have more rights; both the right to die and the right to live. Bibliography 1. Boudreau, J Donald. Suicide and Euthanasia: Can You Even Imagine Teaching Medical Students How to End Their The Permanente Journal, The Permanente Journal, 2011, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3267569/. 2. by The Permanente Journal - Kaiser Permanente, www.thepermanentejournal.org/issues.html. 3. Chao, DVK, and NY Chan And. Euthanasia Revisited, fampra.oxfordjournals.org/content/19/2/128.long. 4. Is An  Is An Illusion, www.choiceillusion.org/. 5. Emanuel, E.J. ScienceDirect.com Science, Health and Medical Journals, Full Text Articles and Books., www.sciencedirect.com/ 6. Hope . Can Live without Home - HOPE: No Euthanasia, noeuthanasia.org.au/.