Wolfe 1 Graydon Wolfe Professor Sarah Roth ENC 1101.003 29 January 2017 The Information Age The difference between a hero and a traitor is perspective. With the invention of the internet, all the information in the world became readily available for those who know where to look. Governments and private companies alike do everything they can to safeguard their secrets, whether its proof of insider trading or of civilian surveillance. From time to time, individuals take it upon themselves to bring these secrets to light. People who do this for, what they believe would be, the good of the people are called whistleblowers. John Ziriakou and Linda Tripp are prime examples of whistleblowers. People who steal private secrets for personal gain are known as traitors. Benedict Arnold, Julius and Ethel Rosenberg are a few of the most infamous traitors. Sometimes, the line between a traitor and a whistleblower is unclear. own government may see the individual as a traitor but the public could see them as a heroic whistleblower. With all this brief amount of information, a question arises: where should the public draw the line between a whistleblower and a traitor? Wolfe 2 Works Cited Edward Snowden. Biography.com. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This source is a biography of Edward Snowden, one of the most controversial whistleblowers/traitors in modern times. Snowden worked under a subcontractor of the National Security Agency. While there, he discovered the NSA was performing surveillance that he deemed invasive and disturbing. Snowden copied the information the NSA was gathering and fled the country. The US government has since charged Snowden with the crimes of Theft of Government Property, Unauthorized Communication of National Defense Information, and Willful Communication of Classified Communications Intelligence Information to an Unauthorized Person. Snowden remains in Russia under temporary asylum. The source is credible because the sole purpose of the website is to create accurate biographies for educational use. The website remains unbiased when explaining the life of this very controversial person, neither stating he is a traitor or a hero. Epstein, Edward Jay. How America Lost Its Secrets. 1st ed. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 2017 In How America Lost Its Secrets, Edward Epstein describes the actions of Edward Snowden, elaborating on how accessible the information was and the motives behind Snowdens actions. Epstein also debates whether Snowdens actions were justified by the nature of the information. Also described is whether Snowden truly acted to serve his country when he fled before releasing his information. Epstein wrote the book in a Wolfe 3 manner that counters the popular view of Snowden being a hero, debating whether he is a hero, traitor, whistleblower, or spy. Edward Epstein obtained his Ph.D. in Government from Hardvard University in 1973. Epstein is a former professor at UCLA, MIT, and Harvard. Since retiring from teaching, Epstein has been an investigative journalist with articles published in The Wall Street Journal, The Atlantic, and The New Yorker. Epstein has written numerous books, all of which pertaining to information kept secret from the public. Kiriakou, John and Michael Ruby. The Reluctant Spy. 1st ed. New York: Bantam Books, 2010. John Kiriakou is a whistleblower who released to the public proof of the CIA was conducting waterboarding as a form of torture, though an effective one. In his book, Kiriakou describes what he saw and did while working for the Central Intelligence Agency. He describes the invasion of Iraq and the raids of Pakistan from the perspective of a CIA agent. The Reluctant Spy is a credible source because it was written by John Kiriakou, a former CIA analyst who blow the whistle to the public about the actions. Kiriakou shared with a reporter the name of a CIA agent who was assigned to classified activities. In 2012, Kiriakou plead guilty to violated the Intelligence Identities Protection Act. He served 24 months in prison, then 3 months under house arrest. Wilson, B. Benedict Arnold. 1st ed. University Press, 2001. In Benedict Arnold: A Traitor in Our Midst, Barry Wilson explains the infamous life from a different perspective. Benedict Arnold was a General who became a traitor during the Revolutionary War, when he attempted to sell the British the United States Military Academy. Rather than explain how Benedict Arnold was a traitor to the Wolfe 4 early US, Wilson describes Benedict role in Canadian history. Wilson describes Benedict reasoning behind the betrayal and how he had gotten to that point. The credibility of Benedict Arnold: A Traitor in Our Midst comes from the unique perspective of which the book is based upon. In history textbooks, Benedict Arnold is nothing more than a traitor who attempted to undermine the creation of the United States. Barry Wilson describes Benedict social and financial lives as well as his accomplishments in the military that made him the great General he was.