One of the most controversial issues in America right now (although it get that much recognition from the media) us whether to close the detention center in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. There are two sides to this dispute with two main stakeholders. The main stakeholder on the side of closing the detention center at Guantanamo Bay is the United Nations, or, more specifically, the United Nations Human Rights Council. The main stakeholder on the side that wants to keep the detention center at Guantanamo Bay open is the United States Government. It is true that the United Nations Human Rights Council and the United States Government are both rather large organizations with multiple people expressing different views in each respective organization, however, the general feeling in the United States Government is to keep the detention center at Guantanamo Bay open and the general feeling of the United Nations Human Rights Council is to close the detention center at Guantanamo Bay. One other thing that must be clarified is that the purpose of this essay is not to take sides or to say which one is right, the purpose of this essay is to analyze the current situation of the dispute between the United States Government and the United Nations Human Rights Council and propose a compromise to possibly end the dispute. The compromise that would most satisfy both stakeholders in the dispute would be for the United States Government to work with the United Nations Human Rights Council to improve the quality of life for all inmates in the detention center at Guantanamo Bay and to cooperate and work together to create a processing system to ensure that all inmates are processed in a quick and timely manner instead of being incarcerated indefinitely. However, to identify whether this compromise would be feasible in the future at all, one would first have to look at the backgrounds of each of the main stakeholders to determine why they compromised already, determine what each stakeholder wants to accomplish and if the stakeholders have any sort of worries or something that concerns them, or if there were any current or past attempts to solve the problem. To start off, the United States Government built the detention center at Guantanamo Bay in response to the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center on September 11 th , 2001. The purpose of the detention center was to hold detainees who were deemed to be associated with the terrorist cell known as al-Qaeda and were captured during the war on terror that ensued. The United States Government had started building the detention center at Guantanamo Bay starting in 2002. In early 2002, the detention center began accepting its first detainees in the form of suspected terrorists from the Middle East. Once a suspected terrorist was sent to Guantanamo Bay, they would be there for an indefinite amount of time to await military trial. While they awaited trial, the detainees were sometimes subject to classified torture methods (also known as interrogation to get information that would lead to the arrest of their cohorts. To make matters worse, the President George w. administration had said that the prisoners had no rights that the United States Government had to uphold due to the fact that the detention center was technically not a part of the United States. In addition, the United States Government maintained that the detention center did not have to comply with the Geneva Conventions set out by the United Nations because it did not apply to enemy Even though basic rights were given to the detainees at Guantanamo Bay eventually, the torture or interrogation still go on. However, the United States Government has good reason for what they are doing. The United States does this in order to maintain national security by locking away any potential threats to the United States and her people. In addition, the United States Government stands by keeping Guantanamo Bay open because it can learn valuable information to fight the war on terror. The biggest concern that the United States Government has with closing Guantanamo Bay is that if they release the detainees from Guantanamo Bay, they are worried they may become a threat to the citizens of the United States. However, President Obama had tried to push for the closing of Guantanamo Bay, to no avail. 1 To continue, the United Nations Human Rights Council has been trying to get the United States Government to close the detention center at Guantanamo Bay for years. However, the United Nations has not been trying to do this unprovoked. Experts from the United Nations Human Rights Council has been trying to close the detention center on the grounds of the use of interrogation and because of the fact that the United States Government intends to keep all detainees at Guantanamo Bay for an indefinite amount of time. The United Nations believes that the United States Government cannot justify the treatment of their prisoners by saying that it is to stop the war on terror. The United Nations also believes that it is a violation of human rights to keep prisoners at Guantanamo Bay for an indefinite amount of time. As a result, the United Nations called for an end to the use of interrogation and indefinite incarceration. The United Nations Human Rights Council intends to do this because they want to ensure that the rights of all peoples in the world are upheld. A possible concern that the United Nations may have is that if they do not stop the United States, the United States might take things farther or other countries might follow suit. 2 With all of this to be considered, there is one proposition of a compromise which might work in order to satisfy both stakeholders in the dispute. This compromise both asks something of the United States and the United Nations Human Rights council, but also provides benefits for each of the stakeholders as well. For this compromise to work, the United States must work with the United Nations in order to figure out a system that will process prisoners in a timely an acceptable manner. It is probable that the United Nations and the United States Government would agree that terrorism is a global issue and would both agree that innocent lives must be kept safe. So, it could be possible that the United States Government can work with the United Nations in order to put these potential terrorists on trial, perhaps at the International Court of Justice. 3 If they were to do this, the United Nations would be satisfied because this would end human rights violations and indefinite incarcerations in Guantanamo Bay. The United States 1 Nolen, Jeannette L. Guantanamo Bay Detention  Britannica. Britannica, Inc., 22 May 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 2 UN Rights Experts Urge US to Close Detention Centre and End Impunity for  UN News Center. United Nations, 11 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 3 International Court of  The Court International Court of Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. would also be satisfied because if they were to do this, national security can be maintained and the United States Government would see that these terrorists would be brought to justice. In conclusion, the best way to compromise on the issue involving Guantanamo Bay would be for the United Nations and the United States Government to cooperate in order to think of a timely wat for terrorists to be processed, brought to trial, and therefore, brought to justice. In addition, both parties of the issue would be satisfied because their main concerns would be addressed. Even though this is a very good compromise that could work, it would not be in the near future because there would be a lot of politics and agreements that would have to be in order to see this solution through. Bibliography: 1. Nolen, Jeannette L. Guantanamo Bay Detention  Britannica. Britannica, Inc., 22 May 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 2. International Court of  The Court International Court of Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 3. UN Rights Experts Urge US to Close Detention Centre and End Impunity for  UN News Center. United Nations, 11 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 4. UNITED NATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS  United Nations Human Rights Council. United Nations, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 5. The Case For Closing - And Keeping Open -  NPR. NPR, 6 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.