Sullivan 1 Rory Sullivan Professor L.E. DuBois English 1102 28 February 2017 Greenpeace Versus Peabody Energy Global climate change has been on debate floors for decades now and it has finally come to a consensus. The supported idea claims that our use of fossil fuels negatively affects the atmosphere (Shaftel 2017). Controversy surrounds the idea of climate change and its legitimacy, but for the purposes of this paper the topic of climate change will be siding with its existence. The idea to be discussed in this paper is; how do we proceed in a world knowing that our use of fossil fuels will be our undoing? Many organizations believe to have the answers for such a question, such as the selected; Greenpeace and Peabody Energy. Although these companies are very separated in their ideologies and goals, they have similar end goals. Greenpeace is an organization devoted to protecting the environment, through sometimes radical means in order to protect humanity. Conversely, Peabody Energy is the largest producer of coal powered energy in the United States with a yearly output of over 175,000,000 short tons or 19.5% of the coal production (U.S. Department of Labor 2015). Both of these organizations share in the pursue for a better tomorrow, however their paths are crossed forcing them to conflict with each other. In order to seek compromise between Greenpeace and Peabody coal legislative action must be taken to progress Peabody Energy from coal to a renewable energy company. This compromise Sullivan 2 will maintain the financial assets of Peabody while insuring the goals of Greenpeace are addressed. Greenpeace was founded in the wake of a protest against the U.S. nuclear program testing its weapons in Alaska. Its mission is to provide Earth a voice and protect it from climate change, deforestation, famine, and war. While the organization has been behind more controversial acts of activism, it challenges the law in order to gain publicity toward the agenda. It is a tactic used by many extreme activist groups and has been popularized by television shows such as Whale Wars (Foley 2007). Although this approach to solving the problem of climate change would not be beneficial to Peabody or the progression toward a compromise. focus on climate change involves the shift away from fossil fuels and toward renewables. On the website, they contain a specific section highlighting the problems with coal and the need for humanity to coal (Greenpeace 2017). However, the organization has created a solution manual which showcases a scenario at which Earth receives 100% of its energy from renewable energy sources. The Energy Revolution 2015 is a projection of how renewable energy sectors and markets would prosper in the future (Greenpeace 2017). Within this manual, the organization provides statistics and data which supports future economic stability and progress using renewable energy. Historically renewable energy has been less efficient, for example; solar energy has an energy efficiency of 22% (Northwestern 2017) but coal has an efficiency of 35-42% (IEA 2010). Greenpeace however uses the data of renewable energy efficiency over time, showing a dramatic incline from 10% in 1995 to 22% today (Greenpeace). Ultimately, this ideology competes with ideal future of profit from coal power, accurately creating the two ends of Sullivan 3 a spectrum and separating the groups. Greenpeace is a controversial environmental group which seeks a resolution to the problems of climate change, for which it holds companies like Peabody Energy accountable for. Driving their debate to support the efforts of renewable energy and opposition of coal. Peabody Energy, the largest producer of coal power in the United States, is one of the most powerful entities fueling the economy. 33% of the United States energy comes from coal, which is tied for first with gas (Harrington 2017). It is known that removing coal from the is impossible without dramatic changes to the consumer/economic standing of the United States. The topic is covered by economist Larry Elliot, who discusses the problems of switching energies quickly causing failures in trade and or slowly causing the effects of climate change to strangle our (Elliot 2015). The problems of demonizing fossil fuel companies and not incorporating them into the solution is explained by Elliot, who highlights the need for cooperation between the companies and domestic countries in order to maintain production. This partnership between the legislative body and the energy sector should be progressive and produce a result which companies like Peabody Energy and the U.S. citizen can benefit from. Many coal companies have been found funding anti-climate change groups, countering the progression of their own sector. Elliot also covers the idea of self-destroying businesses that create a routine of profit and rarely enjoy to deviate from this path for fear of economic losses. However if Peabody was to be economically incentivized, it could lead them to cooperate with both the U.S. government and organizations such as Greenpeace. Sullivan 4 The compromise which would best suit the needs of both Greenpeace and Peabody coal would be achieved through legislative means. The need for an economic incentive, enticing Peabody to cooperate, would be fulfilled by a decrease in the Carbon tax. However, this decrease would only be instated if Peabody were to create a ratio of renewable energy to their output of fossil fueled energy. This ratio would dictate the level of Carbon tax removed from the yearly debt. In the long run the Peabody Energy corporation would benefit from this legislative action because it allowed them to maintain control over a portion of the energy sector, while making profit. This compromise also supports initiative by progressing toward a planet fueled by renewable energy. The installment of a pathway to renewable energy allows Greenpeace to fulfill their mission statement, while maintaining a profit for Peabody Energy. The shortcomings of this compromise are the lack of participation from Greenpeace because of their limited power in negotiating the legislation between the U.S. congress and the Peabody Energy corporation. The need for progress toward a future of sustainable and renewable energy, is seen has a necessary change. While companies like Peabody are using fossil fuels in order to maintain a profit and provide energy to the United States, they give an irreplaceable service to community. Greenpeace does not provide a product or service, but rather and ideology, to make the world Although these ideas are competitive and often are seen as opposite ends of spectrum the idea of a compromise benefiting both companies is not impossible. Sullivan 5 Works Cited Shaftel, Holly. Climate change: How do we  NASA. NASA, 28 Jan. 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration History Greenpeace Canada. Greenpeace USA . Greenpeace, Web. 28 Jan 2017. <http://www.greenpeace.org/canada/en/About-us/History/>. Why We Must Quit Coal Greenpeace International. Greenpeace International. Greenpeace, Web. 28 Jan 2017 Foley, Charley, Elizabeth Bronstien, and Jason Carey, prods. Whale  Whale Wars. Animal Plant. United States, 7 Nov. 2007. Television. Power  How efficient are solar panels? Northwestern University, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Harrington, Skye Gould and Rebecca. One Graphic Shows How Much the US Still Relies on  Business Insider. Business Insider, 11 Mar. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Elliott, Larry. Can the World Economy Survive without Fossil Fuels? Larry  The Long Read. Guardian News and Media, 08 Apr. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Potter, Sean. NASA, NOAA Data Show 2016 Warmest Year on Record NASA. NASA, 18 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Bossong, Kenneth. Renewable Energy Provides 14% of US Electrical Generation During First Half of  Renewable Energy World. N.p., 27 Aug. 2013. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Sullivan 6 Jiang, Jess. The Price Of Electricity In Your  NPR. NPR, 28 Oct. 2011. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Goldenberg, Suzanne, and Helena Bengtsson. Biggest US Coal Company Funded Dozens of Groups Questioning Climate  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 13 June 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.