Abdelbari 1 Omar Abdelbari Ms. Heiser ENC1102 January 30 2017 Violence within Religious Groups Over half of the population is associated with some kind of organized religion and thus with the many different types of religions, this can naturally bring about conflict within and between religious groups. Many religions were established at a time where the world was a very violent place, and death due to war or simple conflict of ideology was a way of life. However, in the modern era, that system of blood shed to mark territory or spread religious ideology has been eradicated but only to some extent. They are still people who violently display their religious belief in a society where majority does not accept it at all. Because the societal view on this has changed so significantly over the years, it has caused members of religious organizations to disown the actions of these extremists and in fact renounce them from their religious belief by boldly stating that such extremist actions is not characterized by their faith. However, members of extremist groups of Islam and Christianity such as ISIS, LRA, Hezbollah and others suggest that not only their actions are accepted within the religion, but it is in fact glorified by God and those who refute their actions are not true believers of the said religious group and will incur more sin onto themselves by challenging the will of God. Establishing a middle ground between religious peace and campaign is can change outlooks, stop stereo-types and most importantly save lives. Abdelbari 2 Perhaps the most popular religious extremist group under the scope in the world today is ISIS- Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (the levant). This is an Islamic Jihadist is group which has taken the world by storm with their violence towards non-believing nations, accounting for over 18,000 civilian deaths across the world. The Meir Amit Terrorism and Information Center suggests that said motive is to bring back the age of referring to the time where as written in the Holy Quran, Prophet Muhammad ruled the Muslim followers and its nations and was referred to as the (Muslim King). As mentioned before, this was around the era 600 AD where violence and death was a way of life and thus Prophet Muhammad and his (someone who emulates the prophet, successor) would liberate lands of other cultural beliefs, or generally anyone that can be deemed as a through (Holy War). The MATIC also suggests that initially, in order to recruit, ISIS woes prospects by teaching them Islamic law and showing them the to This could then play into their fears of the afterlife and eventually have them do anything the organization wants. Modern Salafists now embrace this reasoning, and wreak havoc onto non-believers, mixing modern methods like mass bombings to old Jihadist rituals such as beheadings. The actions of modern Salafists have sparked a huge uproar within modern Muslim nations, majority of which, by decree, solemnly reject these actions and casting the perpetrators as the greatest sinners and a disgrace to Islam. James Beverly, a Religious Studies scholar agrees with this notion. He suggests that Islam is indeed a religion of peace and ISIS stains its believers as being violent. He suggests that God command people to terrorize one another to prove his word, but encourages be kind to our neighbors, love our children and respect our He further asserts that no religion is governed by violence and religious organizations such as Abdelbari 3 ISIS misuses religion as a means of attaining power and other material benefits. Beverly interestingly suggests that the term Jihad is conveniently transliterated to by terrorist groups to mean war but its true meaning is a translation used, taught, and embraced by millions of Muslims. However, it is hard to say that the actions of modern Jihadist groups are uncharacteristic of a Muslim when these violent displays are clearly highlighted and glorified in the Holy Quran. Author Gerecht Marc alludes to this in his article of He suggests that Islam must be deemed a violent religion since they are texts in the Quran that quotes violence. He directly quotes perhaps the most famous and controversial verse in the Holy Quran, In the 5 th verse of the 9 th surah (Surah 9:5), God suggests that followers idolaters where ye see and them captive and besiege the very actions that groups govern themselves by and carry out. Actually, the violent verse ends with strong words saying surely Army will be the exact words printed on the flag of Hezbollah, (another violent Islamic group) with the imagery of a hand grasping an assault rifle. They are many other religiously affiliated terrorist groups that do not receive the same attention as ISIS. Author Steven in his book with speaks about being under a (Wells 122) and suggests that in the Church, Christians often point fingers at other religions, a prayer for when they too are a very violent religion. Christian groups such as The LRA Resistance Army) are still functional in Central Africa today. They have captured and displaced over 400,000 Congolese and accounted for the deaths of over 8,000 people in Central Africa. How come this religious warfare is not commonly known to everyone such as ISIS? Robert Mackey a journalist for the New York Times explains that groups such as the LRA does not affect the Abdelbari 4 super powers of the world and thus gets over-looked. He goes onto say that the media will not go to places like Uganda because the LRA does not harm central talk points of the world like the USA or England and thus will not make for an interesting story. He said the only reason that people are so informed about ISIS is because of their capturing of Americans which caused America to get directly involved. The hype then caught on and now every western media station was broadcasting documentaries on ISIS and Islamic Extremism and that has caused stagnant outlook of Westerners onto Islam and their people when any more violent than Christianity being an older religion faced similar problems that Islam is facing today. Many people would question the scriptures of the Bible because of violent content that extreme followers would use to carry out violent attacks. Christian Extremists groups such as the KKK (Ku Klux Klan) used texts from the Holy Bible as grounds to terrorize people in the 1800s. Christian wars caused thousands of deaths in eastern Europe and at the time man was evolving from violence. So how did they eradicate it? It was polished off in future generations by the publication of the This middle ground modified the old violent Bible and focused more on the teachings of Christ, the bringer of peace and is what majority of Christians believe in today. Likewise, this needs to be done with the Holy Quran. Author Millard Moon, suggests this in his article He suggests that in order to combat terrorism, one must first understand what they stand for. He states that it is going to be a never-ending battle of who is Muslim and who is not, but rather if each party accepts each other as Muslim then they can understand where each may be at fault. There are many ways to please God, not just by violent outbursts. If people stop teaching the violent parts of religion then the violent groups can focus their passion on another pillar of Islam such as brotherhood, charity, and prayer. Showing Abdelbari 5 and spreading these pillars would cause more non-believers to gravitate towards Islam which was indeed the initial goal of Prophet Muhammad in the This method eradicated violence for the most part in Christianity and brought rise to the new testament. An Islamic version of this would be the ideal compromise which can show passive believers to be more stern and extremists to be less violent but all believers to focus their energy on the pillars of Islam that brings peace to the world. Eradicating religious wars can eventually save thousands of lives in the world and stop stereo types. Today the world is seeing extreme measures to shun people like refugees or people looking for a better opportunity because they cannot be trusted to be peaceful. Removing violence in religion re-instills trust amongst people and unites the world. Abdelbari 6 Works Cited Amit, Meir Meir Amit Terrorism and Information ISIS: Portrait of a Jihadi (2014) Print. Beverley, James. Is Islam A Religion Of Peace?: The Controversy Reveals A Struggle For The Soul Of  Christianity Today 46.1 (2002): 32. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Mackey, Robert. The The New York Times 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 30 Jan. 2017 Moon, Millard E. Defeating ISIS: Who They Are, How They Fight, What They  Journal Of Strategic Security 9.2 (2016): 127. Supplemental Index. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. The Holy Bible, Containing the Old and New Testaments. New York: T. Nelson & Sons, 1901. Print. Wells, Steve. Drunk with Blood: Killings in the Bible. United States: Giordano, 2010. Print.