Ragoobar 1 Selena Ragoobar L.E. (Lisa) DuBois ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project 1: Intermediate Draft In the United States of America, obesity is increasing at a dangerous rate due to the lack of a balanced diet and exercise. Large contributing factors can include the unhealthy, inexpensive, and readily available food they consume. According to the United States Healthful Food Council, on average most American adults consume a meal or snack from a restaurant 5.8 times on a weekly basis, and more than 30 percent of children eat fast food on any given day. (USHFC). One of the top contributors in the fast food industry is none other than the big yellow states that, purpose goes beyond what we sell. using our reach to be a positive force. For our customers. Our people. Our communities. Our Corporate). Organizations like the United States Healthful Food Council which is a, nonprofit, nongovernmental organization dedicated to fighting diet-related disease by realigning the food incentives with health (USHFC) are trying to provide americans with healthier food choices. These two organizations both have the hearts at interest but both would disagree on their health choices, a proposed compromise would suggest both organizations to cooperate together for to sell healthier food choices through the regulations and guidance of the United States Healthful Food Council. Ragoobar 2 is one of the leading fast food organizations in America. They state, proud of everything we do. And dedicated to doing more. Evolving alongside our customers. Building memories that last a lifetime. And goodwill that lasts Corporate). They believe that food should taste good, be inexpensive, and be fast. However their take on healthy food is questionable. However is taking somewhat of an approach towards making a change in the healthy direction by having goals reduce salt/ sodium, sugar, saturated fat, or calories across the menu as well as serve 100% more fruit, vegetables, low-fat dairy or whole grains by Corporate). The United States Healthful Food Council is a, nongovernmental organization dedicated to fighting diet-related disease by realigning the food incentives with health The USHFC is trying to change the world b tackling the food industry, as the stated, this issue head on and is filling a void in addressing the national epidemics of diabetes, obesity and cardiovascular disease. By partnering and certifying foodservice operations (restaurants, institutional and corporate dining facilities, catering and meal delivery services) as well as their suppliers, the USHFC can better align their interest with the We are proud to be working together to help confront our public health crises while also supporting the foodservice (USHFC). These two organizations both have the hearts at interest but both would disagree on their health choices, a proposed compromise would suggest both organizations to cooperate together to sell more healthier food choices at through the regulations and guidance of the United States Healthful Food Council. A way this compromise can be implemented is by incorporating healthier food choices into their menu and the USHFC supporting Ragoobar 3 by having their logo shown on the labels of foods. This way both organizations are giving something up but coming together for a greater good. An example of a similar compromise would be Chipotle Mexican Grill partnering with Food Inc., Inc. is a documentary exposing the unsavory practices of the .S. food industry, got an unlikely partner: Chipotle Mexican Grill, which is holding screenings for the (Brandweek). This compromise will be uge for the health food industry, just like the partnership with and The United States Healthfood Council. This is promising evidence that these types of compromises can be implemented. having to lose some profit, will hopefully implement healthier food choices into their menu with the guidance of the USHC, and the USHC having to lose their fight with and put their pride aside, will have to support by labeling their brand on products. In the end goal of having healthier food readily available and to decrease obesity rates in America. With much effort and small compromises it is evident that the larger Compromise between and the United States Healthfood Council can be implemented. Ragoobar 4 Works Cited Alviola, IV, Pedro A., et al. The Effect Of Fast-Food Restaurants On Childhood Obesity: A School Level  Economics And Human Biology 12.(2014): 110-119. ScienceDirect. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. de Rugy, Veronique. Two burritos for breakfast: I need mandatory food labels to tell me health food. And neither do  Reason Magazine 2015: 14. Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Jolley, Chuck. says no to GMOs,  Feedstuffs 2014: 8. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. United States Healthful Food Council . About The United States Healthful Food  United States Healthful Food Council USHFC. United States Healthful Food Council , n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Chipotle links with Food  Brandweek 2009: 3. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Ragoobar 5