Student 1 Student Composition II Instructor Lewis 29 January 2017 Post Traumatic Stress Disorder The Lone Survivor Foundation was established in 2010 by a man named Marcus Luttrell. In 2007, Luttrell wrote a New York Times Bestseller about his experience in Afghanistan. Lone Survivor Foundation restores, empowers, and renews hope for the wounded service members and their families through health, wellness, and therapeutic The website also discusses the struggle that veterans fight to overcome when they return home, most cannot return back to normal american life after their experience overseas. The Lone survivor Foundation has multiple goal they want to accomplish in order to help military veterans and their families cope with their experiences and adjust to their new lives after war. The vision and goals include build 3-4 retreat facilities, and enhance family structures and relationships through education, counseling, support, and inspiration using short-term retreats and referral and to and motivate Americans to recognize and offer support, mentorship, and care for our wounded service members and their The Lone Survivor Foundation has a large staff involved in making their vision a reality. Their website also includes images that capture the reality of what it is like to go through post traumatic stress. These images display a powerful message through the use of rhetoric appeals such as logos, ethos, pathos, kairos. Student 2 The first powerful image that capture my attention is found in a video posted on the Lone Survivor Foundation website. This picture displays a man who is clearly in distress sitting near what appears to be an alcoholic drink. He is portrayed as a strong and attractive man. His arms are large and he is hairy which establishes his masculinity. At a first glance, I would assume that he is sitting at a bar, his head is laying on the table with his chin on his forearm while his other arm is resting against his head. His forehead appears to be tense and his eyes are closed, this makes it clear that he is feeling some sort of pain whether it be physical or emotional. The drink that is sitting next to him suggests that his is trying to drink pain away. This image shows just how powerful post traumatic stress disorder can be for those who have served overseas. This image suggests that if this masculine, tough-looking man cannot overcome his pain alone then it is okay for others to reach out for help. This image is persuasive and has strong rhetoric appeals. This first image displays the Lone Survivor pathos. Pathos is the use of persuasion through emotion. American society expects men to be strong and emotionless, so it is shocking to see a picture of a masculine man who appears to be in such distress. Looking at this image is honestly heartbreaking. Through this image you can tell that this man has experienced so much loss and tragedy and it is so sad to know that so many men and women are dealing with this pain. The purpose of this emotional photo is to let others know that they are not alone and that many others are experiencing the same pain and that it is okay for them to seek help. Another rhetoric used in this image is ethos. Ethos is found in the Lone Survivor Foundation logo that is presented on the upper left corner of the image. This logo establishes creditability through the legitimacy of the Student 3 logo. Overall, this powerful image will help others relate to the pain of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and hopefully help other reach out if they are in need of treatment. The second image displays a man and a women, both are clearly in distress. The man is looking away with his hand resting on his forehead while the chin is resting on her hand. They both appear to be deep in thought and emotionally upset. The stress they are feeling is portrayed mainly through their facial expressions. The eyebrows are scrunched together as if she is in pain, but the viewer knows that it is an emotional pain. The ring on the finger indicates that the picture is of a married couple. It is also assumed that one of them is experiencing Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. That fact that they are looking away from each other signifies the emotional distance they are feeling towards each other. It is apparent that one of them has been through a major trauma but it has a strong effect on both of them. This image is meant to be seen by the family members of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder victims in order to show them that they can can provide resources for them as well. One of the more powerful rhetorics used in this image is kairos. This image is very appropriate for this website because it is important for the families of PTSD victims to know that they are victims as well and they also deserve counseling and support. Another rhetoric appeal used in this image is logos, which is persuasion through logic. Even though the picture displays a couple clearly experiencing strong emotions there is logic in the fact that these people are struggling and they need support. When this image is thought about from a logical standpoint, one could figure that is important for people in this state to find emotional help. Families who are experiencing the struggle of trying to support someone with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder will know that there is help for them as well when they view this image. Student 4 Through the use of powerful images and strong rhetoric appeals, The Lone Survivor Foundation is portrayed as a compassionate organization that could greatly improve the lives of combat service members who struggle with Post Traumatic Stress after they return home. This is apparent through the two images found in their video. The Lone Survivor images show that they work hard in offering support and counseling through their staff and organized retreats. It is apparent that The Lone Survivor Foundation truly care about victims of Post Traumatic Stress and their families. (WC: 1,017) Student 5 Works Cited: Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton,MA:XanEdu, 2016. E-text Luttrell, Marcus. Never  Survivor Foundation . N.p., 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Image 1 Student 7 Image 2