Student 1 Student Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Homelessness Homelessness is a recurring problem not only in the United States of America but also globally. The world has had trouble finding solutions because it takes everyone to do their part to stop this tragedy. I admire the people who are trying to put an immediate end to this even though there will not be a simple solution. The stakeholder I am using for this project is The National Alliance to End Homelessness, which is a global organization that reduces homelessness throughout the world. The main goal of the organization is to ultimately put an end to homelessness, which will be tough but it is doable is everyone does their job. This organization targets an audience of everyone who wants to help stop homelessness and wants to step up in the community. The purpose of The National Alliance to End website is to give insight to viewers that do not know much about homelessness. I honestly had little insight on how big of a problem homelessness is until I visited this website and browsed through it. I used two images off of the organizations website, the first picture is an image of three veterans sitting on a bench, the second picture is of an old man with poor hygiene. The pictures will contribute to the organizations main goal because these pictures will appeal to the sympathy in people and will encourage people to donate money to put towards ending homelessness. The first picture is three military veterans sitting on the bench together, this shows many different perspectives about homelessness that will appeal to the audience. First and foremost, Student 2 the fact that they are veterans will appeal to the audience, everybody wishes the best for our veterans because they served so bravely to defend our rights and now to see them homeless is unacceptable. The fact that the three veterans are all matching shows solidarity, even though they are homeless they will still stick together through thick and thin. The logos being used by this organization is clear, people do not want to see veterans serve our country and then end up being homeless living a rough life. The ethos, or credibility of this picture is the website that it is on. This picture is on the official website of the biggest organization to stop homelessness; the material being shown in the picture becomes credible due to the location on the internet. If this picture was found on google images it would not have the same credibility than it does being found on an official website. This picture shows that the veterans are just relaxing not panicking asking for money and maintaining their self-dignity. All in all, this image will be highly affective to the targeted audience to achieve their goal which is for people to either donate to the cause or be active in the homelessness community. The second picture is of an older man who looks to have some bad health hygiene. This image does not show homelessness characteristics per say, but thanks to how official the site is the picture is now credible. This image is used on the website to show chronic homelessness, which is when homelessness lasts for a long time or is recurring for an individual. This type of homelessness is very tragic because it will continue to tear down the individual without a home. The organization wants the audience to see this picture and feel sympathy for an old man who can catch a break and continues to struggle throughout his lfie. The audience should want to click the button that is provided on the website. There are many characteristics of the rhetoric strategies used in this picture to help to the cause. The man in this picture looks distressed and gloomy Student 3 because of his hygiene and living situation. The logos used for this picture is that we should put an end to chronic homelessness first, and then tackle the rest of the homelessness situations. If we can stop chronic homelessness, then it will have a domino effect on the rest of the problems. As stated before, this picture has credibility through the website that it is located on but the picture itself has some credibility on its own, looking at the facial expression and hygiene of the old man it truly looks like the man has been homeless for several years. The pathos that the organization is using for this picture is the same for most pictures on the website, they want the audience to feel bad for the homeless man and donate to the cause of putting an end to homelessness. Time is of the essence considering how long this man has been homeless for, at the point that he is at self-dignity is hard to come by because of how long he has been homeless. This image will put some urgency into the audience and get them to realize that the time to join the cause is now. Overall I think the National Alliance to End Homelessness did a fantastic job with selecting pictures for the official website. These pictures do help to the cause and get the job done for the organization which is to enlighten people about how serious homelessness is and get people to donate to the cause or join the cause to end it themselves. The web designers of the website have strategically placed pictures on the site that would effectively contribute to the cause and I must say job well done. It would be tough to go on the website and not click the button, especially after seeing these pictures and statistics about homelessness. I have analyzed each image visually and rhetorically and have come to the conclusion that they are successful images using multiple perspectives and rhetoric. I have learned about many new perspectives and positions of homelessness and have analyzed in depth about worldwide tragedy that I never thought too much about but this has been eye opening. (WC: 1010) Student 4 Works Cited Sheffield, Written By Jenna Pack. Jenna Pack  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://writingcommons.org/breaking-down-an-image>. Moxley, Written By Joe. Joe  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://writingcommons.org/visual-literacy>.