Student Page 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Treatment for Depression Depression is classified as a brain disorder characterized by feelings of severe dependency and dejection. With help from a medical professional, depression can be treated within months. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America was founded in 1979 to prevent, treat, and cure anxiety disorders and depression. This nonprofit organization supports public health, encourages the advancement of scientific knowledge, links patients with professionals. in addition, this organization provides information to break down the walls and ideas surrounding anxiety related disorders (About ADAA). Within their site one can find a plethora of visual images to help viewers understand what the organization is all about. These images range from educational mean all the way to those meant to connect with patients on an emotional level. By using images with an emotional/persuasive appeal, the ADAA are able to efficiently achieve all of their goals in a clear manner Upon entering the site, the first image one sees is one that speaks volumes (see fig. 1). Although the image is quite simple, the overall goal of the ADAA is clear and easy to understand. Persuasive techniques used include arrangement, color, and text (Sheffield). Figure 1 is arranged so that the left half shows a photograph while the left half correlates text with what is going on. The photograph of a person on top of a mountain with their hand raised, signals success to the viewer. If one is not yet sure, the words go on to over anxiety and Student Page 2 This image flows well together because the words do not lay directly on top of the image, but on a new layer to make the text pop. The creator used different colors and scale to draw the attention to the top text. As the text goes on the word progressively get smaller, possibly to show that it is an explanation of the text above it. Instead of using bold colors, the artist uses a set of soft hues, such as orange and purple, to create a peaceful visual impact. The overall goal of the image is to persuade the viewer. Thinking about all the visual appeals starting with the text, the viewer is immediately drawn to learn more about the organization. In medium size text, the words engage, educate and empower appear. This plays on the character or ethos. These words show exactly the ADAA intends to achieve from on their site. Upon clicking the button the user is instantly directed to the about page which provides information about their goal, how the site is organized and how to find help. Another rhetorical appeal is the draw to emotion in the viewer. It is a fact that we all want to succeed in life and overcome our troubles. This a play on the emotions of the viewer, also known as pathos. Looking at this image, someone who possibly feel like they are triumphant will want to gain this feeling. They will want to feel successful or as they are achieving something great, thus causing them to explore and learn more. The second visual comes from the managing anxiety page of the ADAA site (see fig. 2). This beautiful image has no words only vibrant colors and a strong sense of realism. In terms of visual literacy, the composition consists of balance, color, and emphasis (Moxley). Although the green grass background takes up most of the image, it is duller than the hand holding the earth. Each element appears brighter than the next without fading into the background. By putting a glow around the earth, the artist created a strong emphasis about his intent. One can assume that Student Page 3 he wants the viewer to feel special, that the in his/her hands. Compositionally, this image is perfectly symmetrical in all aspects. In a combination with the design factors, the visual appeal of figure 2 pulls on emotions. The pathos in this image dopes a good job with connecting to the audience. The bright and warm colors make the viewer want to capture the earth. The artist is trying to possibly convey the message that we have the power to make our life great and vibrant. This message aligns perfectly with the goal of the Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Users of the sight can visually see that the organization wants to give power back to those who feel they have none. As there is no text, it is hard to find another rhetorical appeal. One thing that can be assumed is there is a certain amount of logos in the placement of the image. The simple fact that the image was placed on the managing anxiety page shows a logical correlation. The image is all about regaining that thing that you lost, which goes perfect with managing anxiety. It is clear that those who designed that page thought the same thing because the image is strategically placed below a link to a (Managing Anxiety). By breaking down images found on the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, the user is able to fully grasp the organizations intentions. In both images, we found color that brought on a sense of calm and relation. This can be taken to show that the organization is welcoming to all. In figure one, one see the end game of what the organization hopes to gain from each viewer of the site, whether it be those seeking treatment or those who are just curious. Overall, figure one was about seeing the goal one wanted to reach with figure the grasping the goal and regaining control. After reviewing, the site one could see how each image works with the page to create a working dynamic. As well as, how each image was vital in creating the appeal that the organization wanted for its viewers. Commented Student Page 4 Works Cited About  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.adaa.org/about-adaa>. Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.adaa.org/>.  Depression & Anxiety (sertraline HCI) Safety Info. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://www.zoloft.com/>. Managing  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., Nov. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.adaa.org/living-with-anxiety/managing-anxiety>. Moxley, Written By Joe. Joe  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://writingcommons.org/visual-literacy>. Sheffield, Written By Jenna Pack. Jenna Pack  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. g-down-an-image&catid=434%3Abreaking-down-an-image&Itemid=289>. Student Page 5 Fig. 1 https://www.adaa.org/ Fig. 2 https://www.adaa.org/living-with-anxiety/managing-anxiety