Jennifer Moreno Casey Clague ENC1102.076 1 February 2016 Improving the Mental Health of Senior Citizens Most people would agree that elderly people, or senior citizens, live a different life than other adults. While other adults live a very hectic, busy life, elderly people have a much more laid-back lifestyle where they necessarily plan out what going to be doing each day. Because their lifestyles are so different it would make sense that they have to put in more effort in order to keep their brain activity at a highly functioning level. The businesses that offer exercise programs for seniors may consider exercise to be the best method for brain stimulation, whereas other places consider brain puzzles to be especially helpful for seniors. A compromise between these two could be reached by encouraging seniors to spend some of their time exercising and some time solving puzzles. The belief that the best method of brain stimulation is exercise lies both in research and connections to other health benefits. Researcher P.O. Lang and his colleagues did a study observing the benefits of a short-term fitness program for seniors in 2017, which serves as evidence for the validity of this claim that exercise is beneficial for seniors. In describing their basis for conducting this study, they cited previous research that has shown that exercise and movement have positive physical and physiological effects. They also cited other research that found that the lack of such movement was the reverse - it resulted in negative physical and physiological effects (Lang et al. 1). After having cited some sources as inspiration, they began to discuss how they conducted their study and their findings. The study was longitudinal, and they conducted in 3 different centers or areas, and there were 232 participants : 132 men and 100 women. The majority of their participants came from the urban locations of Northern France (the location of two of the centers), though some of them also came from rural locations. They recorded their physical activity prior to the study and found that 151 participants were physically active prior to the study (Lang et al. 3). This large amount of active participants might have had an effect on the results, as most of this group would be comfortable with physical activity and have a more positive attitude about it. From this large group of participants with a diverse background and varying levels of physical activity, the researchers conducted their study. They had all of the participants take part in an intermittent work exercise program (IWEP). In this program, they had the participants do 30 minutes of cycling twice a week for nine weeks. They recorded the state of several standard health conditions (such as mental health, bodily pain, and general health) before the program and after the program. The results of the experiment were that, on average, the seniors improved in every area of health by a noticeable margin, whether they were active prior to the experiment or not. In addition, those that were originally sedentary improved more than those that were active prior to the experiment(Lang et al. 5). These results showed that overall, a specific exercise program is beneficial to mental health as well as their physical health. Through this study, as well as others, businesses that offer exercise programs to seniors in order to improve their health have credibility. Another method of improving the mental and physical health of an elderly person is to have them solve brain puzzles. In another study, Takayuki Nozawa and other colleagues studied the effects of cognitive training on cognitive function, brain structure and driving safety. They divided their participants into three groups : C, P, and V. In group C, they trained them through crossword puzzles, group P with online driving programs, and group V with onboard driving programs (Nozawa et al. 3). The group that the stakeholder in this conversation is concerned with in this situation is group C. Following the training program, the researchers recorded the change in all of the variables that they are observing. In group C, in terms of cognitive function there a complete increase in all areas of function, but they did experience an increase in memory function and an improvement in cognitive impairment (Nozawa et al. 9). In addition, they experienced an increase in the area of white matter in their brain, however they did not do as well as the other groups when it comes to driving safety. This information is very important for seniors who have certain goals and needs that they expect to be achieved through solving puzzles. For seniors that fear the memory function increase and decrease in cognitive impairment could be especially useful. On the other hand, if there are elderly people that would like cognitive improvement as well as assistance in driving safety, this may not be their best option. Although crossword puzzles may not have the overall improvement that exercise does, they are beneficial and help improve memory, an area that exercise does not affect. Though both of these groups have different ideas about which method is the most effective in helping seniors, they both aim to benefit these seniors. For each of these stakeholders, their main goal is to sell their customer a product or service, and for the customer to enjoy and appreciate the good or service and continue to return to them for service. In order to have a returning customer, this customer has to feel satisfied with the good or service and feel that it effectively achieves the goal that the customer expects from it. If the groups that believe in the benefits of exercise for seniors can work in conjunction with those who believe that brain puzzles are most effective in helping seniors, then the senior - who would be the customer- experiences the benefits of both of these methods. In this situation, it would be likely that both stakeholders can benefit and simultaneously help the seniors even more. This leads to the idea that the best compromise between businesses that provide fitness programs to seniors and businesses that provide brain puzzles in order to improve their brain activity could come to a compromise by promoting that their customers take part in both exercise and puzzles. Many elderly people have a lot of spare time, especially considering a large portion of them are retired. In addition, it has been shown that both exercise and brain puzzles are beneficial to the brain activity of seniors. Therefore seniors have the time and resources to exercise and engage in brain puzzles. If they engage in both, it will be more likely that they feel satisfied with the results of their activities and will continue to do so. This will benefit both businesses that promote fitness and those that promote brain puzzles. In conclusion, the most effective method for helping seniors to increase their brain activity would be to have them take part in exercise and brain puzzles. Both of these activities are beneficial to their brain stimulation on their own, so undertaking both tasks will be even more helpful for the elderly, and it will also be beneficial to those organizations that produce exercise programs and brain puzzles. As they both receive benefits, this compromise would be their best option. Works Cited Lang, P.O., et al. Research Paper: Determinants Of The Benefits Of A Short-Term Personalized Intermittent Work Exercise Program (IWEP) Among Seniors: Results From The CAPS  European Geriatric Medicine 7.(2016): 333-339. ScienceDirect. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Nozawa, Takayuki, et al. Effects Of Different Types Of Cognitive Training On Cognitive Function, Brain Structure, And Driving Safety In Senior Daily Drivers: A Pilot  Behavioural Neurology (2015): Academic OneFile. Web. 3 Feb. 2017.