1 PROJECT 1: SHOULD UNIFORMS BE ENFORCED IN PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLS? Project 1: Should Uniforms be enforced In Public High Schools? Rebecca Blackler University of South Florida 2 PROJECT 1: SHOULD UNIFORMS BE ENFORCED IN PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLS? Today, the majority of teenagers in America are allowed to wear their own clothes to school while following a certain dress code. This dress code could be anywhere from not being allowed to wear leggings to not showing off shoulders. On the other hand, extremely difficult to come across a public school in the United Kingdom which does not enforce a uniform. It could benefit the United States if they followed their footsteps. School boards (as the first stakeholder) would be for this principle as it just make the students look professional but there are benefits of decreases in discipline, gang involvement, and bullying. Furthermore, students are said to improve their work ethic while in professional clothing. Even though introducing a school uniform has many benefits, students (the second stakeholder) approve as easily compared to faculty and staff. Teenagers want to be able to express their style and show that not like everyone else at the school they attend. It is important for a person to figure out who they are while growing up. A solution for this would be for public high schools to wear uniforms Monday through Thursday during the week and then wear their own clothes every Friday. As previously stated, school uniforms are easy to come across while being in England. It was originally adopted during the 16 th century when children who came from a poor family had to wear By wearing the cloak it told the public that they came from a lower status family. As time passed uniforms were soon adopted into private schools. Soon by the 19 th century uniforms were being worn in public schools. Wilken, I., & Aardt, A. V. (2012) At this point of time uniforms were used to hide how rich the students were, to create equality among the students. Typically a student would have a blazer, tie, and either dress pants or a skirt. Each school would be slightly different, normally by color and tie style so that they would be recognized for what school they go to. Even though uniforms were originally to keep secret behind which families had a lot of money, a lot more benefits came from wearing them. The National School Board Association (NSBA) believes that education for children must be top priority as well as having academic success in public schools. School Board (2017) This states that the NSBA believes in education first over any other thing. Therefore, school uniforms could be beneficial by adding to making sure that education is a top priority. Sanchez, J. E., Yoxsimer, A., & Hill, G. C. (2012) wrote an article on collecting data from a school who just adopted wearing a school uniform, it was noted how referrals were reduced, inappropriate behavior had decreased, 3 PROJECT 1: SHOULD UNIFORMS BE ENFORCED IN PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLS? and police log reports decreased. Just by the students wearing a uniform they became more disciplined and less likely to commit crimes, therefore, focusing more on the school work and their education. Wilken, I., & Aardt, A. V. (2012) created a research aim determine the perspectives of parents, learners and about mandatory school uniforms. The study population was a random selection from different schools and areas. There were 8 main factors which the sample size rated, they were Functionality, Economic advantages/disadvantages, appearance, competition, Time-saving aspects, academic standards and behavior, safety considerations, and social benefits. In the end, the results showed that the majority of educators and parents liked the idea of enforcing a school uniform, Educators even seven of the eight factors higher than parents and learners Wilken, I., & Aardt, A. V. (2012) Even though educators and the school board would find school uniforms beneficial, students are less likely to be as excited for this change. Wilken, I., & Aardt, A. V. (2012) also found in their study that students as happy or enthusiastic about the idea of school uniforms, they rated each category lower compared to parents and educators. This could mean that they find it as beneficial compared to the other groups. While growing up children and teenagers go through multiple stages of who they want to be and, therefore, want to express themselves. Having the freedom to wear whatever a person wants has been a thing for a long time now. Vopat (2010) admits that there are benefits to school uniforms like higher attendance and being more productive, however, he also states that the school boards on the benefits of these policies to justify their Not only does Vopat (2010) state this but he also argues the point that it stops children from being aided in their of substantive This means that by having a uniform it limits children from being able to show off who they actually are or who they want to be. In the past there have been many court cases which have spoke about children and the freedom of expression. Vopat (2010) highlights a few in his article, Tinker v. Des Moines Community Independent School District is the only case which deals with expression that made it to the US Supreme Court. A few children went to school wearing black armbands to express how they disapproved in the Vietnam War, the principle noticed the start of a protest so banned everyone from wearing them to school. After taking it to court, the court stated how it fell under the protection of the First Amendment. Vopat (2010) 4 PROJECT 1: SHOULD UNIFORMS BE ENFORCED IN PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLS? Freedom of speech is something that a lot of people take seriously. However, some schools do have problems with students dressing inappropriately for school, therefore, creating a dress code. Yet there are a lot benefits by students wearing a school uniform as previously stated. Schools want to have a good reputation and create a good education for their students. So it would be beneficial for a uniform to be adopted in public schools to help improve attendance and reduce bad behavior. On the other hand, by doing this it limits a child by not being able to express themselves. A solution for this would be for students to wear a school uniform from Monday through Thursday and then letting the children wear their own clothes every Friday. This allows children to wear their favorite/new clothes once a week, also, it gives them longer to think about what they want to wear as well as add to the happy Friday feeling. The school would have to give up one day to let them wear their own clothes. A dress code would have to be put in place but not too harsh of a one where it completely limits the students. Students would have to compromise with wearing a uniform but still be able to show themselves off on Friday. They will have to buy uniforms which can be pricy but they will last a long time. Parents have to buy the clothing new either, it is easy to buy school uniforms second hand for a cheap price. Parents want their children to go to school and gain a good education. As previous articles have shown, parents also liked the idea of the benefits of a school uniform along with the educators. Uniforms have proven by the public and school who have adopted them to be beneficial. As Sanchez, J. E., Yoxsimer, A., & Hill, G. C. (2012) stated, attendance and school work approved as violence went down. Even though students get to wear what they want for the majority week, a school uniform will put them in professional attire to get them into the mood of school and learning. This will also means students will take less time getting ready in the morning. In the end, the school board will see an improvement in their school while students will gain a better education while being able to put more thought into what they want to wear to school on Fridays. 5 PROJECT 1: SHOULD UNIFORMS BE ENFORCED IN PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLS? Citations: National School Boards Association. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from https://www.nsba.org/ Sanchez, J. E., Yoxsimer, A., & Hill, G. C. (2012). Uniforms in the Middle School: Student Opinions, Discipline Data, and School Police Data. Journal of School Violence, 11(4), 345-356. doi:10.1080/15388220.2012.706873 Vopat, M. C. (2010). Mandatory school uniforms and freedom of expression. Ethics and Education, 5(3), 203-215. doi:10.1080/17449642.2010.519139 Wilken, I., & Aardt, A. V. (2012). School Uniforms: Tradition, benefit or predicament? Education as Change, 16(1), 159-184. doi:10.1080/16823206.2012.692211