Qihang Zhou Jan 29, 2017 Professor Poston Higher Taxation on Tobacco Products Smoking has been considered as chronic suicide secretly. Consuming tobacco product is regarded as deplete life. The severe damage to body attracted government attention. Smoking could help to release stress, but some activities have to put into the effort to improve the health. For example, we could see different cigarette manufacturer typically mark many kinds of notion on the cigarette case that smoking is bad for our health. However, sometimes people do not receive the response to those advertising. There are more powerful means it can take place, such as change the tax policy on tobacco productions. Regarding tax on tobacco products, the different scholar has different opinion, but we can separate those experts in two sides roughly. Most experts draw a conclusion that higher tax that imposed on tobacco can efficiently reduce smoking of the publics. Hoang Van, Kinh, et al. (2006) conclude that poor people mainly stay around the rich place are the more likely response to the price change. In another word, if government impose the tax on tobacco product, those people are more likely to reduce smoking. Bowser, Diana, David Canning, and Adeyemi Okunogbe (2016) got a similar result which is higher tax rate on cigarettes can moderate smoking rate and thus reduce death that generates from smoking. Salti, Nisreen, Elizabeth Brouwer, and Verguet (2016) also conclude that higher cigarettes tax decrease the volume of smoking of the publics. However, different voices still exist. Experts like Callison, Kevin, and Robert Kaestner, based on their research, conclude that there is no enough evidence to support the strong relationship between tax and smoking volume even tax and tobacco volume have the weak negative correlation, which is higher tax could reduce the only much amount of smoking. In general, the effect of tax imposed on smoking is ambiguous. Moreover, according to the Economic Week 2014, the analyzed report even obtained the result that higher tax may stimulate tobacco use. The rest of the paper would pick Hoang Van, Kinh, et al. and Callison, Kevin, and Robert Kaestner as two odds parts to analyze. Both of them can eventually come into agreement of help different group of people to stay aware from smoking. Then finally discuss possible ways to keep the health of smokers according to both papers. Hoang Van, Kinh, et al. wrote the paper uses data from 1997 to December 1998, tries to find the smoking habit of Vietnam. As is mentioned in this article, tax policy varies in different countries, but generally, tax occupies around two-third of the price of cigarettes, and it contributes the large proportion of government revenue. But, the tax on tobacco products in Vietnam is relatively small compared with other countries. Also, different from the fiscal policy of other countries, Vietnam added fixed amount tax on each pack of cigarette no matter what kind of brand or what kind of price. Consequently, once if government reduces the tax on cigarettes, the most noticeable effect is the price of cigarettes would reduce by the same amount. As predicted, the publics who earn low income occupy the majority of smokers. People who have small personal dispensable are more likely to affect the price change. It is what the paper concludes that the demand of smoking is elastic. More interestingly, after research by using different groups of income level, those poor people especially mixed with rich part are more responsible for the price change. Also, the authors further discussed the effective the tax policy on health. Apparently higher tax reduces the quantity of smoking, but the reduction of smoking does not mean protecting health. Increase tax on tobacco products will Shift tobacco products consumers to low price cigarettes instead of stops them from smoking altogether. Low-price cigarettes are usually non-filtered cigarettes with poor quality tobacco, which have severe damage to body. High-quality tobacco is subject to strict inspection of all kinds of perspective. The manufacturer will maximum reduce harmful substances composition. However, cigarettes with low price cannot achieve this because improve quality of tobacco means to increase the large proportion of costs. At the same time, when the government increased the tax to make price higher, low-price products become more attractive. Thus, increase tax of tobacco product indeed reduce the amount of consumption of tobacco products, but the resulted consumption of poor quality of cigarettes even more harmful to body. The paper written by Callison, Kevin, and Robert Kaestner have the different point of view. The authors use Current Population Survey Tobacco Use Supplements to make a regression model, try to find the current relationship between smoking volume and tax rate. Fiscal policy in the investigating place is quite different from Vietnam. Fixed rate of tax is applied. So, that tax moderate market prices of different cigarettes. Cigarettes with the higher price added more tax and vice versa. According to historical data, the overall smoking quantity is decreasing as time goes on together with the increase of tax rate. After such a long time, the tax rate of tobacco products is pretty high. Those who cares and highly response to price change had already given up their hobby. The majority of smokers regarding their research place are dominated by who have strong preference of smoking. It is true that increased tax will shift smokers to relatively cheaper products. But, considering the small gap of prices between right or wrong cigarettes, move to a cheaper brand is even not worth to have a try. From this perspective, increase the tax on tobacco product would not cause the significant decrease in smoking. The first reason is fiscal policy had already moderate market prices. Thus, there is no big difference between high-quality cigarettes and low-quality cigarettes. Secondly, those who were still smoking have the high preference of smoking. Those people could accept such high price and would not be able to affect the price change. Moreover, using regression model mathematically confirmed that the relationship was proofed as a week relationship even there is the existence of the negative correlation between tax rate and smoking volume. The authors further put forward that change tax of tobacco products do not protect the health of smokers. The best way to prevent from damage of smoking is relevant education before adults start smoking. These two papers seem different opinion about how tax policy affects choice. However, they focused on the same point and supported each other. The first article thinks higher tax added into tobacco productions will lead to decrease to smoking, which also clarified in the second paper. It is the facts of the second article which put forwarded at the beginning to define the trend of relationship between smoking and tax rate. The only difference is these two papers are using different groups of people. The first paper uses data from a miserable place, whereas the second paper uses data of smokers who do not care about prices. Furthermore, the first paper concludes that higher tax will shift consumers to cheaper, low-quality products, which have greater damage to body. Thus, increase tax does not, in fact, protect publics from smoking. This point of view also demonstrated from the second paper. The second paper believes changing tax does not affect consumption of smokers, and consequently, higher tax does not necessarily protect health. All in all, both articles try to seeking an efficient way to protect smoker. They all believe fiscal policy is not a good way to prevent smokers. Works Cited Bowser, Diana, David Canning, and Adeyemi Okunogbe. The Impact Of Tobacco Taxes On Mortality In The USA,  Tobacco Control 25.1 (2016): 52. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Callison, Kevin, and Robert Kaestner. Do Higher Tobacco Taxes Reduce Adult Smoking? New Evidence Of The Effect Of Recent Cigarette Tax Increases On Adult  Economic Inquiry 1 (2014): 155. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Levy, David, et al. The Effect Of Imposing A Higher, Uniform Tobacco Tax In  Health Research Policy And Systems, Vol 4, Iss 1, P 6 (2006) 1 (2006): 6. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. New Smoking Data Have Been Reported by Researchers at University of Illinois (Do Higher Tobacco Taxes Reduce Adult Smoking? New Evidence Of The Effect Of Recent Cigarette Tax Increases On Adult  Health & Medicine Week 2014: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Salti, Nisreen, Elizabeth Brouwer, and StePhane Verguet. The Health, Financial And Distributional Consequences Of Increases In The Tobacco Excise Tax Among Smokers In  Social Science & Medicine (2016): 161. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.