Brown 1 Amani Brown Josue ENC 1102 29 Jan 2017 Children with cochlear implants proposal There has been a struggle between the Deaf community and parents of a deaf child since the minority first gathered and organized themselves as a culture with an identity. The issue with the two parties lies within the question which world does the deaf child belong Ella Mae Lentz, a Deaf poet, wrote a poem in April 2010 named a Hearing and posted a video of the poem (along with English subtitles) that perfectly captures the tug-of-war battle between the parent of a deaf child and the Deaf community. Within this poem Lentz describes the child, deaf hair, eyes and body is like yours. However, his soul, mind and heart will be like (Ella Lentz, YouTube). Lentz even goes on to state that even though the child is the son, he is of her people, the deaf community. The conflict has escalated with the arrival of the cochlear implant, a medical device that relays sound signals to the brain by doing the work of the damaged inner ear mechanism. Parents view the cochlear implant as a sort of corrective surgery for their disability that will ultimately help the deaf child successfully integrate into society, and even though this goal is shared by the Deaf, some in the group still feel slighted against due to the parents treating deafness as a disability and feel the cochlear implant at such a young age will be the end of the Deaf Culture. To satisfy and benefit both parties, families who have implanted children should be required to learn a signed language to facilitate a method of communication between parent and child and also foster a relationship between the community and the child. Brown 4 To begin with, when a parent first receives the diagnoses that their child is deaf or has a degree of deafness the response is generally negative. The news that child is is disheartening at the least and parents often respond with disbelief, sadness and anger. While this is expected, these emotions can become detrimental for the child the longer the parent harbors these feelings. This is supported by Santhi Prakash who did a comparative study that measured the level of stress and depression in mothers with children who wore hearing aids and mothers of children with cochlear implant and stated that these feelings can and will manifest into depression which is bad for that child because mothers have been found to be less sensitive to their need and hence are less effective at nurturing language and psycho- social development in their These findings are in accordance with another study done by Sophie Ambrose where mothers of children with hearing loss were observed and compared to mothers with children who have normal hearing and the mothers of the children with hearing loss were likely than their counterparts to provide no response to (pg.519). As evident in the study by Prakash, the cochlear implant does not solve a problems. Though a hearing may be methods of communication and parental- child relationships are still strained; there is still a gap that needs to be bridged. On the other side of the fence, the cochlear implant has some of the Deaf community worried about the future of their culture. While the implant could be a saving grace to hearing parents of deaf children, the opposite could be said for this community. Children and adults with severe to profound hearing loss are the main candidates for the cochlear implant surgery, which is why Julie Mitchiner stated in her article, the Deaf Community was against Brown 4 cochlear implants, fearing for the loss of their language and (pg. 51) Ella Lentz best expresses this issue in her poem by likening the deaf child to a tree and saying that: He is like a tree which nobody knows. Without us, the Deaf, the tree will be lonely and wither, having no soul. However, without [the hearing there would be no tree. And our great people and language would rapidly dwindle. (Ella Lentz, Youtube) If every deaf child born to hearing parents is implanted and raised to be like the hearing majority then where lies the future of the Deaf? Ambrose has noted a shift in the general feelings towards cochlear implants due to deaf parents of deaf children now opting to implant their children. (pg. 51) This change is the beginning to the bridged gap between the world of hearing parents and the Deaf community. In correspondence with the shift in community, deaf parents agreeing to cochlear implants for their deaf children leads to bimodal bilingualism which is defined as both a visual/manual language and an aural/oral (Ambrose, pg 51) So this method nurtures a cultural relationship between parent and child but still teaches the English so that they can integrate into the hearing society. Bimodal bilingualism is the conduit between the hearing and the Deaf that will be beneficial for the implanted child. Studies show that since bimodal bilingualism allows for interaction between both the hearing and the deaf which enables for development of social and psychosocial skills. (pg. 52) This method also allows for Deaf participation which helps with identity formation in the implanted child. Brown 4 In short, parents who have children with cochlear implants should be required to promote bimodal bilingualism; to learn a signed language to facilitate a method of communication between parent and child and also foster a relationship between the community and the child.