Intermediate Draft Caceres !1 Karina Caceres James Josue ENC 1102 Section 082 January 29, 2017 Euthanasia This morally problematic topic has been discussed amongst many. Both stake holders be- ing the doctors and the public are involved in this argument regarding assisted suicide. Many feel that legalizing euthanasia may go against the moral code that they completely live by even though they would be the process would be completed consensually. The two sides of this debate regard arguments about morality and choice. The physicians feel as though they are held to a moral standard that involves helping each and every individual, some feel as though assisting the patient would go against the natural course of his/her life. Some feel as though the patient may not be in the right mindset to make these decisions about their own end. Yet the patient should be able to choose for themselves. Physicians and patients can come to a compromise regarding how and when euthanasia would be appropriate. The patients seeking help through euthanasia should not be denied their rights. In an arti- cle written by Jukka Varelius, Euthanasia, Physician-assisted suicide, and the Right to do it is argued that personal morals should be put aside in the light of a suffering pa- tients life. Each and every person has the right to have a decision about their own life. A patient living with sickness and faced with suffering has the moral right to consensual euthanasia despite the feeling that it is morally incorrect. If someone has suggested that they are miserable and in search to end their life in a controlled setting, they should not be denied that right because a Intermediate Draft Caceres !2 physician should not have rule over another persons decisions. Many patients are just looking to escape the endless suffering been bound to. Doctors are posed a moral duty to help patients and in helping that patient in suicide An academic article taken from the journal a specific example is discussed, doctor Nigel Cox had an emotional connection to his patient Mrs. Boyes. Boyes was Dr. Cox patient for thirteen years when he decided that she should be freed from her suffering. Which stirred up the emotions of a nurse practitioner, Roison Hart, who was on Mrs. Boyes case. Hart felt as though it was her duty to not allow compassion into dictating her judgement and decided to contact the authorities regarding Dr. executive call to assisted Mrs. Boyes in her own suicide. As hu- mans we are always using compassion in committing our everyday actions, to expect a doctor not to have compassion for their suffering patient is irrational. Patients and doctors can compromise by applying that very same human compassion. As a suffering patient pleads to be saved, a doctor should not have the right to decide what is moral- ly correct or incorrect. Ethically physicians feel as though it goes against their code to take a life, yet in any case it would be helping the patient to fulfill their wishes. Intermediate Draft Caceres !3 Work Cited Varelius, Jukka. Voluntary Euthanasia, Physician-Assisted Suicide, and the Right to Do  HEC Forum 25.3 (2013): 229-43. Web. Begley, A. M. Guilty But Good: Defending Voluntary Active Euthanasia From a Virtue  Nursing Ethics 15.4 (2008): 434-45. Web.