Smalls 1 Jasmine Smalls Martha Heiser ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Getting paid to do something you absolutely love is a dream most people have. Some people would even do it without receiving pay. So what happens when you feel as though you are giving more than you are receiving even if in the end you love what you do? This situation is like the one college athletes are in. Should they be paid to do what they love even though it is an extracurricular? This is the predicament that athletes and The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) are in. From football teams to rifle teams, the NCAA is the organization that runs college sport programs. This association is where college athletes receive scholarships from and other benefits if they are eligible. Student athletes feel as though the NCAA is being unfair with the benefits they are receiving. Feeling as though they deserve more, college athletes want to receive actual pay for playing the sport. Being that the NCAA is in charge of college sports, athletes are looking to them for the reason they are not being paid. Dating back to 1910, the NCAA has always been around for college sports. It was always their duty to make the rules for college athletic sports. Ensuring that college athletes continue to focus on getting an education, today, the NCAA has a set of rules titled NCAA membership has adopted amateurism rules to ensure the priority remains on obtaining a quality educational experience and that all of student-athletes are competing ). The NCAA uses the rules Smalls 2 of amateurism to make sure that athletes keep their focus on receiving an education more than they do the sport they play. By setting the rules for amateurism, it allows for the sport to remain as just an extracurricular. A rule listed under amateurism is the statement that salary for participating athletes is not allowed (NCAA). This is the rule that the NCAA and college athletes are debating today. College athletes are pushing for a salary from the NCAA. College athletes believe that all their hard work and dedication should be rewarded with a paycheck. They claim that with all the expenses they have, they have the money to pay for them. These expenses include food, clothes, and medical costs. It has been said by college athletes that due to all the time spent in preparing for games and competitions, they have time for a part-time job like the average student. Coaches get paid based on how good their teams perform. With that being said, when it comes to that big game that coming up, coaches work their athletes out and practice more than the usual to make sure they win the upcoming game. This adds to more time being taken from the athlete to be able to work and make money. In the article titled College Athletes Say They Need Pay to Cover Basic Costs of Living by Ray Glier, student football player Chris Conley states end up doing all those things, and you get back to your room at such a late time, you need to study. There is no time for a (Glier). Athletes like Chris Conley put in so much effort for the sport which only gives them so much time left over to study. With a schedule like this, college athletes feel as though they have another way of making money. To relieve the stress of not having money for necessities, college athletes want to be able to get paid. Smalls 3 Furthermore, some college athletes come from a background less fortunate than others. Not all athletes can phone home when money gets tight and they need certain things. College athletes are adults so circumstances may differ from person to person. In an interview, college athlete Kevin stated able to call home and be like ya know please send me this, send you know I had to gut it out with whatever we was getting at the time was like thirty dollars when you were on (Beamon 359). Not all athletes, such as those like Kevin, have the benefit of having a fortunate support group that can just kick out money. Some families have financial issues on their own attempting to pay for their college education. Athletes in predicaments like these would greatly appreciate receiving pay from NCAA. The NCAA supports college sports and education. With different types of scholarships and benefits, the NCAA feels as though college athletes get enough. Most college athletes receive full tuition based scholarships on Division 1 teams regardless of how they do on the field or court. Stated in an article written by Veronica Majerol titled Should College Athletes be Paid?, NCAA says top athletes get other benefits, like often covering college degrees that prepare them for the (15). The NCAA is saying that pay adding pay to the benefits of an athlete would basically be giving too much. They believe that scholarships and a degree is what they should be getting rewards. The NCAA see college athletes as pros. The purpose of college athletes is to provide entertainment rather than being an employee. The NCAA also believes that by paying top college sport athletes like those who play basketball or football, it can cause unfairness for other sports. Smalls 4 The NCAA argues that the big-money sports essentially subsidize sports that bring in any profits, like lacrosse and soccer. Such programs might suffer or even be eliminated if the more profitable programs suddenly had to give top athletes a cut of revenues (Majerol 15). By putting more money into sports, smaller sports will be shorted. Money earned by more popular sports fund smaller sports costs. If the NCAA begins to pay athletes, that takes away from smaller sports causing them to be put in financial situations. That be fair in the eyes of the NCAA sense other people still are entertained by these smaller sports. It could be deemed as unfair sense all athletes put in an effort when it comes to any sport. Paying popular sport athletes and not doing the same for the smaller sport athletes be fair. By not paying college athletes, this prevents another problem from arising with the argument of it being unfair. It also keeps other sports funded so they can continue to participate. College athletes strive for pay from the NCAA while the NCAA strives for success in their athletes. Athletes feel as though if their time is being taken up to the point where they get a part time job to buy what they need then they are going to need a cut of what the NCAA makes off of the athletes performance. The athletes need money for food, clothes, and medical bills just in case an injury occurs but the NCAA might feel as though this is giving the athlete more when they already receive enough in scholarship. With the concern of athletes losing focus in getting a degree, the NCAA can provide scholarships solely based on academic performance. If the desire to excel at sport outweighs the motivation to obtain a high grade point average (GPA) at college, it could ultimately lead to a poor academic Smalls 5 outcome. This idea was empirically confirmed in the study by Yukhymenko- Lescroart (2013) Sanchez, and Vos-Saz 5). If an athlete decides to prioritize sports or education then their grades begin to drop. If this happens, then the NCAA is not require to give them a scholarship. If the athletes are only reward scholarships based of good academic standing then athletes with strive to do better so that they have to come out of pocket at the end of the day. The athletes should receive pay via stipend but if they continue to stay within good academic standing, then it will be their responsibility to pay for college. This way, college athletes can receive pay for their hard work regardless if in achieving in education or achieving in athletics. The NCAA have to reward full tuition based scholarships and lose money for those who keep up with their education. In summation, the compromise of athletes receiving a stipend to be able to take care of themselves while the NCAA only gives athletes who are in good academic standing a scholarship will allow for equal opportunity. This is important so that athletes will have to focus on education if they want to worry about debt after college. The NCAA can continue to stick to their mission of creating successful athletes and rewarding those who are with scholarships. Athletes will now have the funds to take care of necessities and the NCAA will be able to fairly distribute benefits. Smalls 6 Work Cited Fernando, Maria J. Sanchez-Bueno, and Antonio Vos-Saz. The influence of sports participation on academic performance among students in higher  Sport Management Review (2017). Majerol, Veronica. Should college athletes be  Scholastic News/Weekly Reader Edition 5/6 2015: 7. General OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Beamon, Krystal K.  Used : Former African American College Perception of Exploitation by Division I  The Journal of Negro Education (2008): 352-364. . NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 2017. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. Glier, Ray. College Athletes Say They Need Pay To Cover Basic Costs Of . America.aljazeera.com. N.p., 2014. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. APA