Mohammadi 1 Mehdi Mohammadi Ms. Poston ENC1102 1/29/17 Globalization The globalization in the new phenomenon of our world which is happening in this era. Globalization is not the new fact of our world, throughout of the history always we could see the people are trying to have the trade with other countries however the globalization in the new century has been faster than ever because of the entire reason, which the main one is developing our technologies during last two centuries. This phenomenon has been the main argument between organization all around the world. Globalization is the fact of our world which is happening at this period of our life. However, globalization is not a new point for our world. Globalization has many benefits and disadvantages for many countries which make people all around the world divided into two group, the movement which disagrees with the globalization and organization like WTO (World Trade International which agrees with globalization. One the most significant and beneficial effect of the globalization all around the world and with all the countries is Free trading between nations which helped all the government to develop all the nations equally which is imperative for people all around the world. One of the biggest and most important companies which helping country for trading between each other is WTO (World Trade International) which make rules for all the government and helping many countries to have peaceful trade between each other and the rest of the world. Many organizations support the globalization because of certain Mohammadi 2 reason which they believe that globalization can help all the world to develop and make it the better place to live. One of these organizations which believes that can be beneficial for the world is WTO (World Trade Organization). This team in the world believes that globalization is beneficial for the world. According to Reem Heakal writer of the Is the World Trade the primary purpose of this organization is trading all world which all the country can benefit from trading with each other not only one country takes advantage of the trading with other nations. One of the primary purposes of the WTO in the world is to make financial peace all around the world. This mission of the organization can help so many countries all around the world because by making peaceful economy for all the nations all around the world can help them to make strong economy which is helpful for everyone all around the world. As we were reading in the Is the World Trade article the author said The purpose of the WTO is to ensure that global trade commences smoothly, freely and predictably. The WTO creates and embodies the legal ground rules for global trade among member nations and thus offers a system for international All the countries all around the world should enforce these standards to have peaceful trading between all the country which is one biggest accomplishment of the globalization all around the world. These groups believe that the globalization has been beneficial for our world and helping other countries to grow at the same time. All organization in the world do not think the globalization is beneficial for everyone in the world. Anti- globalization groups made of people who disagree with the effect of the globalization. One of the biggest organization in the world which does not agree with globalization is movement. This movement based in Europe which if I want to be precise this organization is in the country France which make it very more unique. However, as we can read in the history before in the history, France was the country which supported the globalization in the world. However why some people of this country disagree with the globalization in the world especially in France. This organization differs with globalization because of the immigrants and the effect of the globalization of the industries. According Mohammadi 3 to the France24 news one of the main idea of the National Front movement in France is investment in re-industrialization of France which would be overtly protectionist and counter to the free trade which this group believes that it can achieve better industries for their country which one better life for their country. Also, this group has the different opinion about the immigrant from different countries which one of the most important effects of the globalization all around the world. National Front movement believes that France needs to get less immigrants because they take jobs from the French people and their people need to get the job in their country not people from different countries. As I explained in my paper, the globalization has different effects on the world which make different individuals and organization have the different idea about it. The World Trade Organization and Front Nation movement have complete opposite opinion about the globalization in the world. As we can read one of them believes that the globalization made life easier for everyone all around the world, however, other organization believes that the globalization has the different effect. As we can read the both groups want to make life easier for people and make life cheaper for all the people however for finding the solution between two different organizations then need to negotiate with each other and make the different solution for facing the globalization effect. In my opinion, if the all the governments all around the world could make the new agreement about the globalization which can limit the impact of the globalization according to each country situation and culture. This solution can make the globalization more useful for people all around the world according to the geographic and social life that people in the different area. Different people from different countries has different needs from globalization and the government of each particular country by limiting the effect of the globalization can help the world to become the better place for people to live. According to the article Practical Limits of the writer said As a result, domestic economies are increasingly exposed to the rigors of international competition and comparative advantage. In the process, lower prices for some Mohammadi 4 goods and services produced by our trading partners have competitively suppressed domestic price Which is showing us the globalization can be helpful for everyone in the world.In addition, it can make the global product cheaper for everyone in different nation. More Affordable products for everyone is a goal of every government in the world which people can live easier because of that. Two separate of organization which has different opinion about the globalization can limit the effect of the globalization and use what they need for their country which can be beneficial for everyone in the world. Globalization does not have only one particular effect which it makes it tough to negotiate with organization however if there is agreement about the limiting the influence of globalization can help everyone in the world. Mohammadi 5 Work cited Heakal, Reem. What Is The World Trade  Investopedia. N.p., 26 Nov. 2003. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 24, FRANCE. What does National Front stand  France 24. France 24, 28 May 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. National  Britannica. Britannica, inc., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. http://www.theglobalist.com/the-practical-limits-of-globalization/. The Practical Limits of  The Globalist. N.p., 20 May 2004. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Steger, Manfred B. Globalization: A Very Short Introduction. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2009. Print.