Kang 1 Michael Kang Professor Gocinski Composition II 30 January 2017 Bring in Anymore Illegal Immigrants All throughout history, the United States has been coined as the safe haven for immigrants from countries all around the world that escape their country from oppression and political issues. People have congregated to the coasts, to be on the lookout for the freedoms that our country promises and the economic opportunities that America displays. In the past few dozen of years, however, the increasing presence of illegal immigrants, to some, has been troubling economically and politically. The top scholars have debated on whether illegal immigrants contribute positively or negatively to the United States, and government have tried to figure out on how to deal successfully with this controversial issue. There are many organizations that both disagree and support illegal immigration in the United States, and the two specific stakeholders, who have strong beliefs from both ends of the spectrum regarding this topic are Routledge Taylor & Francis Group and The Heritage Foundation. Routledge Taylor & Francis Group side with illegal immigrants do have the right to be in this country and overall display a positive influence on America in the long run, but The Heritage Foundation thinks otherwise. This stakeholder claims that than 10 million undocumented aliens currently reside in the U.S., and that population is growing by 700,000 per which causes problems with the economy, and that they also away value by weakening the legal and national security (Kane 133). Even though both stakeholders 2 [Type have differences in opinion regarding this specific issue, both sources agree that this topic is controversial. A realistic compromise that can be placed on this pressing issue is to fully prevent immigrants to come into America illegally, and to have the United States create more strict laws regarding the legalization process for citizenship. The stakeholder Routledge Taylor & Francis Group believe that illegal immigrants coming into the United States overall has a positive influence on the labor market and consumerism (Goodman). For example, illegal immigrants have a helpful influence to the economy due to the fact that immigrants positively benefit the economy by increasing demand, spurring investment, and by keep receiving-country industries competitive through enhancing capital (Nadadur 1041) Within the economy, illegal aliens are specifically helpful for the consumerism aspect of this country. According to Nadadur, it is estimated 90 per cent of the wages that the undocumented population earns are currently spent inside the US. As a result, the total consumptive capacity of illegal immigrants remaining in the US is around $450 (Goodman). This statistic is helpful for wellbeing because this increases the consumerism within the United States. According to Nadadur, deporting illegals within the United States would be detrimental because a high percentage of them do the hard work that no one else would want to do. For example, only 4.3 per cent of workers in the entire working force are undocumented within the United States, 20 per cent of farming occupations, 17 per cent of cleaning occupations, 12 per cent of construction and 11 per cent of food preparation occupations are held by undocumented (Nadadur 1042-1043). These jobs keep foundation and are needed to keep the country together. Kang 3 On the other hand, the stakeholder Heritage Foundation believes that illegal aliens should not be residing in the United States because their existence causes a detrimental affect to economy and ego. Many agree that typical illegal aliens to America predominately for better opportunities and in the process add value to the U.S. economy. However, they also take away value by weakening the legal and national security (Kane 134). According to the Heritage Foundation, not only do illegal immigrants put a dent in the security environment in the United States, but also are being taken away from native-born Americans in favor of low-wage (Goodman). This brings up the argument that unfair that legal Americans go through the process of legalization legally and get their occupations taken by immigrants that illegally came into the United States. Immigrants that come into America illegally not only take the jobs from those who legally went through the whole process of legalization, but also puts a bigger dent into the unemployment rate in America. According to the Heritage Project, unemployment rates are lower than the national average in the (Kane 136). To sum up all of the detrimental effects, the Heritage Project is not fond of immigrants coming to America illegally. First of all, they give America a bad reputation on letting illicit activity slide causing the United States to have a weak security outlook. Furthermore, jobs are constantly being taken by those who come to this country illegally that many citizens find unfair; lastly having porous borders allowing illegals to swarm into America lowers unemployment rate exponentially. Although both sources have disagreements regarding the topic of illegal immigration, there is always common ground between two sides of the argument no matter the situation. Both stakeholders have scientific evidence and statistics to back up 4 [Type their points, and also agree that the topic of illegal immigration is a problem that America has been dealing with quiet some time. A compromise that can be made for both of the stakeholders can benefit from is to not allow anymore illegal immigrants to pour into the country and to create / reform a law that makes the American citizenship process more strict and efficient. Regarding the pseudo immigration ban, this form of executive order has already been acted upon within the United States; President Donald trump recently put a temporary immigration ban on seven Middle Eastern countries from coming into the United States. These countries include: Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia, and (Barret). Although this specific hypothesized immigration ban been acted within the United States yet, it is possible and realistic due to executive order regarding the ban of immigrants pouring from the Middle East. Both sides of the argument would both gain and lose within this scenario, however one of the only compromises that could possibly happen. The stakeholder Routledge Taylor & Francis Group would benefit from this scenario because the illegal immigrants already within America can legally go through the citizenship process but is negatively affected as well because illegal immigration would come to an end. The stakeholder Heritage Foundation would obtain a gain from the halt of illegal immigrants from coming into the United States, but is also negatively affected because the proliferation of illegals will be kept in America. For this situation to happen, a president that strictly dislikes illegal immigrants from coming into the United States needs to be existent. According to Roger Pilon, see President Trump backing (Barret). President Trump would be the ideal candidate to do an action as strenuous as this one. Kang 5 To conclude, it is evident that illegal immigration within the United States is a controversial topic that still needs to be dealt with for future. A realistic compromise that can be created is to ban illegal immigrants from coming into America, reforming the immigration laws to be stricter, and to have all illegal immigrants already residing to legally go through the citizenship process. Both stakeholders both gain and lose to this situation, but the compromise is realistic, and has happened in the United States. Additionally, the compromise could be a successful solution to this issue, due to the fact that everyone is affected by this controversial topic because all of us were at one- point illegal immigrants coming into the United States for a better future. 6 [Type Annotated Bibliography Barrett, Paul, Bob Van Voris, and David Voreacos. Immigration Ban Promises Constitutional  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Nadadur, Ramanujan. Illegal immigration: a positive economic contribution to the United States. Vol. 35. N.p.: Taylor & Francis Ltd., n.d. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Kane, Tim. The Real Problem with Immigration... and the Real  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Seminara, David. Legalizing illegal immigrants a bad idea. Center for Immigration Studies. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Goodman, H. A. Illegal immigrants benefit the U.S.  TheHill. N.p., 04 Feb. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.