Nicki Goodson ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Rape Culture on a college campus While the United States has an ongoing policy against the violent and malicious doings of rape, there is a culture that has been created and spread everywhere. This and the excuses of and have created issues on university campuses across the nation. It is an important concern, in that all students and staff feel safe on their campus. According to Eliana Dockterman, creates a culture in which women are responsible for preventing their own rapes. If only she gotten so drunk or she worn that outfit, the thinking goes, things might have turned out differently. As opposed to: why he respect (Dockterman, 22) This established rape culture is everywhere and is finally being brought to the eyes of the everyday person both student and not student. The organization of Planned Parenthood works actively opposing that of rape culture, looking to spread the morality of safe-sex upbringing, ultimately which leads to the lessening of rape(s) on a daily basis. However, the organization known as STOPP works against planned parenthood in attempts to stop rape but with a different set of standards. While there are differences in the ways of which these organizations go about, there is an underlying agreement of the fact that rape and sexual assault is not okay. Whilst the issues between the organizations spark conversation that may not be agreed upon, there is a compromise that may be achievable between the due in that both said organizations disagree with the violence of rape culture. Planned Parenthood, an organization developed primarily in hopes of maintaining safe sex and reducing the amount of malpractices on women everywhere, is very obvious with what their message is. Planned Parenthood representatives focus on the need for sexual education throughout a lifetime. With this prior implementation into a upbringing, there is a significant decrease in unplanned pregnancies, along with a decrease in unsafe abortions. Along with these safe sex practices, and according to Planned Parenthood, there is a decrease in the amount of rapes everywhere-even globally. (Planned Parenthood, 2011). In addition to these practices, Planned Parenthood also plays a large role in the issues of sexual violence. Though their website primarily focuses on the facts on abortions and promotes safe sex, they do have an additional page that focuses solely on that of sexual assault and rape. Through the website, planned parenthood links assault victims and others to pages such as suicide hotlines, online sexual assault hotlines and links to rape crisis hotlines. They discuss the negativity of sexual assault and also push victims of all ages to reach out to organizations such as that of RAINN. The organization, RAINN-Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network discusses the many priorities of ending this It also has a specific source in which students and staff are able to reach out on campus, and discuss said rapes. (RAINN, 2016) STOPP, an organization works strongly pitting itself against that of planned parenthood. While STOPP advocates against that of rape culture, the way in which they approach this goal is very differing from that of planned parenthood. STOPP is a Christian organization that states that they are set with a goal to stop planned parenthood and sexual violence with prayer. STOPP believes that through Planned Parenthood children are taught to sexualize things, and that it is okay to in sexual With this disagreement, and the controversial issue of abortion, STOPP refuses to associate with that of planned parenthood, even though they are looking out for the same goal of safety for women and children everywhere. STOPP encourages abstinence until marriage, and that the idea of virginity being sacred is very real and plays a large role in a woman and a life. While this organization differs from that of planned parenthood in that it can be seen as a organization, they do disagree with the idea of rape and the violence that goes hand and hand. This organization focuses in more like that of Mitt Romney. According to Glenn Cohen, . .legitimate the bodies ways to try and shut that whole thing down. The way Romney did it was to make clear that while he was against abortion, he would, of course, make an exception for women who had been raped or whose pregnancy was the result of (Cohen, 87). The organization would strongly agree with that of Romney and because of this, they would be able to make a compromise with that of planned parenthood. Although the two separate organizations differ in many ways, there is a compromise that can be implemented in order for the two of the organizations to form an agreement and work towards the ending of rape culture. While the disagreement between planned parenthood and that of STOPP is large and important, the agreement that can be made if the two combine forces and work together can be impeccable. Rape culture is everywhere. truth is, for young women, particularly those who are eighteen and nineteen years old and just beginning their college experience, Americas campuses are hazardous places. Recent research shows that one in five women is the victim of an attempted or completed sexual assault during (Gray, p. 22). Knowing that one and five women do get sexually assaulted on a college campus is ridiculous. With the addition of knowledge for teenagers on the dangers of sexual behaviors, such as that of STDs, STIs, rape or even pregnancy (since it is at such a young age) should be added to all types of educational curriculum. While this addition would be nearly costless, it would insure that children grow knowing that sex is dangerous. Planned parenthood could go on to state how this is dangerous, and that there are safe ways to engage in this. STOPP could also add that with the implementation of abstinence one may be able to further become a safer human being. The different stakeholders of planned parenthood and that of STOPP argue for and against very different things. However, their passion for women and how they both believe that women deserve safety at all times is very synonymous. The differing organizations may be able to combine their differing views and help create a safe, healthy environment for women and students everywhere. Through the addition of changing certain things, and separating different things, the two organizations would be able to fully recognize the bottom line in that rape culture does exist; rape culture is a horrid thing, especially in times; rape is never okay, and that women on every college campus are being shown these horrors. The violent, malicious form of sexual assault that is surrounding this universities needs to be stopped. Works Cited Dockterman, Eliana. No Longer Excuses Rape on College  Time 2016: Expanded Academic ASAP. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Cohen, I. Glenn. Are All Abortions Equal? Should There Be Exceptions To The Criminalization Of Abortion For Rape And  Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics 43.1 (2015): 87-104. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Adair, Debbie Soro. Ending The Culture Of Violence, Hearing The Youth Perspective: A Class  Delta Kappa Gamma Bulletin 82.1 (2015): 19-22. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Sexual Assault  Sexual Assault RAINN. N.p., 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Plan for Defeating PP -  STOPP - Stop Planned Parenthood. N.p., 23 June 2014. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.