Scilabro 1 Richard Scilabro TA Poston English Composition II 28 January 2017 Abortion: Choice or Life? The topic of abortion tends to spark many heated discussions and is very relevant in modern-day America. Many questions arise just from the topic such as it a right to the baby have rights and even is a legitimate These questions make up a small fraction of the myriad of questions that are still debated today. Two stakeholders are present in this heated discussion, and they harbor diametrically opposed worldviews which makes compromise challenging. Pro choice is the term used to describe the people that believe abortion is every right as it is her body; she has the freedom to make important decisions governing her body. The second group that can be seen in the discussion can be referred to as people who are pro life. Many of these people come from conservative backgrounds and assert that after conception a baby is a life and deserves the same rights as the mother; they seek to outlaw abortion (Stacy A. Scaldo). Both groups must not seek to reach their goal; rather, they must seek to make abortion have more agreeable terms as this is the only way for progress to be made in this argument. The first stakeholders, the people who are pro choice, have had many great victories for their movement. The most notable progress was seen in 1973 with Roe v Wade when the Supreme Court ruled that legal abortions could happen within the United States (Stacy A. Scaldo). This in turn created the pro life movement as there was public outcry from millions of Scilabro 2 Americans with conservative points of views (Lee Ann Banaszack). This was when this discussion started gaining momentum. Furthermore, it ignited a controversy that has grown in the United States ever since its inception (Lee Ann Banaszack), (Stacy A. Scaldo). These two stakeholders have their own respective endorsers and companies that have branched out to support them. However, it is the pro choice organizations that have gained more popular support and recognition throughout the years. The most noteable support came to the pro choice movement with President Barack Obama backing organizations such as Parenthood. When one analyzes the pro choice movement, many general trends and beliefs are demonstrated throughout the movement (Lee Ann Banaszack),(Stacy A. Scaldo). For example, a fundamental core belief that pro choice people all seem to harbor is that a woman has the right to choose what she can do to her body (Lee Ann Banaszack),(Stacy A. Scaldo). The unborn baby is seen as dependent on the body for nutrition; therefore, a woman can choose to terminate the pregnancy if she deems necessary. The numerous instances of rape, incest, and even when a pregnancy can jeopardize the health of a woman are commonly used by the pro choice movement to demonstrate why legal and safe abortions should be legal and to show people that abortion is absolutely necessary for maintaining public health (Lee Ann Banaszack). A prominent organization that is associated with the pro choice movement is known as PlannedParenthood (www.plannedparenthood.org). It is probably the most mainstream organization that is affiliated with the pro choice movement. Being funded by the government, they use the slogan No matter Planned Parenthood believes providing care to women and that includes abortions. They regard the health of women and the rest of the public as valuable (www.plammedparenthood.org). not Scilabro 3 only believes in providing abortions and information on abortions to the public, but also it believes in educating people on health and safe sex (www.plannedparenthood.org). They often provide plans and contraception to the general public. Additionally, they give sexually active couples more options if a pregnancy occurs (www.plannedparenthood.org). Other Organizations such as , National Abortion Federation, and have similar programs like to aid in maintaining public health (prochoice.org), (www.narl.com), (www.mergerwatch.com). The second stakeholder in this situation, people who are pro life, tend to come from religious and conservative backgrounds. They hold a life dear to them as if it were their own (Dan Thomas). Having less funding and support from government officials in the Obama administration, this movement has gained momentum in the recent years as the controversy has become more relevant to many Americans (Dan Thomas). Pro life organizations often gain little to no political ground as well as legal ground (Dan Thomas). Demonstrations are often made to show what they believe, and why their movement is so important (Dan Thomas). However, many people and organizations that are associated with pro life have been linked to violence. This is so because there have been a number of instances where planned parenthood clinics have been attacked by religious fanatics associated with the group (Bertha Manninen). Delving deeper into the groups beliefs the, one can see that the Bible is ultimately the core foundation of what they stand for (Stacy A. Scaldo). To pro life people, abortion is associated with murder. This is so because they assert that an unborn fetus is considered a person and that most cases of abortions occur because the mother was not sexually responsible (Stacy A. Scaldo). Furthermore, they also believe that most reasons that are given for abortion are only Scilabro 4 given to justify A. Scaldo). They often clash with pro choice individuals in every fundamental way. Lastly, their goal; is to completely outlaw abortion and wipe it off the face of the planet (Stacy A. Scaldo). A number of organizations are associated with the pro life including Right to Life which is a Christian-based organization that encourages people to take a stand against abortion in any possible way (nrcl.com). They are often present in demonstrations and want to overturn Roe v. Wade. Other similar organizations such as the Life Action League, Priests for Life, and for Life are founded on Christian principles and ultimately view abortion as a plague that has fallen up our great nation (studentsforlife.org), (prolifeaction.org). Adding to this, many of these organizations are peaceful and seek diplomatic means to accomplish their goals. For example, for Life prays for our nation and has peaceful demonstrations (preistsforlife.org). Abortion and the feud that comes with has seen little to no compromise and no resolution is evident in the near future. For both groups to be content, none can completely accomplish their goal. They can only seek to make abortion more agreeable to their terms. If abortion was eliminated, then the pro life movement wins completely and the pro choice group loses everything. Furthermore, to lessen the conflict, a set of reasonable and agreeable terms needs to presented to our government. This is the first step to resolving this national crisis in the United States. My first compromise involves a passage of laws that more strictly governs the terms and in which an abortion may take place. A law should be passed stating that a woman can only have an early term abortion if she is not bodily able to have the baby and a late-term abortion if she Scilabro 5 runs into any health problems later during the pregnancy. This will eliminate the frustrations that pro life individuals harbor because now what they see as an can now be the only reason for an abortion. In addition, more funding should be given to pro choice organizations so that they can actively teach the public about safe sex and contraception. Both groups gain as the pro life can now see abortion as a legitimate way of protecting health, and pro choice organizations receive more funding to help prevent unwanted pregnancies and still get the insurance of health. Even many pro life organizations agree with protecting health even if that means having an abortion to prevent bodily harm (James R. Kelly), (Bertha Manninen). The second compromise would be that woman must see a state judge to determine the legitimacy of the abortion. Meaning that if her health is at risk and or she is not financially capable or mentally capable then abortion is an option. The abortion can also happen up until a certain time-period or the mother must have the baby unless her or the baby is at risk. Again, this compromise would make the terms of abortion more agreeable by assuring pro life people that the only reason for an abortion and also providing the pro choice movement the satisfaction of knowing safe and legal abortions are still available. For both groups to make progress neither can fully reach their goal, as stated before. In conclusion, Roe v. Wade has sparked an unending controversy between two completely fundamentally different sides. Abortion can be viewed from a wide variety of angles, and the solutions that I have proposed are just two of many that are viable options to the conflict at hand. Pro choice and pro life need to learn to coexist and treat each values as if they have some sort of meaning and need to compromise by making abortion terms more agreeable Scilabro 6 and reasonable so that both groups can exist. Abortion is one of the many topics that divides Americans in this current generation. A compromise is desperately needed to ensure unity within the United States, so that the conflict might one day be non-existent. Lastly, whether pro choice or pro life, we are all Americans living in the greatest nation in the world so we must seek to maintain unity no matter what. Scilabro 7 Works Cited studentsforlife.org , studentsforlife.org/prolifefacts/prolife-movement/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. www.nrcl.com , https://www.nrlc.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. prolifeaction.org , https://prolifeaction.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. priestsforlife.org , www.priestsforlife.org/plgroups/atoesites.html. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. The Merger Watch  , www.mergerwatch.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. The State of Productive Freedom is ,www.naral.org/?referrer=https://www.google.com/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Help us Protect Abortion  , https://prochoice.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. www.plannedparenthood.org , https://www.plannedparenthood.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Thomas, Dan. Better Never to Have Been  http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=fe85dee2-bd 76-496f-ad02-b . Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Path: http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=fe85dee2-b d76-496f-ad02-b55181c5e159%40sessionmgr120&vid=5&hid=119. Kelly, James R. Sociology and Public Theology: A Case Study of Pro-Choice/ Prolife Common  , Oxford University Press, Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Scilabro 8 Banaszak, Lee Ann, and Heather L. Ondercin. Explaining the Dynamics between the Movement and the Conservative Movement in the United  , Pennsylvania State University, Sept. 2016 of South Florida Libraries . Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. Manninen, Bertha. Pro-Life, Pro-Choice : Shared Values in the Abortion  , Vanderbilt University Press, of South Florida Libraries . Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. Bertha Manninen in this article explains the shared values that pro choice and pro life Scaldo, Stacy A. LIFE, DEATH & THE GOD COMPLEX: THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INCORPORATING RELIGION-BASED ARGUMENTS INTO THE PRO-CHOICE PERSPECTIVE ON  of South Florida Libraries , eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=fe85dee2-bd76-496f -ad02-b55181c5e159%40sessionmgr120&vid=9&hid=119. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017.