ENC 1102: Project 1 Intermediate Draft Guiding Questions In preparing for the Intermediate Draft, please answer the following questions: 1. From you Early Draft, choose two of the stakeholders who are with one another. (If none of your stakeholders thus far are with one another, consider choosing two different stakeholders). What might need to happen for both of your chosen stakeholders to achieve their purpose(s) with regards to your issue or topic? a. In order for Heartlight Ministries to achieve their goals, they must successfully facilitate the purge of sexual sin in men and teens who seek their counsel. For the National Center for Lesbian Rights to achieve their goals, these people who seek the counsel of a professional must be ensured that their right to happiness tainted with self-hate, stemming from religious bias in these professionals. 2. Propose at least two compromises that might satisfy each of these stakeholders regarding your chosen issue or topic. What must these two sides each give up as they try and reach an agreement? a. Heartlight Ministries must restructure their therapy programs to fit non-biased, educated, passionate staff and provide ethically-sound counseling for the populations they serve. b. The National Center for Lesbian Rights must allow the Ministries to offer counseling with APA-approved professionals who have demonstrated literacy in religious scripture. They will assess their mental state and their relationship with God to help make sense of their sexual dissent without invoking self-hate. 3. Choose one of the compromises you proposed in #6. What needs to be in place for your compromise to be accomplished? Explain those factors. This is an important step because you will need to prove to your audience (and your stakeholders) that your compromise is viable using research, so really think about how you could support the viability of your proposed compromise. a. For the second compromise that I proposed in #6, a training program that specializes in the principle of self-love in counseling queer youth must be created and focused on by the new and old professional staff. Most of the currently practicing clergy are rooted in biblical standards, which drives dissident teens and other young adults to hate themselves for being of sin. This condition of change is unhealthy and needs to be controlled for by practicing therapists or other staff members.