Jeffrey Hoang Instructor: DuBois English Comp 2 1/29/17 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Since the horrific events on September 11, 2001, the United States had amped up its security in airports, borders, etc. to prevent a terrorist attack from happening again. The U.S government will do whatever it takes to protect its citizens in which why they use torture as an interrogation method on the detainees the government believe have important information. While it can be an efficient method, there are groups out there that completely disagree with torture in general. However, the United Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) view that the use of torture is an effective type of interrogation method because of how sufficient it is, but while it is considered a fast method, human rights organizations such as Human Rights Watch (HRW) believe that there are alternative methods that could be done that is fast and will not harm the detainees at all. In a case where the CIA have someone in custody who have information of a bomb attack that could happen any minute, they believe that the use of torture is the only route to go to force the answer out of the detainee. On the other hand, the Human Rights Watch view that torture is cruel and inhuman. are committed to pressing government authorities to act to prevent torture, as well as bringing those who engage in torture to (Human Rights Watch, 2012). They also want the victims of torture to get full rehabilitation so that they can get back on their feet and move on. The use of torture as an interrogation method is a fast way to get answers from someone in the eyes of the CIA, but there are alternative ways that can have the same outcome without mentally scaring or being harmful to someone according to the Human Rights Watch. The Central Intelligence Agency also known as the CIA, consider these program (meaning the use of torture) to be effective when needing crucial information on terrorist attacks and American lives are at stake. According to the CIA, they will first use these U.S. Army Field Manuals methods and if those do not work, they will then turn towards the enhanced interrogation techniques (EITs). These techniques include the use of waterboarding, sleep deprivation, stress positions, and even forced nudity. Although these can mentally hurt the detainees, the CIA also use methods that can physically damage them such as restricted diets and according to Oliver Laughland in his article, How the CIA tortured its detainees, they feed a detainee a bland, commercial liquid meal instead of normal Other physical methods are rectal feeding, rehydration and beatings that include facial holds, insult claps, and attention grasps. Either way, if it is either metal or physical, human rights organizations still view it as inhuman. The point of the enhanced interrogation techniques is that it can be fast and effective on getting the answers from the detainees if there are lives at stake as to how the CIA sees it. Although not all the methods mentioned are as quick to getting answers compared to others, it will get the job done. While the CIA continues these torture methods, there are human rights organizations out there like the Human Rights Watch that are completely against it and find it to be cruel and inhuman. The Human Rights Watch is an organization that defends the rights of people worldwide and to pressure those with power to respect the rights of other. When it comes to the torture of people, the HRW will not stand for it to continue on and to put an end to it. They believe that there should be an alternative way for the CIA to use on their detainees. These types of torture methods can have a negative effect on the detainees in the long run with depression, anxiety, sleeplessness, post-traumatic stress disorder, feelings of hopelessness, sadness, isolation, and much more. In a case with the use of cold water, a suspected Afghan militant, Gul Rahman, died of hypothermia and was left in a cold cell with no clothes on. Not only it can scare the detainees, but can lead to death. To prevent any future harm the Human Rights Watch goal is for the CIA to stop these enhanced interrogation techniques by pressuring the government and to spread the word so that more people will become aware of this and could help put an end to it. With the end of torture as an interrogation method, the Human Rights Watch wants the U.S Congress to according to Laura Pitter, Joseph Saunders, and Leslie Haskell in their article No More Excuses A Roadmap to Justice for CIA Torture, legislation that would acknowledge wrongdoing, apologize, and provide redress, including compensation and rehabilitation, to victims of US torture and other abuse, enact legislation that would prohibit the CIA from holding individuals in detention except immediately after a lawful arrest and ensuring their prompt transfer to an authorized detention authority, revise Appendix M to the US Army Field Manual on Intelligence Interrogations to prohibit the use of abusive sleep and sensory deprivation In the eyes of the Human Rights Watch, they hope that this will put an end to the use of torture as an interrogation method. Between the CIA and the Human Rights Watch, the two stakeholders should agree on a compromise to use a type of method that does not harm the detainee and can be quick and effective. It should be use in a way that can not negatively affect them overall. With the technology in society, there should be a way to make a high pitch sound that is unbearable for the human ear that will not harm the detainee. The Human Rights Watch will help fund for the research to help create the device. The CIA will stop their enhance interrogation program and move towards the use of this device that will produce the high pitch sound. The device can change the pitch of the sound depending on how the CIA wants to use it. The higher the pitch, the more irritable it will be for the detainee. This device will allow the CIA to get what they want in a sufficient way and the Human Rights Watch will have done their job in preventing any more harm cause by the CIA towards their detainees. To current day, the CIA still uses the enhanced interrogation techniques (torture). The CIA believe that by using such method, will make the detainee give up crucial information. With some techniques that can get the answers out of them fast, like waterboarding and putting them in stress positions, or techniques that can take a bit longer but will negatively affect the detainees in the long run, like sleep deprivation and rectal feeding. The Human Rights Watch find this to be inhuman and should be stopped. Overall, the two sides have good points on why their side is the right one. The use of torture can be viewed as a method that can help save lives from terrorists or that it is considered as cruel and inhuman. Work Cited Haskell, Leslie. Pitter, Laura. Saunders, Joseph. No More Excuses: a Roadmap to Justice for CIA Torture. Human Rights Watch. 2015, Dec. 1. Laughland, Oliver. How the CIA Tortured its Detainees. The Guardian. 2015, May 20. McKay, Hollie. Architect of hopes Trump resists PC approach. Fox News U.S. 2017, Jan. 15.