Tamara Henshaw ENC 1102 Angelica Aranda Bullying Organizations Common Ground A survey taken from 24 different high schools showed that 10-20% of adolescents between the age of 10 and 24 are bullied online and 20-30% admit to being involved by either being the bully, the victim or the bystander (Litwiller Brausch 2). In my research, I found that two organizations work to end bullying both in schools and online. Stop Bullying is one of these programs, they look more toward notifying people of what cyberbullying and bullying is and how to prevent children from being bullied or who they can go to for help. National Bullying Prevention Center looks toward all bullying and how to keep children responsible on the internet. Though these organizations are working to end the same thing they have different ways on how they are going to terminate this problem. To bring these two programs together and find a common ground I propose to have a event at all schools that bring all aspects of these organizations together and to teach students how to stay responsible and if they see bullying how to speak up about it. I would like to explain more about the organizations and what their missions are. The Stop Bullying program works to explain what they view as bullying and cyberbullying, also letting people know who all is at risk. They explain bullying as an unwanted, aggressive behavior among school aged children that involves a real or perceived power imbalance. The behavior is repeated, or has the potential to be repeated, over time They also say that children play three roles, the bullier, the bullied and the witness. The program explains that when we label children as the victim or even the bullied we could be sending the wrong message. Instead of labeling the children we should focus more on the behavior. It gives insight on why bullies may start bullying and what makes a victim an target, also stating why children might assist, reinforce, or defend the child being bullied. Research says that children whose parents felt angry or felt their child was too much to take care of was shown to have higher odds of being bullied (Shetgiri Lin Avila Flores 1). The Stop Bullying organization talks about cyberbullying and why children might start that. If the child does not come to their parents and tell them about being bullied, it helps parents be aware of some warning they can catch. It talks about the effects bullying may have on a child and considers groups that can help. Overall the mission of this program is to provide information from various government agencies about what bullying is, what cyberbullying is, who is at risk, and how to prevent and respond to bullying 2016). The National Bullying Prevention Center has a different mission in mind, their mission is to not only notify people about bullying and cyberbullying but to talk about all kinds of ways people go about discrediting someone. This program gives real life stories from people in the world being bullied or have been bullied, as well as talks about how the classrooms, communities, and schools as a whole can get involved with ending bullying and hateful doings. They have videos on how people can get involved as well as fundraising, group sessions, and so many more ways to help end the problem at hand. This organization gives insight on what parents should know about bullying including the laws and policies, also how to keep their children safe and responsible while online. activates individuals to take action on both a personal and community level. Everyone can participate in signing a petition, sharing their own story, or contributing a message to care National 2006). Both the organization and Stop Bullying are working for the same thing and also going to the same groups to help with this situation. They both take the approach of explaining what bullying is and who is at risk of both bullying and cyberbullying, as well as all other downgrading methods. They believe that children being bullied will behave differently when they get older and that going to a group and talking about their problem will help them. They go to parents and explain the warning signs and how to keep their children safe online as well as being responsible for what they do online. For these reasons, these two organizations will work great together in preventing bullying. The common ground between these two organizations would be an organized event held at schools or in communities, that explain bullying and all other degrading acts. This event will let people know who is at risk and how to see the warning signs, how to get these children help and explain the effects of the child who receive this help, and talk about how to help prevent this situation from continuing. Doing this will benefit both programs because they are able to bring both their organizations together and inform people about how this can effect children and the fundraisers and groups programs they do to help these children. There are many organizations coming together to end cyberbullying that have great success, like the National Federation of Just Communities of WNY Inc., and the Safe Online Outreach Society . This shows that groups like this can work together and get the word out that bullying needs to stop. Overall getting these groups together will benefit them and also help people be more aware on the dangers of bullying and cyberbullying. It gives people more ways to help the people that are reaching out for help, by giving them groups they can go to for help. Letting them know they are not alone in this world, letting them go to group sessions to talk to people going through the same. Parents learn about warning signs they can see if they do not know about their child being bullied. The organization and Stop Bullying program will help so many people with how to speak up and talk about what is going on and it will benefit both programs. Work Cited Home. (n.d.). Retrieved February 04, 2017, from Litwiller, B., & Brausch, A. a. (2013). Cyber Bullying and Physical Bullying in Adolescent Suicide: The Role of Violent Behavior and Substance Use. Of Youth & Adolescence , (5), 675-684. National Bullying Prevention Center. (n.d.). Retrieved February 04, 2017, from http://www.pacer.org/bullying/ Organizations Coming Together to End Cyberbullying. (2013, May 20). Retrieved February 05, 2017, from Shetgiri, R. r., Lin, H., Avila, R. M., & Flores, G. (2012). Parental Characteristics Associated With Bullying Perpetration in US Children Aged 10 to 17 Years. Journal Of Public Health , (12), 2280-2286.