Patrick Panton Ryan 1102 January 28, 2017 Panton1 Abortion is the deliberate termination of a human pregnancy, most often performed during the first 28 weeks of pregnancy. The debatable controversy is based on the ethics of abortion which states that abortion whether it can be morally right to terminate a pregnancy before normal childbirth. Various views on abortion is always negative that abortion is wrong. However, some think that abortion is right when the life is at risk or if the sexually abused or the affordability of the continuation of the child life is not possible. This seem to be a major problem in modern society. A major organization that believes that abortion is necessary is Abortion Access Project, they work together with health and social service providers and agencies to had better respond to patients and clients experiencing unintended pregnancy. This organization do not believe that life should be created unintentional or if it endangers the mother. However, an organization that goes against such belief is 40 days of life a religious group. They believe that community-based campaign that takes a determined, peaceful approach to showing local communities the consequences of abortion in their own neighborhoods, for their own friends and families. It puts into action a desire to cooperate with God in the carrying out of His plan for the end of abortion. It draws attention to the evils of abortion. Based on the difference views that are incorporated, these two groups are at odds. Although both groups are not performing the action of abortion they have different views on the ethics of abortion. Regarding the first stake holder, 40 days of life, their main goals are focused on a pro-life campaign with regards to the various age groups with a vision to access power through prayer, fasting, and peaceful vigil to end abortion. They are anti-abortion and believe that Patrick Panton Ryan 1102 January 28, 2017 Panton2 discarding a child is against will and committing such act is sinful. Their believes are not the only ones that are present in society. There are other organizations as well as individuals that believe in the same policy of anti-abortion. In the Better never to have been born Christians Ethics, Anti-Abortion Politics, and the Pro-life written by Dan Thomas which is a secondary source that demonstrates the common belief that Christians have towards abortion. Various bible verses have been stated in the article to emphasize the decision that God has made within the commandants though shall not kill. According to the article, Dan Thomas states practitioners have perversely and paradoxically saved millions of unborn souls by removing human volition from the equation and by making it possible for the unborn to experience the joys of heaven without the temptations of (Thomas,1). Relating to what 40 days of life mission statement states it aids to stop abortion through prayer fasting and peaceful vigil which is common to what Mr. Thomas is saying towards Abortion practitioners. Both groups are prolife and empathizes with each other on the topic of Anti-Abortion. However, Abortion access project, which is pro-abortion organization believes that engaging trusted care providers and empowering them with information and skills about abortion is a critical opportunity to improve coordination of care for women seeking abortion, when these services are needed. This organization consist of mostly women, empowering other women through various speeches, they express the opportunities that they may have when an abortion is needed, if they are struggling on their selves. This organization also emphasizes programs to females who has been rape victim or cannot afford to have a child. They stress the need for the use of contraceptives. Various organizations and individuals also have common views on the ethics of abortion that are pro-abortion. According to an article deals with the issue of reclaiming abortion rights written by Katha Pollitt deals with the political point of view of the ethnical Patrick Panton Ryan 1102 January 28, 2017 Panton3 abortion. The article explains how women are being slaughtered and being violated because of their choice to have abortions, Katha Pollitt states who have stillbirths or miscarriages are being arrested for their conduct during (Pollitt,10). This quote state that women are being violated against their rights because of supposedly misconduct during their tri semester periods. 40 days of life is for women rights which would suggest similar reactions in the organization. Also, according to Katha Pollitt article, she states that sex education continues to receive millions in government funding, even though studies show it (Pollitt,12) based on that quote it shows that awareness for abstinence work. 40 days of life believes in pro-abortion and Katha Pollitt article solidifies the various reasons why the ethnics on pro-abortion should be granted. Both groups are at odds with regards to the ethics of abortion. Within these odds there are similarities that can be drawn on to make a common ground. Abortion Access Project, which deals with women rights states the fact that women who are victims of abuse or in a position that cannot afford to have a child should or think about the thoughts of an abortion from a moral perspective rather than a religious perspective. However, 40 days of life view is from a religious perspective that abortion is ungodly. The common ground is that both stakeholders are dealing with the matter that women who have or want an abortion are ones that are incapable of handling the birth of that child even if through rape victims or women who were unprotected through sexual intercourse. Both groups have the understanding value that a woman that has a birth that she does not want is a challenge and has difficulties. How that difficulty is resolved is based on the view of a religious or prochoice perspective. The audience or the reasons why these organizations(stake holders) were created was because women needed aid with a particular Patrick Panton Ryan 1102 January 28, 2017 Panton4 problem. Both groups agree that women who are placed in the position of destroying a life or creating a life has an enormous decision that a single person should not take by themselves. Both group has come to a compromise. Abortion access project and 40 days of life may develop a committee of both members from each organization to create a charity fund which will be used to aid in the development and spacing of multiple adoptions homes. Both groups have decided that creating a life is wonderful but what will happen with that life, if there is no one to love and nourish the path of that child. Hence the solution was to discourage abortion except if the mother will experience fatal injuries during birth otherwise adoption is always a path for mothers who are seeking abortion. Both groups, values and mission statements has not changed the only changed that happened is the solution to the problem., that both groups are willing to take. According to the article and children the author stated the main reason for children being adopted was because their parents were unable or unwilling to care for (25) this statement signifies that adoption is one way that a mother can create and not destroy life by giving the opportunity of life to a next individual that wants to nourish and love that child and cannot do so by themselves. Both stakeholders started off with different solutions to the same problem, abortion access project and 40 days of life have found common ground where both believe that women that are placed in a difficult position should not be alone in deciding whether to create or destroy life. Both stake holders compromise and the decision was to combined resources to aid in a charity fund to better off existing adoption homes and aid in the making of other adoption homes. Patrick Panton Ryan 1102 January 28, 2017 Panton5 Word cited page Adoption And Children  Education Journal 97 (2006): 31. Academic Search Premier. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Pollitt, Katha. Reclaiming Abortion  Dissent (00123846) 62.4 (2015): 76-78. Education Source. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Thomas, Dan. Better Never To Have Been Born: Christian Ethics, Anti-Abortion Politics, And The Pro-Life  The Journal Of Religious Ethics 3 (2016): 518. Academic OneFile. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Patrick Panton Ryan 1102 January 28, 2017 Panton6