Joseph Genord Instructor: Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 032 February 5, 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft In the issue of gun control there are several organization that are at odds with one another on how to go out about making the world safer from gun violence. Two of those stakeholders are the National Rifle Association (NRA) and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence (CSGV). The NRA and CSGV stand at difference on how they would like to go about getting guns out of the wrong peoples hands. The is against the ways liberals want to go about gun control and the laws the liberals want to put in place for gun control and is more about teaching the public about gun safety (home.nra.org). CSGV is for gun control and is proactive on how they would like to see laws put in place to ensure criminals cannot get guns so easily as they can right now (csgv.org). On their about us page, CSGV mentions how they are not going to be like the NRA and take action in the fight against gun violence (csgv.org). A compromise these two organizations could make is to use their political power to get politicians to compose bills that are not too far left or right, like requiring private sales to have a background checks just like a sale from a gun dealer would and people who have a history of mental illness to not be able to buy guns. The NRA is a pro-gun organization founded on November 17, 1871 dedicated to teaching gun safety across the country (home.nra.org). The NRA was originally based in Long Island, New York until opposing political view made them move to Sea Grit, New Jersey in 1892 (home.nra.org). This quote shows how gun control laws can affect a countries ability to defend itself, the call to help arm Britain in 1940 resulted in the collection of more than 7,000 firearms for defense against potential invasion by Germany (Britain had virtually disarmed itself with a series of gun-control laws enacted between World War I and World War (home.nra.org). The NRA is dedicated to America safety shown, World War II, the association offered its ranges to the government, developed training materials, encouraged members to serve as plant and home guard members, and developed training materials for industrial security. NRA members even reloaded ammunition for those guarding war (home.nra.org). The NRA showed their disdain for New approval of House Bill 50, which states that private sale or gifting a gun to someone to be illegal (home.nra.org). They encourage the area residents to urge their representatives to oppose the bill (home.nra.org). The is composed of 47 national organizations working to reduce gun violence. Our coalition members include religious organizations, child welfare advocates, public health professionals, and social justice (csgv.org) National Rifle Association (NRA) sells everything from its political agenda to its merchandise with a simple equation: more guns equal more freedom. The NRA steadfastly maintains that the 30,000 gun-related deaths with firearms in the United States every year are a small price to pay to guarantee (csgv.org). This quote states that the NRA is completely against gun control and just wants the public to be able to have as many guns as possible to achieve freedom. They believe that U.S. Congress should enact a federal law requiring universal background checks on all sales of firearms, including private (csgv.org). 1994, President Bill Clinton and Congress enacted a federal assault weapons ban. This law named 19 specific models of guns, and also banned or of those models. In addition, the law outlawed guns that had two or more specified assault weapon features. Guns that were legally possessed before the effective date of the law remained legal. Finally, the law outlawed the manufacture of detachable, high-capacity ammunition magazines which could hold more than 10 rounds. Unfortunately, the law was temporary, designed to sunset in ten years. President George W. Bush stated during the 2004 presidential campaign that he supported renewing the ban, but in September of that year it expired without any action by either the President or (csgv.org). The CSGV would like to have this ban reenacted so these weapons cannot be owned buy any citizen whether there is a background check or not. is no constitutional to carry a loaded, concealed firearm in (csgv.org). They want a law to ban concealed carry, which would let criminals know that no person is allowed to carry a weapon for self-defense and in turn cause more robberies. Your (aka laws, the National Rifle Association (NRA) and its partners in the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) have turned 3,000 years of jurisprudence on its head. Now you can provoke a fight, and if losing that fight, kill the person you (csgv.org). The CSGV is completely against being able to defend yourself if you are dangerously under attack meaning if someone is trying to kill you they just want you to run away and risk being killed. A compromise is that congress could pass a law that makes all guns sales require background checks so criminals cannot just go to a person trying to sell a gun privately and purchase those guns. Also they could pass a law not allowing persons mentally ill or disabled to purchase a firearm. Laws such as banning concealed carry are dangerous to law abiding citizens in many ways by putting a big sign over peoples heads saying they are unarmed making everyone a target to criminals who are going to carry a weapon on them whether it is legal or not. Stated in the New Mexico house bill 50, people try to gift, loan, or even store a gun while away would be illegal, this bill is loved by the CSGV because every transaction of a gun would have to be documented costing the public a great deal of money for such little things. Works Cited NRA  NRA Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence Seeks to Secure Freedom from Gun Violence through Research, Strategic Engagement and Effective Policy  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.