Katrina Dietl Composition II Robert Ryan January 29 th , 2017 Private School versus Public School: Dress Codes Both public and private schools strive to create a student with enough knowledge in which they would be able to achieve a great deal in their future. However, both of these stakeholders have different views about the dress code that they enforce. Private and public schools should create a unified dress code, which would better benefit each child and install a mindset that allows the student to work with a variety of styles around them. Public schools have been around for a while and have changed throughout the years to encompass the growing population and the world around it. Dress codes are also a part of public schools that have changed as the years go by. According to the Hillsborough County School Board, their mission statement states that they are provide an education and the supports that enable each student to excel as a successful and responsible (http://www.sdhc.k12.fl.us/doc/573/strategic-plan/about/strategicplan/) The dress code for public middle and high schools entail that the student may not wear any clothing that shows the entire shoulder or mid-chest area, boys must have a sleeve attached to their shirts. Along with all hemlines must be fingertip length, clothing should be properly fastened and have only appropriate tears, any sleepwear is not acceptable, and hair should be clean and neatly groomed every day. (Hillsborough student handbook) Private schools have been around almost as long as public schools, however, private schools usually consist of greater dress code policies. The mission statement for Tampa Catholic High School, a private high school in Hillsborough County, states that they academic, spiritual and personal growth while promoting life-long learning and commitment to service and (Parent/student handbook) The dress code for Tampa Catholic consists of a pair of khaki uniform pants or shorts, which must be bought from a specific store, and the need to have a plain black or brown leather belt with it. The pants and belt must be paired with green authorized Tampa Catholic pullover (parent/student handbook) Also, the entire outfit must have a plain black or dark brown leather shoe added to it. Even though each stakeholder has a different opinion on what their dress code should entail, both would like each one of their students to achieve the most they can throughout their school years. A compromise that public and private schools should consider is creating a line between their strict and lenient dress codes to create one unified dress code. This would then allow the students to be able to work with a variety of clothing styles around them, as it is in the work force. When the school allows the students to wear a variety of styles, but still respectable to the nature of the school systems, the students would benefit in their idea of what is acceptable in a work setting. In addition, if both school types do this, they would increase the amount of knowledge each student would take away from their education experience. Even though both public and private schools have a similar mission statement and what the most out of each student that passes through, their dress codes do not agree like their mission statements. Both school types need to compromise on their dress code so the students could have a better understanding of what is expected related to their clothing choices in a working setting. If public and private schools compromise, then the students would be a better fit for both schools and the administration would be able to spot the children that are out of dress code easier if they transfer from public school to private school and vice versa.