Leger1 Hantz Leger Mrs. Changamarie ENC1101 30 January 2017 Direct to Consumer Prescription Drug Advertisement Back in mid-1980 information on new prescription drugs were only given to doctors and pharmacists. Since then drugs companies have deviated from this practiced and has adopted the use of direct to consumer (DTC) advertisements for drug promotion. Direct to consumer drug advertisement is promotional effort by a pharmaceutical company to present prescription drug information to the general public in the lay (Wilkes, Bell, & Kravitz,112). A common example would be an infomercial shown on television about a particular drug. The purpose of this new market strategy was to raise awareness to different treatment options for patients who could be suffering from illnesses. Over the years, DTC ads on prescription drugs has been accused for misinforming patients, increasing the price of prescriptions, promoting drug overutilization, and pressuring health care professionals to prescribe drugs that may not be in the best interest of the patient. These issues and many more have made the topic controversial with organization arguing for or against banning prescription drugs DTC ads all together. Two major organization who agree completely on the issue would the American Medical Association (AMA) and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA). AMA believes that DTC ads on prescription drugs, Leger2 demand for new and more expensive drugs, even when these drugs may not be While PhRMA believes that, advertising increases awareness of disease and available Although the American Medical Association and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacture of America are both organization with opposing views on direct to consumer prescription advertisement, a compromise between the two organizations would strengthen and unify their shared mission of innovation in the health industry. A proposed compromise between the two would be that we limit DTC advertising of prescription drugs to medical channels and personalize online advertisements based on web history and accounts. The American Medical Association was founded in 1847 and is the largest association of physicians and medical students in the United States. AMA advocates on the behalf of physicians and patients and sets the caliber for health professions. The founder, first editor, and twice elected president of the AMA was Nathan Smith Davis who was a physician who practiced medicine. AMA Code of Medical Ethics was the first ever national code for ethical medical practice which gave conduct for practicing physicians. The Association mission is to the art and science of medicine for the betterment of the public health, to advance the interests of physicians and their patients, to promote public health, to lobby for legislation favorable to physicians and patients, and to raise money for medical education. Website). Out of all organization in the United States, the American Medical Association has one of the largest lobbying budgets. For many years, the American Medical Association has been advocates against DTC ads of prescription drugs. But as of November, 17 2015, the AMA has called for a Leger3 ban on the DTC ads of prescription drugs. Billions of dollars are being spent to advertise prescription products and the new policy adopted by AMA is geared to drive solutions to make prescription drugs more cost effective. They plan to launch an advocacy campaign to encourage prescription drug affordability by insisting choice and competition in the pharmaceutical field, and larger transparency in prescription drug prices. Dr. Harris, a member from AMA, stated Physicians strive to provide the best possible care to their patients, but increases in drug prices can impact the ability of physicians to offer their patients the best drug Therefore AMA believe that because DTC ads on prescription inflates the prices, they are not cost effective and interferes with their mission. The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacture of America is trade group that advocates businesses in the pharmaceutical industry. It was founded in 1958 and is the leading biopharmaceutical research company. Their health mission is devoted to advancing public policies that support innovative medical research, improve treatments, and yield real results. They have success in creating and delivering medicines to aid patients live longer and healthier lives that depends on ethical relationship and behavior. Their dedicated to modernizing the drug discovery and development process, promoting value-driven health care, and engaging and empowering consumers, and addressing market distortions. Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacture of America promotes direct to consumer prescription drug advertisements. They believe the goal of DTC ads are to get the information out to patients. PhRMA says that studies have shown DTC ads on prescription drugs encourage patients to see their doctors and start important Leger4 conversations about their health that might had not taken place. The organization acknowledges opinions on the issue and accepts comments from the public. Also, publicized is their Guiding Principles on DTC ads about prescription medicines that demonstrates their promise to improving the educational value of prescription drug Ads. The two organization AMA and PhRMA have yet come together due to their extreme polarities. The AMA wants to completely get rid of the DTC prescription ads which is very radical move from the PhRMA standpoint. While the PhRMA believes in innovation and research and feels DTC ads promotes new drugs that can help cure illnesses. Because these two organization has such opposite views and are such huge organizations, finding a compromise and getting both parties to sacrifice something is very challenging. There is no way of compromising without sacrifices one of both values and goals that they are built upon. Although these two stakes may have difference, they also have some common ground. For both stakeholders to achieve their purpose with regards to the issue, they must come to a compromise. Both organization AMA and the PhRMA have a mutual goal to improve many aspect of the healthcare industry through innovation. PhRMA advocates for public policies that encourage the discovery and delivery of innovative treatments to patients. The AMA is to working with leadership in both parties to improve health insurance coverage and health care access so that patients receive timely, high-quality care, preventive services, medications and other (AMA website). A viable compromise that will bring both parties to the middle would be to limit DTC advertising of prescription drugs to medical channels and personalize online Leger5 advertisements based on web history and accounts. AMA would have to give up the fact there are still some sort of DTC ads on prescription drugs. While the PhRMA are further restricted on blast advertisement and have less of a have audience for their prescription ads. This compromise is viable since its attainable and has the interest of both parties. The main concern with AMA and DTC ads of prescriptions drugs was that it caused inflation on the cost of the best health options on the markets. AMA goals is to have affordable health options so that all patients can get the best care. With the prescription drugs limited to health channels and tailored to certain web pages, the billions of dollars spent on prescription drug cost would decrease. As for PhRMA, there main concerned is to get the information out to the patients so people who know the drugs existed could have access to that knowledge and get the help for the illnesses. Although limiting the ads to medical channels would lessen the audience, the audience on that channel are target audience who are seeking the information. Also, have the webs ads based on search history ensure that right people who are seeking this information on prescription drugs are ones receiving it. For the compromise to happen, bureaucratic actions would have to take by the Food and Drug Administration. The FDA regulates and approval the marketing of prescription drugs. Their authority is based on several federal laws, including the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. For the compromise to happen legislatively, the change must be approved and enforced by the FDA. In 1997, the FDA has made changes on the limits and restriction of direct to consumer advertising- on prescription drugs, hence this compromise is something that can done. Leger6 Work Cited AMA Calls for Ban on DTC Ads of Prescription Drugs and Medical  AMA Calls for Ban on DTC Ads of Prescription Drugs and Medical Devices American Medical Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Background on Drug  Background on Drug Advertising. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Direct-to-consumer advertising under  WHO. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Amie C., Helen W. Sullivan, and Kathryn J. Aikin. Randomized Study Of Placebo And Framing Information In Direct-To-Consumer Print Advertisements For Prescription  Annals Of Behavioral Medicine 48.3 (2014): 311-322. PsycINFO. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. PhRMA Guiding Principles Direct to Ads on  Phrma. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Prescription Drug Ads  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., 7 Sept. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Rosenberg, Benjamin D., and Jason T. Siegel. The Effect Of Inconsistency Appeals On The Influence Of Direct-To-Consumer Prescription Drug Advertisements: An Application Of Goal Disruption  Journal Of Health Communication 21.2 (2016): 217-227. PsycINFO. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.