Stenbeck 1 Zach Stenbeck Fennell ENC 1102 01-29-17 The Creation of Man For every twenty human beings that are birthed into the world one synth is created by the Institute. There are two organizations that cannot come to a compromise over the creation of synthetic human being (synths). The Railroad, an organization who sees these synthetic humans as actual people, are in disagreement with the Institute who believe the purpose of a synth is only to serve as a machine and considers the synth defective if it carries emotion. The Railroad wants it so that all synths are free to do as they please and be allowed to live their own life, while the Institute wants to use the synths as a machine to collect resources for them without them having any emotion. There is disagreement between these two stakeholders is that the Institution only plans to create a new world and they say they are the only organization capable of doing so with their technology, while the Railroad wants the synths who are used as slaves by the Institute safe and allowed to live the life they wish to live. To start off, the mission is try and restore mankind after the incident that had happened years ago. The Institute is a highly sophisticated organization that is composed of scientists who are trying to says Shaun Apples leader of the Institute (Apples, We are the Institute 4). The scientists of the Institute believed they could create a better world because of all their technological advances. The Institute does not allow the synths to have a life. There are some of their newer models that are able to display emotion and pass as actual humans. These synths then began to think they were actual people and took on personas. The Institute disapproved of the newer models behavior and tried to keep them contained within their facility. Apples states synths are of no use to us if they have emotions corrupting its system Stenbeck 2 and thus being less (Apples, Within the Institute 2). Unfortunately for them many of the newer models kept escaping and living the life they wish to live. The institute believes this is a big problem and will ruin their plans. Conversely, the Railroad believes that the newer models of the Institute should be free to live the life they want to live. The Railroad is an organization made up of humans and synths, these synths have escaped from the Institute. Leader of the Railroad says risk our lives every day to save those who deserve the life they have been dreaming of, man or (Desdemona, We are the Railroad 5). The Railroad have been clashing with the Institute ever since the new model came out and have always tried to free the synths. Their mission is to free the synths who wanted to live a different life rather than work for the Institute. a synth myself it is great being able to live my life with these people is a blessing The life of a synth 1). They have somewhat succeeded by becoming known to the world and being a threat to the Institute. They will not stop until they have freed every synth they possibly could. In comparison, the two organizations want to better the world and, or keep safe for that matter. The Institution wants make the world better again just in a way that seem fair to those who are still living in this but they do believe it will help the world. The Railroad wants to be able to have a better world where people and these synthetic creations could live in harmony. These two organizations share a common interest in making the world a better. Despite all odds, a compromise that could be suggested to the two organizations is the Institute could start producing their newer model so that they can be more for social involvement instead of taking care of jobs that need to be carried out. This change will make the Railroad happy because these newer model synths will be able to live whatever life the synths want and be safe. In order to make this an even deal, the synths would need to be paid for. after Stenbeck 3 the disaster, more and more people suffer from depression because of the loss of loved says Dr. Chung (Chung, The people are sad 3). Anyone who would like to have their own synth maybe to work for them or even just be there for them when the people need it they could purchase one and have it programed to their preference. That way the Institute has cash flow and the Railroad is happy that these synths can experience real life. To conclude, these two organizations were unable to seek out a solution to the problems they both had without a fair outcome. With this suggested compromise the two may be able to come to an agreement. The institute will be able to widen their research with the steady cash flow from the sales of the newer model and the Railroad is happy because the synths get to live the life that they think they should deserve. Each organization will have resolved its problems with one another and be able to carry on their business as they see fit. Stenbeck 4 Work cited Jones, Life of a vol.1, N.p. March 7th, 2227. wordsofthewise.com. September 14th, 2016 Apples, the N.p January 18th, 2219 scienceiscool.org. September 14th, 2016 Chung, Jackie people are Article 7, People of Health.August 5th, 2220. September 14th, 2016 Apples, are the The Institute November 28th, 2210 theinststute.com. September 14th, 2016 Desdemona, are the The Railroad February 22nd, 2215 therailroad.org. September 14th, 2016