Michael Hampton Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101 1-29-2017 CTE Annotated Bibliography In all my years of playing football I have never encountered or shared the same field with a homosexual football player. Some may say homosexuals be allowed to play football or maybe in some cases some players would refuse to be on the same team as a person who is homosexual and quit the team. But to say not good enough to play on the team because of their sexual preference? There are some positive factors of accepting a homosexual on a sports team. For example, the team can gain more respect for accepting a gay player. Secondly, accepting a gay player can help change view. On the other hand, there are some negative factors like bringing negative media/social attention to the team, as well as teams picking unqualified players based on their sexuality. As football been traditionally accepting of homosexual players, what are some effects individual players and teams may experience by accepting a homosexual player? Blum, Sam. Why Professional Sports Still Has a Gay  Stone . N.p., 27 June 2016. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. <http://www.rollingstone.com/sports/features/why-professional-sports-still-has-a-gay-problem-201 60627>. Orlando tragic shooting night impacted all the professional sports teams. It impacted some in a positive way and some not so much in a positive way. Some of the professional teams supported the Orlando massacre and acknowledged the tragic event before starting their games. On the other hand, it took some teams awhile to acknowledge and support the tragic event that took place in Orlando. Although teams and leagues may have been taking a positive step in support and connection to the LGBT community, there has been apparent hesitation to use associating language with the community that was targeted on the early morning of June . Why Professional Sport Still Has a Gay Problem is credible because I found this source in the Rolling Stone magazine. Rolling Stone is known for its pop culture coverage and innovative thoughts. Orth, Maureen. Out of the Locker Room, and the  N.p., 30 Nov. 2003. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Out of the Locker Room, and the Closet discusses former NFL player, Roy Simmons, and his life of being a hidden gay football player, and the relief about when he came out for the rest of of his life. Roy kept his furtive gay life a secret, but that last long. One day in 1992, years after he retired from the NFL he appeared on national television on with a former girlfriend to discuss what he never told her which was that he was gay. His family, friends, and former teammates were all in shocked and jaws-dropped. In 1997, Roy Simmons got the news that he was HIV positive. After that he became a positive voice to other gay members hiding their secret gay life to come out and not hide who they really truly are. Out of the Locker Room, and the Closet is credible because I found this source out of Usf library. The author of this credible source is Maureen Ortho. Maureen is a well-respected journalist for almost 40 years and well known throughout the journalism industry. Bass, Jordan, Robin Hardin, and Elizabeth A. Taylor. The Glass Closet: Perceptions of Homosexuality in Intercollegiate  of Applied Sport Management 7.4 (2015): n. pag. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. In the journal The Glass Closet it discusses an experiment that has been brought up in the U.S. examining college football players being homosexual. head coaches were given a task to do, basically making a count of how many players,coaches,administrators at their university are homosexual. only one coach of more than 1,000 was identified of having the same sex partner. as of college players there not quite understanding when it comes to homosexuality. on the other hand society acceptance is increasing. The Glass Closet is credible because I found it out of the Usf library. There were multiple authors who contributed to creating this journal including Jordan Bass, Robin Hardin, and Elizabeth A. Taylor. They are well- known writers who are respected throughout the industry. Gibbs, Lindsay. Sam Says Coming Out As Gay Played A In NFL Teams Not Signing , ThinkProgress, 23 Sept. 2016, thinkprogress.org/michael-sam-says-coming-out-as-gay-played-a-huge-part-in-nfl-teams-not-signing- him-4cf478530e5f#.cxhgs3wsn. In the article Michael Sam Says Coming Out As Gay Played A Huge Part In NFL teams Not Signing it discusses the struggles he had playing in the NFL and teams accepting his sexuality preference. As Michael Sam came out as a gay football player teams in the NFL want anything to do with him. They want that kind of negative attention coming to their organization, so it was very difficult for him to get picked up by a team that would accept him. This article is credible because their are facts in it I use to my health that I find true based off the things he explained to interviewers while being interviewed by multiple ESPN sources.