Name: Ming Zhao Instructor: Angelica Aranda Course: ENC 1102 Date: 2/4/2017 Blizzard Entertainment and Valve Video Game Company Nowadays, the video games are one of the most popular entertainment in the world, especially for the young people, students and even the elder people. They spend the time playing video games to make the video games more in-depth life. The Blizzard Entertainment and the Valve Video Game Company are two corporations that devote themselves to design the video games for public people, and both of them are successful and influential among the video game companies. Therefore, those two corporations are the industry benchmarking in the field of designing video games, and so the game designing concept is affected by them to a large extent. However, the concept of game designing they hold look like a kind of same but still different in fact. Blizzard Entertainment is dedicated to create for the epic entertainment experiences for players (Blizzard Entertainment). Valve states that the succeed originates from the freedom to create without fear of failure (Valve). Even though the two corporations are both focus on creating, they have a different view on the creating. If the Blizzard Entertainment could have a broader creating, and the Valve could more emphasize on experience, the game they working together designed will be unprecedented and fascinating to attract people to enjoy. Blizzard Entertainment pursues the high-quality makers of computer games by its core value: on creating well-designed, highly enjoyable entertainment (Blizzard Entertainment) Since this company established in 1991, Blizzard Entertainment has persevered in gaining the honor by its master designing skill. In 2008, the first extension of World of Warcraft, which was one of the most famous game in Blizzard Entertainment, named The Burning Crusade obtained an unparalleled reputation. According to the statistics, there were more than 8 million players around the world, and made it most successful subscription-based massively multiplayer online role-playing game in PC- gaming (Blizzard Entertainment - Press Release) In 2009, the University of California, another Blizzard Entertainment game named StarCraft was used to teach math, economics, and the theory of game in classroom (Kuo). This report also mentions that playing it was a useful way to teach the critical thinking and analytical skill to students. All of those evidences show that the Blizzard Entertainment is real on its way of how to design video games successfully. Based on its core value, focusing on creating the best experience for players is what this corporation think the approach to design video game. Although the Valve Video Game Company also emphasize the factor of creating, this company insists another perspective on the term creating in the games designing. What the Valve Video Game corporation dedicated to is innovate boldly, and creating without restraint. The Valve steers the wild horizon on creating video games. They state that sometimes their biggest mistakes finally become to the best idea of creating (Valve). This brave and not limited thought on creating games make this company full of vim and vigor since its inception founded in 1996. So not only the Valve is focus on designing video games, but also this company establish a community named Steam for player. Steam is the direct pipeline between the customers and designers, and is the platform for players and players. To be more specific, there are more than 1800 video games on this platform and 35 million players on this community, and it is available in 237 countries and 21 different languages (Valve). On top of that, one of the most attractive video games named Dota 2 is designed and published by Valve, and now the Dota 2 is the most competitive electronic sports in the world. The prize pool in 2016 is more than 200 million dollars (Dota 2 - The International). This is the highest reward in the electronic gaming ring, and the reward for winners make this game at its summit among other games. Nevertheless, all of those accomplishments in video game is because the Valve is a game maker that creating game without a rule book (Wingfield). Additionally, the Valve company allow players to participate in the process of creating (Steam Community). This is very interesting for players that the players can design what they think the game should be and submit their perspectives to the Valve, and the adoption of a variety of thoughts from majority players keep the games feeling of freshness. This also shows that the Valve enjoys the way of wild creating in game designing. Comparing those two powerful companies, the reason why they so triumphant in the game field is they both pay attention to the term creating even they hold different views on it. However, those two companies do not accept each other and have not work together from past to now. Actually, the previous extension of Dota 2 which is named by Dota is based on the game Warcraft which is designed and published by Blizzard Entertainment. The interesting thing is in the age of Warcraft the Blizzard Entertainment first allows players to creating the methods of playing. Then a group of people use the Warcraft engine to design the game Dota which is quite famous and absorbing in that time. However, as time goes on, due to the problem of copyright, the group of people who design Dota go to the Valve to recreate a more powerful game named Dota 2. Because of this event, even they have the similar key point on designing, they still become to the competitive opponents. If those two companies are willing to adopt each other and creating together, the future of the video games will be shaped by them. On the basis of their attitudes on the designing games, if the Blizzard Entertainment establish a wilder creating and the Valve put more energy on experiences, they will become one big organization of video game designing and it will astonish the whole gaming field. The compromise is feasible when, one side the Blizzard Entertainment starts to open their eyes on creating and insists the previous work they did that allowed more people to join in designing, and another side that the Valve are willing spend more time on analyzing the experiences which go though by players. In this case, the benefits are not only appearing to the Blizzard but also the Valve. Some people like the Blizzard Entertainment game, and it has a high playability, however, it is a little bit of narrow, because the Blizzard Entertainment only has 6 major games for now. Comparing to the Valve, it has more than 1800 video games, however, just a few games win the praise from the public. So, the Valve should learn how to make the game has more quality like Blizzard Entertainment does. For the Blizzard Entertainment, it should study how to create wildly like the Valve does. Thus, to combine two of them and making them work as one unit will become a reality. Therefore, there will be an overwhelming power in designing games area. Work Cited Blizzard Entertainment - Press  Blizzard Entertainment - Press Release. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Blizzard Entertainment: About Blizzard  Blizzard Entertainment: About Blizzard Entertainment. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Dota 2 - The  Dota2.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Kuo, Ivan. Schools Are Using Starcraft 2 as Serious Teaching Tools -  Gamification Co. N.p., 04 Dec. 2012. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Steam Community: Dota  Steam Community: Dota 2. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Welcome to  Valve. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Wingfield, Nick. Game Maker Without a Rule  The New York Times. The New York Times, 08 Sept. 2012. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.