Standardized Testing: A standardized test is, by definition, that is given to evaluate the performance of students relative to all other students with the same (Issitt McMahon & Micah L. Maureen). Some of these tests include the SAT and the ACT, both similar in goals but different in style. On one hand, the College Board, creator of the SAT, believes that their tests help students prepare for college, inspire practice, and connect better to the classroom experience (College Board); however, on the other hand, FairTest, the National Center for Fair and Open Testing, believes that standardized tests are detrimental to a performance in school. There obviously needs to exist some sort of tool to measure a academic success so that colleges can get an idea of how well these students performed during high school, and while standardized testing is the most popular choice, some agree that those tests could be harsh and unfair; therefore, a compromise must be reached to give each student an equal opportunity for college admission. The College Board is a large not-for-profit organization that assists and guides students throughout high school and college. It was founded in 1900 and now has over six thousand institutions settled around the globe. High school students probably know them by taking AP classes and the SAT, but they offer many other services as well. In addition, College Board changed the format of the SAT in March 2016 because world needs more people who can solve problems, communicate clearly, and understand complex (College Board). The changes include questions that focus more on analysis and understanding; longer, complex passages; an optional essay portion; more student-produced questions in the math portion; and no penalties for guessing answers. Because of these changes, it is now even more imperative for students to perform better in class so that they can prepare for the SAT, but therein lies the problem: as the exams become progressively harder, students who have already done well with exams will flourish but those who do not will struggle even more. FairTest is an organization that opposes standardized testing and fair, open, valid and educationally beneficial evaluations of students, teachers and (FairTest). It was founded in 1985 by Dr. Sophie Sa and is currently presided by Robert Schaeffer. FairTest has done a series of projects such as working with other anti-testing organizations, advancing programs, and overhauling federal programs such as No Child Left Behind (NCLB). Since the passage of NCLB, students are required to take an average of 112.3 tests between preschool through grade twelve (Hennick, 42), and the staff at FairTest are trying to reduce that. [WRITE The College Board and FairTest have two different mindsets: the former believes that standardized testing accurately measures skill, while the latter does not. Valerie Strauss, writer for the Washington Post education section, revealed post of his opinion on the SAT. College Board responded to Schaeffer and Schaeffer responded back, and Strauss reveals all of this in her blog post. First Schaeffer claims that the new SAT in 2005 was a and out to be neither a more accurate nor a fairer admissions (Schaeffer). However, Lauren Bunin, Vice President of College Board, responded to Schaeffer in her post: Critics of standardized admissions tests try to assail the validity of the tests, suggesting that they predictive, or that using only a high school grades is a better alternative. The truth is that the SAT is very predictive of both a college academic performance and a likelihood of staying in college (retention). Furthermore, the SAT is equally as powerful as high school grades at predicting a college performance. And because the SAT and high school grades assess complementary, but somewhat different, capabilities of a student, the best predictor of college performance is the combination of the SAT and high school grades (Bunin). Finally, Schaeffer responded by writing that research shows that the is a substantially poorer tool for predicting college graduation, a much more important (Schaeffer). It is evident that these two groups do not get along with each other, so they have never worked cooperatively. However, despite all these conflicts, they do share a common trait after all: they are both passionate in helping students transition from high school to college to graduation. There are many different solutions to this problem, but there is one that could potentially function the best: requiring a written answer for questions instead of choosing a right answer in a multiple-choice exam. Doug Archbald and Fred Newman explain this in clearer terms in their book Standardized Testing: Assessing Authentic Academic Achievement in the Secondary Archbald and Newman provide an example that suggests students to make an experiment, and the question says: Usually your heart beats regularly at a normal rate when you are at rest. Suppose someone asks you the following questions: Does your heart rate go up or down when you exercise? How much does your heart rate change when you exercise? How long does the effect last? Think about what you would do to find answers to the questions above. What type of experiment would you design to answer the questions? Assume that you have the following equipment available to use: an instrument to measure your heart rate (such as a pulse meter), a stop watch, and some graph paper. Briefly describe how you might go about finding answers to these questions (Archbald and Newman, 25) As one can see, this method allows students to think outside of the box, and it also demonstrates a thinking. Works Cited Archbald, Arthur A., and Fred M, Newman. Beyond Standardized Testing: Assessing Authentic Academic Achievement in the Secondary School. Reston: National Association of Secondary School Principals, 1988. Print. Hennick, Calvin. Test  Instructor 125.5 (2016): 42-45. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Issitt McMahon, Micah L. Maureen. Standardized  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. McMahon, Issitt, and Micah Maureen. Standardized  Research Starters, Jan. 2016. Web.