Alqallaf1 Hasan Alqallaf ENC 1102 Mariama Changamire 30 January 2017 Video Games and Violence Video games became popular by and from that time they gained a lot of fans. At first, violence was not the goal of video games, while the intended purpose of video games was for entertainment. With the flow of time, the power of technology has significantly increased, though programmers and designers managed to improve their work significantly. It resulted in much more interesting gaming process as well as the realistic and intense image on the screen. The first stakeholder Television council states that video games are so violent and a main cause for violence these days. Television counsel also stated that scientists have proved that video games can make children exposed to violence. The second stake holder Mental Floss, has an idea that video games could have many benefits like playing video games can reduce stress and make a person a fast decision maker. According to a huge amount of sources, children started to learn bad habits from these video games, got more aggressive and even started to practice violence based on the game. Parents started to control the amount of time that their children spend in computer games or even stopped to let them play video games. People started to blame video games for their bad habits, but on the other side, there are people who Alqallaf2 defend video games and try to convince other people that bad results that are treated to be caused by games were not caused by this matter, yet by other various reasons. Despite the constant argues, there still remains the question if video games cause aggression and violence of teenagers. When in the United States happens a mass murder at school or at University, all the attention of the police, reporters and ordinary citizens is attracted to the identity and habits. In addition to monitoring by a psychiatrist as well as visits to a psychologist, it is often mentioned that the offender was addicted to violent computer games. In fact, the problem of the influence of aggressive games on the human mentality is more complicated than it is usually portrayed in the media Bliesener & Stefanie Luthman 45). At the beginning of the current century, there were done many types of research to find a relationship between computer games and violence of teenagers. They confirmed the link between the fascination of children with video games built on violence and their aggressive behavior. In 2002, researchers suggested that the more young people involved in shooters or similar games, the more behavior would be aggressive. This hypothesis was confirmed, although it should be said that the connection was rather weak. It is important to mention that psychologists surveyed only 32 teenager that is not enough to make a proper conclusion. At the same time, scientists have an explanation of how video games make people prone to aggression. By watching scenes of virtual violence, people lose the understanding that aggression is unacceptable in society. If to study the problem of aggression in the context of human evolution, Alqallaf3 it must be said that people got rid of direct aggression, yet moved to indirect. Humans had become smarter and realize their intentions through verbal attacks and social interaction. It is also important to mention a serious drawback of the hypothesis of scientists about the direct link between video games with real violence. Violence is not only in video games because blood, fights, and insults in big volume shown on the TV screens and in social networks. None of the national news releases is complete without a bloody story. Stories about the video with harassment and assault of one child by others occasionally pop up (Fischer, & Greitemeyer 193). Of course, all this dirt also makes people less sensitive to the pain of others and turns the aggression into something familiar. The situation is not that violence has increased, and the fact that it is easier to show. In 2002 was published a study conducted by the US government. The specialists studied the information about forty-one mass murderers in schools. It turned out that only twelve percent of the killers was fond of aggressive video games, while twenty-four of them read books that contain scenes of violence, and twenty-seven were fascinated by the films of similar subjects. However, no one asked to close cinemas and libraries. Eight years later, American scientist Christopher Ferguson published his work on the influence of video games on aggressive behavior of adolescents (Ferguson 73). He took into account how often teenagers seeing violence on television and in computer games. Separately account for problems with neighbors, family relationships, antisocial personality traits of a teenager and his entourage. After analyzing the data on the identity of adolescents, the nature of the games, which they were fond of, and Alqallaf4 offenses committed by them during this period, Ferguson did not find any connection between breaking the law and video games or violence on TV screens. What really could predict the illegality of actions of the teenager is the depressive symptoms that identify it. In 2013, a professor of sociology, Matt Delisi, published data on juvenile delinquents. On average, each of them committed nine acts of violence. According to the researcher, fascination with adolescents video games can be a risk factor for criminal behavior. At first sight, this study contradicts the study of Ferguson, but actually, it does not Bliesener & Luthman 47). Delisi had teenagers with criminal records, and it has already been mentioned that people, who are inclined to aggression can restrict their interest to games and movies with scenes of violence in view of the characteristics of the individuality. In this light, work is more subtle and promising in revealing the real reasons for teenage crime. Recent studies show that aggressive video games have a negative impact on the mentality of the players. At the University of Missouri, seventy volunteers played games with violence or without it for twenty-five minutes. Then they were shown pictures with the different story, including scenes of violence. In addition, the volunteers participated in the game, where they were able to stun opponents with a loud sound. The brain of the subjects, who played aggressive games showed less response to image with an aggressive plot, and while playing with sound, they gave the signal louder than those who played the peaceful game. According to the authors Alqallaf5 of a study that shows that violent video games make our brain more prone to violence and less compassionate. Apparently, people are very far from the final answer to the question, how humans are affected by aggressive video games. Violence in games makes players more violent at the micro- social level, but it is difficult to say, does this aggression goes beyond acceptable social norms. The relationship between major crimes, including mass killings, and a passion for video games is questionable. Most likely, people who have broken the law and used violence to others, initially have a personality that is more tend to turn away from communication and close itself in video games. In this case, video games is a symptom of the problem, not its cause. The reason lies in human personality, regardless of the age. Alqallaf6 Works Cited Ferguson, Christopher J. Angels Or Resident Evil? Can Violent Video Games Be A Force For Review Of General Psychology14.2 (2010): 68-81. PsycARTICLES Web. 17 Jan. 2017. Frithjof, Thomas Bliesener, and Stefanie Luthman. Hostile And Hardened? An Experimental Study On (De-)Sensitization To Violence And Suffering Through Playing Video  Swiss Journal Of Psychology 67.1 (2008): 41-50. PsycARTICLES. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. Fischer, Peter, Andreas and Tobias Greitemeyer. Media Violence And The Self: The Impact Of Personalized Gaming Characters In Aggressive Video Games On Aggressive  Journal Of Experimental Social Psychology 46.1 (2010): 192-195. PsycINFO. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. Frithjof, Thomas Bliesener, and Stefanie Luthman. Hostile And Hardened? An Experimental Study On (De-)Sensitization To Violence And Suffering Through Playing Video  Swiss Journal Of Psychology 67.1 (2008): 41-50. PsycARTICLES. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.