Matich 1 Jake Matich Professor Mariama Comp 2 1/30/17 Government Surveillance in the United States Government surveillance first came to prominence after the horrific attacks on the World Trade Center on September 11th, 2001, and has been a topic of discussion for many years now. With an increase in technology; whether it be new phones, cameras on every street corner and even in as well as being able to look at emails, government surveillance has many believing it is putting at stake our right as U.S. citizens to privacy. Although these complaints have been made toward these ever increasing surveillance policies- brought on in part by the Edward Snowden wikileaks scandal- the NSA still believes it is their duty to protect the well being of Americans in any way possible, doing so by continuously conducting national security missions in the form of this government surveillance. One of the main opposers to government surveillance is Against which is a coalition of organizations advocating for transparency and an end to mass surveillance. Clearly, there needs to be some form of government surveillance in order to prevent future attacks and crimes, however I believe that it should only be for suspects in question, not every move being watched. If there is some form of compromise between these two then perhaps less American people will feel like their every move is watched, while still getting the job done in preventing crimes. The NSA is a government organization who uses government surveillance, whether it be in the form of phone records, emails, and street cameras, to catch and prevent crimes, mostly in Matich 2 the form of national security and terrorism. According to the NSA website it states that, law must respect the freedoms and privacy of citizens, however does so while accomplishing important national security (NSA.gov). Despite popular and social belief, the NSA feels it is all but necessary to conduct such surveillance missions, and feel that without these certain principles the livelihood and protection of our nation would be at stake. One case that the NSA takes much pride in is that of Basaaly Saeed Moalin, in which the man was arrested on counts for helping a terrorist group in Somalia known as al-Shabaab, doing so by sending an estimated $8,500 as well as frequently reaching out to them in efforts to help them plot terrorist attacks (Nakashima, 1). The NSA did so by looking into the records of phone, which was flagged for having been in contact with known terrorists overseas. The NSA believes this is one of many cases that shows why government surveillance in almost any form is needed, and these cases in which terrorists are caught portraying acts of violence against the U.S. allow the NSA to stand further ground that they will not in fact change the way in which they conduct these methods. Although to many these methods- which include going through millions of phone records and history- seem very intrusive and invading personal privacy, the NSA is certain it is their duty to carry out these acts, as stated previously on their website. Against a coalition of organizations aimed to reach out to these government officials to end mass spying, believes that these forms of surveillance are highly intrusive and quite frankly unconstitutional. On website they state that, call on you to provide a full public accounting of the intelligence mass surveillance (Standagainstspying.org). This means that this organization is demanding full knowledge of NSA surveillance records, and that all cases in which millions are affected by government surveillance be made public by the people conducting such missions. As mentioned in the Matich 3 beginning of the paper, one of the first and most controversial times in which government surveillance was made public was during the wikileaks scandal. This took place when a man by the name of Edward Snowden took classified information about intrusive government surveillance and released it to the public, causing quite the uproar. Now because of this, it is almost inevitable that the NSA would never think about releasing public records in regards to national security and surveillance, due to the fact the organization would face much scrutiny that they had to infiltrate so many personal information. Now if one thing about the American people is certain, that we care about the safety and well-being of our people and our land. Although the Stand Against Spying organization strongly believes there should be a reduction and if not full disposal of government surveillance in the country, it is a role as an American citizen to feel everything should be done in order to protect this nation. The NSA and Stand Against Spying both feel that national security is a significant priority, and whether it be through full blown government surveillance or something less extreme, actions must take place. This is where common ground is formed in order to promote some form of compromise. The main compromise that can be put forth based on both stakeholders in the argument is that if there is much needed government surveillance to prevent crime and national threats, it should be done in a limited and aimed at specific targets. If there is a case in which the NSA needs to in fact look up phone records for instance, they should do it in regards to specific suspects, not widespread people being inspected for no reason. According to reformgovernmentsurveillance.com, should limit surveillance to specific, known users for lawful purposes, and should not undertake bulk data collection of Internet (reformgovernmentsurveillance.com). This site supports the Stand Against Matich 4 Spying values by showing how we truly do need reform in terms of government surveillance and further illustrates its importance. After doing slight research to see if there are other sources who feel this could be a solution to the government surveillance issue, I came across a piece on independent.org that talks about such a compromise. According to the article, congressman Justin Amash proposed a plan that end the authority for the blanket collection of records under the PATRIOT Act. His proposal prohibits the NSA and other agencies from using Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act to collect records, including telephone call traffic, that pertain to persons who are not subject to an investigation under Section 215 of the (Eland, 1). If government surveillance searches were to be targeted at specific suspects and not mass amounts of innocent people who feel it is unnecessary to be searched, perhaps more criminals and terrorists would be prosecuted, and more Americans might accept the idea that government surveillance is and will better the nation without interfering with privacy and day to day lives. Matich 5 Works Cited Eland, Ivan. of Domestic Government Independent Institute. n.p. Web. 29 July 2013. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017 http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=4673 NSA. National Security Agency About n.d. n.p. Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017 https://www.nsa.gov/ Reform Government Surveillance. N.d. n.p. Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017 https://www.reformgovernmentsurveillance.com/ Stand Against Spying-About. N.d. n.p. Web. Accessed 28 Jan 2017 https://standagainstspying.org/about/ Nakashima, Ellen. Cites Case As Success of Phone Data Collection Washington Post. Web. 8 Aug 2013. Accessed 30 Jan 2017 https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/nsa-cites-case-as-success-of-phone- data-collection-program/2013/08/08/fc915e5a-feda-11e2-96a8-