Yahya Gamal Haithm Haithm, 1 Composition 1011 Prof. Kimber Wiggs Jan 27, 2017 Homelessness With all the conflicts and issues the world had in the past ten years, clearly that numbers of homeless people would increase massively across the world. Homelessness problems could be discussed in many directions. What could effect the homeless in his way of living, his way of learning, and adjusting the new style of living in the streets?. The number of homeless people worldwide is estimated to be between 100 million and one Tipple, Graham 2005). obvious that homelessness is spread in many nations. Having said that, governments were fighting to solve the issue of homelessness and trying to decrease this issue to the lowest they can get. The United Nation described the definition of homeless as those who live without home or shelter, who also have a few things to carry with them, sleeping in streets or any unsafe place for normal person. Another thing to consider is that families are the most of homelessness in the world. January (564,708) people were homeless on a given night in the United States. Of that number, (206,286) were people in families, and (358,422) were individuals. Nonetheless, is being done to address the homelessness problem in the world? Tipple, Graham, and Suzanne Speak. of Homelessness in Developing International 29.2 (2005): Web. 21 Jan. 2017. At first, developing countries fighting to find a process to get rid of this issue. is a place where a person is able to establish meaningful social relations with others Haithm, 2 through entertaining them in his/her own space, or where the person is able to withdraw from such Tipple, Graham 2005). Having said that, the definition of homelessness does not apply in every place in the world. Homelessness in developing countries might be the people who live in shelters and have a permanent home. On the other hand, homelessness in the poor countries could mean people who live in the streets and find a roof to live on. The solutions for homelessness issue would not work in every place. The solutions that worked before in developing country will not for sure work in a poor or third world countries. all depends on what the country is suffering from and trying to solve it so homeless people will affect from the change positively. The credibility of this source could be discussed as a trustworthy. Not only that Graham Tipple is a master of arts, he has experience of 30 years in housing and urban development issues in developing countries. He has published over a hundred papers on urban policy in Africa and the developing world in general. From what the writer done in his life, clearly that his point of view could be reliable. Sharman, Stephen. study reveals scale of problem gambling among homeless population . University of Cambridge, 2 Apr. 2014. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. There are many ways that could people to be homelessness. One of the ways is gambling. Many homeless population issues they facing is drugs and alcohol. In addition, the majority of the researches focus only on these two factors ( Drugs, and Alcohol) while they forget about gambling. Having said that, not quite easy to spot the gambler more than drugs and alcohol addiction. Therefore, gambler person is much harder to identify than others issues. Gambling addiction has effect it many people over the years. The main reason that as I think is that those Haithm, 3 people play gambling to fill up the empty of his life. Gambling addiction lead to family divide before it lead to homelessness. Filling up the emptiness would be the solution, which will help the person to have more time with his/her family and leave any chance of losing everything in his life. The credibility of the source is really reliable. The University of Cambridge is one of the most famous universities in United Kingdom. The writer Stephen who made the research about the relationship between the homelessness and gambling. gained his PhD from the University of Cambridge, he also gained a BSc in Psychology from the University of East London where he began working in the field of gambling disorders. Hwang, Stephen. and health . 23 Jan. 2001. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Numerous homeless people suffer from serious medical problems. In addition, In Canada, Toronto, there are thousands of homelessness in the streets who facing the risk of death everyday. Hence, the rates of diseases for homelessness are higher for females than males by 31 times. Skins and foot issues are the most infamous for homeless people. Cellulitis, Impetigo, Venous stasis disease, Scabies, and Body lice, what wait the homeless person while living in the streets. However, the number of homeless deaths in Canada does not even reach the half of the United States. The main reason for this is health care system in Canada. Homeless person often visit the hospital five time often than original people. Homeless people in the United States cannot enjoy these features. Lack of health insurance is the main reason for this issue. More research is expected to recognize better approaches to convey care to homeless people. However, are probably not going to beat the negative impacts of Homelessness and related social ills. The look to pull answers for the issue of Homelessness itself must remain a Haithm, 4 key need. Dr. Stephen Hwang interests housing as a social determinant of health, health care for homeless persons, marginalized populations, inner city health, urban health, socioeconomic status, access to care, community-based primary health care, health services research. Dr. Hwang have a lot of experience in health for homeless people. Having said that, it would be good to take his consideration for this topic. Watson, J., J. Crawley, and D. Kane. Exclusion, Health and Hidden Health 139. (2016): Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Homelessness and poverty is the most reason for social exclusion. For what a homeless people suffer from the society, it could affect the look of people to homeless. Having said that, Expense and exchange arrangements that shape salary disparity emerge in a vacuum, rather they reflect basic social convictions about the reasons for destitution and the general population esteemed deserving of offer help. People who experience mental illness are also overrepresented among those who become homeless in Europe, Australia and the US, at least among single Shinn, 2010). Despite the fact that the condition of vagrancy can unquestionably prompt to tension and melancholy, the relationship amongst homeless people and mental disease has a tendency to take after a social determination demonstrate. That is individuals who encounter emotional instability are differentially prone to end up distinctly destitute. the country taxes and social welfare rules shape the structure of disparity in countries, more, are related with levels of homelessness. Similarly as people in some cases settle on decisions that may lead them to being homeless, countries settle on decisions that can prompt to Haithm, 5 high rates of poverty for their people, and differentially high rates for socially prohibited groups. Marybeth Shinn wrote about how to prevent and end homelessness and create opportunities for groups that face social exclusion. She is a professor in department of and Organizational Development in University of In addition, she have a lot of experience to deal with the homelessness issue and what solution should we take to end the the problem.