Al-Malki 1 Salma Al-Malki Prof. Sarah Roth ENC 1101 31 Jan 2017 Gender inequality in the workplace The purpose of this research paper will be on the gender inequality of opportunity in getting job or work, where mostly men are the who get job easily than women in the workplace. This phenomenon, that is a type of sex discrimination has obtained many several times around the world. Most of the years it has been a challenge in the way of most of the women who sought to enter to get a job. Discrimination happens most of the time, not only with gender and it cause difficulties and many issues. Discrimination of gender in the work environment the women is ignored and the reasons are that some employers believe that women have the ability to work a lot. Even though women are now have the opportunities to work, they still being rejected because they believe women have the strength to control most of the work places. 1-Acker, Joan. Regimes Gender, Class, and Race in Gender and Society 20.4 (2006): Web. Johan mentioned in her book about the inequality regimes that relate to gender in the organizations such as workplaces and argues that in organization that are provided, Al-Malki 2 inequality is exist in the shape of practices and processes that increases the maintenance of the gender inequality amongst many other things (Acker 443). In addition, Johan explains that even though women have been integrated into the workplace, managerial ranks now contain women in many organizations, but secretaries, clerks, servers, and care providers are still primarily (Acker 444). 2- Kimmel, Michael S, Amy Aronson, and Michael S. Kimmel. The Gendered Society Reader. New York: Oxford University Press, 2008. Print. Michael Kimmel, writes in a chapter of his book, The Gendered Society, about the workplace being a gendered institution, where women come out and considered as the and the men as the Kimmel explained that even though men and women of equal numbers go to work everyday, they do not all have the same jobs. He also mentioned, the nearly sixty-six million women in the labor force in the United States . . . more than 52 percent of all women or of all men would have to change their jobs for the occupational distribution to be completely (Kimmel 255) 3- Patricia William W Eaton, Carles Muntaner. market experience, work organization, gender inequalities and health status: results from a prospective analysis of US employed women, Social Science & Volume 58. Issue 3 (2004). Page 59. Al-Malki 3 A research that was studied by mentioned a several risk factors for mental health including employment that related to characteristics status is one reason of the gender inequality in the workplace. The included variables measure of anxiety disorders, stress and other related mental challenges. Household income and disability were thus used to measure the workplace inequality as independent variables Likewise discussed the effect of gender specific employment types and reasons that affect health in the workplace. They found that jobs with greater gender inequality in the area of pay, promotion, or power may cause to poorer health and illness outcomes among women 586). These poor health outcomes as a consequences of the wage gap are not only physicaly , but are also mentaly. The lower conditions in the workplaces is current even with an distribution of educational attainment among women and men within occupational 592). 4- Klugman, Jeni, Henriette Kolb, and Matthew Morton. Persistent Gender Inequality in the World of  The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs 38.2 (2014): 133-52. ProQuest. Web. 11 Dec. 2015. Krugman mentioned in his book and job opportunities for women through active community outreach, ensuring that job advertisements make it clear that women and men can apply, installing female restrooms and other women-only facilities, and setting numerical targets for the inclusion of women in recruitment and Al-Malki 4 This resources explains how women can have the chance to be a part of the community as a supporter. for instance, there are many jobs that women can support men with in fields such as engineering and medical, this is jobs will help women to gain a higher paying also will help them to improve themselves and the society and make it easier for men if the work was tough. There must be an increasing in the organizations to support women and encourage them to be progressed.