Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Heart The Heart organization was founded by Josh Lannon in 2002 in order to create a special facility for active and retired members of the United States Army who are dealing with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), addiction and chemical dependency. The Warriors Heart foundation, per their website, private treatment to adult men and women 18 and older who are seeking inpatient treatment for chemical dependency and co-occurring psychological disorders relating to PTSD or the psychological effects of MTBI (mild traumatic brain (Lannon). The organization is backed by a handful of nonprofit organizations such as Semper Fi funds and Mi22ion, who help to back their mission statement which is as follows, heart is founded by warriors for (Lannon). This statement is the backbone of the organizations efforts. They feel that they are better able to give the proper help to active and veteran soldiers due to the fact that they are founded and funded by those of the same background. This commonality is what gives Heart the edge in taking care of the problems of those warriors who struggle with PTSD and other disorders. They display this and much more on their website through cunning images, testimonials and ample information as they intend to prove that they are the best rehab program for veterans, designed by veterans. One image (see Fig. 1) that appears side by side with the mission statement at the top of the home page is that of a modern American Soldier grasping his assault rifle with a rustic Spartan like warrior standing as the shadow of the soldier holding onto his spear. The effectiveness of this image stems from its use of lowlight and rustic colors as well as the positioning of the characters Student 2 and how they resemble each other but from different time frames. Also, the fact that the modern soldier has more of a 3-D image as opposed to the two dimensional look the Spartan carries, plays as another factor contributing towards the difference in time. The collective of this image and its subtleties create a powerful influence on the overall message this website attempts to convey through its imagery while accompanied by its mission statement. The visual appeal used to make this photo an effective influential piece of this website displays its rhetorical appeals as well. One rhetorical appeal that validates this image is Ethos, or the appeal to authority (Hoffman). By using both the likes of a modern and classical representation of a warrior the website does well to connect itself with authority, bringing credibility to both itself and its sponsors. Often modern day soldiers get overlooked, but when you compare them to the likes of a warrior of past times such as a Spartan, they can be accompanied by the legendary status that Spartans are held to. Though logos may have been very apparent in this image, the other rhetorical appeal that may have gone under the radar is Kairos, or the appeal to timeliness. (Hoffman) Kairos goes hand in hand with the ethos that is also presented in this image. Many soldiers and veterans especially may not view themselves as that of a warrior, especially if battling with disease or drug addiction momentarily. By viewing the modern day soldier they can connect it to themselves or what they used to represent, but when paired with the timelessness of a Spartan warrior it gives the viewer a sense of invincibility, that the service they have endured will have an everlasting impact on their life. That all of the previous work they endured will cement them in history as the warrior they truly are. The other image (see Fig. 2) that the Heart chose as a representation of themselves and their website is the image of two middle aged men sitting next to each other on a Student 3 mat wearing blue colored martial arts uniforms. The design elements that are most impactful in this photo are its colors, mostly blue from the uniforms, and the linear style of the photo. The color blue sets the somber like mood as most of the patients are dealing with some type of struggle. The fact that the two men are sitting equally by each other and talking face to face, brings forth a sense that they are willing to help and are very understanding. The rhetorical appeal most apparent in this photo is pathos, or the appeal to emotions (Hoffman). Pathos is conveyed through the commonality both of the men in the photo share. Both are wearing the same color uniforms and are fist bumping in unison as a sign of togetherness and or teamwork. The fact that they are on the ground together can play as a metaphor to the fact that some of the patients may feel knocked down but through their help they will have the means to get back up. There is a lot of likeness in this photo which helps to portray their message that they are trying to help people just like them, warriors. The other rhetorical appeal that speaks volumes in the photo and goes hand in hand with the pathos previously displayed, is ethos, or the appeal to authority (Hoffman). Though both of them are wearing the same uniform, one looks more confident while the other looks unsure. This plays to the role of a master and sensei, often accompanied with martial arts. This is a subliminal message to the viewer as to how the Heart organization can be the stern hand of guidance and authority that the patients need in order to get the proper treatment they need to be nursed back to health, similar to that of a sensei and its disciple. By artfully displaying rhetorically powerful images on the website, the Heart organization has successfully established themselves as a front runner for the healthcare of soldiers and veterans battling with Post traumatic stress disorder and chemical dependency. Through the Student 4 use of rhetorical appeals as well as a handful of compelling images the Heart organization has done well to solidify themselves as one of, if not the best facility to deal with soldiers and veterans alike through rehab, restoring them to their fuller selves. (WC:1034) Student 5 Works Cited Lannon, James . Warriors Heart. Geek Powered Studios, n.d. Web. <http://www.warriorsheart.com/military-veteransfacility-short- 7.5 Visual  Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. By Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. N. pag. Print. 7.7 Breaking Down an Image  Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. By Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. N. pag. Print. Student 6 Figure 1: 5428793 I could not select the original image to copy it, so I had to click on the link provided below it which led me to the whole original picture with which the piece being used was grabbed from. The part in which I will analyze is only that of the soldier on the left with the warrior shadowing behind him as used on the website. Figure 2: http://14815-presscdn-0-43.pagely.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/Martial- Arts-Training.jpg