Ahmed Alashwal Prof. Sarah Roth ENC 1101 Feb. 4, 2017 Forming Relationships through the Internet Through thousands of years, forming friendships and social interactions were strictly happening in real life, or sending mail, if we wanted to be more specific. However, in the last two decades, internet and social media have become increasingly more popular with each year passes. Texting and calling through voice chat applications, social media websites, internet forums, and most importantly for this paper, playing online games have become the normal way to start new relationships and socially interacting with others. The thing is, some people still consider it as an unsafe way to make friends through these means, as the internet is a platform that gives anonymity to its users, and still has questionable and sinister people who would turn on each other in a moment. While being legitimate criticisms, the internet is still a good platform, arguably better, to make friends through. Crawford, Garry. Gaming in Context: The Social and Cultural Significance of Online Games . Eds. Victoria K. Gosling and Ben Light. New York: Routledge 2011. Book. Garry Crawford is a British Professor at the University of Salford that specializes in Cultural Sociology. His teaching subjects includes consumers, audience, technologies sport fans and gamers, and had wrote, co-wrote and released multiple books including Online Gaming in Context. Ben Light is the second author of the book, a Professor of Digital Society, also teaches in University of Salford. His specialty is the study of everyday experiences of Digital Media. He also published multiple books on his area of expertise. Lastly, Dr Victoria K. Gosling is a lecturer in sociology, and also published multiple books. The book explore the impact of online gaming communities in a social way, how they interact and communicate with each other. William, and Cathrine Felix. Friendship Between Online & Technology 29.1 (2014): Web. Professor William is a PhD candidate from Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden. He specializes in Philosophy of Punishment, Social and Political Philosophy and Applied Ethics, and had published socially related articles. Professor Cathrine Felix from Lund University. She also co-wrote the article with William, and is specialized in Philosophy, Ethics and epistemology. This paper studies the interactions of 912 MMORPG players that happen both in the games they play, and in real life. The authors also argue that some real life friendships are impossible to happen, but can exist in an online environment. TMW Media. of Social 2005. Video. This video tackles the problems and dangers that surrounds social media amongst teen students, and how it could, arguably, ruin relationships between students. The video also has students that talk about their first-hand experience on social media websites like Facebook and MySpace, and how much of their lives are put online for everyone all over the world to see, creating the danger of invading their own private lives. Broadbent, Stefana. Digital TED. July. 2009. Lecture. This TED talk focuses on how internet application like social media, instant messaging and e-mailing increases the deep level of relationships between friends, married couples and siblings wherever their locations are.