Alyssa Pelose Pelose 1 Instructor: Kimber Wiggs 5 February 2017 Education is the most important element to success. I am writing my semester topic on education. Specifically, I am choosing to talk about special needs education because it is something that is overlooked. Special needs education has been an issue within the school programs for years, and a lot of people do not know much about. Special needs education is obviously different from normal education. There are special needs schools that personally deal with kids who have special needs. They have unique tools and ways to help the kids who have learning disabilities. These schools are specifically equipped for kids with special needs. The problem is, that there is not a lot of these schools. I have lived in the same area my entire life and have never heard of a specific special needs school. Also, society is lacking special needs teachers, which is equally important as special needs schools. What can we do to make special needs schools more relevant to society? Pelose 2 Works Cited Teaching Students with Special Needs. This source is what I would use to talk about special needs education. This is a credible source because it is specifically talking about different characteristics and relates to my topic accurately. Disabilities - My Special Needs - Parents -  Disabilities - My Special Needs - Parents - ED.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This is a credible source because it talks about children with disabilities within the education system. There are many different topics that you can choose to read about, and it has very useful information. What Is Special  What Is Special Education? N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This source is a credible source. It discusses what special education is and the different types of special needs there are. It goes into detail within every disability the article discusses.  PhDinSpecialEducationcom. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This source talks about how to support children with special needs, which is something everyone can learn. It also discusses the different types of classrooms, and how to interact with a student who has special needs.