Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 29 January, 2017 The long-term effects if foster care Foster care is a nation-wide topic that has been highly debated throughout the years. A fostered child is one who has been legally placed in a home with a state-certified care giver. Fostering can have many effect on the parents and children included in the process. While some of these effects may be good or bad I would like to look further into the social and emotional effects this process has on the children who have been put in foster care. Soloman, David, The impact of foster parent training on child disruptive behavior, Sage publications Inc., December 1 2016, Vol.22 issue 1, page 3-13, page 11, article. This article described a total of 15 studies using 1,400 foster children. The results of this study showed that with the proper training foster parents can increase a academic and behavioral abilities throughout the rest of their lives. This article gives great statistics and information supporting that fostering can have a positive impact on social and emotional behavior if approached a certain way. This source is credible due to the many trials and studies that were done by many medical students and also due to its large sample size. Student 1 Miller, Sarah, Fostering Attachment in the Face of Systemic Disruption: Clinical Treatment with Children in Foster Care and the Adoption and Safe Families Act, Smith College studies in social work, March 2011, page 26-80, article. This article talks about children who have been placed into foster care for a variety of reasons. Specifically, it focuses on children who have been placed in a foster home at a young age due to instability and substance abuse and how this causes advanced emotional attachment of these children to their now foster parents. This source is credible due to it being written by the person who conducted the research, it also tells of in-depth studies on particular children and their individual results. Lightfoot, Elizabeth, the experiences and outcomes of children in foster care who were removed because of a parental disability, In children and services review, March 2016, article. This article tells is about the impact that foster care can have on children and the different effects that can happen because of the reason you were placed in foster care. In this article there are studies and statistics about the long-term impact that having a parent with a disability can have on a child and the even more detrimental effect having to be placed in a foster home because of that disability has. This source is credible due to it large sample size and the certified researchers who conducted it. Lang, Katrin, Research article: Foster attachment behavior and representation: Influence of pre-placement experiences and foster Student 1 sensitivity, In child abuse and neglect, January 2016, article. This article is about when a foster child is taken from its primary care giver no matter the age it will incur depression and separation anxiety this will then roll over into an intense attachment later on with its new foster parent. This can lead to permanent effects on the child in the future such as fear of being alone or problems connecting with anyone else. Although this research has a small sample size of only 49 children It is credible due to the amount the children were seen which was three times a week and also the detailed procedure the medical students took to complete their assesments.