Newbold 1 Lexi Newbold Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 007 28 January 2017 The Homework Debate: Should Homework be a Required Assignment? The National Parent Teacher Association and the Florida Department of Education should work together to create a policy making homework an optional assignment for all students with no penalty. The National Parent Teacher Association (PTA) is an organization to student (Mission & Values). The National Parent Teacher mission is make every potential a reality by engaging and empowering families and communities to advocate for all (Mission & Values). Students need help finding their potential; this is where family and community involvement comes into play. When a student has a support system for emphasizing the importance of their education, it facilitates this success that the National Parent Teacher Association is targeting. In reference to homework policy, the National Parent Teacher Association is an advocate of the 10-minute rule. This guideline for homework basically says that the product of multiplying a grade level by 10 will result in the number of minutes that a student should have to do homework (Resolution on Homework). The National Parent Teacher Association also believes in the idea of over which is demonstrated in the resolution on homework (Resolution on Homework). When homework is assigned with purpose, it can be used as a tool that facilitates student academic achievement. When homework is created and assigned without the proper intent, it can have Newbold 2 negative effects on the students themselves and on their academic achievement, which works against the goals of the National Parent Teacher Association. The Florida Department of Education is dedicated to student academic success. The mission is to create a single efficient system that would allow for the increase of student proficiency across the board (About Us). As it is a state department, the Florida Department of Education is at least partly responsible for the funding of schools and education in the state of Florida. One way of providing extra funds to schools is through the Florida School Recognition Program, where schools are given a set amount of money based on high levels or increased levels of student academic achievement in that school (Florida School Recognition Program). In reference to policies for homework, there is not a specific piece of legislation on this topic; however, the Florida Department of Education is an advocate for all homework because it can lead to higher academic achievement which would result in more schools in the state of Florida receiving additional funding that could be used to increase student success even more (Florida School Recognition Program). Homework is a means of accountability for both the students and the teachers because the students need to make sure they fully understand the material and the teachers need to ensure that their teaching methods and the content is actually resonating with the students. The National Parent Teacher Association and the Florida Department of Education, while one is a national organization and the other is a state agency, both are advocates for overall student success and academic achievement. They share similar goals and values when it comes to students of all ages and the future of education in a progressive world. They have yet to agree on an official homework policy that would be beneficial to all students. This is unusual considering homework is one of the few things that links every student in the United States Newbold 3 regardless of grade level, background, household income, and other dividing factors. One way to accomplish the goal in increasing student success would be to create the best homework policy to help facilitate and achieve this success. These two organizations should work together to create a policy making homework an optional assignment with no penalty for all students in the state of Florida. The National Parent Teacher Association will like the aspect of choice in the classroom. If the students are able to choose what they spend more time focusing on, it will help them become more of an individual and better understand what subjects are easier or more difficult for them to learn and retain information. The homework that is made available for students to do if they so choose can still follow the guideline, but the PTA will have to acknowledge that the rule does not work well for every student. The Florida Department of Education will have to give up a certain portion of student success accountability because homework will no longer be a set factor in the grading process. The state of Florida ranked 30 out of 51 in education for 2016 (2016 State Report). If the students can be trusted to complete the work that they need to in order to succeed and their achievement rates go up, then the loss of hat accountability is not a large price to pay. Homework should be optional because the students who understand material will not waste extra time and extra energy on something that is not helping further their education. It can be harmful to health to be overloaded with tedious assignments. Too much homework can be the cause of stress and anxiety. At the same time, the students who need extra help will receive it through homework as well as gain additional one-on-one time with their teachers. Teachers be as busy grading so much homework and will have more time to help students in need. Additionally, homework is linked with higher academic achievement at the secondary Newbold 4 level but there is little to no correlation between homework and academic achievement at the elementary level (Cooper 153). In a study conducted by renowned homework researcher Harris Cooper on the And Relative Importance Of Choice In The some students were given homework choices and others were not (Patall 896). The dependent variable was student academic achievement measured by test scores from exams taken throughout a four- week period (Patall 896). One of the purposes of this study was to show that homework choice helps students with low motivation so that teachers and educators may be properly informed how to use choice in their classes and when assigning homework so that the students profit the most (Patall 896). The quantitative data that came out of this study showed that students performed better when given a choice of homework (Patall 904). In another meta-analysis conducted by Cooper, data little correlation between homework and test scores in elementary relationship was found to grow secondary (Cooper 153). At the very least, homework should not intrude on free time to spend with family, eat nutritional meals, play outside with friends, or get a good night sleep at the elementary level. Some schools have already adopted a no homework policy around the country. Though they are few and far between, the results have been positive. For example, Kelly Elementary School in Holyoke, Massachusetts banned homework for the year and extended the school day for two hours (Winsor). In an interview, homework researcher Alfie Kohn explained that in and schools where little or no homework is assigned, results have been extremely positive in terms of academic performance as well as their attitudes about (Winsor) and that he is against unnecessarily assigned homework. If there was a policy created state-wide that showed improvement, the PTA and FLDOE would benefit. If the policy proves to Newbold 5 be effective, the National Parent Teacher Association could then work with the United States Department of Education to produce a nationwide homework policy. Newbold 6 Works Cited 2016 State Report Cards  Education Week, 7 Jan. 2017. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.edweek.org/ew/qc/2016/2016-state-report-cards-map.html?intc=EW-QC16- LFTNAV>. About  Florida Department of Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.fldoe.org/about-us>. Cooper, Harris M., and Jeffrey C. Valentine. Using Research to Answer Practical Questions About  Educational Psychologist, vol. 36, no. 3, 2001, pp. 143-153. Florida School Recognition Program Governing  Florida Departent of Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.fldoe.org/accountability/accountability- reporting/fl-school-recognition-program/fl-school-recognition-program-governin.stml>. Kohn, Alfie. Abusing Research: The Study of Homework and Other  Phi Delta Kappan, vol. 88, no. 1, 2006, pp. 8-22. Mission &  National PTA. n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pta.org/about/content.cfm?ItemNumber=944&navItemNumber=552>. Patall, Erika A., Harris Cooper, and Susan R. Wynn. The Effectiveness And Relative Importance Of Choice In The  Journal Of Educational Psychology 102.4 (2010): 896-915. Education Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Resolution on Homework: Quality Over  National PTA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. http://www.pta.org/advocacy/content.cfm?ItemNumber=4782 Newbold 7 Winsor, Morgan. Amid Growing Debate About Homework, One School Bans  ABC News. ABC News Network, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://abcnews.go.com/US/amid-growing-debate-homework-school- bans/story?id=41843594>.