Guillermo Fuentes Professor Sarah Basil ENC 1102 29 January 17 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Since the establishment of 21 being the legal drinking age throughout the United States, there have been mixed feelings throughout the country. Two opposing opinions on whether the drinking age should be lower or maintained would be that of the National Youth Rights Association (NYRA) and the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA). Although each has its stance on what the legal drinking age should be, both come to agree that if alcohol is to be used in any situation, the users must be responsible and ready to use their own discretion. On one side, the NIAAA has made it its mission to do away with the abuse and irresponsible handling of alcohol throughout all age groups, making them more set on the legal drinking age being 21. The National Youth Rights Association has been established to ensure that the rights of the youth are not only protected, but guaranteed. As for their stance on the drinking age, it is the opinion of the organization that the legal drinking age should be 18. Although both organizations believe in different drinking ages for different reasons, they share core values and ends. They both seek and promote safe drinking habits amongst their demographics. Both organizations coming together to an agreement on the drinking age can help to create a new generation of individuals who change the unsafe drinking age that seems to be the norm in culture. As explained by The National Youth Rights Association, its mission is to the civil and human rights of young people in the United States. We believe certain basic rights are intrinsic parts of American citizenship and transcend age or status limits. As the leading democracy, the United States should not lag behind other nations in granting first-class citizenship to its young It was established in hopes to make the voice of the youth of America heard. An issue which they have been combating as an organization would be the lowering of the drinking age. Throughout the United States, the general legal drinking age has been established as 21. Although this has been the law since 1984, there is a huge number of people that still believe that the age should be changed to 18 instead. The NYRA argues that becomes 18 is treated as an adult and is given the responsibility of an adult, such as having the right to vote, having to be drafted into service, or even being charged and tried as an adult for any crime. The question asked is, if 18 year olds are granted so many freedoms and responsibilities, the use of alcohol be at their own discretion? With changing the drinking age, the NYRA believes that it will make for more responsible drinkers, whether it be novice drinkers, or experienced ones. As explained by them, people must be allowed to get their feet wet through the introduction of alcohol in small amounts in safe environments like the home. Alcohol can be a very dangerous substance that causes problems for all people. This is as true for a 17-year-old as it is for a 39-year-old. The danger of alcohol is real and go away when someone turns When compared to other countries, the legal drinking age for most would be 18 or 19 when compared to the age minimum, yet, those countries with a lower age tend to have even less alcohol related issues amongst their teens. All in all, the NYRA is not in favor of drinking, it is believed that the use of alcohol can bring about deadly consequences, but they are also aware that it is a very relevant topic, especially in youth. Therefore, in order to not only promote safer drinking habits, but to encourage them, they have come to the conclusion that education and exposure are key in the development of responsible drinkers for whatever age group. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and stance is against the misuse of alcohol, something that the younger age groups become prone to. The NIAAA focuses on research and the promotion of health with anything related to alcohol and the abuse that comes from it. They have come to find that the misuse of alcohol can not only cut short lives from its abuse, but it can also harm the development of a mind and cause other damages to the body. With this in mind they paired up with the Task Force of the National Advisory Council on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism created a task force which researched the culture behind college drinking and its dangers. The study surveyed college students ages 18-24. It was found that 80 percent of the youth consume alcohol before their 21 st birthday, and out of this, many are being exposed to unhealthy and unsafe forms of drinking due to their inexperience or lack of supervision. Knowing this, the NIAAA has come into the scene as an advocate for wellness and safety in a culture that has come to glorify the use of alcohol before their time. The National Youth Rights Association and the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism seem to be on different sides of the scale, but really both not only deal with the same subject, but have similar solutions to many of their problems. The major difference would be the age in which they focus on. By opposing each other, they have come to make an enemy out of the other and that is just how the people will respond to each organization. On one side, the NYRA is looked down upon by much of the older generations because they believe that it is the simple rebellion of the youth, while on the other side, the NIAAA would not be heard out by the youth of America because they do not appeal to them in ways that interest them or affect them directly. Their common ground lies in the hopes that the unsafe drinking problem within the U.S can be solved through education and the promotion of safe habits amongst people. A solution that I have come to find would lie in the change of the drinking age from 21 to 18. This will not only grant the youth of America the full privileges of adulthood, but will also encourage them to become more aware of their responsibility to not only themselves, but to society as well. Through this there would be a conjoined organization combating the abuse and misuse that can result from alcohol whether it be on a college campus or at home. Citations o of the Issue - Minimum Legal Drinking Age -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pro vs. Con o Frequently Asked  National Youth Rights Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. NYRA o Mcdonald, Chris.  6th Annual International Conference on Computer Science Education: Innovation & Technology (CSEIT 2015) (2014): n. pag. Web. A call to action o National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 17 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Health advocate o the Legal Drinking Age: An Analysis of the Pros and  SpeakUP Prevention Coalition. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Drinking age change and effects over the years.