1 Lymaris Prof. Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102-007 January 30, 2017 Learning Disability Issues According to the Learning Disabilities Association of America, 2.4 million students are diagnosed with specific learning disabilities (SLD) and it constitutes of all students receiving special education The Learning Disabilities Association of America (LDA) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) both have the goal to help those students while raising awareness and helping others understand these disabilities. Most people are not aware of the large amount of students that struggle with these learning disabilities so these organizations take it upon themselves to also provide funds for learning disabilities research. Even though both of these big organizations provide their support for students with learning disabilities, they differ in the way in which these students should be taught. UNESCO supports inclusive education (students with and without a learning disability all in the same classroom), while LDA does not. A way for these organizations to find a compromise is to apply both teaching techniques to these students. This way, their special needs will be met, but they will also not be excluded from the rest of the students. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization global and regional leadership in education, strengthens education systems worldwide and believes that 2 education is a human right for all throughout life and that access must be matched by (UNESCO). They believe a learning disability is not an obstacle for anyone and that students who have learning disabilities should be not be marginalized because of it. Also, they state that their work encompasses educational development from pre-school to higher education and beyond. UNESCO is a firm believer of equality in all aspects, especially when it comes to education. By supporting inclusive education, which indicates that it is most beneficial for students with learning disabilities to be taught in the same classroom as students that do not, they are reaffirming their belief that all students should be treated equally, regardless of their condition. According to their website, this is what they have to say in the matter: misperception of different forms and types of disability and the limited capacity of social actors to accommodate special needs often place people on the margin. Persons with disabilities experience inequalities in their daily lives, and have fewer opportunities to access a quality education that takes place in an inclusive environment. UNESCO wrote an open file on Inclusive Education that further supports this: Children with disabilities and special educational needs are often the most marginalized within education systems and within society in general. Traditionally, they have experienced exclusion, discrimination and segregation from the mainstream and from their peers. They have often been placed in separate classes and schools or indeed, have been denied access to education of any sort. The inclusive education approach is particularly important for these groups. (21) 3 They think that by having all the students in a single classroom, they will all have equal educational opportunities the development of guidelines and tools that help build an inclusive learning and will not feel excluded by their peers. The Learning Disabilities Association (LDA) however, does not support inclusive education. They believe students with learning disabilities should be in a classroom specially made for them. We can find the following statement that supports this believe in their website: The regular education classroom is not the appropriate placement for a number of students with learning disabilities who may need alternative instructional environments, teaching strategies, and/or materials that cannot or will not be provided within the context of a regular classroom placement. The LDA is a non-profit organization concerned about the welfare of individuals with learning disabilities. According to the LDA: Learning disabilities are neurologically based processing problems. These processing problems can interfere with learning basic skills such as reading, writing and/or math. They can also interfere with higher level skills such as organization, time planning, abstract reasoning, long or short term memory and attention. To show their support to people with learning disabilities, they state their mission is to create opportunities for success for all individuals affected by learning disabilities. Unlike UNESCO, they do not believe that students with learning disabilities will be marginalized from the rest if placed in a separate classroom. They believe that being placed in a special room, all of their special needs will be met and they will be able to learn at their best capacity. 4 According to the Advancing Research Improving Education, Tornillo (1994), president of the Florida Education Association United, is concerned that inclusion, as it all too frequently is being implemented, leaves classroom teachers without the resources, training, and other supports necessary to teach students with disabilities in their classrooms. Consequently, the disabled children are not getting appropriate, specialized attention and care, and the regular education is disrupted  Tornillo argues that if the students are all in the same classroom, the teachers will be obligated to give more attention to the students with learning disabilities the amount of time and energy directed toward the rest of the On the other hand, PBS Parents (Public Broadcasting Services) states that there are a few benefits from providing students with an inclusive education. These are: the visions of a typical life for their children can come true, children develop a positive understanding of themselves and others, friendships develop, children learn important academic skills and all children learn by being together. Like UNESCO, they also believe that a separate education is not an equal one and that all children have the right to be with peers of their own age. What could be done to find a compromise between these two stakeholders is to apply both teaching techniques to the students. There will be special classrooms for students with learning disabilities that provide the resources that accommodate their needs to achieve a successful learning experience, but they will also be given a chance to spend time with their peers in regular classrooms. During creative programs in school (ex: band, choir, art, etc.) these students can further develop their artistic, educational and social skills by interacting with students who do not have learning disabilities. This way, their special needs will be met, but they will also not be excluded from the rest of the students. If these two big organizations could agree on these terms, the support and research done for learning disabilities would be greater, giving these 5 organizations the opportunity to take their public awareness much further and help them better the education on these disabilities. These two organizations are great advocates when it comes to raising awareness for learning disabilities. But when it comes to their perspectives when it comes to the way the students are taught, there is a noticeable difference regarding the topic. Since the goal of both organizations is to better the lives of those with learning disabilities and to spread knowledge regarding it, it would be most beneficial for them to unite so that they could expand the funds that support research and to make the knowledge spread further. Their goal would certainly be met and the successful educational career of students with learning disabilities can be guaranteed. 6 Works Cited Tornillo, P. (1994, March 6). A lightweight fad bad for our schools? Orlando Sentinel.  Learning Disabilities Association of America. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. UNESCO authors. Open File on Inclusive Education . p. 21 UNESCO . Web. People with Disabilities Education United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  People with Disabilities Education United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.