Carandang 1 Elyssa Carandang Professor DeCarion ENC 1102.086 29 January 2017 Alcohol Consumption: Is Age Really Necessary? Countries all over the world implement different laws regarding alcohol consumption. In the United States, the legal drinking age is 21. However, underage teenagers are somehow able to get in possession of alcohol. There has been controversy on whether or not the legal drinking age should be lowered in the United States. One organization that believes that there should be no change towards the legal drinking age is Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD). support the 21 Minimum Legal Drinking Age (MLDA) because it saves lives, prevents injuries, and protects still-developing (MADD). However, there are organizations like the National Youth Rights Organization who believe that the legal drinking age should be lowered. This organization believes that keeping the age restriction on alcohol consumption does not help enforce the dangers of drunk driving. According to Peter Asch and David Levy, the drinking age may have reduced deaths [among people 18-20 but resulted in more deaths among people (NYRA). Even though both of these organizations have different views on the legal drinking age in the United States, they both want to ensure the safety of people whenever alcohol plays a factor in a situation. With careful consideration, these stakeholders could create a compromise that would satisfy both beliefs. Mothers Against Drunk Drivers and the National Youth Rights Organization should allow certain establishments to allow young adults at the age of 18 to legally consume and possess alcohol. Carandang 2 The Mothers Against Drunk Drivers is a non-profit organization whose mission statement is aid the victims of crimes performed by individuals driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, to aid the families of such victims and to increase public awareness of the problem of drinking and drugged (MADD). This organization was originally founded by Candace Lightner after her daughter was killed in a hit-and-run drunk driving accident in 1980 (Friedrich). Ever since that tragic accident, certain precautions have been taken to ensure the safety of civilians. In 1984, the United States Congress passed the National Minimum Drinking Age Act which punished states who allowed underage alcohol possession (New York Times). Patricia Melody Loewit-Phillips and Abbie Goldbas wrote an article about MADD and their impact on society. Loewit-Phillips and Goldbas stated that of the greatest victories of lobbyists may have been the enactment of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21 st (Loewit-Philips & Goldbas). Throughout the years, MADD has been slowly successful in lowering the drunk driving rate through their Campaign to Eliminate Drunk Driving. Within this campaign, word got out that a lot of innocent civilians have been involved in drunk driving accidents. Around 2006, over 13,000 people were killed each year due to irresponsible drinkers behind the wheel (MADD). In just a matter of seven years, engineers are working on advancing in-vehicle alcohol detection technology that could potential save thousands of lives. Because of their avid belief in keeping innocent lives at risk from drunk drivers, the Mothers Against Drunk Driving the 21 Minimum Legal Drinking Age (MLDA) because it saves lives, prevents injuries, and protects still-developing (MADD). Asides from the United States, there are other countries like France and Spain who allow kids the age of 16 to drink alcoholic beverages. However, MADD believes that underage drinking is a serious Carandang 3 matter that needs to be addressed. This organization is certain that the 21 MLDA is necessary to protect the youth from the dangers of alcohol and exposing them to a lifelong commitment of crime and regret. Even though the Mothers Against Drunk Driving have their opinions on lowering the drinking age, other organizations like the National Youth Rights Organization believe that the drinking age should be lowered. The National Youth Rights Association (NYRA) was created through a mailing list that Matthew Walcoff and Matt Herman used in 1991 to begin this non-profit organization (Human Rights Encyclopedia). As time passed, different organizations that are similar to the NYRA have been formed to advocate the importance of the rights in the United States. The NYRA mission is to achieve its goals through educating people about youth rights, empowering young people to work on their own behalf in defense of their rights, and taking positive steps to lessen the burden of (NYRA). They are known for focusing on issues like curfew, the legal voting age, and the legal drinking age. The NYRA firmly believes that the legal drinking age in the United States should be lowered to the age of 18. This topic has been controversial for quite some time with many reasons as to why the drinking age should or should not be changed. Brandon Griggs, news editor of CNN, has also reflected on this question, as to whether or not the United States should lower the drinking age. In his article, Griggs started his introduction with the opinion of Dwight B. Heath, an anthropology professor at Brown University. Heath believes that parents should give a small amount of alcohol to their children so that they become more educated with the substance and not underage drink in rebellion as teenagers (Griggs). The NYRA has a similar opinion as to why the drinking age should be lowered in the United States. The NYRA believes that people must be allowed to get their feet wet through the introduction of alcohol in Carandang 4 small amounts in safe environments like the (NYRA). Even though the NYRA wants more teens to have legal access to alcohol, they still recognize the dangerous effects it could have on an individual. The National Youth Rights Association pointed out that danger of alcohol is real and go away when someone turns (NYRA). Even though there are law that implement 21 as the legal drinking age, the president of Middlebury College, John McCardell Jr., pointed out the horrible reality: drinking taking place behind closed doors, where much more dangerous. out of step with social (Griggs). The Mothers Against Drunk Driving and the National Youth Rights Association have different views on whether or not the drinking age should be lowered. These two non-profit organizations have not come to a resolution to this controversial topic since they both want the exact opposite of the other organization. However, they both want to ensure the safety of innocent civilians that are in the presence of intoxicated individuals. One possible compromise both non-profit organizations could consider is allowing certain local establishments to allow young adults at the age of 18 to legally consume and possess alcohol. The main reason why MADD is against lowering the drinking age because it would put more lives at risk if a teen were driving under the influence. If young adults are able to drink in local establishments, they would be able to enjoy the side effects of alcohol in a safe environment. The employees there would ensure the safety of those who are intoxicated and completely sober. This compromise would please the members of the NYRA since it would allow 18 year olds to have the right to consume alcohol. The SpeakUP! Prevention Coalition has pointed out that the higher drinking age, the level of automobile crashes and fatalities related to drinking is higher in the [United than other (SpeakUP!). Carandang 5 With most compromises, one or both stakeholders in the conflict have to sacrifice something that they believe in in order to make a truce with one another. Letting young adults at the age of 18 start drinking in local establishments may seem dangerous at first. However, by doing this, teenagers are less likely to be in possession of alcohol illegally and will cause less car accidents to driving under the influence. In the end, alcohol consumption is an unpredictable thing. It could harm someone in unthinkable ways and could turn someone into a completely different person. Nevertheless, letting rebellious teenagers have access to alcohol consumption could convert their rebellious behavior into responsible young adults. Carandang 6 Works Cited Griggs, Brandon. Should the U.S. Lower Its Drinking  CNN. Cable News Network, 04 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.cnn.com/2014/07/16/us/legal-drinking-age/>. Loewit-Phillips, Patricia Melody, and Abbie Goldbas. Mothers against drunk driving (MADD): history and  International Journal of Childbirth Education, vol. 28, no. 4, 2013, p. 62+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CA35 2490743&it=r&asid=4d7abad12ff8fe4abfac5b5469f55246. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Lowering the Legal Drinking Age: An Analysis of the Pros and  SpeakUP Prevention Coalition. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Madd. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://www.madd.org/>. National Youth Rights  Human Rights Encyclopedia. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. New York Times. Law Signed to Lift the Drinking  The Spokesman-Review [Spokane, 18 July 1984: n. pag. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://news.google.com/newspapers?id=YFhWAAAAIBAJ&sjid=-- 4DAAAAIBAJ&pg=1712%2C1053218>. NYRA. Frequently Asked  National Youth Rights Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://www.youthrights.org/issues/drinking-age/frequently-asked- questions/>.