Masut 1 Matthew Masut Mariama M. Changamire Composition II January 30, 2017 Standardized testing, is it really what kids need in school? This question has proved to be a very controversial topic over the years as parents and teachers attempt to argue this to the school boards and College Board, who are relentless on budging from their stance. The school boards and College Board are adamant that the tests help with providing the knowledge that is needed to see where the students need to focus in their schooling. The teachers and parents on the other hand, feel that the tests show all the hard work, commitment, and personal accomplishments that the students achieve in day to day classes; but rather only show one or two days of testing as their intellectual levels of learning. Despite the conflicting views, I believe that a consensus can be reached. In order to find a solution for the problem, I feel that both parties involved should look at what truly meets both of their needs. What I propose is that they grade the students based on their day to day classes, meaning that the kids would be given a pretest and a post test in the classes that they are taking and be graded based on those tests. My first stakeholder from my selection would be teachers and parents. All parents wish for their kids is for them to do well and succeed in life. According to Chris Carter, year Americans spend millions on the tests they are required to write in order to be evaluated for admission into undergraduate and graduate programs, and many millions more are spent on coaching schools in an attempt to raise The) Parents feel as if they are putting money Masut 2 into a system that worth paying that much for. Questions are asked such as, valid are test scores are predictors of as well as, they have any validity, as predictors, of actual But not only the parents that feel as if these tests do much for the kids. Teachers have been trying to voice their concerns for this issue for a while but have been overruled almost repeatedly. people get to see all the work that the do in class. All they see are just their test scores. They get the credit for coming, for writing, or even stated Lindsey Chinn form Martin Luther King Elementary. She and many other teachers feel that students get the credit and the acknowledgement that they deserve for their day-to-day efforts. Everywhere you look the same two arguments are being made. The first argument being that the tests necessary and the second, being that they are too costly. My other stakeholders that have the opposing views are school boards and College Board. They feel like the tests improve the intellectual ability of the students as well as give an accurate display of what the kids thrive at and what they need to focus more on. Another argument is that standardized tests are inclusive and non-discriminatory because they ensure content is equivalent for all students. They also feel that the tests are the best way to make money for schools. The school boards are doing what they feel is right for the kids. According to procon.org, 20 school systems have gotten improved scores on the tests after they started focusing on the problem areas that the kids had. China has a long tradition of standardized testing and leads the world in educational achievement.( Standardized) This is another reason that they feel like these tests are going to improve the kids knowledge rate. Because China has had a huge amount of success in the education rate due to the style and amount of tests that they have, the US school boards feel like it is worth giving them a shot in our school systems. Teaching to the  can be a good thing because it focuses on essential content and skills, Masut 3 eliminates time-wasting activities that produce learning gains, and motivates students to excel. () What Procon is trying to say is that what the teachers want should be achievable by teaching to the test, also known as focusing on the areas that are on the test. If the focus on the areas that are on the tests, they can improve their kids test scores as well as help the kids with their general knowledge of the subjects that are on the test. (Jouriles) Now comes the compromise that I have thought long about. Seeing as both sides are trying to do what the think is best for the students, we can assume that they care for the best points of interest. So if they both care about the students and their knowledge rate I think they should meet in the middle and give tests in their regular scheduled classes. The reason for this compromise is because the school board can still grade the students based on their test scores but the teachers can just focus on their regular classes and wont have to worry about any extra teaching material. This way, students will essentially get the credit that they deserve. This includes the credit for coming to class, putting in the time and effort in class, as well as the small personal accomplishments that they achieve. If both of the parties look at this compromise, I feel that it will solve the problems that they both have with each solutions for each problems. Standardized testing has been the at the center of a very heated debate that has gone on for a very long time between two parties, teacher/parents and the school board/ College Board. Both of them have the way that they wish to handle their learning but they cant seem to come to a consensus on what they feel is the best way to do it. In this essay, I have proposed a solution that I think can do what the teacher want to accomplish, but also at the same time, keeping the opinions of the other party in mind. Masut 4 Works Cited: Jouriles, Greg. Why We Need Standardized  Education Week. N.p., 01 May 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. The Case Against Standardized Tests - Article by Chris  The Case Against Standardized Tests - Article by Chris Carter. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Standardized Tests -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.