Amanda 1 Amanda Allen Mariama M. Changamire English Composition II 27 January 2017 Animal Testing People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS) try to find ways to research and test diffenent products and medications while protecting animals. Although the AALAS still uses animal testing for medical and research purposes, PETA explores alternative ways to do research. If both organizations work together then there will be more alternatives for animal testing, or at least safer ways to test medications on animals. The mission statement points out that is an association of professionals that advances responsible laboratory animal care and use to benefit people and (AALAS, 1). The AALAS views animal testing for medicine and other scientific purposes is necessary to create advancements that allow people to live longer and healthier lives (AALAS 1). goal or mission is to concentrate in areas where animal cruelty is the most prevalent (PETA, 1). The four areas PETA considers includes food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (PETA, 1). Due to the American Association for Laboratory use of animal testing, it is required to obtain policies in which animals that take part in any form of research are protected. One of these policies include the Animal Welfare Act (AWA), which the treatment of Amanda 2 animals in research, exhibition, transport, and by (AWA). This policy became effective in 1966 and enforced by USDA, APHIS, Animal (AWA). The Public Health Service Policy also regulates the American Association for Laboratory Science; the policy enforces organizations to regulate and ensure appropriate procedures to keep the well-being and use of any animals that take part in experimentation, and other aspects of all research supported through the Public Health Service (Public Health Service Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals, 7). The PHS sanctions the Government Principles for the Utilization and Care of Vertebrate Animals Used in Testing, Research, and This Policy carries out and enhances those Principles. (Public Health Service Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals, 7). In addition, the AALAS also include nine procedures in accordance to the Humane Care and Use Laboratory animals on the official AALAS website, when handling these laboratory animals. First the carriage, care, and utilization of animals must remain within the guidelines of the Animal Welfare Act. Next the processes that involve animals must exhibit and conduct with consideration of their significance to human or animal well-being, the improvement of data, or benefits society. The third step ensures animals opted for an operation must come from appropriate species and the quality and the minimum necessities to acquire adequate results. that include mathematical models, computer simulation, and in vitro biological systems should be (Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals, 1). Next includes except able animal use such as decreasing or averting distress and pain while being constant with thorough scientific practices, is vital. Otherwise, if the opposing is initiated, investigators need to consider methods that cause pain or discomfort in humans may be true for animals. The fifth involves research with animals that may result in an extended amount of discomfort or pain must Amanda 3 be operated with proper sedation, analgesia, or anesthesia. All painful procedures are not to be demonstrated on conscience animals paralyzed by chemical factors. Next, animals otherwise will experience excruciating chronic pain unable to be relieved must be painlessly exterminated at the end of the of the process unless proper during the procedure. The seventh procedure states that the environment of the animals must be suitable for their species and take part in their health and security. Next the investigators and remaining staff members are required to well qualified and experienced with practicing on living animals. Tolerable preparations must be arranged for their training, such as adequate and gentle care, and practice on laboratory animals. Finally, when exceptions are mandatory in accordance to these Principles, the results must not rest with examiners directly but should be made, regarding Principle II, with a just review animal research committee. With such exceptions, must not be decided based on only the bases of teaching or demonstration (Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals, 1). Although the AALAS follows specific guidelines that attempt to avoid harm to animals that are tested on, it does not protect them entirely. PETA believes that as humans can eat better, educate ourselves better, clothe ourselves better, and entertain ourselves better without torturing and killing (PETA 1). PETA has four main focuses for animal rights which include animals on factory farms, animals in laboratories, animals in the clothing trade, and in animals in the entertainment industry (PETA, 1). Looking more specifically into animals in laboratories per website, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) legally states that pesticides must be tested with dogs, that are put into In these inhalation chambers, poison is forced into the dogs. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) forces companies marketing fluoride products to test 200 rats with this substance for about two weeks. During this time the animals decease (U.S. Government Testing Programs, 1). Unfortunately, Amanda 4 there is still a widespread of medications vital to humans that can only be researched by conducting experiments that involve animal testing. Alternative research and or experimentation may also not be as accurate if not tested on animals, since animals are so close to the genetic make of humans. By having PETA working with the AALAS and other organizations under federal policies, more funding can be raised to further expand research on diseases, chemicals, and alternative methods for animal testing. Having these two organizations working together will also help promote safer testing procedures and better care for animals used in all research. The American Association for Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS), promotes safe animal testing under specific procedures and federal policies. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), support the rights of animals and researching alternative ways to experiment. If these two organizations work together, further research can be expanded to find more accurate research, alternative experimentation as opposed to animal testing, and stricter federal policies that help protect the well-being of animals. Amanda 5 Works Cited About  About AALAS. American Association for Laboratory Animal Science, 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Animal Welfare  Animal Welfare Act Animal Welfare Information Center NAL USDA. USDA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Humane Care and Use of Laboratory  Humane Care and Use. The Office of Science and Technology Policy, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. The Scientific Basis for Regulation of Animal Care and  For Regulation of Animal Care and Use. American Association for Laboratory Animal Science, 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. U.S. Government Animal Testing  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.