Fiallo 1 Joshua Fiallo Professor de Carion ENC1102 29 January 2017 College Athletes: Full Time Employees, Part Time Benefits As politics took the nation by storm in 2016, another burning question arose amongst households nationwide; Should colleges pay their athletes? Though lesser in popularity than the recent election, 460,000 student athletes in America are directly affected by this hot debate. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) governs college athletics for the whole country, and holds the view that college athletes should not be paid. Contrarily, the National College Players Association (NCPA) believes that athletes should be paid, and that restrictions on scholarships leave many student athletes without support. For the well-being of student athletes, both organizations need to reach a compromise that will allow colleges to grant more benefits to athletes for their contributions to the school, while still not paying them a salary. Established in 1906, the NCAA has served as the governing body of college athletics, and represented pursuit of excellence in both academics and (NCAA.com). The NCAA is a strong believer in preserving amateurism, and they are against paying their athletes. According to the Georgia Career Information Center (gcic.peachtree.edu), for most sports, less than 3% of college athletes go pro. Being that a vast majority of athletes sports careers end their senior year of college, the NCAA believes that school should come first. The theory is that by not paying athletes outside of scholarship money, it keeps the focus of student athletes on the student half of their title. Fiallo 2 Another organization that holds stake in college athletes is the NCPA. Like the NCAA, the National College Players Association also wants the best for student athletes nationwide, but have a very different vision on what is best for them. Ran by ex-college athletes, the mission statement from their website reads provide the means for college athletes to voice their concerns and change NCAA (ncpanow.org). The NCPA has numerous NCAA rules fighting to change, including five that have to do with money for athletes. These five rules are, raising the scholarship amount allowed per athlete, prevent players from being left to pay sports related medical expenses, allow students to be kept on academic scholarship even if an athletic scholarship is terminated, prohibit universities from terminating a scholarship following an injury that ends playing career, and lastly to eliminate restrictions on legitimate employment and ability to directly benefit from commercial opportunities. The NCPA feels college athletes should be able to market themselves for profit, whether it be by a commercial feature, or simply their team showcasing a certain brand. The NCPA believes that college athletes put in hours of hard work for their athletic programs. Enough hours to be equivalent to working a full time job, and that they deserve more in return for the money and recognition that they bring to their Universities. In contrast to their mission statement, many believe that the NCAA does not want to pay athletes for reasons other than to keep students focused on their academics. According to an article published in the Cardozo Arts and Entertainment Law Journal, NCAA and its member institutions reportedly earn upwards of $11 billion per (Jorgensen, 3). Organizations opposed to the NCAA such as the NCPA believe that the NCAA does not want to give more to athletes because they simply want more money for themselves. If this were the case, it would explain why the NCAA has never pushed for a compromise with the NCPA Fiallo 3 before. The NCAA, despite criticism stays true to their belief that a free education, room, and board is ample pay for athletes. Though many could argue that a free education, plus being showcased to pro teams is more than enough for playing a sport. That alone still does not account for over half of the student athletes throughout the country. Hundreds of thousands of nation-wide play college sports without being on full scholarship. An excerpt from an online newspaper article stated that than 200 of NC 558 athletes last year had 20 percent or less of their costs covered by athletic aid. Outside of football, basketball, and the four other sports that can award full athletic scholarships, just 27 Wolfpack athletes were on a full (Wolverton). This article showed that players for sports who bring in less revenue for the school often times receive less scholarship money, and are left paying for their schooling. These extra expenses come for athletes not on full scholarship, despite them putting in the same amount of time and effort as the athletes from other sports. The website mentions this issue, and discusses how athletes from these sports are historically less successful academically. This is a direct cause of their money situation, as these athletes have to both work a job to pay for school, as well as be a full time athlete for their University. On top of everything, these students will also have to cover the cost of their own medical bills if they are injured while playing the sport. The NCAA has rules put into place limiting the amount of scholarship money that is available for schools, forcing them to distribute the scholarship money irregularly, giving more to Football, and Basketball players. This is one rule the NCPA hopes to change. With both the NCPA, and the NCAA having very conflicting views on what is best for the students, a compromise will aid college athletes the most. Though the NCAA is unlikely to submit to all of the rule-changes requested by the NCPA, they must hear out the organization for Fiallo 4 the well-being of athletes nation-wide. Given that just ten percent of athletic revenues for schools goes to scholarships (Gaines, 1) a new rule by the NCAA that would increase this number to 25 percent would aid student athletes greatly, allowing for more than double the amount of full scholarships. With more money available for scholarships, coaches will be less likely to terminate scholarships due to injury, or subpar play, a major issue the NCPA aimed to fix. Also, lumping in medical coverage for injuries sustained on the playing field into full scholarships, as well as for college athletes still receiving little or no scholarship money. By giving more money to the student athletes, more likely to succeed academically as they now can focus more on school, and less on finding other ways to make money on top of their busy athletic schedule in order to pay for school. This would benefit both the NCAA as student athletes could focus more on their schooling, while still remaining amateurs who are not on salary. The NCPA would receive the extra benefits for athletes they aimed to get, getting more in return for the money they bring in for their schools. In conclusion, despite having conflicting views, the NCAA, and NCPA both want student athletes to succeed. By coming together in compromise, students will receive the money and benefits they deserve for their hard work, while maintaining the goals and traditions of the NCAA as amateur student athletes. Fiallo 5 Works Cited Official Site of the NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA, www.ncaa.org/. Career Information Georgia Career Information Center, www.gcic.peachnet.edu/. About NCPA National College Players Association, www.ncpanow.org/about. JORGENSEN, AMBER1,2. Why Collegiate Athletes Could Have The Ncaa, Et Al. Singing A Different  Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal 33.2 (2015): 367-420. Art & Architecture Source. Web. WOLVERTON, BRAD. The Myth of the Sports  Chronicle of Higher Education 25 Nov. 2016: A12+. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gaines, Cork. Shows How Little Of College Sports Revenues Goes To The Business Insider, Business Insider, 24 Sept. 2014, www.businessinsider.com/college- sports-revenue-athlete-scholarships-2014-9.