Ashley Dempsey ENC 1102 January 29 th 2017 T. Poston Does a male have a voice in life? Abortion is a commonly a choice in which a female chooses to terminate a pregnancy for whatever deciding reasons and factors contributed and were weighed in the decision of determining if she wanted to continue with the pregnancy, or to terminate. When the decision is made, she can go to certain such as Planned Parenthood where they will assist her in further weighing her options and proceeding in her decision in determining to terminate, where they would then follow through with the necessary steps to perform the procedure. But does the male (father) have a say so or an option that is weighed in and taken into consideration of this decision? If not should the male at least be notified of the decision being made? While abortion a difficult decision in its self is constantly debated, the question arises; men have rights in According to Pro-choice forum, should men have rights in abortion by David Nolan, decisions to abort are made by both participants in more than 90% of Nolan, David. Men Have Rights in Pro- Choice forum 21 st of March 2001 4 pages. In a study performed in 1984 called in Abortions, Lessons, Losses, and by Arthur B. Shostak, about 5% of the 1000 men they surveyed said they felt forced into the decision or had no choice while 84% said they came to a decision with their Shostak, Arthur B. in Abortions, Lessons, Losses, and Green Wood Press. February 1, 1985 333 pages. Furthermore, from data gathered from various studies on men and abortion its determined that majority of decisions made to have an abortion are from an agreement of both parties that took part in the conception of the fetus. But other parties feel that this way is not ethical and that a woman even have to communicate with the male (father) at all when concerning this decision. That being said, why do the opposing party feel men should not have a right in abortion, did he not participate in this action resulting in conception? Will this decision not affect his life as well as the females? In all cases the opposing parties feel that the decision should be all up to the female (mother) because she will be carrying the fetus to term if she does decide to not terminate the pregnancy. In a court case Planned Parenthood v. Danforth, the judicial branch came to the decision that though both prospective father and pregnant female both have an interest in the decision when, when the two disagree only one parents position can prevail. And since the female does the actual carrying of the child the opinion is pretty much meaningless when the circumstances are weighed accordingly. So, one can safely say the government is not pro male rights to abortion so going to court for a matter like this is out the question because the government views the man right to an opinion in this matter to be unconstitutional. Besides the government being an opposing party of a right in abortion because it is said to be unconstitutional, what makes that unconstitutional for men but constitutional for woman. It physically takes two to make a baby. You need a consenting sexually receptive female and a consenting male. Then biology and the sexual anatomy of the human body and its sexual reproductive organs come into play. A sperm from a male after ejaculation into the vagina penetrates and fertilizes one of her eggs to then undergo the process of a developing fetus. Now just a woman has a right to her egg does a man not have a right to his sperm? A female would not have a fertilized egg without a sperm undergoing the process to fertilize her egg resulting in conception. There is an exchange from both parties in the process leading up to conception. Does each party have a right to their own individual part that was used in this process? So, if a female decides to abort the fetus essentially she taking something that also belongs to the male as well? Which brings the ideal question into play, is that constitutional? It is agreed that the final decision should be left to be made by the female (mother) because she will be physically carrying the child. But the male should have a right to give his opinion and to be at the least included in the decision-making process, and or be notified only considering certain circumstances. Now there has been cases in which very concerning circumstances that come into play for example domestic violence. If a woman in a situation in which she is involved in a domestically violent relationship resulting in a conception of a child and she wishes to terminate the pregnancy and notifying the male (father) is going to put the well- being of both her and the child at risk, then the male does not have to be notified and his right in this decision is taken away. Also in cases of rape or if the potential father is unknown then those as well are concerning factors that can endanger the well-being of both the mother a fetus to no male needs to be informed and his opinion does not need to be put into consideration when making the decision to abort and or terminate pregnancy. Just with any right there are restrictions like how we have freedom of speech but we can yell fire in a crowded theater just because we have freedom of speech. There is always a fine print with any right just like after listening to a infomercial that sounds too good to be true the super unnaturally fast voice that comes on at the end hastily states all the restrictions and prices etc. if men were given the right in abortion there would be a fine print or that super unnaturally fast voice stating the limitations of that right just like any other. Indefinitely with any right there are limitations, but men should still have a right in abortion as long as the circumstances are not endangering to the well-being to the mother or the fetus. But is not then the male should at least be informed or be able to partake in the decision-making process of the option to terminate and or abort a pregnancy that they were a participant in. With that being said the decision still remains ultimately up to the mother because she will be physically carrying the child. But the male has just a constitutional right as the female because the fetus also belong half to him because he was an equal participant in the conception. Work Cited Nolan, David. Men Have Rights in Pro- Choice forum 21 st of March 2001 4 pages. Shostak, Arthur B. in Abortions, Lessons, Losses, and Green Wood Press. February 1, 1985 333 pages. Planned Parenthood v. Danforth. 428 U.S. A United States Supreme Court Case on Abortion. Missouri 1976. Reuters Thomson, Find Law. Rights in Abortion. Paternity 2016 Planned Parenthood v. Casey. 505 U.S. 833 A United States Court Case on Abortion. Pennsylvania 1992.