Brandon Pretty 1-28-17 ENC1102 Project 1 Intermediate Draft History books highlight wars, but rarely do they include the controversial image of mercenaries, private military and security contractors. Men and women that perform paramilitary roles in hostile countries not for a state or a nation, but for monetary gain. Two stakeholders, Global Policy Forum and the United Nations, constantly debate about whether they should be used more often and on a wider scale or if they should be regulated with the UN wanting to use them more often. Private military and security contractors, or PMSCs play a vital role in providing security and assisting military forces around the world, but their needs to be regulations in order to hold them accountable when contractors break international laws and violate human rights. In order for this to happen, there must be an organization working at the behest of the UN and all countries that can provide oversight and regulations, acting as a force to monitor the actions of PMSCs. This way, companies and their personnel can be held liable for such incidences and will follow all laws while still conducting day-to-day operations. Global Policy Forum is an independent watchdog organization that scrutinizes the policymaking and international law, carrying consultative status within the UN. One of the largest topics they focus on, and criticize the UN for the hypocrisy is their usage of PMSCs and lack of legislation or regulation against them. Global Policy Forum revealed in their 2012 report Dangerous Partnership Private Military & Security Companies and the UN, written by Lou that the UN was hiring large companies that were known for misconduct, and GPF criticized what they called weak arguments of lower costs, rapid deployment and as a means of last resort. The real reason, the author discovered was a result of increased lobbying by companies and guidelines loosening their grip on PMSCs (Pingeot, June 2012, p. 39-40). While there are laws against private armies, many of them have the thought of the modern day private contractor in mind, and international laws and documents that do address them enforced. In short, Global Policy Forum believes that, oversight bodies and mechanisms will be the only way to regulate the increasing spread of PMSCs around the Military & Security Companies The reason binding is so important is because robust regulation documents such as the Montreux Document are non-binding which results in the regulations not being enforced, and therefore they are simply suggestions. As in that case the Montreux Document (2008) states, this document should therefore not be interpreted as limiting, prejudicing or enhancing in any manner existing obligations under international law, or as creating or developing new obligations under international (p. 4) Without binding contracts or regulations companies are able to dissolve, merge and work under new names which makes them harder to track and regulate. One reason GPF supports strict regulations is as a result of the misconduct, unethical actions and international laws being broken by PMSCs. Le Monde Diplomatique published an article highlighting the labor abuses by US companies Torres, DynCorps, and several others who were working Ugandans in Iraq for low pay, over 15 hours a day, in horrible conditions and with no job security (Vicky, 2012). Nisha Lilia Diu of The Telegraph interviewed a former DynCorp employee who was fired after exposing a sex trafficking ring consisting of her colleagues abusing teenage Bosnian girls with nobody being prosecuted (Diu, 2012), and an article from The Nation reported how Blackwater operatives who massacred civilians in Iraq were being charged with manslaughter and the company cleared (Scahill, 2010). Other events include violating human rights by torturing people, committing extrajudicial killings, and training rebels in South America and Africa to attack government troops. With this, GPF comes to the conclusion that strict oversight measures are needed, and without hard data proving that PMSCs are cheaper and more reliable the UN should scale back on usage and bind companies to international laws and regulations. Along with this, they want contractor firms and their personnel to be held accountable for any unethical and illegal actions conducted, and since they considered military personnel, to be kept out of warzones in order to stop the of war. The United Nations is the second stakeholder, who are becoming concerned with the increased amounts of fragmentation and individualism among communities around the world that has begun sparking up dozens of small conflicts. An article was created in June 2015 highlighting the fact of using PMSCs as part of a rapid reaction force since they already rely heavily off of them. Jared Genser and Clare Garvie (2016) summarize this in for Stability stating, forces are now deployed into more volatile environments where there may not yet be peace to keep; more than two-thirds of deployed U.N. personnel currently operate in active conflict (p. 442). With forces being over extended like that, the UN established the High-Level Independent Panel on Peacekeeping Operations in order to deal with over-extension, with the group proposing a UN rapid reaction force of PMSCs called the Ramos-Horta Report. Genser and Garvie provided support in Section II of their paper, saying how for the last decade and a half it takes almost 6 months for the UN to respond to any incidences. After the Rwandan Genocide, they planned to reduce the deployment process to 30 days for traditional missions and 90 for compex ones, but the goals were never pursued (p. 448). Even the Intervention Brigade able to react fast enough, but PMSCs would be able to rely on their own equipment and companies, bypassing legal or political barriers that plagues the UN. Some argue that the use of PMSCs violate laws forbiding mercenaries, but Genser and Garvie break down that PMSCs are corporate entities who follow the law and by technicality of this, they are legally allowed to operate under the UN (P. 459). Also, in 2005 the U.N. Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights shifted from promoting a complete ban on mercenaries and creating looser, standards to regulate, monitor, and oversee the activities of mercenaries and private military (p. 461). The complete shift in policy not only legalized the privatization of war but changed the very definition of mercenary, making war about business and seen as a game. A rapid-reaction force be a full-time venture though, and UN member states will still be fundamental in providing their own troops, equipment and funds for long term operations, and member states themselves will be allowed to use PMSCs, bypass political intransigence, lack of capacity, or other barriers created by member states reluctant to commit their own troops to a high-risk (Genser, Garvie, 2016, p. 464). Lastly, the stakeholder addresses concerns and beliefs of PMSCs violating human rights and acting in a legal vacuum without transparency. Instead they point towards several incidences of stellar conduct such as DynCorp and PAE rebuilding Liberia and training new recruits, while also teaching human rights practices and norms to new soldiers after the Liberian Civil War (p. 467). While fear is warranted and legal actions are rarely taken even when countries have juristiction, through contract, to prosecute individuals violating human rights, the UN maintains that stringent standards of conduct upholds current companies they work with. If a rapid-reaction force of PMSCs is implemented, this code would follow and regulations would be put in place to demonstrate adherence higher then any current military (Genser, Garvie, 2016, 469-470). Though the actions have been showing loosening regulations and standards on PMSCs as become more heavily reliant on them, they maintain their position on using them to deal with the dozens of conflicts while holding them accountable and liable. By rebuilding infrastructures in unstable countries, these companies will be able to help jumpstart economies while also providing security and keeping the peace. In short, human rights is good for business (479). While both sides introduce effective arguments for what to do with PMSCs, both fail to recognize a crucial gap in preparing a compromise. A fact is a fact, regardless of ideology, politics or business. For Stability (2016) states that increased accountability increases the high risk exposure for contractors (Genser, Garvie, p. 478), which in short means the UN is willing to turn a blind eye to illegal actions performed by contractors in order to lower the price. The other side, Global Policy Forums, recognize the need for soldiers who just fight for the money but also to protect humanity in countries the world forgets about, and the increased disunity in much of the known world. A compromise for this is an oversight organization, one that is capable not only in legal action but is able to enforce the laws. Firstly, this organization would need the approval of the majority of UN member states, and would have to be able to operate as a separate entity from the UN. Huma Yasin provides an adequate example of what the leadership in this organization would consist of saying in Catch-up , members from all of the various stakeholders: state actors, human rights NGOs, PCMFs themselves, as well as experts on international human rights law and humanitarian (2011, p.486). Each leader will be subjected to a complete background check and would be responsible for creating sub-categories for defining the types of PMSCs, creating codes of conduct for them, providing oversight, and a requirement for hiring states to prosecute companies and their personnel in the case of misconduct. The PIB, or public international body, codify legal accountability to ensure PCMF compliance with international law norms; it does not have to reinvent the (Yasin, p. 488). Contractors and mercenaries are essentially soldiers who are only fighting under a different title, to say different invites excuses and legal loopholes allowing those to escape liability. In sight of this, companies will also be forced to register with the oversight and regulation organization under their official name, without being a shell company and so that these contractors cannot constantly dissolve and reform elsewhere. Failure to follow these rules results in termination of said company, and non-compliance would result in arrests in the state they are headquartered in. Additionally, there must be transparencies in order to eradicate contracts. These rules are similar to pages 489-492 from Playing Catch-up, only different with the institution of arrests. This can only be effective in countries from around the world are willing to incorporate these rules into domestic law, so that companies are bound to the state by contract as well as the oversight organization (Yasin, p. 493). Many states may not find an incentive to do this, but they will find that an organization doing oversight instead of themselves countries to contract registered, legitimate companies without spending additional funds to regulate them. They will be free of any punishment in the result of the contracting company breaking the law, only having to take legal actions when that is the case. States can also ensure that companies do not hire from their own militaries and PMSCs will be given status and proper security percautions will be implimented. PMSCs will be oversighted by the organization so that they undermine the control in hostile areas. Lastly, Yasin (2011) says, of inappropriate conduct would have an avenue to redress their grievances and thus host nations would not be placed in untenable positions resulting in civil (p. 494-495). This, along with the regulation own force to enforce all laws and codes, is the perfect compromise for dissenters of PMSC use such as Global Policy Forum and supporters such as the UN. Private military and security contractors and mercenaries are seen in two different lights. On one side people see them as willing to help people struggling for freedom and security, and the other side portrays them as an international mafia violating human rights. The majority are neither, they are just former soldiers who only remember war and joining a contracting company is the only way to get back. But as such, PMSCs still need to be regulated so that civilians harmed, and laws broken. Increasing conflicts demand the need for more forces which PMSCs can provide, but without accountability for their actions these forces would be no better then who they percieve as the enemy. Both stakeholders hold each other in high regard, and the compromise of a regulatory and oversight organization will help fill in the legal gap and at the same time reinforce the UN around the world. Works Cited Diu, N. L. (2012, February 06). What the UN Want You to Know. Telegraph . Retrieved January 27, 2017, from http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/film/9041974/What-the-UN-Doesnt-Want-You-to-Know.htm l Genser, J., Garvie, C. (2016). for stability: The potential use of private military contractors as a united nations rapid-reaction force . Chicago Journal of International Law, 16(2), 439-481. Retrieved from https://search.proquest.com/docview/1757266873?accountid=14745 Scahill, J. (2010, January 28). Youngest Victim. Nation . Retrieved January 27, 2017, from Vicky, A. (2012, May 01). Cheap help from Uganda. Monde Diplomatique . Retrieved January 27, 2017, from Yasin, H. T. (2011, April). Playing Catch-up: Proposing the Creation of Status-Based Regulations to Bring Private Military Contractor Firms Within the Purview of International and Domestic Law. Emory International Law Review, 25(1), 411-497. Retrieved January 25, 2017, from http://law.emory.edu/eilr/content/volume-25/issue-1/articles/catch-up-regulations-military-firms- international-domestic-law.html International Committee of the Red Cross, Swiss Federal Department of Foreign Affairs (2008). The Montreux Document on Pertinent International Legal Obligations and Good Practices for States related to Operations of Private Military and Security Companies during Armed Conflict of 17 September 2008. Retrieved from Working Group on the use of mercenaries. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/Mercenaries/WGMercenaries/Pages/WGMercenariesIndex.aspx Global Policy Forum. (n.d.). Retrieved January 27, 2017, from