Coates !1 Cody Coates 30 January 2017 ENC 1102 Professor Changamire Concussions in Football no mystery that the diagnosis of concussions in contact sports, especially american football, has been on the rise in recent years. Football has become the focus of the concussion topic in recent years and has been receiving pressure from the NFL Players Association (NFLPA) to put new rules in place to protect players and invest into better equipment for the players to wear that will help prevent concussions. While the NFL has made some minor rule changes they have done very little to actually change the game for the safety of the players. To go along with this former players are starting to demand compensation for their time in the league and the head injuries they sustained and the brain damage that resulted. The NFL has also been reluctant in entertaining these demands due to the fact that it would be very expensive. The NFL and NFLPA both want to stop the negative image coming from concussions, each of them for different reasons, however this common ground can be used to bring them to discussion. If the NFLPA and NFL have worked together in the past to instill protocol for potentially concussed players, if the NFLPA makes it to make the game safer the NFL will absolutely agree just as they have in the past (Washington Post). The most part of the compromise for player safety is the NFL. The NFL is a business and just like any business they want to protect their If anything will negatively impact then they will have no part in the negotiations. This is easy to Coates !2 see since every single part of a broadcast is some company. Unfortunately for the league football has been losing popularity over the last few years with major drops in ratings this year, with Monday Night Football seeing a 20% drop in viewership (Jonathan Ferry). This is obviously very bad for as add times become less the less people watch. The league has made minor changes to rules already to protect players and many casual fans have been vocal about their general irritation with the league not making the game drastically safer (Ferry). If fans are truly upset about the lack of safety changes then taking action could very well begin to increase viewership again which would appeal to the one goal, making money. The NFLPA has always had trouble negotiating with the NFL, that is why there have been player lockouts and/or strikes in the past. The only real bargaining chip that the players have is to not play which does put pressure on the NFL since there is no product to make them money. With the rise in the awareness of concussions and CTE the players union is becoming more active and harder to try to make the game safer for current and future players as well as get former players the compensation they feel they deserve. They union will probably have to take is one step at a time as the league is unlikely to give them everything all at once, but the league needs to restore some of and that could give the NFLPA an opening to negotiate for safer rule changes and better equipment for the players. While the NFL will not give them everything taking small steps will eventually lead towards getting the compensation the players desire. The major problem with these two sides a compromise is that both organizations are extremely stubborn and reluctant to move on even basic stances. The Coates !3 NFL as of late as been particularly bad about this in the lock out of 2011 and the referee strike of 2012 (NFL Lockout ESPN). The NFL and NFLPA negotiated for almost 5 months before coming to an agreement the players strike affect the 2011 season but the referee strike laster 4 games into the 2012 season and left a pretty notable mark on recent NFL history (ESPN). However unlike in the past the NFL and NFLPA both share a common goal, for different reasons, but a common goal nonetheless. The largest problem for the players union is that they simply have too many demands so something is going to have to be an argument for a later day. Unfortunately that will most likely have to be the compensation for older players. While most people would probably agree that it is an important discussion it does not appeal to the goal of making money. With just negotiating about current player safety rules and equipment the union can use the falling ratings to help strengthen their case. If the NFL agreed to invest into making better helmets for every player that would be a start, it has been proven that players get worse concussions when wearing improper helmets (Dustin Greenhill). Introducing tackling practice without helmets would also help reduce concussions by getting players in the habit of not leading with the head and avoiding head to head contact(Jaleesa Baulkman). More rule changes would need to be discussed as well as the NFLPA possibly giving up some of its money to the NFL to help compensate for costs. In return the NFL viewership should start to rise again since the viewers that were unhappy with the concussion protocol before would begin to watch again. Overall this is has become a very heated topic over the last few years and likely will continue well into the future. While there is no way to completely get rid of the risk of Coates !4 concussions from football the NFL and NFLPA could absolutely put more rules and protocol in place and invest into more adequate equipment for the players that would severely lower the risk for current and future players. If this is done then football can start to return to a dominant force in American entertainment that is was before. Coates !5 Works Cited Baulkman, Jaleesa. Football Players Experience Fewer Head Injuries In Helmet-Less Training:  Medical Daily. N.p., 05 Jan. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Ferry, Jonathan, and Mike Groll/AP. Fans Explain the Ratings  The MMQB. N.p., 27 Oct. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <decline-football-fans-explain- viewership>. Greenhill, Dustin A., et al. Inadequate Helmet Fit Increases Concussion Severity In American High School Football  Sports Health: A Multidisciplinary Approach 8.3 (2016): 238-243. SPORTDiscus. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. From news, services, and reports staff. NFL, NFLPA join forces on policy for  Washington Post, The 7: Regional Business News. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.