White 1 Zaria White Sarah Basil ENC 1102 January 27, 2016 Drop Dead Gorgeous or Average Female? Over the years the definition of beauty has changed which each emerging decade. In the 1900s the definition of a beautiful woman, was a tall and slender with a voluptuous chest and wide hips. This was the standard up until the 1950s when curvy was considered the new sexy. With sexy symbols like Marilyn Monroe, women were able to feel slightly more comfortable in their own skin, being that she was nowhere near a size 0. After some decades passed, and the 2010s came around it seemed as if the beauty standards ended where it had started. Now magazines, such as Vogue, advertise beautiful woman as being tall, thin, fair skinned, long hair, big eyes, and symmetrical proportions. Though this is what is considered beautiful by magazine standards, the average woman does not resemble this definition. Companies like Dove have started campaigns to promote self-love to help those who have suffered mental and health disorders due to lack of self-esteem caused by not fitting into the category. Magazines, being a big form of advertisement portrays a lot of pictures of women that are deemed attractive, however the average person does not resemble the body image presented in these photographs leading to high rates of self-hate and low self-esteem, as well as mental and health disorders. By incorporating a more diverse range of models into beauty magazines we can help to lower the high rates of low self-esteem, self-hate, and mental and health disorders. White 2 Vogue Magazine whose mission statement is to fashion in the context of culture and the world live in how dress, live and socialize; what eat, listen to and watch; who leads and inspires Vogue immerses itself in fashion, always leading readers to what will happen next. Thought-provoking, relevant and always influential, Vogue defines the culture of wishes to represent all people, but does not incorporate a wide variety of models. Magazine companies and model agencies say the reasoning behind the hiring of thin models is because clothes look better on taller thinner girls. They also believe that average looking models will not aid in the selling of clothes, for they could ruin the lines of an outfit when in the runway. Most of their models still fit into that fair skinned, very thin, long hair, light eyes, image. Because magazines and advertisements portray this as the ideal perfect body and image, many people feel as though they are not beautiful, therefore causing low self-esteem, that can lead to many other problems. Eating disorders have become a habit for people who have high levels of low self-esteem as well as mental disorders due to lack of body confidence. One of these eating disorders being Bulimia Nervosa, which can lead to frequent episodes of a large portion of food than going to vomit the food up in order to prevent any weight gain. Another of these disorders is Anorexia Nervosa, where a person experiences an intense fear of weight gain, therefore eating the least amount of food as possible. By providing programs for women and men who suffer from these disorders self-love organizations try to aid in making everyone feel beautiful and comfortable in their own skin and appearance. They want to make everyone feel confident and change what the American beauty standards say about what is considered beautiful. Many women also undergo surgery and other medical operations in order to acquire the look they desire. Whether it be a, abdominoplasty, rhinoplasty, breast augmentation, lipoplasty, White 3 or any other procedure to enhance the body, these surgeries have risks that can affect the person receiving the operation. Some of the risks include scarring, infection, nerve damage and organ damage, which can lead to further health concerns in the end. Some women of color also undergo a cosmetic surgery called depigmentation plastic surgery, which whitens the skin in order to achieve a complexion that is considered The lighter you are the better and prettier you are considered. In the early 2000s Dove conducted a survey asking over 3,000 women in 10 countries what their priorities and interests in beauty were. From this study researcher that only two percent of the women who were interviewed consider themselves as beautiful. The results of this study than sparked an idea in the mind of the companies Director, which came to be known as the Dove Real Beauty Campaign. The company put together the campaign in order to promote self-love, through the use of real women, and to bring to surface a topic that women wanted to talk about. Real Beauty mission statement is believe beauty should be a source of confidence, and not anxiety. why we are here to help women everywhere develop a positive relationship with the way they look, helping them raise their self-esteem and realize their full From this campaign, women have been able to appreciate and except their bodies for what they are and not for what they look like. Another reason that this campaign was created was to have a positive impact on the lives of young girls growing up, to have someone to look up to, that were not size 2 or smaller. By incorporating a wider variety of models varying from thin-to larger and from gorgeous to into everyday magazines, such as Vogue, advertisements, and campaigns could help the low self-esteem epidemic that is occurring now. This compromise is possible because they have featured models who are considered and of darker complexion into a scarce White 4 amount of magazine issues. However, fashion labels are the ones that have rejected having their clothes advertised on a plus sized models and darker skinned women. Hence making this more of a fashion designer issue, rather than an issue for Vogue. As a result of this issue, magazines, like Vogue, are forced to refrain from using plus size models and women of color in their weekly or monthly issues. Vogue, itself has released an issue of their magazine with Ashley Graham, a size 14 plus sized model, as the cover, as well as Michelle Obama and Even though vogue has released a very small amount of magazine issues sporting plus size and women of color as models, women still feel as though it is not enough. These women on the covers are still photoshopped to look perfect, showing no imperfections. If modeling agencies were to become more accepting of who was able to be featured as a model, more women of the world would feel as though they could possibly have what it takes to become a model themselves. Magazine companies such as Vogue, have had many magazines issues featuring women who are very thin and gorgeous as the cover and throughout pages. These are the same magazines that everyday women, who are considered average or as not fitting the beauty standards are looking at and comparing themselves to. A result of these standards set by magazines has resulted in huge low self-esteem epidemic that has spread all over the country. Women have resorted to eating disorders and surgeries to acquire the look that is considered by beauty standards. Companies like Dove have set up campaigns in order to help women overcome their low self-esteem and see themselves as the beautiful person they truly are. By incorporating a wider variety of models that are, thin to plus size, light to dark, smooth complexion to freckled, and so on into magazines and advertisements we as a society may be able to overcome the lack of self-love that women feel as a whole. White 5 Annotated Bibliography Caffrey, Cait. Of Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters.Web. 26 Jan. 2017. In this article written by Cait Caffrey, describes what beauty culture and how it has changes and the effects of beauty culture on women. The article starts by describing first the history of beauty culture, then moves on to talk about the industry of beauty, before moving on to talk about beauty culture and body image and the distress it may cause. This source can be beneficial to my paper because it talks about all aspects that are pertaining to the topic I have chosen to write. This is a credible source due to the fact that this article can be found in the Salem Press Encyclopedia, as well as the fact that it is a peer reviewed article. Kuipers, Giselinde, Yiu Fai Chow, and Elise van der Laan. Vogue And The Possibility Of Cosmopolitics: Race, Health And Cosmopolitan Engagement In The Global Beauty  Ethnic & Racial Studies 37.12 (2014): 2158. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. This article written by Giselinde, Elise, and Yiu, explains what the Vogue company intends to do as a magazine company to incorporate a more diverse group of models. They also talk on the facts of what heath conditions are of concern to them. This article will be resourceful to my paper because it mentions the first stakeholder that I would like to address. It also is not an accurate representation of what the vogue company portrays through their images. Therefore, it will be up for discussion through the paper if they really are making a change. This is a credible source because it is peer-reviewed and is found in the Ethic and Racial Studies. White 6  Dove UK. N.p., 22 June 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.dove.com/us/en/stories/about-dove/our-vision.html>. This article is one pulled from the Dove Companies website, In this article it explains what the mission of their Real Beauty Campaign and their Self-Esteem project is. This article refers to my second stakeholder and give me direct information from the editors of Dove themselves, therefore even though it does not end in a .gov, .org, .edu, or .net it is still credible and beneficial to my paper. POWELL, MICHELLE. RADICAL LOVE IN A POST-FEMINIST AGE: Reading The Pedagogy Of Campaign For Real  International Journal Of Critical Pedagogy 6.1 (2015): 83-98. Education Source. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. This article written by Michelle Powell, acts as my second stakeholder because the article describes the Dove Real Beauty Campaign as a self-love organization that wants to help promote women of different body shapes and average beauty in the use of media. This article is useful for my paper due to the fact that it mentions the stakeholder that I wish to take a side in my topic. This article is credible because it from a real campaign and is peer reviewed and is published in the International Journal od Critical Pedagogy.