Andrew Musgrove Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101 29 January 17 Vulnerability of US Cybersecurity and how the US Government has Responded In light of recent events such as the Russian election hacking, clear to see how vulnerable the US cyberspace is. Cyberspace is defined as globally-interconnected digital information and communications (Bottolfson et al 39). Cyberspace is basically another universe to tend to while we still have to deal with our physical security on the ground. The difference between boots on the ground national security and cybersecurity is that there is an infinite number of holes and methods to infiltrate computer systems. That is why computer systems are so prone to attack; computers run on coding, so if someone can figure out part of the security coding, then they can infiltrate the system. The main way that the government is combating this is to make smarter computers. Advanced computers feel when they are being infiltrated and can shut down the immediately, preserving the information inside. From the earliest invention of the computer, the US has been storing valuable information on computers so that it is readily available to those who need it. The names of undercover agents, locations of military troops, information about our border security, military tactics, and much more is a risk of being stolen at any minute. This country has prepped for cyberattacks since the very first invention of the computer, but it has not been until the last 10 to 15 years that these attacks became malicious and dangerous. As of now, this is the greatest threat to our national security because of how random these attacks are, and because of how difficult it is to monitor a digital world when we have other issues on the ground to worry about. So, I pose the question, how has the US government adopted new cybersecurity measures to combat attacks on sensitive information? Bottolfson, Carl, Gerry Fernandez, August G. Roesener. for US Air & Space Power Journal, vol. 28, no. 6, 2014, pp 38-54, Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. This purpose is to inform the American people about the status of our cyberspace and who is actually in charge of keeping our information safe. It was written in 2014 and outlines the US cybersecurity system and explains the great threat that our country faces. In 2014, the Russian election hacking occurred yet and the big social security hacking had not been discovered yet, so the cyberwar was less talked about than it is today. It addresses the American people well by keeping the language simple and easy to understand, and it explains very clearly what each specific government agency does to preserve our national security. Cyberspace is hailed as one of the most vulnerable parts of the United security because not like the front lines of battle where you can see the enemy coming; attacks come out of the blue and the origin of attacks is very difficult to pinpoint (Bottolfson et al 39). The government role in cybersecurity has increased over recent years due to the exponentially increasing threat. For example, last two presidents, Bush and Obama, did more to improve our defense against cyberattack than all of the previous presidents combined (Bottolfson et al 43). The authors of this journal article are Carl Bottolfson, Gerry Fernandez, and August G. Roesener. Roesener, a Lt. Colonel in the US Air Force, is the main author. He holds a Ph. D. in Operations research and Industrial Engineering and has worked for the USAF for 18 years. He obviously has a strong military background and is very knowledgeable when it comes to the security of the United States. The other co-authors are also ranking officers in the US military making them prime candidates to write about the security of our nation. The journal, Air and Space Power Journal, is a peer reviewed journal published by the USAF and comments on the security of our nation. At the moment, cybersecurity is the most relevant threat, so that is what they do their research on. This article is useful for my topic as it outlines how much the US has focused on cybersecurity in recent years and who exactly is responsible for its upkeep. Kaiser, Robert. Birth of Political Geography, vol. 46, 2015, pp 11-20, Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. This text was published in 2015, so by this time the US had a little bit better understanding of how serious this threat is and had begun to take serious action. This journal article takes the readers chronologically from the to today explaining the evolution of the and what the US government has done to respond (Kaiser 11). It informs the American people about the history of our cybersecurity and how events like 9/11 altered our cybersecurity development. In 2000, there was countless plans from the Clinton administration to beef up the US computer security and President Bush was ready to move along with the plans (Kaiser 13). Then 9/11 happened; all cybersecurity plans were put on hold and the entire world focused on the war on terror. 9/11 put the entire world on hold and nearly all resources were allocated to counter-terrorism. This is where the huge problem of United lack of protection against cyberattacks began. The author of this article is Robert Kaiser. Dr. Kaiser is a research professor at the University of Wisconsin who specializes in political geopolitics and has been published several times. He has a Ph. D from Columbia University, teaches all levels of geography and geopolitics, and has done several research projects relating to cyberspace and cultural politics. His article is perfect for my topic because it has useful data from a 15 year span from 2000 to 2015, explains which cyberattacks warranted responses from the US government, and what the US government continues to do to improve our national security. Milone, Mark. Securing the National Knowledge, Technology, and Policy, vol. 16, no. 1, 2003, pp 75-103, Web. Accessed 31 Jan. 2017. The purpose of this article in to inform the American people about what the US government is doing to fight against cyberterrorism. Published in 2003, it highlights the first steps that the US government takes to directly address cyberterrorism. It effectively explains complicated legislation such as The computer Fraud and Abuse Act, and the USA Patriot Act (Milone 78-79). Both of these acts are extremely important to cybersecurity; the CFAA was passed in 1986 and laid the groundwork for most of the US computer systems laws, but it did not address national security as a whole (Milone 79-80). In 2001 following 9/11, President Bush signed the Patriot Act which was controversial because of the threat it posed to personal privacy. However, part of that act addressed national security when it comes to cyberattacks; it beefed up the definition of a computer, increased penalties for those who damage computer information, and introduced cyberterrorism as a threat to US security (Milone 81). The article continues by explaining how the US government dealt with increasing threats by passing stronger legislation. The author of this article is Mark Milone. He graduated from Hofstra Law school and has experience in electronic commerce and telecommunications. He has his own online business and has taught classes about computer laws on the university level. His article is useful to my topic because he provides a more technical point of view and very clearly explains the kinds of policies that the United States has to combat cybersecurity. Cetron, Marvin J, Owen Davies. War 3.0: Ten Critical Trends for Futurist, vol. 43, no. 5, 2009, pp 40-49, Web. Accessed 31 Jan. 2017. This article has a darker, more pessimistic tone to it than the others. Its purpose is to both persuade and inform; trying to persuade the audience to pay more attention to cybersecurity while also informing them of the dangers and consequences of attacks (Cetron and Davies 40). The audience is people that are concerned about the future of the United States. They address this audience by including quotes from high ranking officials including the US Director of National Intelligence, Mike McConnell (Cetron and Davies 40). Also, the article includes possible scenarios of cyberattacks that serve as warnings of what could possibly happen in the future. These scenarios include attacks on oil rig systems, computers in general, telephone wires, etc. (Cetron and Davies 41-43). They address the reasons why people need to be concerned about cybersecurity including the increased dependence on technology, the protection of sensitive research information, and the always increasing interconnectedness of the entire world (Cetron and Davies 44). Their main point is that that the world has become so connected that an attack on one part of the global computer system will influence the entire world. Marvin Cetron and Owen Davies are writers that write for Futurist, a journal that focuses on looking toward the future. Cetron and Davies consulted military experts and intelligence experts while writing this article including high ranking US Army officials and experience intelligence workers. This article was peer reviewed by those same military and intelligence experts. This article is useful to me because it gives me a to answer why the US is adopting so many cybersecurity policies.