Adela Lopez Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 2 February 2017 Project 1: Annotated Bibliography How does gender, class and race affect the punishments criminals receive after being convicted of the same crime? In the latest women have proven what they are capable of doing just as much as males and have demanded respect. Class has also evolved, the richest is no longer the strongest. They are still very powerful but in era we are all seen as or so we thought. Over the many surrounding the United States in the recent five years stands the most recent case of privilege, Brock Turner a Stanford student accused of rape who was only sentenced to serve six months but ended up serving only three months of his total sentence. Or the case like Ethan Couch who got away with only probation after killing four in a DUI incident. There are hundreds of similar cases like this of white, wealthy, male getting a different punishment compared to a Hispanic or black, Lower class male. Bierschbach, Richard A. Wrong with Sentencing Virginia Law Review, vol. 102, 2016, pp.1447-1450 This article speaks on how the Warren court created a procedure that should be taken into account when undergoing a criminals sentencing procedures. This was created over a half a century ago to terminate all unethical racial treatment to criminals. The same crime means the same sentence not just because one is black or white, not because they are a male or a female, and definitely not because they are wealthy or were raised in poverty. None of this should play a role in the law procedure that criminals undergo biased on other factors than just the crime. For example when one is detained there is a certain protocol that must be followed one gets to have equal rights.This is significantly important information to back up my topic question because for some reason it changed. The author has the same idea that race, class, and gender seem to be more involved in the sentence that criminals are given up to today This is a credible source from Richard Bierschbach, a professor of law at the University of Michigan. Richard studies the criminal law procedures. Bierschbach clerked for U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day and D.C. Circuit Judge A. His main interest has always been the procedures. He even dedicates to also teaching on this matter to his students at Cardozo, connecting it back to the original question on how it all plays a role. Kansal, Tunshar. Disparity in Open society foundations. 2005. Web. Jan.2017. https://www.opensocietyfoundations.org/reports/racial-disparity-sentencing The article states that, are more likely to be disadvantage in terms of sentence It also speaks on how more minorities are getting harsher punishments in comparison to whites for the same crimes. Race just affect the sentences that felons receive it also gives them a harder time dealing with the whole process. For example, in page one of the article it also states that blacks pay a higher trial penalty than white males. So if a black or Latino male is convicted of a lower level crime such as that of drugs he will tend to receive a tougher punishment than if a white male does it. Or they might even receive a punishment harsher compared to a white male who has committed a higher level crime. This article was published to explain key factors in discrimination. Tunshar Kansal published this article in 2005 and speaks on the different types of racial discrimination that people get. He studies the history on racial discrimination in criminals. But in this article he is focusing on the key factors that play in when it comes to a sentences. Based on what tends to happen to a black or Hispanic criminal compared to a white criminal. Kleck, Gary Discrimination in Criminal American Sociology Review, Dec. 1981. Republished 2014.http://www.jstor.org/stable/2095079?s . Accessed 2. Feburaury.2017 Critical Evidence is shown in lots of case studies that Racial Discrimination is among the biggest reason why people tend to be afraid to confront their consequences. They fear what they have learned over time. Minorities mainly blacks tend to be the ones treated harsher. Especially when sentenced to the same crime as a white. On the second paragraph of page 783 it states that even when it comes down to death penalty it seems much easier and less of a hassle when a person if color is sentenced rather than privileged whites. The United States Legal system is among the worst for their criminal justice system. This is crucial support for my research question. Considering that this article goes back to sometime before this century but was published in this time period to allow us to see that things have not changed since 1970. Author Gary Kleck is a criminology and a professor at Florida State University, he is currently researching if employing more police officers has an effect on the fear of crime. He has also done research in race when it comes to criminal punishment. How it has nothing to do with their exposure to crime but more to do with the audiences view on television, how one is to watch the news and the odds of a criminal convicted of something being black is higher than being white. Crime control and how it is set out to be perceived is also a tie back to why we tend not to be surprised at the outcomes of sentence regarding race. Starr, Sonja. Large Gender Disparities in Federal Criminal Michigan Law. Nov., 2012. https://www.law.umich.edu/newsandinfo/features/Pa Accessed February 2017. We tend to hear a lot of cases regarding racial discrimination but what about gender discrimination? It is out there more than we think, in the first paragraph of the article it says, receive 63% longer sentences on average than women  and as likely to avoid incarceration if convicted. tend to be seen as the victim or as a simple object in the cases of crime involving them. It can either go really good or really bad for them. Women will either get a lighter sentence because whatever they do as compared to if a man had done it. Like cases of Rape or Domestic Violence. But can also be seen as a week and unstable leaving them in a worse place they were before. This article gives me some insight on how the legal system runs gender discrimination and that it always be proven with numbers but with just common knowledge when looking at different criminal cases. Sonja Starr is a credible source due to her outstanding research in gender inequality at the University of Michigan Law. She has done tons of research and publications regarding racial and gender inequality throughout her career at the University. This provides my research question with the fundamental support it needs in support of the gender part of my question. Males tend to have a harsher punishment that women for same case crimes. Sonja is perhaps more than clear when she says may help-a lot-to be a