Ashlyn Collins Ms. Ricketts ENC 1101- 010 February 5, 2017 The human body is connected in many ways, one of which is how the body transfers its mental toll into a physical toll. Mental strain can be as detrimental to the body as physical strain can be. There is a plethora of reactions body can have to lack of sleep, stress, mental illness and so on, ranging from feeling tired to becoming physically ill. Research on this topic ranges from current news to the (Thomas Freedom M.D) allowing researchers to look back and reflect on previous research. During this article I aim to explore what relationship do chronic migraines have in respect to other diagnosis and what are the treatment options. Mental illness, sleep disorders, along with learning disabilities all seem to be pointing signs to taking not only a mental toll on the sufferer but also a physical toll on them as well. The question that will be explored during this essay will be whether or not there truly is a correlation between mental illnesses, sleeping disorders, learning disabilities along with other in relation to chronic migraines, and if there is what really is the relationship and what treatment options are available to the sufferers. Genizi, J., Khourieh Matar, A., Schertz, M. et al. Pediatric mixed headache -The relationship between migraine, tension-type headache and learning disabilities - in a clinic-based sample. December 2016, 17:42, February 5, 2017. The article mixed headache- the relationship between migraine, tension-type headaches, and learning disabilities-in-a-clinic based goes over explaining that there could be a correlation between patients who have chronic headaches or migraines and mental illnesses as well as learning disabilities. Through their research they were able to conclude that children who experience mixed headaches were 2.7 times more likely to also have a learning disability than those who only experience migraines. Of those who were tested not only did they experience migraine headaches but 24 percent also reported experiencing tension type headaches. Although correlation does not mean causation this article seeks to find proof that, in this instance, it does. The main goal of this journal is that the author wanted to be able to provide information to neurologists to give them the ability to identify triggers to these headaches in order to change the strategies of dealing with these headaches. This article, written by Genizi et al, is very recent being that it was published in 2016. Being that this article was published by the Journal of headache and pain the article is reliable due to the credibility of the source. Based off of the language that the use, as well as the statistics that it gives, the authors are most likely aiming to grab the attention of medical professionals in this field to allow them to take better care of their patients. Thomas Freedom, MD. Headaches and sleep disorders. Volume 61, Issue 6, June 2015, Pages February 5, 2017 This article was entitled and sleep Thomas Freedom M.D seems to be aiming to inform the audience that there is a very strong correlation between migraine headaches as well as headaches in general being related to sleeping disorders. Some of the most common sleep disorders associated with these headaches are insomnia, sleep apnea, as well as problems with ones circadian rhythms. Not enough sleep or too much sleep can cause one to suffer from a headache, yet going to sleep can stop the progress of a headache. The main point Freedom aims to get across is that there are a few warning signs that you may have a sleeping disorder, and these signs are the headaches one may be having. If someone is noticing that they have headaches after waking up, headaches shortly after waking up, or chronic daily headaches this could be your sign of saying there is something wrong. The author of this article, Thomas Freedom M.D, is a reliable source based off of his experience and the high title the article he is writing for holds. The aim of this article was to inform people as well as professionals in this field of the warning signs of a sleeping disorder. Pasquale Parisi, Alberto Verrotti, Maria Chiara Paolino, Alessandro Ferretti, Umberto Raucci, Romina Moavero, Maria Pia Villa, and Paolo Curatolo. Headache and attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder in children: Common condition with complex relation and disabling consequences. Volume 32, March 2014, Pages February 5, 2017. In the article and attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder in children: Common condition with complex relation and disabling which was published in 2013, aims to uncover if there is a relationship between attention deficit disorder and hyperactivity disorder and headaches in children and if there is a correlation what the effects on the neurological development is. Of chronic conditions, migraines are the most common, accounting for 10-28 percent in adolescents and children. After much research it is unsure if there is a correlation directly between attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder and headaches, but it has been found that there is a correlation between hyperactivity, inappropriate behavioral symptoms and family related stress as well as academic related stress and frequent headaches. In relation to school related stress a study showed that of 150 grade school children with persisting headaches, 40 percent of them experience academic difficulties. There are many authors to this article including Pasquale Parisi, Alberto Verrotti, Maria Chiara Paolino, Alessandro Ferretti, Umberto Raucci, Romina Moavero, Maria Pia Villa, and Paolo Curatolo. This article is a credible source because it comes from the journal of Epilepsy and Behavior. Deacon E. Harle1,2 and Bruce J. W. Evans1,2. The optometric correlates of migraine. The Institute of Optometry, 56-62 Newington Causeway, London, and 2 Department of Optometry and Visual Science, City University, Northampton Square, London, UK, Ophthal. Physiol. Opt. 2004 24: February 5, 2017. In this article, optometric correlations of the main purpose is to get across the point that there may be an aspect of migraine headaches that has to do with optometric. Errors of refraction, pupil anomalies, binocular vision anomalies, visual field changes, as well as pattern glare, have had many claims to being related to migraine headaches. Migraines have many triggers, some being visual, environmental, and other external factors. There are many known triggers for migraines ranging from foods one can eat such as chocolate and drinks like coffee and red wine or hormonal changes. The external factors that can cause one to get a migraine can be anything from skipping meals, irregular sleep patterns, stress, heat, weather change, smells, light, or sound. In this article they explore the visual triggers that can cause a migraine in a sufferer. One of the main visual triggers discussed in this article was pattern glare, which is visual distortions that cause stress on the sufferer. There are two authors in this article, Deacon E. Harle, and Bruce J. W. Evans. This is a reliable article for this information due to the fact that it is an article straight from the institute of optometry.