Andre Boothe Ms.Elizabeth Ricketts English Comp I 5 February 2017 Annotated Bibliography draft How has the stop and frisk policy affected New crime rates? Stop and frisk is a police policy popular in New in which son of suspicion.This originally started back in 1960 after the earliest(but unofficial at the time) case of stop and  led to the Terry V Ohio supreme Court case that ruled the method constitutional. This gave the green light for police forces to use it.Also by looking at the increased use in the and why it was so common at the time and discuss why such a heated topic right now.Finally to also look at the positives and negatives of stop and frisk being used.For instance the crime rate in did go down in New York even with a larger population.However the perception of the force went down as a majority of friskees were African American combined with the fact weapons were rarely found on them.This lead to many complaints of racism and racial profiling and friction between the two groups.By looking at these factors we should be able to answer the question of how did the stop and frisk policy affect New crime rates. Belin, The Inverse Relationship Between Constitutionality and Effectiveness of New York Stop and . Boston University Law Review, Vol 94, pg 1495,2014,Acessed 28 January 2017.Social Science Research Network This source offered information on why stop and frisk was increased in police use from the to the main reason being the large increase in crime in New York around this time and the use of the goal or to punish minor crimes like speeding or vandalism ,along with major crimes like homecide. .Also aimed at looking at the pros and cons of the policy.For instance the racial profiling questions raising due to the majority of stop and friskees were black.However only a small percent of them were ever found with a weapon.Ironically that the anti gun policy was convicting marijuana holders far more than possible criminals that were carrying weapons.However still showed the positives that crime rates(particularly homicides) did go down in New York from 1990 to 2000 since the policy was used more often. This article was written by Jeffery Bellin a Stanford law school graduate and a current law professor at William and Mary law school.This article helped to show both sides of the issue and gave fairly recent statistics on the NY crime rate.This link directly to answering how crime rates changed for minor and major crimes at the time in New York. Harris, David Across the Hudson: Taking The Stop and Frisk Debate Beyond New York  .N.Y.U Journal of Legislation and Public Policy,2014.Acessed January 28 2017.Social Science Research Network. This source talks about how the stop and frisk policy started and when it started(the earliest uses being after the Terry V Ohio supreme court case in the 1960s).The case labeled the policy constitutional and gave police forces in other states not just New York the greenlight to use it.It also highlights the peoples reaction to it such the increased friction between police and citizens.This was due to the amount of friskees caught with weapons are low compared to the total amount of people stopped and frisked causing many to question the logic in the method. This source was obtained in a journal written by law professor David Harris from the university of Pittsburgh.This journal offered a good history lesson by showing what caused the case that approved stop and frisk and when all these major events happened.This links to the question by providing history on why stop and frisk started and gave some views on how it affected the crime rates. Gelman Andrew, Fagan Jeffery, Kiss An Analysis of the Police Stop and  Policy in Context of Racial Journal of American Statistical  ,Vol 102,September 2007,pg 813-823.Accessed February 2 nd 2016.American Statistical association. This Source offered information mostly on why the police force was using stop and frisk.For instance they needed to try something to try tone down the crime surge.However it did show that despite that it was,nt meant with much approval from citzens and was contested frequently. In 1996 the Debour V People case green lighted the decision to check a person simply cause they had . However the Brown V Texas case the ruling was the police could ,not use the reason that the person walk away from  and a justifiable reason to stop and frisk. This was source was written by Andrew Gelman,Alex kiss and jeffrey fagan.All three member are law professors at Colombia University.This source also provided a history boost for the portion of stop and frisks and the laws at the time affecting it, Gershman, Bennet Use of Race in and : Stereotypes Beliefs Linger ,but How Far Can the Police . New York State Bar Journal ,March2000,pg42Accessed February 2 2017.Social Science Research Network. This source highlights mostly the cons of stop and frisk.Particualarly the amount of black friskees compared to other citizens even in predominately white parts of the state.In addition it also points out that stop and frisk has issues with the 4 th amendment(Protection from unlawful search and seizures).This is since not every stop and frisk was lawful. This source was written by Bennett L Gershman A professor At Pace Universtity School of Law.This source gave mainly the cons of stop and frisk and answers half of the research questions in terms of how affecting New York.