Alondra Galvan Ricketts ENC1101 January 25, 2017 Dance movement therapy is one of the used to help children with disabilities. This type of therapy is not as common as other therapies but is used to control the nerves in the body. The movement and positioning allows for children to engage properly with a therapist in an enjoyable way. Dance therapy is an expressive therapy that pinpoints on supporting the mind, body, and connectivity of muscle and brain throughout the body. It allows the motor function in the brain react faster and initiate control in certain parts of the body. This therapy is used widely among children with disabilities but more or less on children with Autism Spectrum Disorder. This disorder makes the child have a hard time socializing or communicating. It also affects how a child interacts with others or how the child shows interest in activities. Usually a parent would notice this focused behaviors from the age of two. At the least, dance therapy allows for a child to be diagnosed early in time because it tests the ability to connect movement with interaction and also to see the ability to focus on the movement and yet generate their own. Focusing on Dance Movement Therapy, what way does this therapy style, specifically, affect or not affect children with Autism Spectrum Disorder? Martin, Mary. Moving On The Spectrum: Dance/Movement Therapy As A Potential Early Intervention Tool For Children With Autism Spectrum  The Arts In Psychotherapy vol. 41, no. 5, 2014, pp. 545-553. PsycINFO. http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S019745561400102 6?np=y&npKey=23c47728c5bf32b8bb2a864ad32f3dc3f458f92f507e5255e3b3927dcf59 2fb2. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. This article digs into the mechanics behind dance movement therapy. Dance movement therapy was brought up to allow children with autism spectrum disorder to communicate in a way easier since it is not verbal. Children first learn to communicate nonverbally therefore taking a chance at using movement such as synchronization, rhythm, and mirroring allows doctors to diagnose a child with autism. interventions have the potential to provide a pathway to the integration of the motor and social/communicative functions that are affected in children with (Mary, 2014). This article goes through four phases which envision the actions of a dance movement therapist and how they approach the situation, of a child with autism spectrum disorder. Phase one explains the way a therapist tries to establish a common ground and boundaries with the child. Phase two is described when the therapist connects with the child and encourages the child to try the movement. Phase three is a more advanced step which allows the child to develop body awareness and motor coordination. The last phase, phase four, takes the movement into more extremities such as driving the child to use timing and rhythm. Those four phases allow for the success of this experimental therapy. The author is Mason Martin, a therapeutic instructor at SPECTRA Autism Center. Martin has a Bachelor of Arts in Dance from Oklahoma City University and a Master of Arts, and Somatic Counseling Psychology/Dance Movement Therapy from Naropa University. She also is a dance instructor at Bella Danze Artz, Mountain Kids, and Creative Dance Kids. Mary has also been an instructor for the Special Olympics Gymnastics. This source ties back to my research question because it highlights the main topic of what a session looks like for a child with autism and the early diagnosis of children with autism. This article is a part of a journal called The Arts in Psychotherapy which initially explains how creative art therapies affect people and incorporates different opinions and research. Vincent, Susan, et al. Collaborating With A Mission: The Rizzo Foundation Spreads The Gift Of Dance/Movement  American Journal Of Dance Therapy vol. 29, no. 1, 2007, pp. 51. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=d7394d25-4fa5-489a-94aa- 6746868c073b%40sessionmgr4007&vid=23&hid=4105. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. The Andrea Rizzo Foundation, was created when a dance therapist died in a car accident. This article illustrates the life of Andrea, a woman who struggled with a neuroblastoma and her impact on dance therapy. She first-handedly experienced how dance therapy allowed her to regain some motor control and coordination. Andrea aspired to help children with special needs by using dance therapy, since she had been saved that way. All while making this program expand, the founders incorporate this program with the Ronald Mcdonald House, they try and make a kid-friendly environment. The program creates a space where kids with cancer or special needs, can express themselves and regain the social aspect of not living in the hospital. It is explained how this program induces in group projects in public schools to on-on-one sessions with hospital patients. The authors also inscript a detailed illustration of how a dance therapy session would go. Children with autism spectrum disorder have a harder time communicating, this program allows for children to engage with the on a nonverbal way, and conveys children how to communicate in a more automatic way. This is one successful foundation that ties back to the how dance therapy affects kids with autism. This foundation inputted a program at the Sloan-Kettlering Cancer Center. Dance therapy programs have been in some Northeast public schools also. The authors include Susan Rizzo Vincent, Suzi Tortora, Jocelyn Shaw, Jean Basiner, Christina Devereaux, Sharon Mulcahy, Mary Cartales Ponsini. This source ties into my topic because it emphasizes an actual foundation that is helping kids by using this dance therapy. This article is one of many articles all incorporated into the American Journal of Dance Therapy which is created by the American Dance Therapy Association to research and analyze the newest findings of dance therapy and examine reports and case-studies of dance therapy in action. Baudino, Lori M. Spectrum Disorder: A Case of American Journal of Dance Therapy 2 vol. 32, no. 2, 2010, pp 113-129 Academic OneFile. http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10465-010-9095-x. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. This article elucidates a true story of a six year old girl who is one of many children that are misdiagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder. In the article it illustrates the beginning of her complicated life and what this little girl came home to everyday. Those traumatizing experiences enabled her to incorporate mal-behaviors and led to her misdiagnosis. Spectrum Disorder is a common diagnosis for children who present with impairments and abnormalities in development, social contexts, and communication and who seem to be disconnected from a wide range of activities and typical interests (American Psychiatric Association, (Baudino, 2010). Lisa and many other children embody those symptoms from traumatic experience and use dance movement therapy to correct their motor coordination and socializing skills. Lisa engages in sessions every week and is presented activities in the three planes that are used to emphasize and define the movement of an individuals psycho-sexual stages of development. The three planes are horizontal, vertical, and sagittal. This article also incorporates the account of the instructor whom illustrates vividly the encounter with Lisa and her step-by-step approach on productivity. Once presenting the story of Lisa, then comparing and the Autism Spectrum Disorder symptoms, the article emphasizes the importance of being able to use dance therapy to pinpoint the symptoms rather than attack the individual. Dr. Lori Baudino is a clinical psychologist who took dance movement therapy programs to multiple hospitals through the Andrea Rizzo Foundation. She is a certified dance therapist and has done lectures at universities, high schools, and organizational events. This article ties back to my topic about how one child was misdiagnosed and was affected with dance movement therapy. This is only one case of the many instances that dance movement therapy exerts possibilities among expression, physical, and emotional powers. The journal in which this article corresponds to is the American Journal for Dance Therapy which highlights the most intriguing obstacles intervened by DMT and incorporates case-studies of real children. Hildebrandt, Malin K., Sabine C. Koch, and Thomas Fuchs. We Dance And Find Each : Effects Of Dance/Movement Therapy On Negative Symptoms In Autism Spectrum  Behavioral Sciences (2076-328X) vol. 6, no. 4, 2016, pp. 1-17. Academic Search Premier. http://www.mdpi.com/2076-328X/6/4/24/htm. 5 Feb. 2017 This article presents the deficits of Theory of Mind in Autism Spectrum Disorder and schizophrenia. The development of social cognitive is based on Theory Theory and Simulation Theory. This article depicts Autism Spectrum Disorder symptoms as lack in verbal communication, interest in small objects and how they move, and also lack of motivation. Our minds stimulate our body movement and our thoughts creatively control the way our body moves. But to ASD patients the connection between brain and body get interrupted and disrupted leading to distraction. An embodied approach to Autism Spectrum Disorder would be intertwining the influence of the mind to the body and the influence of the body to the mind. Dance Movement Therapy the role of motor movement and sensorimotor experience for mental states and as a medium for therapeutic (Hildebrandt, 2016). But this article stresses that mirroring and memorizing movement dig deep into the connectivity and motor skills to fully help the ASD patient. The author takes a further step and includes the process of getting the research study going. He depicts the study design, the recruitment procedure, the intervention, the clinical assessment, the sample, the missing data, the analysis, and then the results. To sum it up, he uses his sample to see the effectiveness and in- depth procedure of Dance Movement Therapy among subjects. At the end he proves his theory that the sample is too small due to some drop-outs but Dance Movement Therapy does reduce the negative effects of Autism in most of the subjects. Malin Hildebrandt, Sabine C. Koch, and Thomas Fuchs are professors at the Heidelberg in Germany. All the authors have a Bachelor of Science Psychology. Thomas is a Professor for Philosophical Foundations of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy and has and M.D. and a Ph.D. This article refers back to my topic by putting Dance Movement Therapy to the test through a sample and a research experiment. This article comes from the journal called Spectrum Disorder and the whole journal challenges and researches further known ideas and theories of Autism Spectrum Disorder which allows for the evolvement of finding more psychotherapies.