Sanders 1 Zachary Sanders Harley Campbell ENC 1102 097 January 30 2027 The War Against Guns- Unstoppable or Easily Preventable? Everyone knows the second amendment today; the right to bear arms. When the second amendment was written however, it could take upwards of five minutes to fire one bullet. Contrary to modern machine guns which can fire more than five rounds every second! So, you can see how organizations like the National Rifle Association (NRA) and The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence argue about what is best for society. The NRA is a nationwide agency devoted to ensuring all Americans are given the rights they are guaranteed in the second amendment, and has been around since the late 19 th century. while the CSGV has only been around since 1974. Still they have always been on opposing sides of how to interoperate what the constitution calls They do have one common ground; people can own guns. The NRA and CSGV need to work together to educate people about gun control, and still have freedom. Founded in 1903, the national rifle association is the largest, and oldest civil rights organization. According to NRA homepage, they have almost five million members that support them. As the foremost defender of second amendment rights, they play huge role in modern politics, too. The NRA is not just about giving firearms to everyone with no training, however. They have a separate foundation, the NRA Freedom Action Foundation, which is to providing non-partisan Second Amendment education to all American (NRA Freedom Action Foundation). The NRA is also one of the few organizations that specifically states that they support citizens, regardless of race, religion or socio-economic Sanders 2 status with respect to the Second Amendment (NRA Freedom Action Foundation). On their for homepage, they claim that Americans are plagued with deceitful media of gun-hating political elites and radical billionaires, who will not be effected by citizens losing their second amendment (NRA Speak for Me). The NRA gives a hear-touching example with the story of Kim Corban, who was living off-campus in a home she was told, completely safe, and that there had never been an incident. Kim did not feel she needed personal protection, until a burglar broke in one night, and assaulted (NRA Speak for Me: Never Again). The coalition to stop gun violence, of CSGV, is a nonprofit organization that is composed of 47 different organizations, each devoted to stopping gun violence. Like their name suggests, they are devoted to stopping gun violence, through research, strategic engagement social policy advancement. According to their website, they claim that insurrectionist ideology promoted by the NRA and other pro-gun groups, goes against democratic values and institutions that protect freedoms enjoyed by (About US). They further argue that those policies, plus the fact that the NRA is all about selling guns, claiming that more guns equals more freedom, is directly related to all of the violence that has been going on in the US (Guns, Democracy, and Freedom). The CSGV points out on their Universal Background Checks page, that with as little as two hundred dollars, anyone can walk around a gun show, and purchase a fully automatic pistol. On the same page, they state that in order to keep these guns out of the hands of criminals and mentally ill, the federal government needs to enact a federal law requiring universal background checks for any sale of a firearm. Robert Spitzer from Columbia university supports this organization in his book, stating that despite the claims, there is a relation between the number of guns on the streets, and the level of gun violence in a city (XV). Sanders 3 At first glance, these organizations would never work together. However, both their goals involve citizens owning firearms; just completely opposite in how to achieve their goals. The NRAs main goal is to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to own a firearm for personal protection and sports. They goal differs, in that they emphasize background checks, to keep guns out of the hands of the wrong people. This common ground is the building block for a compromise between these two organizations. Given that both organizations have keeping guns in the right hands as one of their goals, the compromise is to collaborate to create a new organization that encourages guns for the use of sports and self-defense, while doing thorough background checks on every person who tries to purchase any type of firearm, including private sales. Like the CSGV states on their website, including private sales in the act to background check gun buyers would dramatically reduce the number of guns in the wrong hands (Universal Background Checks). Mark Duggan, from the university of Chicago supports this, saying that find that changes in gun ownership are significantly related to homicides in a As stated before, the solution is there. Its just that no one has pointed it out. Both the national rifle association, and the coalition to stop gun violence have goals of allowing good people, they just differ on how this goal is to be met. If the NRA and CSGV combine their efforts, and create an organization that encourages gun education and enforces the background checks on all sales, everybody wins. Sanders 4 Works Cited About  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Duggan, Mark. More Guns, More Crime, Journal of Political Economy 109, no. 5 (October 2001): 1086-1114. DOI: 10.1086/322833 Guns, Democracy and  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. NRA  NRA About the NRA. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. NRA Freedom Action  NRA Freedom Action Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Safest Place  Safest Place Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Spitzer, Robert J. Gun Control: A Documentary and Reference Guide. Gun Control A Documentary and Reference Guide, ABC-CLIO LLC. Tell Walmart: Stop Selling Guns for Young  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Universal Background  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.