Student 1 Student Prof. Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102.050 30 January 2017 The Smoking Gun: Gun Violence and Gun Rights in America 10,945. In what may seem as only a number, it represents something much more serious and grave than 10,945 is the number of lives lost due to gun homicides in 2014 as according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. In spite of having one of the highest rates of gun violence in the world, one would think that the United States government and its constituents would do more to help decrease the number of yearly homicides due to gun violence, but in the land of the free and the home of the brave, one of the greatest values of our nation lies in our commitment to our constitutional democracy. The freedoms granted to us by our constitution are those same freedoms that have inspired nations across the globe to mimic our great democratic experiment. But whether it be our freedom of speech, or our right to bear arms, at which point can the moral need to prevent often senseless deaths overcome the constitutional virtues that make us who we are? The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, or the CSGV, is an organization that seeks to put an end to gun violence in the United States by calling for a ban on assault rifles and making sure that pro-gun lobbying organizations do not have control over congress. On the other hand, the National Rifle Association (NRA), is a vocal critic of anti-gun sentiments and legislation and is the foremost voice in preserving second amendment rights. So how may a compromise be struck between two strongly opposing causes? Without negating the values of either side, I believe that the best way for both sides to come Student 2 together is for them to both work in expand vigorous background checks to all citizens who wish to purchase a gun. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, founded in 1974, has one to enforce the principle that Americans have a right to live in communities free from gun In order to achieve this goal, the CSGV has divided their objectives into three specific measures of action: political advocacy by holding politicians accountable on their record regarding gun laws, lobbying for support from local, state, and federal legislators, and discussing the issue of gun violence in a way that compliments the democratic values of our nation and challenges the claims made by the National Rifle Association. To quote Sen. Chris Murphy, Coalition to Stop Gun Violence has led the way in exposing dangerous insurrectionist ideology promoted by the NRA and others in the pro-gun So what is this so called the NRA engages in? The National Rifle Association, founded in 1871, began as an organization that sought to improve marksmanship among American troops at the time and promote and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific Today, the primary goals include preserving second amendment rights through political advocacy and lobbying, as well as the promotion of firearm related programs and activities including gun safety and education courses. Although the goals and objectives of each organization are clearly in opposition, the room for compromise between the two causes can be found in each desire to promote gun safety and decrease the likelihood of firearm related deaths in a manner that is both constitutional and democratic. If both organizations could work together in an effort to expand background check legislation in both state and federal levels, then both the NRA and the CSGV could both find some success in their missions to promoting gun safety, as lobbying for background check Student 3 expansions in legislative bodies could prevent hundreds of homicides via gun violence, by inhibiting those with a criminal record from being able to legally obtain a gun and use it to commit more criminal acts. Although the expansion of background checks would be instrumental in the initiative to help save lives, a prominent objective of the CSGV, it would not place the views of the NRA at a disadvantage, as law-obeying citizens would still be able to purchase firearms without too much trouble. In addition to saving lives, promoting a compromise such as background checks would also pave way for an NRA in the regard that this compromise does not call for the ban of assault rifles (a calling cry from the CSGV), in which they believe is a stepping stone to further restriction and revocation of second amendment rights from American citizens. In the end, second amendment rights are preserved, and Americans are saved from gun violence. Nevertheless, gun reform in this nation is never really common sense when the rhetoric heard from both sides of the aisle clash like a racing bullet towards one another. After all, the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence mentions the National Rifle Association by name when discussing their opposition to gun lobbying, and the NRA makes it their sole mission to stop anyone and everyone who stand to restrict the second amendment rights guaranteed to us by our constitution and cherished by so many American citizens. However, finding middle ground is not impossible. If both organizations could listen to the desires of the other, compromises such as the expansion of background checks could become quite feasible, as it is something that can indeed work to further promote the objectives and values enshrined in each organization. If both organizations could work together to expand background checks, they may realize that and are not so black and white after all. Student 4 Works Cited Kochanek, Kenny D., Sherry L. Murphy, Jiaquan Xu, and Betzaida Tejada-Vera. Deaths: Final Data for  National Center for Health Statistics. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 30 June 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. About  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. A Brief History of the  National Rifle Association. National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.