Bertran 1 Peter Bertran Kristopher Luce ENC1101 January 21 st 2017 Tourism in the Dominican Republic Tourism is the main source of income in the Dominican Republic. The millions of tourists coming from all over the world every year helps to make the country grow and develop as a whole. The climate, beaches, food, and culture makes this paradise a great attraction for people who want to take a vacation, or simply, get away from the bad weather. The Dominican Republic offers a plethora of activities that will make the tourist feel welcomed and has attractions that you can only experience while being there. Similar to many islands, it offers great contact with the ocean, giving a tranquil and relaxing vibe. One of the main attractions for the tourists is that all hotels are all- inclusive, which means that once you pay you have free and unlimited access to every perk included in the resort. Tourism is a huge part of the Dominican Republic, but how does it benefit the island and its habitants? Gonzalez, Fernando, and Rodrigo Terc. Dominican Republic Tourism 4 May 2012. This article talks about all the historical and cultural attractions you can find in the Dominican Republic. Not only it has the largest museums in the Caribbean, but it is also most recognized for its natural endowments. These include natural parks and reserves, the highest number of visiting whales, and a vast quantity of exotic animals. The author describes the best attractions and hot points to visit in the Dominican Republic. Bertran 2 Fernando Gonzalez and Rodrigo Terc, the authors of Dominican Republic Tourism (along with other members) are students of Microeconomics in Competitiveness at the Harvard Business School. They intend to develop new ideas and suggestions for the Dominican tourism so that it can keep expanding and attracting tourists in order to bring more income to the country. Gonzalez, Clara. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <https://www.dominicancooking.com/about>. This article talks about the origin of the Dominican cuisine and how to cook it. In this article we can appreciate some of the Dominican most memorable dishes. Moreover, the article provides guidelines and recipes when cooking Dominican food and provides us pictures of the main dishes that are eaten at lunchtime. The author of this article, Aunt Clara, is an iconic figure of the Dominican Republic who specializes on the Dominican cuisine. Her website provides recipes of every Dominican dish for anyone who wishes to learn and prepare them. Aunt Clara lived and studied at London and graduated in Politics and Social Anthropology from the University of Canterbury. In 1999 she moved back to the Dominican Republic and ever since then she has had a great interest in cooking. United Nations. Who We  World Tourism Organization. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. This article is from the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) and provides facts about the increases of tourism worldwide and their expectancy about the development of it. It focuses on the importance of tourism and how it helps every destination with jobs and the world commerce overall. The article also makes emphasis Bertran 3 on the benefits that tourism gives to every destination and gives us better understanding of why tourism matters. This article is provided by the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO), which is the United Nations agency responsible for the promotion of sustainable and universally accessible tourism. This website lets us know more about this organization by clicking the link Here we can find out more about their goals and program management, as well as the member states that get together and help tourism keep growing while also regulating it. Epsgarlo, Elizabeth Van. Dominican  Countries And Their Cultures. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.everyculture.com/Cr-Ga/Dominican- Republic.html>. This article has a plethora of information and categories that help us understand more the culture of the Dominican Republic. Included in this list of categories we have: religion, etiquette, socialization, marriage and family, gender roles and statuses, health care, arts and humanity, etc. All of these include valuable information that will give the tourists a better picture of the country and its people when they visit. The article focuses on every aspect of the Dominican culture to facilitate interaction between foreigners and natives. One of the most interesting things about this article is the cooperation from a plethora of writers and authors who got together and gathered information and then combined it with one another to provide to the public. All of these authors are professionals in different fields such as, sociology, geography, history, etc. And then got Bertran 4 together to compose this article. This article is not just composed by these professionals, however. It also has research from the United Nations and the United States Department of State.