Maningo 1 Malia Maningo ENC 1102 Professor Staiger 29 January 2017 The Conservation of Florida Wildlife Florida is famous for one thing; its natural beauty. The sandy beaches, the lush forests, and the amazing indigenous animals, all contribute to the reason why millions of tourists visit the Florida Panhandle every year. Thousands of local business use this to their advantage, and create attractions that highlight the charm Florida has to offer. However, not all do it in a respectful manner. Travelers will often take advantage of the terrain in a negative way, resulting in overfishing, deforestation, and endangering animals. Environmental Conservation groups, such as Florida Fish and Wildlife, are doing everything they can to prevent this harm, and are putting up a valiant fight. Government guidelines are in place for local businesses to try and avoid this damage, but evidently, it is not working. While these organizations are pushing for stricter protocol, business are pushing back, claiming it will hurt business. With a careful increase in certain guidelines already set in place, a compromise that would benefit both stakeholders could be set in place. The state of Florida is notorious for tourism, wrangling in over 29.3 million visitors in 2016 (Dixon, 2016). Most come for the beautiful beaches, wild and crazy nightlife, or world famous amusement parks. However, there are a select few who come to see the charming flora and fauna that can only be found in the sunshine state. This includes the Florida panther, nine- banded armadillo, key deer, etc. These visitors are called ecotourists. There are many businesses that can bring you up close and personal with these plants and animals, some of the more Maningo 2 notorious being charter fishing boats, dolphin spotting tours, and snorkeling. Although these sound like great fun, there are some that abuse this privilege. Some come to not only look, but also touch. Many native animals are taken from their natural habitat, or even have their habitats destroyed, whether it be intentional or not. For example, snorkeling tours often bring customers to the colorful coral reefs off the coast. This coral may be alluring, but it is very fragile, and boats often throw their anchors to dock, only to drop it on top of this coral. Snorkelers also try to take pieces of the coral or other wildlife, possible killing them. From this, it is evident that change is necessary. Refraining from getting too close to the wildlife is easy, as explained by Holly Ambrose in the book Eco-Trips in Florida: The Best Excursions (and How to Leave Only Your In this book, Ambrose provides location where certain species are thriving, but also points out some of the possible environmental harm that may result from these trips. The first stakeholder would be Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. The goal of the FWC is to fish and wildlife resources for their long-term well-being and the benefit of The agency was founded in 1999 after the Constitution Revision Commission, which allows Florida residents to propose possible amends the state constitution. Since the emergence of this stakeholder, many have noticed the decline of the florida wildlife. Due to overbearing tourists and fishing charter boats, 93% of coral species has been destroyed, certain species of turtle are endangered, and over half of the everglades have been eliminated (Florida Museum, 2014). These are only some of the harmful effects of urban development. Many acts and laws have been put in place to help slow this depletion of wildlife. An example is the Endangered Species Act of 1973. This act protected the endangered species by allowing the state to buy land if felt needed, prohibited the buying or selling of animals or any animal parts Maningo 3 (alive or dead) if they were listed as endangered, and also posted warnings of jail time or fines if the act was violated. Even with the act set in place, the wildlife continued to dwindle, leaving concerned conservationists begging for change. The other major stakeholder in this argument is the numerous businesses that use the lush tropical landscape for a profit. These businesses are scattered all over the state, raking in millions of dollars a year. The downside to the business is the depletion of resources and wildlife in Florida. These business owners have guidelines set in place such as a limit on certain fish, restricted areas, and fines for touching various plants and animals. The business owners, however, do not want these guidelines revised, as it may be bad for business. The whole point of these attractions are for visitors to get up close and personal with the wildlife Florida has to offer, so what will happen if some of the tourists are feeling as though they are not getting their worth? With a compromise that benefits both stakeholders, owners can run their business with happy customers, and wildlife conservationists will not have to worry about the nature being harmed or disturbed. As previously stated, there are guidelines and state laws that are already in place to conserve the wildlife, which are available on the Florida Fish and Wildlife website at http://myfwc.com/about/rules-regulations. Although most are pretty concrete, there are a few regulations that could be revised. For example, the seagrass is a protected plant because it is scarce, and the depletion of this grass has caused manatee population to dwindle. Instead of blocking off the areas when seagrass is abundant, there are simply signs warning boaters of the upcoming nature. Although most would be considerate about the signs and warnings, there are some charter boats that will ignore warnings and continue through the channel to find a good fishing spot for their customers. I believe the possibility of carelessness is not worth the risk, and Maningo 4 restricted areas should be implemented instead. Another problem with the current regulations is the tendency of business owners to ignore the laws in order to please customers. If the fines that are listed in the constitution are more strictly enforced, then businesses will realize that neglecting the law will result in a loss of profit. With the regulations and laws revised and the law more strictly enforced, businesses will be more obligated to follow the regulations, and conservation groups will rest easy knowing the nature is not being hurt. The stakeholders will find that this compromise will benefit the both of them. Not only will businesses not receive the warning fines, the will also preserve the nature, resulting in a secure business. Without the nature that Florida provides, the business will not thrive, making it vital that these business do follow the rules. The Fish and Wildlife will benefit from the guidelines because it will keep the state of Florida protected for year to come, successfully reaching the goal of their mission statement. A recent article by travel weekly reinforces the proposed compromise. In the article, it explains the ongoing struggle of constant environmental harm, and how it may hurt the value of tourism. Robert Silk, a biologist, states Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP), which annually spends between $25 million and $40 million on beach restoration and nourishment, estimates that the state now has 407 miles of critically eroded beaches, nearly double the damage that existed when the agency first did such an audit in 1989 (Silk 2015). This damage could potentially harm the billions of dollars of revenue obtained every year. With this compromise, businesses and FWC would not have to worry about possible harming this large tourist industry. There is no doubt that there has been some permanent damage to the wildlife in Florida. However, that does not mean that all hope is lost for the possible rehabilitation of endangered or near endangered species still surviving. With the proposed compromise of more strictly Maningo 5 monitored or revised guidelines, this rehabilitation can finally happen. This reconstruction of resources would not only benefit the Fish and Wildlife service which dedicates their agency to conserving wildlife, but also the ecotourist business which thrive off of the beauty of the natural environment. WORKS CITED Conservation in Florida, myfwc.com/conservation/. About the Endangered Species Act of LiveScience, Purch, www.livescience.com/54707-endangered-species-act.html. Species Field Florida Species Florida Nature Study Field Guides, www.swfwmd.state.fl.us/recreation/species/. Rule FWC - Current Rulemaking Activity for Fish and Wildlife, myfwc.com/about/rules-regulations/changes/. Maningo 6 Sanchez, Boris. Coral Reef System in Rapid Decay, Scientists CNN, Cable News Network, 27 June 2016, www.cnn.com/2016/06/27/us/florida-coral-reefs/. Silk, Robert. Florida, Fears Grow That Environmental Damage Will Hurt Travel Weekly, 20 Sept. 2015, www.travelweekly.com/North-America-Travel/In-Florida-fears- grow-that-environmental-damage-will-hurt-tourism. & Endangered Threatened & Endangered Species :: Florida Museum of Natural History, www.flmnh.ufl.edu/southflorida/regions/everglades/endangered- species/.