Gilliam 1 Quartney Gilliam Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Animal Testing in the Cosmetic Industry Society is constantly being introduced to hundreds of new beauty products that change how individuals enhance their beauty and perceive one another. To ensure that their goods are safe for the public to use, the companies who create these products, such as store brands under the parent company of Coty Inc, experiment with their products on animals such as mice and hamsters. Thousands of individuals including organizations similar to People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) disapprove of these acts of animal cruelty/testing and find it immoral. These associations work to not only unmask companies who discreetly partake in animal testing, but to also put an end to animal experimentation in the industry of cosmetics altogether. Although both Coty Inc and PETA appear to be passionate about the well being of living organisms, it can be hard to come to a settlement with one another that is realistic, effective, and still helps both companies thrive. PETA does not support animal testing while Coty has ingredients tested on animals because it seems more principled than using humans as subjects for the safety of consumers. An ideal solution in which both Coty and PETA could benefit from could be for cosmetic brands to test their products on faux skin because not only will it help end animal testing but it would also allow beauty brands to ensure their products are safe for customers without harming anyone during the tests. Gilliam 2 Coty Inc is a cosmetic company strongly believes that beauty originates from being diverse and flourishes through this statement being a foundation for the Coty and the cosmetic products they release, the establishment seeks to use their products and image to change perspective on what is perceived as beautiful. Coty works to achieve their main goal of reshaping distorted views on beauty through smaller brands such as Sally Hansen, Covergirl, and Rimmel London that contains dozens of diverse cosmetic goods. However, before these products can be sold to the public, they must first go through a series of animal experimentations to observe how they would affect terms of irritation, inflammation, and other potential harmful hazards. Coty Inc has spoken on their examinations involving animals and stated that do not perform, nor do we ever commission any third parties on our behalf to perform, testing of our products or ingredients on Inc. Statement on Animal n.p). Although the brand does not test any of their products produced on animals, there are active ingredients in these cosmetic goods such as 1,3-butadiene, lead, and sunscreens that are imported by Coty and used in their products. While Coty does avoid testing animals they are still responsible for the animal testing that takes place for the creation of their cosmetic goods. The companies that Coty Inc imports these ingredients from conduct their tests on animals because mice, rats and other testing subjects seem ideal due to their genetic structure resembling the anatomy of humans. An article analyzing animal tests states that on top of having a similar anatomy to humans, also share similarities with humans in genetic, developmental, and environmental risk factors for (Ethical and Scientific Considerations Regarding Animal Testing and Research n.p). By regulating these tests on organisms that not only have a comparable form but also nearly identical reactions to Gilliam 3 hazardous ingredients, companies are able to ensure that the ingredients will not be harmful when used by humans. Coty Inc is then able to use the ingredients in their products, sell them to their customers and continue working towards their main goal of renovating perspective on beauty. The second stakeholder I will be analyzing is an organization known as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) which is an organization that works to protest the various industries in which animals are abused or harmed for the motive of human consumption. PETA expresses their passion for the safety of animals and their rights by hosting special occasions, headlining campaigns and others forms of publicity that informs the public of how unethical animal cruelty can be and enlightens them to different ways they can get involved to end animal abuse. In relation to why PETA protests all forms of animal cruelty Philosopher and author, Jeremy Bentham, expresses his beliefs which states that animals have the ability to suffer in the same way and to the same degree that humans do. They feel pain, pleasure, fear, frustration, Why Animal  Being an organization that acknowledges how testing can make animals feel emotion wise while being extremely solicitous about the privileges of life that animals are entitled to, PETA cooperates well as science research companies such as the Adverse Outcome Pathway to inform them of why the organization aspires to end animal testing and attempt to join allies with the organizations to work together and protect the rights of animals. Using a testing method that did not involve animals would be more realistic in the eyes of both scientists and PETA as it has been determined by the European Union that on animal testing, according to several experts, has actually hindered the evaluation of many chemicals and ingredients inside and outside the cosmetics Gilliam 4 Models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal 20) Aside from harming animals through testing cosmetics on them, brands are often times also harming their consumers who still have reactions to ingredients in products that did not harm the test subjects. With that being said, not only would opting to alternative methods protect animals and their rights, but it could also save the cosmetic industry and ensure that products are more safer than originally anticipated. Although both stakeholders share their passion for helping either humans or animals, it can be conflicting because of the process Coty takes part in creating their cosmetic goods that help enhance the beauty of their customers. As long as Coty Inc continues to use ingredients in their products that have been tested on animals, PETA and the beauty franchise will be at odds because Coty is contributing to animal cruelty, the core concept that PETA protests. While the parent company, Coty Inc, has been working to eliminate the testing of ingredients and products on animals for the last two decades, the brand still takes part in animal cruelty today and that is currently preventing them from reaching a solution with PETA. Nevertheless, a solution that would work for both Coty Inc and PETA would be to find an alternative for testing that does not harm animals and also helps businesses that test products for Coty conduct accurate testing so that the cosmetic goods are safe for use. An ideal compromise for the two stakeholders that would benefit both parties would be Coty Inc using ingredients that were tested on faux skin instead of animals in their products. The use of artificial skin to test out ingredients on products is an exemplary solution because the it allows for research to be conducted on products that could potentially harm customers without administering the test on humans nor animals. After running a test on artificial skin to test out how well the reactions would resemble a it was determined Miles et samples exposed to an irritant chemical Gilliam 5 showed important signs of alteration to the epidermis, such as marked New Alternative Method for Testing Skin Irritation Using a Human Skin Model: A Pilot Coming across a reaction with the artificial skin showed the scientists that they are on the right track and have produced a material that not only does not harm anyone when being used, but it also helps keep research being conducted and keeps products safe for consumption. In summation, faux skin being used to test on in the cosmetic industry is a favorable compromise because it benefits both stakeholders. PETA has one less industry to protest against for partaking in animal cruelty and Coty Inc can continue to produce cosmetics that helps society uplift one another while enhancing their unique features and both industries continue to prosper while changing the world. Gilliam 6 Works Cited About  for the Ethical Treatment of Animals . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. About Coty  Inc . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Coty Inc. Statement on Animal  Inc . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Why Animal  for the Ethical Treatment of Animals . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Mone, Gregrory. Models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal of the ACM. 57.4 (2014): 20. for Computing Machinery Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Miles, Alexandra., et al. New Alternative Method for Testing Skin Irritation Using a Human Skin Model: A Pilot in Vitro. 28.2 (2014): 240-247. B.V. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Ferdowsian, Hope R., and Beck, Nancy, and Scientific Considerations Regarding Animal Testing and One 6.9 (07 Sep. 2011): 1-4. Web. 27 Jan 2017.