Michael H. Chapin II Dr. Richard Gaspar ENC1102 29 January 2017 Visual Rhetoric: A Powerful Tool by Which to Promote Solar Energy If one were to turn on the television, open up a newspaper, magazine, or periodical one would almost assuredly hear or read about something with relation to the current state of the environment on planet Earth. Global climate change is a hot topic here in America, and not one that can be ignored, or one that is simply just going to disappear unless Americans (and citizens around the world) are not only firstly informed about the matter, but also, that they take action. There are many ways in which Americans can do this, but many may not be aware that by taking certain, specific steps to improve the environment, they can as well help themselves: solar energy! Solar City is a solar panel installation company which utilizes visual rhetoric in order to convey the fact that they offer affordable solar panel pricing for household rooftop installment which also promises cheap and predictable pricing (as compared to that of utility companies) that helps the environment, saves the consumer money, and is also unlimited because it uses energy from the sun instead of environmentally harmful non-renewable energy sources like that of the utilities. Images such as entire neighborhoods flush with rooftops with solar panels installed upon them, and group photos of company employees, sends a clear message to the viewer that they should actively be considering utilizing their services. An image of an entire neighborhood whose rooftops have solar panels installed upon them sends several messages to the viewer. Solar City envisions a day in which all citizens will power their households with solar power (instead of the utility grid, which utilizes non- renewable coal as its source of energy creation) which utilizes the unlimited capacity of the sun as a way by which to create energy. An image such as this uses many visual rhetorical devices, such as logos and pathos. Why would a citizen, whose household needs are dependent upon energy, use the utility grid to power their household when the way by which the utility grid creates energy is through a non-renewable resource which will not only inevitably be depleted one day, but that is also harmful to the environment? Even those viewers who particularly environmentally conscious or concerned can certainly begin to understand that it if a resource is non-renewable, it certainly make much sense to continue to use it. As well, those viewers who do happen to already be environmentally conscious or concerned might now have become aware that solar energy is simply yet another way in which they can help to save the environment in addition to the other many possible ways in which they are already attempting to accomplish this task or goal. In addition, both viewers, who may either be environmentally concerned or not, may be shocked or astonished to discover that on the homepage they display statistics that say that solar energy emits anywhere from 91-96% less CO2 emissions than natural gas or coal. Naturally, most viewers or consumers are concerned, or at least curious, as to how reliable a product is, and as well, they may also be concerned about how reliable the company that offers the product is. In order to quell these questions and concerns about the product at hand and the company themselves, they display group images of employees on their website. This image can easily be seen as a visually use of rhetorical device ethos. The image is of several employees walking together through a neighborhood. The image is authoritative, powerful, and strong. Employees from all different sectors of the company are walking together. This displays unity and a sense of cohesion not only through the employees themselves, but also through the entire company as well. Solar City assures the consumer/viewer that they can trust them because already powered over 300,000 homes. The homepage also states that, GOT YOUR Used in conjunction with the above described image, the viewer/possible consumer can rest easy knowing that the company can be trusted; not only because they outright state it with such a slogan, but tied together with such a strong image of multiple employees walking together the view know that they company is one cohesive unit that is not only dedicate to providing the best services with respect to solar energy, but that again, solar energy is the way of the future, and good for the environment. Solar City is a company that offers the installment of rooftop solar panels. fairly obvious that they are a tech company concerned with the environment. Any consumer who happens to visit the website is also aware that the company is also largely concerned with profiting through this technology, but Solar City hopes that the viewer understands that the profit they intend to make is an ethical one. If the viewer already aware of such facts, the visual rhetoric that the company employs helps the viewer to understand this. When both images that are discussed previously in this paper are considered together, every rhetorical device is evoked through just these two images. This goes to show how powerful visual rhetoric can be. While the former image focuses more on logos and pathos by informing the user that solar energy is logical because it is cheaper and better for the environment that utilities that utilize fossil fuels, the latter focuses largely on ethos and the fact that although solar energy and Solar City itself are new technologies and companies, they can be trusted when compared to standard utility companies. When put together, even the rhetorical device kairos can be interpreted because if a product offers the consumer a chance to save money and help clean up the environment, then why not act quickly. Clearly, anyone who happens to visit Solar website is aware of not only solar energy, but also the growing concern of the state of the environment and the impact of fossil fuels on global climate change. By using visual rhetorical devices, Solar City sends this message even further home. (WC:1019) Works Cited Solar City. Solar City, 2016, http://www.solarcity.com/residential. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017 Hoffman, Downey, and Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. University of South Florida, 2016.