Student 1 Student Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Treating Those Affected By Depression Through Discussion The Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance (DBSA) was founded in 1979 by several people suffering from Depression and Bipolar disorder. Since then, this organization has joined forces with the National Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance and have gained non-profit status. Their purpose is to provide support to not only those suffering from Depression and Bipolar disorder but those who have been affected by those living with it, such as caregivers, and or friends and family. The main way that the DBSA goes about helping and treating those influenced or living with these diseases is by providing free and compassionate support groups to those in need. The DBSA also strives to educate the public about these diseases as well as to end the stigma surrounding these mental illnesses. In order to achieve their goals the DBSA uses a website to explain who they are, what their purpose is, and how you can go about using their services. Through text as well as images the Depression and Bipolar Support website makes visitors feel welcomed and provides them to adequate information on their services. Every page on the DBSA has different images such as (Figure 1) to help convey their purpose to visitors of the website. The image conveys a message of love and understanding through the use of of the text and the composition of the image. The main component of this image is the couple embracing with a satisfied look on their faces helps to convey the message that the DBSA is trying to convey. The focal point of this image is the embracing couple which you view first before your eye turns to the text underneath which helps to further communicate the message. The bright color of the background against the white of the texts helps to contrast and draw the viewers attention to the text. The text included is a quote from participants in the DBSA services, the text uses rhetorical appeals to convince viewers that their services are Student 2 effective. Between the visual composition of the image and the text included there are several rhetorical appeals being used to convey the messages being portrayed by the DBSA such as logos, ethos, pathos and kairos. Pathos is probably the most prominent in both the image and the text. The emotional image of the couple embracing combined with the quote stating that they feed off of each other and learn with each other is a bonding experience, and the pathos appeal makes the viewer feel that they too can have this experience if they participate in the DBSA program, the use of this personal quote is an example of ethos. Ethos presents itself in this image through the text, this couple uses this service and therefor they have the credibility to promote this service. Logos is another rhetorical appeal that is present in this image through the text of the image. It is logical that since the couple is present at every meeting that they would grow together just like the viewer of the image would as well. The last rhetorical appeal present in this image, in the text is kairos. The text talks about how at every meeting the couple grows closer to each other and experiences all these positive things, indicating that you too can have this if you choose to participate in the meetings. This quote creates a sense of urgency and routine. Through all of these rhetorical appeals the DBSA conveys their success of the organization with just this one image. They use several appeal both visual and rhetorical to convey that their small groups create a loving and safe environment to seek help to treat and live with Depression and Bipolar disorder. Not all of the images included on the Depression and Bipolar Support website include an image with such an easily realized message (Figure 2). Some of the images included have no text at all and the message is still portrayed just as successfully, such as in figure 2 where the DBSA wants to communicate that they can and will be a helping hand to those suffering and living with Depression and Bipolar disorder. A few of the visual clues that are portrayed in this image include the two hands reaching from different points in the image to meet up at a focal Student 3 point in the middle of the image. This is a strong visual cue used to determine the message. This focal point would be where the hands would connect, and the viewer can foreshadow what is going to happen. Although there is no text included in the image the use of color in this image helps greatly to separate the background from the foreground, making the hands the most powerful part of this image. Yet again all four rhetorical appeals are present and strong in this image, with pathos being one of the most prominent yet again. Many people know the term needing a helping  which is what this image embodies. Needing help is a very emotional thing especially when it involves what this organization is about, mental illness. This image showing someone needing help invokes in us an emotional response that makes us feel that if we as the viewers need help that we can receive it. Although there is not any text in this image it is hard to find the rhetorical appeal of ethos but the helping  establishes credibility by the viewer having the background knowledge about the organization that they are indeed qualified to be that helping hand to those in need. Much in the same way ethos is established in this image so is logos, it is only logical that when you are suffering from these mental illnesses that you would reach out to an organization that specializes in the treatment of these diseases. Kairos is another strong rhetorical appeal used in this image. Needing help with a mental illness is often times a very urgent matter, if you do not reach out to accept that helping hand that is being offered to you it is quite possible that you may loose the battle and that is a quite urgent matter. Despite the fact that there is no text this image has very strong rhetorical appeals to communicate the message that this organization is indeed a helping hand for those affected by mental illnesses. The Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance use images very effectively throughout their website to convey their message. The viewers of the website can comprehend that the organization is providing love and support to those affected by mental illness just by viewing the images included on the website. The DBSA is around to not only provide the services of free Student 4 support groups to those who need them but to also educate the public on mental illnesses such as Depression and Bipolar Disorder. This organization has worked tirelessly over the past several decades to ensure those who need their services will receive it free of charge. Thanks to this non-profit organization there is hope that less people in the world will lose their battle with mental illness and that over time the stigma surrounding these diseases may lessen and eventually disappear. (Word Count: 1,197) Student 5 Works Cited Moxley, Joe. Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. http://writingcommons.org/visual-literacy Pack, Jenna. Down an Writing Commons. Creative Commons, n.d. Web. 6 Sept. 2014. prevention and Crisis Suicide prevention and Crisis hotline. N.p., n.d. Web 29 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. to Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 237-243. E-text. Student 6 Figure 1. http://www.dbsahouston.org/about-dbsa-greater-houston/ Student 7 Figure 2. http://www.dbsahouston.org/suicide-prevention/