Student 1 Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Spreading Awareness on the Dangers of GMOs GMO Awareness was created to provide people with a resource regarding news and information on genetically modified organisms (GMOs). The organization is passionate on communicating the dangers of GMOs by continually gathering knowledge relating to its effects on human and environmental life. They aim to help others in making smart, informed food choices and to understand the significance of partaking in the fight against GMOs. Though, an issue the organization addresses primarily is the importance of awareness in the community, for a lack of knowledge is perceived as an increase in the threat of GMOs. In order to combat this issue, GMO Awareness strives to be a source of information that provides clear and meaningful conclusions on their website. There, they display striking images and valuable sources to aid in educating others. By utilizing images that contain effective visual elements and persuasive devices, GMO Awareness delivers a message on their dedication toward raising awareness on the risks that GMOs present. An image (see Fig. 1) that continually appears at the top of each Web page is the banner, which clearly presents their purpose of spreading awareness. The effectiveness of an message often relies on the scale and location of visual elements, including the selection of color (Sheffield). For this image, the text is considerably larger in scale compared to the rest of the content. It immediately draws the attention to this specific piece of text, and this is further emphasized by the color selection of this element. The Student 2 text is red against a plain, white background, which increases the legibility and distinction of the statement. Another element within the image that utilizes scale and careful color selection is a prohibition sign over the text This specific piece of content in the image is larger in scale, gaining the attention, and relies on the color red. By combining scale and the color red, this aids in uniting the two most prominent features in the image to emphasize the intended message. Even though the visual elements provide a persuasive effect, the utilization of rhetorical devices are also present in the image. The image appeals to the rhetorical device Kairos, which relies on the idea of timeliness and opportunity (Hoffman and Sawchyn 41). By stating GMO goal in the image, it urges the audience to seek awareness regarding the consumption and regulation of GMOs. The importance of spreading awareness communicates the immediate danger of GMOs. It suggests the need to educate themselves further on the issue, or they, and many others in the community, will currently continue to conduct risky decisions with food. Additionally, the embedded text appeals to GMO pathos, or the ability to connect through an emotional influence (Lee et al. 37). Within the image, GMO Awareness poses a question boldly stated in red text that reads: wonder why food is being made and modified by the largest pesticide The question appeals to the feelings of shock and fear, hoping to raise more concern on the danger of ignorance and the power it gives GMOs. Ultimately, this connects the audience to the importance of the message GMO Awareness is spreading. Through the visual appeals and rhetorical devices, the image demonstrates an emotional connection and timely importance that supports the message of awareness. Student 3 GMO Awareness promotes their mission through another image (see Fig. 2) that prompts viewers to become more involved in attaining knowledge on the issues surrounding GMOs. The primary visual cue in this image is a crowd of protestors, prompting the viewer to ascertain the reason behind this protest. Within the crowd of protestors, there are three elements, which are color, scale, and text, that aid in creating visual appeal. Similar to the previous image, the color that mostly dominates this image is red, which is seen on the shirts and picket signs. The red, along with a larger scale compared to the crowd, aids in bringing a focus to the written text on the picket signs. The signs carry multiple messages that pertain to the concerns regarding GMOs; for example, one sign reads: Must These three elements demonstrate that the signs are the main focus in this image, supporting the message that GMO Awareness wishes to convey to its viewers. Along with the visual design, this image also utilizes two rhetorical appeals to persuade their targeted audience. Pathos is the primary appeal in this image, for it appeals to the feelings of anger and need for justice that the viewer may also hold. The scene of protestors clearly demonstrates the pathos that GMO Awareness is appealing it. If the viewer is already well- versed on the issue, they immediately connect with this emotional appeal and understand GMO goal in promoting consciousness. The second rhetorical device utilized in this image is ethos, or the demonstration of proving self as credible through their authority (McKee and McIntyre 27). As seen in the image, it is reasonable to claim that the protestors are informed and current on the issues surrounding on GMOs, providing a sense of credibility for the viewer. This apprises the audience that large communities, as well as GMO Awareness, are credible due to their knowledge and ability to protest. The appeal to ethos is persuasive in promoting the issue of awareness, encouraging others to inform themselves on the dangers of Student 4 GMOs and to spread this knowledge. Thus, the combination of appealing to emotion and credibility in this image further supports the message GMO Awareness advertises. From presenting images with effective rhetorical appeals on their website, GMO Awareness successfully establishes themselves as a strong voice against the existence of GMOs. The concerned consumer can further their understanding on the risks of GMOs by the collection of information that GMO Awareness provides. It enables viewers to spread this knowledge to others, fostering an increase of support on the issue. Overall, GMO Awareness promotes their opposition of GMOs by presenting two images at their website that support the importance of raising awareness on the threats that GMOs are posing to human and environmental life. (Word Count: 1024) Student 5 Works Cited GMO Awareness. 2011, gmo-awareness.com. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Awareness GMO Awareness, 2011, gmo-awareness.com. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41. Print. Lee, Kendra Gayle, et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu. 2016. 37. Print. Against Monsanto in San Diego, California, May GMO Awareness, 2013, gmo- awareness.com/all-about-gmos/gmos-defined. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu. 2016. 27. Print. Sheffield, Jenna Pack. Down an Writing Commons, 23 Dec. 2013, writingcommons.org/index.php/open-text/information-literacy/visual-literacy/breaking- down-an-image/399-breaking-down-an-image. Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1. https://gmo-awareness.com/ Figure 2. https://gmoawareness.files.wordpress.com/2011/04/protest-march-monsanto.jpg