Shoukry 1 Aly Shoukry Mark Nusspickel ENC1101.901517 January 29th 2017 The Arab Spring The Arab Spring is a series of uprisings that occurred in the Middle East at the beginning of 2011. While it started in Tunisia late December of 2012, The Arab Spring did not take much time in becoming a phenomenon that swept Arab countries in a near concurrent fashion. The Uprisings were caused by many factors, most notably, unjust distribution of wealth and bla- tant oppression. All the Arab countries were affected by the protests, but certainly not to the same extent. The severity and Nature of the protests depended highly on the reaction they were met with. Violence against protestors proved to be futile in terms of quelling the protest as it only galvanized the people at home to take part in the move against the regimen present in each country. The Arab Spring was a revolt against tyrants and oppressive regimes who caused social segregation among the people, and made most people suffer from unbearable living conditions. Of the many questions to be asked when analyzing the Arab Spring, one seems to be the most comprehensive; What are the causes of the Arab Spring phenomenon and how did it impact not only directly affected countries, but also spectating Nations? Shoukry 2 Campante, Filipe R. and Davin Chor. 2012. Why Was the Arab World Poised for Revolution? Schooling, Economic Opportunities, and the Arab  Journal of Economic Perspectives, 26(2): 167-88. One of the most overlooked causes of the Arab Spring is the rapid increase in the level of education and lack of job opportunities to accommodate that increase. This Article aptly il- lustrates and evinces the causality between the weakness of the labor market and the inclination to participate in protests. Education contributed to the Arab Spring by encourag- ing people to be more active politically, for it has been proven that a correlation exists be- tween high levels of education and political activeness. A good explanation is that as the in- crease in schooling is met with a decrease in employment, the opportunity cost for participat- ing in labor intensive political activity significantly decreases. Statistics also debunk the youth , which states that an increase in the number of people aged 15-24 was of big significance in the Middle Eastern uprisings, and instead show that an increased number of people aged 25-39 was indeed correlated with higher levels of opposition of the regimen. The article addresses the cause of the Arab Spring from a very unique angle, providing valu- able insight on the issue that could help unravel many facts about the Arab Spring. The arti- cle was written by Filipe R. Campante and Davin Chor, Campante is an associate professor of political economy at Harvard, and his work has appeared in leading academic journals such as the American Economic Review and the Quarterly Journal of Economics, While Shoukry 3 Davin is a Harvard graduate and an associate professor at the National University of Singa- pore. ElAkawy, Zaki S. The Geostrategic Consequences of the Arab  (2014): n. pag. OpenDemocracy. Nov.-Dec. 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. The Arab Spring affected the Middle East in many ways, most notably by causing shifts in powers and changing the geopolitical structure within the region. The uprisings during the Arab spring symbolized the demand for freedom, dignity, and social justice, thus causing a shift in power from the hands of monarchial regimens to the hands of the people. Transitions in power took over many forms, each one with a different effect on geopolitical stability. In countries like Egypt, the transition marked the beginning of internal geopolitical tension by freeing organizations like the muslim brotherhood and the salafi movement, which where oppressed and locked away during the reign of the previous president Hosni Mubarak. In countries like Libya And Syria, the Transitions had more acute effects, causing a civil war between the people, who gained weapons through massive arms trafficking initia- tives from other powers in the region, and the regimen. The newly found geopolitical tension is especially alarming not because of the Aforementioned countries, but because of the non Arab powers in the region who would gain a lot from the opportunity to cause distress and expand their reach. The article very aptly illustrate the effects of the Arab Spring on Shoukry 4 the whole Middle east, clarifying the underlying ambitions of each country in terms of geo- political interest. The article was written by Zaki Samy Mohamed Elakawi, a Lecturer on Security and International Relations in the Middle East at Complutense University of Ma- drid; He is the Coordinator of International Observatory of Arab and Muslim World (OIMAM). His research focuses on security, conflict and international relations in the Mid- dle East, national security and strategic issues. Idris, I. Analysis of the Arab Spring (GSDRC Helpdesk Research Report 1350). Governance and Social Development Resource Centre, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK (2016) 14 pp. The Arab spring was caused by issues in multiple societal realms: These issues vary from structural issues that accumulated hatred over time to more acute issues that triggered many uproars. A faulty and outdated infrastructure led to the demise of most Arab regimes, for those regimes depended highly on the willingness to show obedience and compli- ance in return for services, subsidies, and increased employment opportunities. An increased utilization of social media and electronic forms of communication contributed substantially to the uproars; depicting protests and riots from countries like Tunisia, Libya, And Egypt and in turn encouraging others to do the same. The between the government and the people created a gap between the High and low classes, creating a very large middle class in most Arab countries. With the quick rise in population and the inability to Shoukry 5 keep providing jobs and services, The Middle class saw a rapid decline in quality of life, gal- vanizing them to take action in 2011. This Report is relevant in that delves deep into the causes of the Arab Spring, answering one of the most important questions about the issue. The report was prepared for the UK department of international development, and was reviewed by experts in the field of Middle Eastern studies who add to the credibility of this source. Makara, Michael. Rethinking Military Behavior During The Arab  Defense & Security Analysis 32.3 (2016): 209. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Assessing the monumental role played by the armed forces in the Arab spring, this article takes into consideration both the different military responses in each country and the impact of the armed forces on the outcome of the Arab spring. While some military forces decide to stay loyal to the regimen and forcefully quell any attempt at an uprising, Others decided to join the people and overthrow the government. The difference in military response can be at- tributed to two factors, and institutionalization. which can be divided into several factors like ethnic stacking, communal stacking, and the formation of a protection pact, proved integral to resisting or eliminating a military coup. Institutionaliza- tion on the other hand means that the military force acts as an independent entity, with no ties to the government, And it proved quite deleterious to many regimens, including Shoukry 6 that of Egypt, Libya, And Tunisia. As uncovering military motives during the Arab Spring is integral to grasping the way each country was affected, this article is of very substantial rele- vance to my Topic. The author of this article is an Assistant Professor of Comparative Poli- tics and International Relations at the University of Central Missouri, and his research fo- cuses on politics in authoritarian regimes and civil-military relations, with a regional focus on the Middle East, which makes his peer reviewed material a credible source for this issue.