Alhinaai 1 Ibrahim Al-Hinaai Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 February 5, 2017 The Impact of Immigration on Economics and Globalization According to PewResearchCenter, here were 11.1 million unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. in 2014. This is one of the most important issues that any country can face these days. Immigration can affect many things in the same time such as the globalization, economics and others. But should we make it easy for those who are trying to have a better live or we should make rules and clear system to avoid any trouble later? Most people know that the immigrants suffer when they travel from a country to other in order to having a good life. Also, the government faces problems when it is trying to find what is the best solution for both the government and immigrants. Therefore, the question is: Should government make the immigration easy for all people or does it have to be complex? Hayter, Teresa. New Common Pluto Press. Article. 2000. In the article New Common by Teresa Hayter, the author focus on the most important thing that cannot control the immigration for both sides of the immigrants and the country. Also, how the immigration can affect on local people beside the economics of the country that welcome the immigrants and the country that the immigrants leave. She tried to explain why the government have to make the immigration process easier for those who should travel to other countries in order to have a better life. Not only that, she mentioned that sometime the government should make rules so the immigration worker should follow and not to control all the system of the immigration. This article has a specific audience who the worker for the government and the people who are against the immigration. That does not mean those are the only target audience because it might be for all people around the world. Nowadays, the globalization can be affected by many reasons and immigration is one of these reasons if it controlled and follow a specific system. By using this article, I can focus how the globalization will be affected by the immigration as well as the economics. This source does not have much information to support my topic, so going to use it a little bit. Teresa Hayter is a writer and extremist situated in the United Kingdom who has upheld for hostile to bigotry and free migration. She is the writer of three books: Aid as Imperialism, The Creation of World Poverty, and Open Borders: The Case Against Immigration Controls. Mitsilegas, Valsamis. Immigration Control in an Era of Globalization: Deflecting Foreigners, Weakening Citizens, and Strengthening the  Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies 19.1 (2012): 3-60. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Mar. 2015. Valsamis Mitsilegas says in his article Immigration Control in an Era of Globalization: Deflecting Foreigners, Weakening Citizens, and Strengthening the  That we should make the immigration system clear and explain what will happen if there is illegal immigration. This will affect on the global and economics. He says there are many ways to control the immigration. This article is fully different from Hayter article because Valsamis tries to make the immigration hard and make borders for the immigrants. This article is specify for academic people because it is an academic article. I can use this article to make clear my points by how the immigration affect on the globalization and compare what would happen if we make the immigration illegal without any laws or system. Valsamis Mitsilegas is Head of the Department of Law, Professor of European Criminal Law and Director of the Criminal Justice Centre at Queen Mary, University of London. Schelstraete, Jasper, and Jennifer Scott. Economic Imperialism and Financial Citizenship: Reconsidering British Subjectivity in Martin Chuzzlewit and Lawrie  Journal of Victorian Culture (Routledge) 20.1 (2015): 87-100. Academic Search Premier. Web. 17 Mar. 2015. This article clarifies what the immigration is and how it could be affected by individuals. Jasper, the writer, give case of two individuals and what they did when they moved to different nations. I can utilize these two characters like an example of what could occur for people who moved to another countries. Yet, particularly, they attempt to demonstrate the wrong of the two books that were composed about the movement in the nineteenth century. I think this article is focus on all individuals who think to move to give them a picture what might transpire on the off chance that they move. Which implies, it has scholastic individuals or understudies as target gathering of people. This article will help me a considerable measure in my exploration since it has a great deal quite a bit of data which connected the movement and globalization together and demonstrate the outcome that would be gotten. Dr. Jasper Schelstraete is an FWO postdoctoral researcher at the Department of Literary Studies, Ghent University (2016-2019). His work focuses on the role of print culture in imagining and conceptualizing global markets and finance. Singh, Anand. South African Indian Migration In The Twenty-First Century: Towards A Theory of  Asian Ethnicity 9.1 (2008): 5-16. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Mar. 2015. This paper discuses what could occur for the South Africans of Indian hereditary when they attempt to examine in different nations, particularly in English talking schools. It gives some short of foundation and the similitudes of other paper or different searches. Likewise, it has particular crowd who are Africans and Indian individuals since this article is for them. The motivation behind this paper is to clarify for Africans and Indians individuals the advantages and damages of movement to them. The basic remarks in this paper is the reason it is particular? (Only for Africans and Indians individuals). This article will help me in my research to provide examples and support my idea of the legal immigration. Also, how I can focus in specific areas that have too many immigrants. Dr. Jasper Schelstraete is an FWO postdoctoral researcher at the Department of Literary Studies, Ghent University (2016-2019). His work focuses on the role of print culture in imagining and conceptualizing global markets and finance. His practice incorporates shielding organizations and people regarding a wide scope of business question and government examinations and indictments