Student 1 Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Cycle of Poverty in America Beginning in 1920 the National Human Services Assembly (NHSA) formerly known as the National Social Welfare Assembly (NSWA) and the National Social Work Council (NSWC), routinely met to speak on matters relating to poverty in America. Their purpose originally was to provide information pertaining to those in need of financial stability to government officials and organizations. They frequently had contact with powerhouses and in doing so was able to sustain their organization. In 1945 the NSWC decided that they wanted to not only spread information on poverty and study the impoverished in America but also develop programs to aid those in need and therefore changed their name to the NSWA. Immediately they began tackling the controversial issues such as the post-war prejudice against the Japanese-Americans and the poverty levels amongst youth. They also began formulating many organizations such as the Young Adult Council (YAC) in order to focus on issues at hand. Beginning with twelve members in 1920 the National Social Work Council has grown to be a multi-billion-dollar organization with now 800,000 workers. Through telling photos and abundant articles and studies, the NHSA works to not only educate government officials and those in low socioeconomic backgrounds but also works with organizations in order to relieve the burden poverty has on families. Student 2 The first image (figure one) immediately catches the attention of the reader with a mesmerizing young child staring straight into the eyes. The eyes are absolutely piercing and immediately evoke sadness due to the faint tear running down his face. The creators purposely placed the child at the forefront of the image in order to draw the viewers in. The use of blue filter over the picture further the gloomy feel of the image altogether as blue evokes calm and sadness. This feel is immediately contrasted by the urgent color of red-orange that is seen at the bottom of the image. The simple message right below the picture has a powerful impact. The enlarged and gold works to add clarity to the photo revealing the reasons for the tears. The purpose of the image and statistic is revealed at the top of the image where in bold lettering the creator details the number of individuals in poverty in America. The creator also makes a visual representation of the 22% stated below the image of the infant with an image of 100 figures and those who represent poverty in bright orange. Not only does this image evoke a sense of sadness but also urgency with the contrast of orange and blue. The creator of the first image works with the visual appeals to increase the impact it has on the viewers. Pathos has a strong appeal in this image. The intention to evoke sadness is clear through the emphasis on the infant tears and the blue background. the use of children is a soft spot for a variety of individuals and strategically can pull the heart strings of many people. The pathos and ethos appeal work hand in hand in this image. The statistics used in the image further the sadness overall. The creator uses the credible source of the Census Bureau which gives validity to the statistics used. The statistics and numbers can no longer be ignored and leaved the reader going back and forth from the statistic to the image. This is a perfect example of how an image and greatly impact an individual and evoke the need for action. Student 3 The imagery in the second image (figure two) contrasts from the first image with the feeling of positivity. The image uses a mix of different shades of orange which creates and uplifting and hopeful feel throughout. Even the background of the imbedded image has an orange background. This color combination harmonizes with one another and adds professionalism. The use of the large bold white lettering in contrast to the orange background creates emphasis but not as harsh of a contrast if a white on black lettering was used, further adding to the vibe as a whole. The image in the forefront is of a black mom and son in a loving embrace mid laughter. Although the topic is of youth imprisonment the image takes on a light- hearted feel rather than the gloomy reality of it all. The expected audience seems to be young black families as youth imprisonment is a known problem in this demographic. The logo at the bottom right corner of the image draws attentions to the organization with the contrasting white yellow and blue colors. The visual appeals of the second image are Kairos and Pathos. The use of the orange colors evokes happiness and calm. The image also has a smile mother and son which also evokes the sense of happiness through the happiness that is seen in the eyes of the family. The intended audience is young black families so the people used become relatable. The whole feel of this image creates the sense that the image is a plausible goal for families everywhere. Although the image have a clear call to action, it still uses the visual appeal of Kairos. It draws an audience in who may fear youth imprisonment in their own homes and gives them a platform and a possible solution. It also indirectly creates an urgency to act now through its highlight of the major issues plaguing many families today. Student 4 The idea of youth and poverty is concise in these two images. They both draw back to the idea of poverty and the effects it may have on the youth. These ideas are the main points of NHSA and further the organizations goals to inform the public on poverty in American and help relieve the results of it. These images were placed on the NHSA page in order to appeal to the intended audience of impoverished families and attracts them to the platforms available to them which are showcased throughout the website. NHSA has effectively aided the lives of millions of people for decades and will continue to do so in order to decrease the growing poverty in America. Through the combination of education and opportunity the NHSA works to spread awareness and bring attention to an issue many people deliberately ignore. (Word Count: 1039) Student 5 Works Cited Assembly, National Human Services. National Human Services Assembly  National Human Services Assembly NHSA History. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Assembly, National Human Services. National Collaboration for Youth Releases Roadmap, Calls on Policymakers to Invest in Community-Based Alternatives to Youth  National Human Services Assembly News. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Assembly, National Human Services. NEW REPORT - Beyond Bars: Keeping Young People Safe At Home and Out of Youth  National Human Services Assembly Home Page. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Breaking the Cycle of Poverty in Young  Nassembly.org. National Human Services Assembly, Apr. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL: MLA Formatting and Style Guide. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. MLA formatting by BibMe.org. Student 6 Figure one http://www.nassembly.org/Uploads2/Resources/BreakingTheCycleOfPovertyInYoungFamilies.p df Student 7 Figure Two http://www.nassembly.org/news