Student 1 Student Dr. Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Homelessness in Tampa Every morning while some people wake up to the warmth of their beds, the sounds of their alarms and their voices, there are others who wake up to the sound of fast walking humans, degrading names, cold floors, and the realization that today is another day that they must spend on the streets. Homelessness is a worldwide issue. Although there are places that have a higher percentage of homeless people than others, it is still a grave situation. Homelessness is not a topic that is brought up enough today. Most people assume that those who are homeless are in the situation simply because they are lazy but homelessness can be caused by of affordable housing, domestic violence, poverty, lack of affordable health care, and much (National Homeless Coalition). Fortunately, there are organizations that are fighting for homeless people and trying to get them back on their feet. The Tampa-Hillsborough Homeless Initiative is an organization whose purpose is LEAD the Continuum of Care in COLLABORATION with agencies to develop and provide INNOVATIVE solutions to reduce and end homelessness in Tampa-Hillsborough (THHI). Throughout the rest of this paper logos, pathos, Kairos and ethos will be used to analyze how they achieve this goal using their media. As noted by Gerdes, Hopton and Rhea, like written or spoken communication, images are coded and laden with (Gerdes et. al 331). Tampa-Hillsborough Homeless (THHI) use of the first image is laden with subtle meanings that shows their readers Student 2 how they are achieving their goal. When looking at figure one, you can see many visual cues that are used to convey message. For example, in this image their goal is written in bolded white words. This message is placed in the center of the image towards the bottom. Although placement of text may seem minor, it is extremely important. Pack states that our eyes scan an image, text, and/ or webpage from left to right and from top to and the placement used in figure one shows that they want the reader to see the image first but ultimately the last thing that the readers should keep in mind is their goal. In doing this, they are also using the rhetorical device, ethos. They are trying to show their credibility using the bolded and all captioned words and (Figure 1). This is an effective method because when looking at the picture, you see that this is exactly what they are doing. They are collaborating with each other and even trying to come up with ideas to change homelessness; you can see this when looking at the person writing on the big notepad in the back of the room. The actions of the people located in figure one also shows the use of a rhetorical device, logos. Logos is an appeal to logic. It like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and which is shown in this picture (Lane et. al 32). When looking at the people in figure one, you see that they are attentive to the person in the front. Their eyes are alert and they look as if they are taking in the information they have been given. Not only that but the way that they are dressed shows that they are serious and that they are ready to make a change with this organization. Although these devices seem to work differently individually once put together they create a convincing method that shows how THHI achieves their goal. The second image found on page used to represent how they represent their goals is vastly different from the first image used. The primary message of figure two seems to be that Student 3 helping others find a home can bring so much joy to a family. When looking at the figure, you can see that the workers in the background are smiling and happy. They seem to be excited to work with people and help others. When looking at the design and composition, you can see that the family in the picture is placed in the center and they are zoomed in quite a bit. This is a great example of Kairos; or recognizing the opportune or ethical moment for (Hoffman 41). It is subtly calling for action using this picture. This calls to action because although the picture is zoomed in and the family is meant to be the main focus, the workers in the background are still shown. The organization is telling its readers and audience that being part of this organization or even being a volunteer in their cause will not only bring happiness to the family that is being helped but it will also bring great happiness to themselves and those that they work with. Another element that portrays message in figure two is the use of color. have different meanings or connotations that implicitly portray a and the use of color in this image gives the viewer a sense of important in this image (Pack 345). It also gives a tone to the image to help guide the emotions. This guide to the emotions is the rhetorical device called pathos. You can spot pathos used in this image when looking at the smiling faces of both the family and the workers. Those faces tell the readers that this is how the organization touches the lives of the people that they work with. This image shows readers that media can portray a message just as well as words. Visual Rhetoric is part of everyday life. It portrays a message and it does so with the use of rhetorical devices and does so in a subtle way. The Tampa-Hillsborough Homeless Initiative uses images to portray their goal; wanting to end homelessness in a collaborative way and using innovative methods and ideas. When looking at their organization and their website, you can see that their words are effective. However, when combined with imagery, their words have a certain Student 4 power over their audience. It is the combination of those two, along with many rhetorical devices, that renders their message and goal to their audience so effectively. (Word Count: 1,056) Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson and Sawchyn, Alysia. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-46. E-text. Gerdes, Julie and Hopton B. Sarah and Rea M. Joshua. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 331-337. E-text. Lane, Emily and Mckee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. National Homeless Coalition. In National Homeless Coalition, 2017, http://nationalhomeless.org/about-homelessness/. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017 Pack, Jenna. Down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. E-text. Tampa Hillsborough Homelessness Initiative. Tampa Hillsborough Homelessness Initiative, 2017, http://thhi.org/. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Tampa Hillsborough Homelessness Initiative. Tampa Hillsborough Homelessness Initiative, 2017, http://thhi.org/about-homelessness/. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figures Figure 1: http://thhi.org/about-thhi/ Figure 2: http://thhi.org/about-homelessness/