Student 1 Student Dr. Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Americans for the Arts Demand Action In recent years the role of art and art education in school has been highly debated. The benefits of allotting students time to experiment with different mediums to create a piece from scratch when they could have devoted their time and focus to the harder STEM courses such as chemistry, physics, or mathematics. However, there is current research that shows that keeping the arts in schools is extremely beneficial to overall student wellbeing and performance during adolescence, as well as being necessary in early childhood to help develop fine motor skills and enhance cognitive thinking (Kindekens et al. 1983). Americans for the Arts Action fund is an organization that is fights for every child to have the option to have a quality arts education while also raising money to fund various legislators that also support keeping the arts in schools for the Arts Action One of the ways that this organization gathers support is through the images that are present on their website. The two images that stood out the most were the logo for the organization and another image that had the logo and pictures of children in the background. These images use ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos to evoke feelings of nostalgia and anger in the viewer to incite them to help and donate to their cause. The first image contains the logo as well as the name of the company and a small slogan. This image uses a variety of rhetorical appeals to draw the audience into their cause and support the organization in keeping art education in schools. This image uses ethos by attempting to communicate with the viewer that there is a team of advocates that is continuously Student 2 growing and working to keep the arts in schools. This appeal to credibility (McKee and McIntyre 27) is used by insinuating that there are million arts For the Arts Action and that the viewer should support the obviously credible cause that one million people support as well. This image uses pathos through the colors of the logo. The logo is made up of red, green, and blue lines in the shape of both a star and an The red and the blue in the image are both primary colors and green, while not a primary color, is a secondary color that was possibly used in the place of yellow since yellow is difficult to see on a white background. These three colors are used as an emotional appeal (Lee et. al 37) to remind the viewer of their own arts education when they were younger and invoke a sense of nostalgia to motivate the viewer to donate to their cause and become an arts advocate. Lastly, this use of kairos is extremely effective in pushing the audience into action. The name of the organization is for the Arts Action In the image the word is written in all capital letters, which when seen by the audience will very quickly draw their attention to the rest of the image. These three appeals, when used in conjunction, are extremely effective in drawing the viewer in and inciting action and support to this cause. The second image also contains the logo against a background with dozens of photos of children and a hashtag saying #BeTheARTbeat. This image also uses a variety of ethical appeals to draw the audience into the cause and motivate them to donate. Kairos is used in this image in the form of the hashtag. Hashtags are commonly used to draw the audience in and to connect them to other supporters of the same cause (Hoffman and Sawchyn 43-44). The hashtag is also a play on words of the word The hashtag says #BetheARTbeat rather than heartbeat. This is an appeal to logos in that this organization and the cause that it stands for, like a heartbeat is extremely important to life; that living without this cause would be deadly and Student 3 supporting this is supporting another life. The last rhetorical appeal that is used in this image is pathos in the form of all the smaller images that make up the background. The smaller images are colored to form the logo of the organization and they are images of children that are happy and working creatively in their art classes. These images invoke a sense of nostalgia in the viewer so that they will feel compelled to donate to the cause and to raise awareness to the importance of art in schools. These two images were used on this organizations website and they were extremely effective in showing the viewer what this organization stands for and for inciting the viewer to support the cause. These images showed the viewer how important the arts are in young lives by causing the audience to look inward at their own childhood and at their own memories while they were learning about the arts and given the freedom to experiment with different colors and mediums. Art is extremely important in schools and in the lives of developing children. There is research that proves how vital it is to developing fine motor skills as well as fostering positivity and cooperation amongst peers. There is significant research that shows how students that are exposed to art and encouraged to participate are more positive and have a healthier and better overall wellbeing than their peers (Kindekens 2). The Americans for the Arts Action Fund is extremely supportive of this cause and recognizes its importance to childhood cognitive and social development. The images that this organization chose to use were selected specifically to gain support from other future advocates and every detail was designed to appeal to the childhood in a different way. Each of these images were successful in drawing in an audience and bringing them together for a common goal: advocating for the arts in schools and how important they are in a development and overall wellbeing. (Word Count: 1003) Student 4 Works Cited Americans for the Arts Action  Americans for the Arts Action Fund. Americans for the Arts, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson and Sawchyn, Alysia. 1.5 Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. By Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-46. Print. Kindekens, Ankelien, et al. Enhancing Student Wellbeing In Secondary Education By Combining Self-Regulated Learning And Arts  Procedia - Social And Behavioral Sciences 116.5th World Conference on Educational Sciences (2014): 1982- 1987. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lee, Kendra Gayle et al. 1.4 Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. By Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37- 40. Print. McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. 1.2 Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. By Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. Print.