Raekwon Scott 1/29/17 ENC1102.016S17 Should Division 1 Athletes Be Paid The debate between whether or not the NCAA ( National Collegiate Athletics Association) should be entailed to compensating Division 1 collegiate athletes for their performance, is a topic that has been generating controversy for many years amongst Division 1 athletes and the NCAA for many years. According to a published article on Forbes.com Marc Edelman; The NCAA is a multi billion dollar franchise accumulating an average annual revenue of six billion every year. The NCAA is bringing in billions, and billions of dollars entirely from the performance of their athletes and yet not even the slightest percentage of the profits is coming back to the individual athletes doing all of the work, and bringing in the money. Division 1 athletes deserve to be paid, they are being mistreated and taken advantage of. They are not amateurs they do not have time to get a job, and they are putting themselves and their lives at risk every time they participate in their sport. As previously stated the NCAA is a dollar business franchise, it is an inherently known fact that the main purpose of any business franchise is to make as much money as possible, by any means necessary, even if that means swindling their primary contributors out of money. The NCAA is undeniably committing treason, yet regardless if you were to ask them their reasoning behind their actions they would do their best to try and form a plausible conjecture supporting their perspectives. Division 1 athletes are being taken advantage of, and that is an undeniable truth. Although Division 1 athletes are still collegiate level athletes, and not professionals it is import to remember that they are not amateurs. Many college names are being sold, without their permission, and profits are being made off of their image. names, and numbers are being put into merchandise such as shirts, sweaters, and even video games, without the permission of the athletes, and not even a reasonable amount of the profit being made is coming back to the athletes. If an athletes name is being used to make a profit, the athlete deserves the right to receive some form of compensation from it. Another primary reason why division 1 athletes deserve to be paid is because of the fact that many college athletes simply do not have time to get a job, and have the ability to secure a reliable source of income. According to USAtoday.com a study was conducted that found that the average division 1 college football player devotes an average of 44.8 hours a week to their sport, and that is not even including the time spent traveling. The NCAA fails to realize that although college athletes are not professional athletes, the level of intensity in which they compete in is still relatively high, which leaves them extremely vulnerable to injury. College athletes are putting themselves and their lives at risk every single time they participate in their sport. In many instances if an athlete on scholarship were to suffer a grave injury while competing in their sport, majority of the time that athlete is going to lose their scholarship, and may even be forced to leave the institution they are attending. According to an article on the New Yorker Ekon N. Yankah the NCAA believes that paying Division 1 athletes is a grave mistake, because it fails to recognize the value of sports as part of an education. The NCAA believes that if they start paying Division 1 athletes then there would be no way to come to terms with a coherent amount to pay individuals throughout different sports. The NCAA argues that it be fair to pay a tennis player the same amount of money that they would pay a top football player, when football is usually bringing in much more money than tennis. When looking at the situation from this perspective and trying to form a solution, a possible way the NCAA could decide how much to pay different athletes would be to pay athletes based off of a percentage of the income that their sport is bringing in during sporting events, that way there would be a fair and concise amount of pay being dispersed throughout all sports. The discussion on whether or not division 1 athletes should be paid or not is a topic that has generated a lot of controversy for many years, and will probably continue to generate controversy for many more years to come. The only way that a topic as controversial as this one would ever reach a conclusion would be if both stakeholders managed to come together and take the time to understand each others reasoning behind their beliefs, and perspectives and try to form a compromise that would be suitable for both parties. Until then the topic of whether or not a division 1 athlete should or should not be paid will continue to be a topic that will generate much controversy and speculation for many years to come. Works Cited Sanderson, Allen R., and John J. Siegfried. The Case For Paying College  Journal Of Economic Perspectives 29.1 (2015): Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Barbash, Louis. Pay or play: paying college athletes just fair to players; it could improve college  Washington Monthly 2013: 13. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Garda, Justin D. Paying College  Research Starters: Education (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.