Student 1 Student Dr. Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 PETA: Activists or Brainwashing? Non-profit agencies rely on their media in order to draw in customers and supporters to their cause. Since they do not perform a task for-profit, they rely on their supporters willingness to donate to them because it helps them to feel better. By doing so, this allows the non-profit agency to operate and allows their supporters to feel like they are involved in the cause. To accomplish this, the non-profit agencies must display pictures throughout their media that appeal to their donors senses. One of the most prominent non-profit agencies that employ this tactic is People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (or PETA). They are a pro-vegan/anti-animal cruelty organization that campaigns worldwide for animal rights and ethical treatment. At times, their message can seem contrary to human way of life; after all, most humans consume meat and do not concern themselves with animal treatment. Thus, PETA must appeal to those that seek their message in order to survive and thrive in this environment. In analyzing their website, one would find that it is sleek and to the point. They display images of animals that they consider to be suffering along with images of animals that are look to be happy and docile. By displaying this contrast, PETA demonstrates that appeal to ethos, pathos, logos through these photos and are able to tell their campaign before the reader can read their mission statement. In analyzing the first image, it is the first one that is presented to the reader. On their homepage, the very first photo is the picture of a rabbit against a white and blue background. The Student 2 rabbit is placed to the right of the picture and centered are the word are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other The words are in baby blue against the white background with the PETA logo located to the left of the picture. This presents a strong argument at the very beginning. By using this as their opening photo, it tells the reader that their belief is firm and they are not willing to waver or compromise. For someone who supports this movement, it is a confirmation of belief. They would be familiar with this ideology and, by visiting the site, would receive a confirmation bias of their beliefs. It appeals to ethos, because the reader feels that it is the ethical thing to do. Many people would believe that animals should not be treated cruelly or harshly and that they should be able to live their life out in peace. Thus, PETA is able to draw the reader in at that point, even if their personal ideology does not match fully at the time. They are hooked in with this picture and PETA is able to further their case by appealing to logos and pathos. Logos would be the most difficult position to appeal to here. Many would argue that humans have established dominion over animals and have earned the right to determine the type of treatment that they receive. Thus, appealing to logos can be difficult in this picture. PETA does not focus on the appeal to logos within this picture, as they hope that the appeals to pathos and ethos are stronger. The appeal to pathos in this picture would be the strongest of the three. In examining the color choice of the picture and the words, it presents a clean look. Our text reminds us to a critical consciousness about images and how they affect you and society is the first step toward using images for specific rhetorical ends and protecting yourself from manipulative (Gerdes, Hopton, Rea, 333) By presenting a clean look, it maintains a picture of innocence which can influence the reader. The use of the rabbit also influences the reader. By portraying a picture of a real rabbit, Student 3 the reader makes a connection with it, regardless of if they own a pet or not. This plays an important role in how the reader interprets this photo. The second photo used for analysis strikes a more revolutionary pose. Centered in the picture against an orange background are the words Liberation The Time is The words are in a bright red font with the words Time is in a bright white font. To the left of the words is a picture of a moose that is facing the reader. Here, they attempt to appeal to pathos the most. The reader is drawn to the idea of fighting for animals and their rights and is called to action. In addition to appealing to pathos, they appeal to ethos. To PETA, this is an ethical fight in which all must be involved. To call for appeals to logos. Rather than using a word such as or PETA elects to use the word which a word that one does not see in everyday conversation. Using a high-class word calls to action those who have a higher education and helps to draw them to the cause the PETA has portrayed within this picture. By placing these items together, it displays a picture of toughness and resiliency for their cause. In analyzing both picture, we can see that the audience is geared towards people who have a soft spot for animal activism. By using the appeals to pathos, logos, and ethos that PETA demonstrated, it shows that this is not a cause for the common person. They are appealing to people that can look past the common day and the suffering of animals as they see it. By establishing their audience, we can also discover the purpose of the photos; which is a statement of their firm belief and a call to action against those that treat animal cruelly. It appeals to those who are believers in their cause, but can become complex for those that feel like animals receive fair treatment. By using these two photos, PETA is able to able to establish a connection with Student 4 their reader and serve a confirmation bias for those that believe in their message. For those that may not follow their message or may disagree, the photos selected do not pose much of an impact. For an audience such as this, PETA would use other tactics found within the website to try and reach with this audience. As stated, PETA must present a clean and well-developed media to the public in order to receive funding and sympathy to their cause. By using these photos as the first two images that the reader would encounter, it sends a strong message to the audience. It serves as a confirmation bias for those that believe in their ideology and can assist in donors giving to their cause. In addition, it can help the reader to form a connection to animals that they may have interacted with and feel that they would want all animals to be treated ethically. It is here that PETA is able to win the reader over and attempt to further their ideology within the mind of the reader. (Word Count: 1189) Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation . Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The animal rights  . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.