Student 1 Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Benefits of GMOs seen by the Benefactor Genetically modified organisms, also known as GMOs are viewed in many ways to many different people. For some, it is a way of surviving because of the way GMOs affect their food source and for others, they see GMOs as unbeneficial and a disease. This argument can go back and forth on the pros and cons of the use of GMOs, whether it is beneficial or a disaster waiting to happen to society. There are many players in this debate, and the major ones that are for the use of GMOs are the companies that manufacture and produce them, such as Baden Aniline and Soda Factory. Baden Aniline and Soda Factory, commonly known as BASF, is a German chemical company and producer of many things, such as dyes, plastics, as well in many industries like performance products, oil and gas, biotechnology, and agriculture. As stated before, they are one of the major companies involved with GMOs. Seen on their website, they go over the reasons for using technology in agriculture and how many people, even the environment benefit from the use of genetically modified organisms. Their purpose or goal can be seen from this quote on their website, today is more complex than ever before. The unpredictability of the weather, control of pest and weeds, market price development, scarcity of natural resources, all this in a world heading toward 9 billion people. These challenges demand BASF to continue its commitment to creating innovative solutions for growers, supporting them with the task of nurturing a hungry Also, they have information and images to explain and persuade their mission, as well their side of the argument of GMOs. One image is about a business they call Functional Crop Care and the image is about a plant budding out of the soil. Another is about Public Health business, explaining the outcomes of using GMOs and what they prevent from happening, Student 2 and in the image is what appears to be African children holding a product by BASF. There are messages being implied just from the pictures but with text, it is more defined and adds more context. Word Count: 352