Karabeyoglu 1 Nadir Karabeyoglu Professor Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 Minimum Wage: A Compromise Between Workers and Owners The debate over minimum wage is a current issue that impacts the lives of millions of Americans. Even though the minimum wage varies by state, the minimum set by the U.S. federal government is currently $7.25 per hour. However, there are multiple stakeholders involved in this issue who would like the minimum wage to increase but disagree on whether this should be determined by individual states or the federal government. Some stakeholders in this debate include politicians, minimum wage workers, unions, policy makers, and business owners. Two organizations that have formed around the minimum wage debate include 15NOW and Business for a Fair Minimum Wage. The two stakeholders oppose one another because 15NOW demands cities and states double the minimum wage for social justice reasons but Business for a Fair Minimum Wage advocates for a gradual increase of the federal minimum wage over the next several years for economic reasons. 15NOW aim to empower working people, activate them into a fighting movement for $15 an hour minimum wage, and want to build a network of activists for labor (15NOW n.p.). In contrast, Business for a Fair Minimum Wage is a national network of business owners who support a gradual increase of the minimum wage (Business for a Fair Minimum Wage n.p.). 15NOW and Business for a Fair Minimum Wage represent different interests with opposing views on the minimum wage; therefore, both organizations should agree to collaborate with one another to establish a joint federal proposal for an increase in the minimum wage with the goal of influencing policy makers to change the minimum wage. Karabeyoglu 2 15NOW was started in 2014 by city council member Kshama Sawant in Seattle and is founded on the belief that 1% of the population dominates the economic power and fighting to increase the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour is a way to challenge the unequal wealth distribution in the United States (15NOW n.p.). A common argument against raising the minimum wage is subsequent job loss but research shows, wage increases can be implemented repeatedly without generating large-scale employment losses among low-wage (Pollin & Wicks-Lim 737). 15NOW includes a network of social activists who have local chapters throughout the country and advocate for a living wage and want to empower working people by activating them into a fighting movement (15NOW n.p.). They seek unity with other social justice issues such as LGBT and rights and seek to fight poverty and inequality in America (15NOW n.p.). 15NOW is endorsed by organizations such as Socialist Alternative, National Organization for Women, and the Massachusetts Teachers Association (15NOW n.p.). 15NOW is a grassroots organization and shares their political opinions via Twitter and Facebook and largely oppose Donald presidential agenda (15NOW n.p.). major accomplishment has been to work secure laws requiring $15 an hour for all workers in Seattle, California, New York, and Washington D.C. (CNN n.p.). However, this will happen gradually and is contingent upon how many employees a business has and will take 3 to 7 years to increase to $15 an hour (CNN n.p.). 15NOW seeks to grow their influence city by city and influence individual states but have appealed to the federal government through presidential candidates Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton (CNN n.p.). Business for a Fair Minimum Wage is a national network of business owners who believe an important aspect of good business is to provide their employees with a fair minimum wage. Business for a Fair Minimum Wage includes businesses such as Organic Valley, Ben and Karabeyoglu 3 Ace hardware, and over 1,000 more businesses (Business for a Fair Minimum Wage n.p.). This organization proposes a gradual increase to the federal minimum wage to $12 an hour by 2020 and believes this is the best solution for business, consumers, and economy. Business for a Fair Minimum Wage opposes Andy Puzder who is President pick for Secretary of Labor because Puzder has opposed state minimum wage increases in the past. This organization also believes that the minimum wage impoverishes working families and emphasize that workers are consumers who also need buying power for the economy to be prosperous. This is supported in research that states, low-wage workers have more money to spend, they spend it, almost entirely in the local community, on basic necessities like housing, clothing, food and (Dreier 87). Business for a Fair Minimum Wage proposes an increase in the federal minimum wage to combat this national issue. 15NOW and Business for a Fair Minimum Wage have not yet come to a resolution largely because they represent different entities. For example, 15NOW represents workers and Business for a Fair Minimum Wage represents business owners. While these two groups are not incompatible, the minimum wage impacts these two groups differently. Social activists with 15NOW are trying to eradicate income inequality whereas Business for a Fair Minimum Wage is trying to put a responsible business practice in place. Business owners are concerned with their profit margin and raising wages could impact this and workers are concerned with getting paid fair wages to bring home a living wage for their families. Also, the two organizations operate differently. For example, 15NOW appeal to local governments and focus on individual cities or states to change wages whereas Business for a Fair Minimum Wage focuses on changing the federal minimum wage, which impacts all states. This is an important difference because the economic impact varies depending on whether wage changes Karabeyoglu 4 are made locally or nationally. In fact, the progress that 15NOW has made in individual states could be negatively impacted if Business for a Fair Minimum Wage is successful in changing the federal minimum wage because states may choose to adhere to the federal minimum wage instead of the agreements that were made locally and at the state level. However, common ground exists between 15NOW and Business for a Fair Minimum Wage since both organizations advocate for an increase in wages for workers. Even though these two stakeholders represent different groups of people, have different motivations, and appeal to people differently, they agree that the current minimum wage impoverishes workers and their families. Both organizations also acknowledge that the buying potential of the minimum wage is far less now than in the past and both oppose Andy Puzder for Secretary of Labor. Both organizations also refer to research that raising the minimum wage does not cause job loss and increasing the minimum wage can boost sales and the economy. Building upon this common ground, both organizations could benefit from a compromise. 15NOW and Business for a Fair Minimum Wage could compromise by agreeing to collaborate with one another to establish a joint federal proposal for an increase in the minimum wage with the goal of influencing policy makers to change the federal minimum wage. 15NOW could compromise by advocating for an increase in federal minimum wage to $12 an hour nationally instead of working at the local level, and Business for a Fair Minimum Wage could advocate for $12 now instead of by 2020. They would both give up a part of the increase in wages and their timeline but have a national impact. Also, research shows that the minimum wage being too low costs taxpayers an additional $3.8 billion dollars for low-wage workers to receive public assistance (Dreier 86). Both of these stakeholders could collaborate and compromise as they seek to grow their networks, influence politicians, policy makers, and Karabeyoglu 5 encourage voters to advocate for their cause. Karabeyoglu 6 Works Cited 15  15 Now. N.p., 2017. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Business For a Fair Minimum Business For a Fair Minimum Wage: A national network of business owners and executives who believe a fair minimum wage makes good business sense. N.p., 2017. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Dreier, Peter. The Battle over the Minimum Wage, City by  New Labor Forum 23.3 (2014): 85-88. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Hillary Clinton on income and minimum wage: Reality Check team vets the  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Pollin, Robert, and Jeannette Wicks-Lim. A $15 U.S. Minimum Wage: How The Fast- Food Industry Could Adjust Without Shedding  Journal Of Economic Issues (M.E. Sharpe Inc.) 50.3 (2016): 716-744. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.