Student 1 Student R. Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Sleep, and why you should get more of it In the recent generation of college students it has been noticed that they are more sleep deprived than ever, on an average college students get about six hours of sleep, which in the long read has negative consequences to their bodies. With higher standard goals that students want to achieve, more time may be needed for studying, rather than sleeping, and in that lies the consequences of not getting enough sleep. The importance of sleep is actually more significant than most people may think or see it as, how much sleep you get can impact your daily life, mentally and physically, which is why it is crucial that we put more effort toward the wellness of our body in order to achieve the goals that we may have. The relationship of the two images both provoke students to get more sleep, the stakeholder that I have chosen is the University of Georgia, University Health center, their mission is to inform as well persuade college students that sleep is an important factor in college life, this can be shown in that they have provided a whole article about how students should get more sleep, as well as other links that go more into depth about certain topics of sleep such as why we sleep, and as well as issues that sleep could have on you mentally and physically. Founded in 1785, the University of Georgia the oldest state-chartered university in the United states, currently with an approximate of 36,000 students. This stakeholder maintains credibility because it is a public place of education, as well as in relation to the Student 2 topic of the importance of sleep on college students it also targets the same audiences, and possibly may also have the same purpose to inform as well as persuade college students to get more sleep, and it provides factual information and evidence to back up those facts. The images that I have chosen both present the mascot a bulldog, as well as displaying a caption next to the image. The two images that I have chosen are related to each other because one image with the caption for at least is emphasizing the fact that students should strive to sleep for at least 8 hours, as well as they list consequences of sleeping less than 8 hours which may include stress, and sadness. The other image relates to this because it is caption more get more than informs the read about how students who sleep at least 7-8 hours have a higher GPA than those who get 6 or fewer, this contrasts from the first image because it encourages the reader to get more sleep in order to achieve higher grades, however both images are similar in that they are including facts about sleep. Both images appeal to the same audience, which would be characterized as college students, specifically those who do not get enough sleep. The purpose of these images are to inform these students about the benefits, as well as the consequences of those whom get enough sleep, as well as those who do not get enough sleep. The overall message that both these images are trying to display is that the importance of sleep can have a heavy impact in your every day life, mentally and physically, although it might not have an immediate reaction to the deprivation of sleep, it will cause problems over time. Although it is acknowledge that sleep is important and that there are ways to resolve this issue, the concession at hand that students may argue with is that they are Student 3 given too much work, whether it be homework, studying for tests, or extracurricular activities. There are two sides to an issue, in that the stakeholder is telling students to put away enough to sleep, however the students may argue that they have too much work to do in order to achieve certain grades they want, as well trying to still maintain a social life. These images both display multiple different elements of rhetoric. They both display a form of pathos, playing to the emotions because both mages display a stuffed bull dog, in which could pull a read towards it because they may be thinking how this is related to pathos because it can get the attention, in order for the reader to look into the image more. These images also display a form of logos, in that they both include captions, with facts such as how an insufficient amount of sleep can lead to tiredness, sadness, as well as stress, and also how students who sleep 7- 8 hours sleep are able to maintain a higher GPA then those who get 6 hours or less. The images also play into an effect of kairos, because it emphasizes that the importance of sleeps plays into the effect of timeliness, and that you need to start sleeping more now, to better improve the overall health of your well being. In the end the mission of the stakeholder is that they are trying to get students to sleep more, they inform the audience about the causes and effects of lack of sleep, and enough sleep as well as they also try to persuade the audience that in the long run this will help them do better in school, as well as help them mentally and physically. Sleep may be a priority for some more than others, but this stakeholder is trying to make sleep on of the top priorities, although many people may not think that sleep has that much of an impact, people realize how being tired, and being stressed constantly may Student 4 impact their mental health, as well as their physical health. If the students as well as the school come together to find a happy medium where both sides are benefitting, whether it be less work, or less going out, students will soon get enough sleep. (WC: 1,011) Student 5 Work Cited History of  University Of Georgia. N.p., 11 July 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Sleep Rocks! ...get More of  University Health Center. UGA Student Affairs, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.