Student 1 Student Professor Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Tackle these Tactics for Recycling on College Campuses When college students are awake through most nights trying to cram and submit all their assignments in time, the last thing on their mind is recycling. Recycling might seem like too much of an effort to them and so they place it on the back burner. According to Boston College, EPA estimates that 75% of the American waste stream is recyclable, but we only recycle about 30% of Your Most campuses do not have the funds or time to invest in these kinds of programs but what they know is the possible savings that could pile up as years continue because on average it costs $30 per ton to recycle trash, $50 to send it to the landfill, and $65 to $75 to incinerate it. Recycling on college campuses should not be a chore that is dying to be taken out but instead be treated as a good habit. To improve the efficiency of this process, campus recycling programs should be more categorized for easier recognition and inform the students about the progress developing as recycling goes on through marketing sources. Since then, websites such as Clean River: Inventive Recycling Products have been investing their time in educating and assisting organizations in designing sustainability programs that suit their specific needs and inventing new technologies for over 25 years. It has led to exponential growth in improving their ideology of of recycling (culture, communication and to create a more sustainable future Student 2 As a company that specializes in creating personalized recycling programs, their tips are not to be ignored. Figure 1 clearly shows the effectiveness of proper categorization with the purpose of simplifying recycling and minimizing confusion. The recycling bins have different colors for each category: blue if for recycling and black is only for trash. This makes it easier for people to pass by and quickly toss whatever is needing to be thrown away because of the color coding. For color coding to be effective, it also needs to be kept consistent throughout campus. All bins should stick to the color coding so mistakes be made and confuse students. Another clever aspect that is involved is below the labeling words, there are images for the materials that belong within the bin. Commonly, people who see simply the labels can make the recycling process confusing and a fuss to comply to. Often, the bewilderment as to what exactly is expected to belong in that bin makes a bad recycling experience so Clean River advocates the usage of graphics and visual aids to assist students. It is a clever, yet effective method is proven to simplify the once before complicating process. Figure 1 advertises the recycling bin well because you can clearly see that Clean River is willing to print the school or company logo on the product while using the color and such. This visual aspect draws in people that see the positive coherence between proper trash disposal and their surroundings. This partnership between the recycling program and their organization invokes positive aspects and a sense of partnership. It also appeals to logic by the blatant graphics that are meant to reduce exposure to the wrong type of trash. Logically, the type of trash that belong in the section of the bin is the ones shown in the pictures which leaves the students little to question. Another tactic that that improves morale and keeps the students up-to-date in the progress is advertising the accomplishments made. In Figure 2, the data is straight forward and beckons Student 3 to students who are passing by to read about the accomplishments because of their contribution. Since everybody disposes of trash, it makes the effort feel like a group effort. The purpose is to make the students feel connected towards one goal and know that their effort is making a difference. This can be used for all kinds of social media from the Facebook page to plastering it all over campus to printing it on the campus newspaper. These posters can include sustainability aspects such as trees saved or number of cans recycles along with percentages. The possibilities are endless. The figure also draws from greener more natural colors to further emphasize the sustainability results. The colors seen in the figure are shades of green while the graphics are colored different to pop out more. In addition, not only are to the graphics are kept minimalistic and simple but so are the words so as many students as possible can understand it after reading it whether they are majoring in Computer Science or Environmental Engineering. These marketing should also be strategically placed such as near a recycling bin or in an area that will have a lot of people around. An excellent place could be the main quad, sport arenas, dining halls, etc. which is always full of students passing by rushing to class. Also, by identifying the and type of waste that is being you select containers with the correct that can be placed at the most beneficial locations Tips for Campus Figure 2 is a great way to pull people together and create a sense of unity once again. Even for those who do not recycling, they might be motivated after seeing the group effort other students are putting in seen on the published results of achievements. This strategy is a great way to appeal to pathos, logos, and ethos at the same time. Students can witness the statistics of campus recycling which appeals to their sense that they should continue down that path of recycling. Logically, recycling is good so continually seeing the accomplishments calls to the students to continue the process. Also, the recycling data is coming from Clean River which is a Student 4 company with good standing when it comes to sustainability. This makes the data more convincing and emphasized. With a more productive recycling program on campus, the students witness a partnership between recycling and the school they are attending as well as a sense of unity between the students to further develop their efforts in recycling. Clean strategies of proper communication, categorizing, and marketing can make the agonizingly confusing process into a simplistic benefitting activity that saves the environment as well as a good investment for the school. (Word Count: 1057) Student 5 Works Cited Tips for Campus Clean River: Inventive Recycling Products. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Clean River: Inventive Recycling Products. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Your Boston College: Sustainability Home. MassSave and Live Earth, 26 July. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. BYU Idaho. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Student 6 Figure 1. https://cleanriver.com/10-tips-for-campus-recycling/ Student 7 Figure 2. https://cleanriver.com/10-tips-for-campus-recycling/