Student 1 Student Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Institute for Responsible Technology is a stakeholder that has the purpose of educated the population on genetically modified foods and crops and the harms that it could have in our health, environment, and agriculture. The GMO expert Jeffrey Smith who has worked hard to achieve such accomplishments founded the organization itself. The main purpose of the organization was to make sure everyone was aware of the consequences of using such kinds of genetically modified crops. This has a huge impact on many lifestyles as it can change their personal opinion on their diet and way of living. The website goes into details on how affect our health, agriculture, environment and economy. The main page contains tabs such as, health risks for adults and children, for animals, autism, and gluten disorders. Once you have clicked on those tabs, the website directs you to a different page that goes in depth on such subjects. It also provides many studies and articles on GMO cover-ups and FDA scientists, therefore it is an informative and educational website that can be trusted with its credibility. One of the most useful tools on the website is the tab, which provides people with different solution for school, healthcare and even your own home. There are many events related to this issue to reach out to all sorts of people and donations can be made at those events or online. All this information is also listed on the main page and it is very easily accessible. The IRT also has its own Twitter, Facebook and YouTube page, which makes it easier for people to become aware and connected. Because of the wide variety of connections the audience for this stakeholder can vary and it can reach out to teenagers, adults and elderly. Student 2 The Institute for responsible Technology uses many different strategies on their website to bring the attention. For instance, the color of the logo and the background colors for the website. All fonts must be clearly legible and creative. The logo itself is a sketch of the sunrise in the color orange. Because the importance and greatness of the sun, this logo was chosen to represent such characteristics. There are many images included in the website pages and they have the ability to communicate a message as well. One example of this strategy is a picture seen in the tab of and animals. There is a story of a dog who had a lethal disease because of its diet, after the owner switched the diet to GMO free, the puppy had positive results and became healthy again. The main page, which contains many articles, shows the picture of the puppy, which grabs the animal lovers attention. This strategy is known as rhetorical appeal names pathos, where the author attempts to use the emotions to connect deeply with the subject or simply gain the attention. In Chapter one of Rhetoric Really Matters it is stated that most of the time an image is being used the main rhetoric appeal is pathos. This is seen in such image because it really connects the audience with the subject since most of us has owned a pet and/or have had some sort of experience with one. I believe that pathos is not the only rhetorical appeal being used here, if analyzed closely, the image also contains a sort of deductive reasoning that utilizes the puppy as a sort of generalization of pets therefore showing that any pet can be a victim of this kind of tragedy. When we first open the the first image presented is actually a portrait of Jeffrey Smith followed by his story and background information. This is certainly seen as logos because it shows his credibility as the founder of the organization. Logos is also seen on the picture because it contains the name of the photographer Mark Seliger who is very famous for his portraits and his work with Rolling Stones. This shows the importance and credibility that Mr. Smith has within the IRT. Another aspect to be noted is the fact the coloring of the portrait Student 3 and how the background has a plain color to make sure the main focus of the picture is Jefree Smith. The choice of a smiling portrait gives off a personal and trustworthy vibe that can be easily relatable with its audience. It shows emotion and happiness, which can grab the attention and trust of the reader. This is easily seen as pathos as it connects with the audience in the personal and emotional level. According to Rhetoric Really Matters ethos is the main appeal which is being used in this portrait, on page 21 of the book it states that ethos often makes to the character of the and this is used on the main page of the information on the stakeholders where they show the founder Jeffree Smith and talk about his influence, contribution and career. In a nutshell, the organization Institute for Responsible Technology does a great job at educating the population on genetically modified crops and it gives great examples on how it affect our health, agriculture, environment and economy as well. They are very focused on making changes and always developing new forms of bringing attention to the subject. There is a lot of hard work put into the projects and events done by them and donations are very well deserved. The author and contributors of the websites utilize many rhetorical appeals strategies in order to grab the attention of the readers and make a personal connection towards them. These strategies are seen in fonts, images, statements and even the organizational pattern of the website itself. Student 4 Works Cited ABOUT  Institute for Responsible Technology. Jeffree Smith, 2003. http://responsibletechnology.org/about/ Web. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Story by Sara  Pets and GMOS. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Jeffrey M. Smith  Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan.2017. (W.C. 1009)