Student 1 Student Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Uncommon Knowledge is an organization that deals with depression, along with the treatments that make sure one with depression is headed in the right, positive track. This organization aims to help those who are suffering from depression or those who have been associated with those who are suffering. The motto is it, treat it, and where is depression. The main goal is to simply understand depression completely, treat it, and have people finally become depression free. The organization really wants people to understand that they are not alone. The message this organization is trying to send is that depression is something common, that has many treatments based on a lot of research and reliable information, which is offered on their website. The website that is associated with this organization displays very genuine and positive feelings. The word is displayed several times, but the images that go along with this are not dark images that are normally associated with depression. Bright colors and photos of sunflowers are displayed all across the website, along with a playful cartoon video. Two images really stick out and go along with the entire goal of Uncommon Knowledge. Both of these images create a calming scenario that emphasizes positivity throughout the journey of depression. Both images help those suffering see a light at the end and gain hope through the journey of depression by instilling a sense of hope through positive, calm, and motivating Student 2 visuals. The first image is of a road that is going through the air and ending at a floating island with a large tree on it. The background features a very picturesque sky with a couple clouds behind the island. The message that the picture is attempting to send is that at the end of the road there will be a beautiful outcome awaiting you. The road curves back and forth multiple times before reaching the island which represents the fact that the road to a depression free life is not going to be perfect and you are going to run into some bends in the road. tree is nature, which symbolizes cleanliness and pureness. Those who have depression tend to have negative thoughts about themselves and others. This image shows beauty within the pureness of nature, which can positively influence people. The visual cues in this image that help convey the intended message include the road and direction of swerving, the sky in the background, and the tree/natured involved. These visual cues help create emphasis and bring together the main message. The way this photo is designed is very interesting and different. It does not include just a simple road, but a narrow, swerving, and difficult to follow road. But behind the road is a beautiful sky and at the end, and also a beautiful tree which is an example of nature. Also, this whole scene is not just grass and nature on the ground, but it is floating in the air. This shows that things may seem different or odd, but it is not weird, but unique and special. The scene is very different but special in its own way, which can be compared to one who has depression. The color is very bright, which brings positivity and happiness to the photo. Depression is linked to darkness and deep tones, but this photo includes the opposite of that, to help those suffering instead of going along with the usual stereotypes. Linking the topic of depression with bright, light, happy colors, really makes an impact and brings light to a dark topic. The road ensures a Student 3 good ending and shows consistency/stability, which shows logos. Ethos is present when the image includes nature/natural resource, which is seen as pure, clean, and good, which persuades people because it looks and seems factual. Pathos is used because there is a sense of adventure and hope shown in this image, which applies to feelings. Kairos is present because here is symmetry and balance shown on this road, even though it is a swerving lane. This image is very appropriate for this audience because it shows positivity, which is something that people with depression need to see and be aware of. The message embedded would be something along the lines of is light at the end of every There really is light at the end of every road, but more importantly, this specific road of depression. This message along with the photo give a sense of hope to those battling depression. The second image is a calm scenario of sunflowers that has a primary visual message is that there is beauty in everything. The sunflowers are beautiful and in great condition, which brings joy to the photo. This idea of being beautiful and in great condition can relate to those suffering. They may not feel as if they are doing great, but seeing something like this could be a friendly reminder that they are doing very well. The edges are blurred, which puts the focus slightly on the second sunflower behind, but more on the one towards the right. The edges are blurred to show emphasis on the right flower. This stands out because the photo is no longer about all sunflowers, it is focused on one beautiful sunflower being the main idea, even while other sunflowers are in the picture. This correlates to the idea that depression is no longer a general thing that is applied to many at one time, but issues, symptoms, and treatment are all different and have their very own focus. Those going through treatment, have people who care for them and only them to assure improvement. The colors are very bright, which emphasize Student 4 joy, happiness, and positivity. Depression is normally categorized as a deep and dark topic, so these colors contrast that idea in a very good way. The message embedded would be like a sunflower, that stands tall on dark days and will always find the This embedded message really speaks out to those suffering with depression because even though one may feel like their life is crashing down right in front of them, it is just a dark time that will soon have positivity and improvements shine through all that darkness. By using a known flower, such as a sunflower, the audience will respect, understand, and trust the idea behind this photo. If it was a random flower, some would not understand the idea or connection being made. Because sunflowers are used especially when discussing happiness or positive topics, the audience will understand this photo when in comparison to depression and its treatments. Using a widely known image can really help with credibility. Along with the first image, this one includes nature/natural resource, again seen as pure, clean, and good, which persuades people because it looks and seems factual. This image touches on happy feelings because a sunflower is so bright and associated with positivity. Bright colors bring a sense of happiness to a topic that is normally associated with darkness. A sunflower is right and appropriate for this instance because it is bringing a positive connection to a deeper and darker issue. Positivity is necessary when undergoing treatments because it instills hope. The image of the bumpy road with a tree at the end and the image of sunflowers overall bring positivity, good vibes, hope, love, and many characteristics that are necessary when not only having a disease, but undergoing treatment as well. Those battling depression can look at this and will be able to feel comfortable knowing there is positivity somewhere in this disease. Positivity is what keeps people going. Uncommon Knowledge understands this, so they display Student 5 that idea all over their website. Photos like these come together on one website to prove a point and help those in need. Maybe if depression is a dark thing to be associated with, Uncommon website helps those with this and those going through treatment to realize that there is beauty in everything, even when they feel alone, lost, and dark. These images convey a message that is much deeper than anyone, but those suffering can understand. (WC: 1,122) Works Cited Depression - Understand it, Treat it, Beat  Depression.co.uk . Uncommon Knowledge Ltd, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gerdes, Julie, Hopton, Sara Beth, and Rea, M. Joshua. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 331-337. E-text. Gerdes, Julie. Visual Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 338-344. E-text. Hernandez, Sandy M. of the Pink Before You Pink. Breast Cancer Action, Web. 10 June 2013. Rpt. of in MAMM June/July 1998. Hocks, Mary E. visual rhetoric in digital writing composition and communication (2003): 629-656. Plato. 360 BC. Trans. Benjamin Jowett. Internet Classics Archive. MIT, 2009. Web. 30 May 2006. Student 6 Feb. 1930. Web. 29 June 2016.