Ferguson 1 Nate Ferguson Professor Lay ENC 1102 31 January 2017 Doctors vs. Athletes: The Debate on the Dangers of Football Football is most popular game, yet there is a controversy on whether or not if safe. Doctors believe that football is a dangerous game and that there are serious health consequences associated with it. Football players and others passion about the game argue that new rules, regulations and developments in new technology and helmets have made the game safer. A compromise to this countervail issues would be to perform yearly exams on athletes as well as their equipment. Dr. Guskiewicz quoted likelihood of serious squeal may increase with repeated head 2003). From this article their study proved that players with a history of concussions are likely to have delayed health effects in the future than those with no history. Doctors are also concerned about how many concussions one player may get just in one season. They did some research and found out that in 15 players with a concussion may have additional concussions in the same playing season; and previous concussions may be associated with slower recovery of neurological 2007). Doctors have previous history about athletes had concussions before and how they were ignored and got worse. When serious health issues like these are ignored they can also lead to suicidal thoughts. A big reason why doctors believes this happens is because when athletes do get a concussion they go through the right protocol, or they get the right amount of recovery time Ferguson 2 before returning. Doctors believe that it some people applied simple common sense when they think somebody is concussed then that will reduce the chance of issues and injuries in the future. If it for football I know where I would be. I know where to start. been playing football since I was 12 until now. My athletic capabilities have gotten me a full ride scholarship to play at the University of South Florida. The neighbor I was raised in the prettiest thing to live at. I grew up where most people make it out, and if they do make it out, from selling drugs or something bad. Football was my way out, it my first passion but it was the only thing that kept me proactive. A football player really notice how much grown just by playing football until you actually take the time to look back. I know for a fact that playing this sport, no matter how dangerous it is, it molded me into the man I am today. You build such strong relationships with the coaches and players, which makes it feel like you have 2 families. The coaches and the game of football teach you so many life lessons and how to over come adversity. I learned lessons that large portions of my peers are as yet attempting to make sense of at 30 years old. Whenever down or feel like you have nobody to talk to you have your coaches to go to. One thing I can say personally is that my coaches coach me so hard with so much constructive criticism it made me have tougher skin. Now if anybody tries to make fun of me or yells at me I can ignore it because been throw worse. Football also teaches you to push through the hard times even when you feel like giving up. Its a lot of people in this world who have weak minds and football will definitely get your mind stronger. I was also given an advantage that others have while I playing football. I had a handful of support Ferguson 3 group of people who always kept their eye on me. I thank god for giving me numerous of mentors who always cared for me and always wanted me to succeed on and off the field. Football taught me a lot of things that I use everyday, like how to compete with others critically and physically. If you better yourself everyday in this world you will destruct. It also taught me how to be discipline, how to keep my focus while doing multiple things fast. It taught me how to work hard and not like the average joe. Another big ting it taught me was how to lead, leadership is big and can get you so far in life. Football teaches you how to sacrifice, willing to give up the normal to be great. It also taught me to control what I can control. There are 3 ways to handle adversity: be bitter, I could quit, or I could make the best out of the situation I am in. A compromise that Bonjn Stephanie who works with the NFL nurse came up with is to get wearable sensors on helmets that can measure head impact frequency and magnitude in football players. goal was to quantify the impact detection rate and validity of the direction and peak kinematics of two wearable sensors: a helmet system (HITS) and a mouth guard system (Bonjn, 2016). This will make it easier for doctors to know if somebody has had a hard head-on-head collision. Instead of the player trying to lie and say their okay the doctors can just check the sensors they have on the helmet and this can prevent further contact and injury. This now creates more strict regulations and therapy on those who have had a concussion previously. This allows doctors to perform yearly exams on athletes, by going back and looking at the sensors and the impacts of the hits. This also will make them exam every helmet being worn after and before every game. Ferguson 4 The common ground would be that they both understand football can be a dangerous sport. But there are ways around it and being safe. Everything has a pro and con to it. Football is most popular sport, taking it away would only make things worse. explained and gave you viable reasons on why they should keep it around and ways you could get around the dangerous parts. Involving more doctors and to continue research to find ways to safely play the sport and keep it fun still. Football helps people grow as men and gives them a lot of benefits that people are blind to. Ferguson 5 Work Cited: Guskiewicz, Kevin M., et al. Cumulative Effects Associated With Recurrent Concussion In Collegiate Football Players: The NCAA Concussion  JAMA: Journal Of The American Medical Association 290.19 (2003): 2549. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Krabak, Brian J.1, et al. Recurrent Concusions -  Medicine & Science In Sports & Exercise 39.(2007): S109. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Siegmund, Gunter P., et al. Laboratory Validation Of Two Wearable Sensor Systems For Measuring Head Impact Severity In Football  Annals Of Biomedical Engineering 4 (2016): 1257. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.