Kostitsyn 1 David Kostitsyn Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Disposal of clothing in the USA There are more than 7 billion people living on Earth. If you try to count without stopping only to a billion, it would take you up to 32 years. But if you try to count the seven billion it would take more then a human life spent. There more then 21 billion clothing paces if everyone of 7 billion have only one pair of pants, a shirt and a jacket. This is a huge amount! And safe to assume that many of people own more than three garments. Especially when you consider that the global volume of production of the fashion industry apparel, textiles, footwear and luxury goods reached up to 2,560 trillion US dollars in 2010. There more than 80 billion pieces of garments produced annually worldwide. Such a large amount of clothing production can be explained due to update the canons of fashion, which require regular updating of the wardrobe, and therefore it is necessary to decide do something with old clothes. According to the SMAR organization 85% of clothing ends up on a land field. One must take a look at their pictures on the web site. Kostitsyn 2 The company provides a photo with the idea of recycling textiles former use. Evidence of this are shown in this picture expressed in shades of green color symbolizing the recycling of used products. This image is convinced that the company is not SMART from small companies, but rather works with a large number of items and textiles. In the picture one can notice a large conveyor belt that continuously delivers the clothing, and the man standing in front of the car is involved in sorting. The importance of industrial volume betrays not one person but two. Looking for the meaning of messages sent by the author of this picture, you can notice only one idea. The idea of educating the public on the processing of the textile industry. After all, not many people think about the fact that the shabby wardrobe items can be disposed of in this way and use them again. At the bottom of the image appears translucent word . And in truth, this procedure is not being done by many citizens. Sometimes it is much easier to not hesitate to throw away a pair of old jeans or T-shirts in a tank with normal waste. But think about what this procedure is sometimes not enough for the twenty-first century society, and we must do Kostitsyn 3 something with those things that fall into the garbage dump of town. This message becomes a teaching point to the browser this message. Analyzing rhetorical part of the image should be noted that the author did a good job putting meaning in this image. The logical part of the message is presented beautifully. Featuring the image of the name  visual part is completely untrue. Emotionally, the image captures the spirit of the new information and knowledge that it carries. Evidence reliability of the data indicates the straightness of the messages. The company says that about their ability to handle large volumes justify their confidence by providing a picture with their production. However, in this image is difficult to view the chronology of events due to the fact that it is only caught by the frame that should only inform but not to show the history of the enterprise. Figure 2: In this image you can see a man with a drill in his hand that uses the old cloth as a cloth to wipe the dust from his instrument. This picture shows the use of textile needs second. Also on the sides can be considered large pallets chipped into small pieces of old rags. These pallets at Kostitsyn 4 which time will go to large companies who also need to use them. This picture is also executed in shades of green which means recycling materials. Below the picture you can see the distribution of the word, which means the distribution of recycled materials, and the second person to large companies. This letter is fully consistent with the image, so authoritatively in their statements. In the picture you can see three stages of the textile life. On the right side are collected rags, on the left side are the same but already processed and is located in the center of the consumer using the product. Based on these facts it should be noted that the logic presented well. The author provides a chain of reasoning. The emotional aspect of this picture is not so pronounced, but it is worth noting that the idea for the recycling of waste material causes positive emotions as well as its reuse. Proof of this slogan are represented by three pictures, which gives reason to believe that this is true. Also in this picture you can read the time line. From right to left you can see the path that runs one of the things given to processing and the final completion of travel rags second life. This company benefits both people and the environment. Everyone must know the alternative to the usual getting rid of things. The next time you tear the pants or shirt worn out you will know that these things are still possible to breathe new life and put into recycling and reuse. As you make a small contribution to the purification of landfill, because it awakens one less thing, and in somebody hands is one thing more. (WC 921) Kostitsyn 5 Works Cited Hoffman A., Wiggs K. Rhetoric Matters Understanding p. 371, 22 Jan. 2017. SMART: Donate, Recycle, Throw Away - Recycle Clothing, Shoes, & More Web. 22 Jan. 2017. !