[Last 1 Kaylie Stephenson Erika Staiger ENC 1102 1/29/17 Project 1 Intermediate Draft: Animal Captivity have been around since the thus allowing people to view wild and exotic animals without having to travel the world (MacDonald, 1). However, ever since went public, there has been excessive backlash. Some people and organizations, such as PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) believe it is wrong to remove animals from their native habitat and hold them captive. On the other hand, organizations like WAZA (World Association of and Aquariums) support and advocate for and believe that harmful at all. Both PETA and WAZA believe and fight for the well being of all kinds of animals. However, by enforcing stricter regulations on the purchasing and releasing of zoo animals to ensure they come from and return to credible rehabilitation centers, both organizations will benefit. PETA will have to accept that animals are still held in captivity, but acknowledge that they are being handled a lot safer, and WAZA will have to change the way they obtain and release their animals as well as only support zoos and aquariums that follow these rules, but they will still be allowed to hold animals in captivity. PETA is the largest organization in the world that fights for animal rights. They have focused their work on four broad issues in the animal world: these include the food industry, the clothing trade, laboratories, and entertainment (PETA, 1). However, they work on other issues as well. PETA fights for their beliefs through various different tactics. A few examples are through public education, cruelty investigations, research, legislation, and protests.They are also known [Last 2 for doing and saying whatever they have to in order for the animal to benefit (PETA, 1). PETA believes that Animals actors, spectacles to imprison or gawk at, or circus clowns. Yet thousands of these animals are forced to perform silly, confusing tricks under the threat of physical punishment; are carted across the country in cramped and stuffy boxcars or semi-truck trailers; are kept chained or caged in barren, boring, and filthy enclosures; and are separated from their families and for the sake of human Many of these animals even pay with their (PETA, 1). Clearly PETA strongly opposes the idea of animals being used for entertainment, especially in places like and aquariums. If PETA had it their way, there would not be any or aquariums or anything. Thy believe that animals should remain in their natural habitat. WAZA is an organization that supports, guides, and educates and aquariums (WAZA, 1). Their mission statement is WAZA is the voice of a global community of high standard, conservation-based zoos and aquariums and a catalyst for their joint conservation action (WAZA,  They believe that holding and breeding animals through establishments like and aquariums, they are conserving species; some who may not last in the wild. By conserving these animals, it helps to protect biodiversity. They also believe that conservation of intact ecosystems is the only chance for survival of our planets wildlife (WAZA,  In addition, they help represent and aquariums in national and international assemblies. They bring about awareness through publications, the internet, media, and conferences. They promote environmental education, wildlife conservation, and environmental research and bring about awareness through publications, the internet, media, and conferences (WAZA, 1). Both stakeholders advocate and care about the overall wellbeing and safety of the animals. This is something that they can agree on and form a compromise around. My proposed [Last 3 compromise would be to regulate exactly where these and aquariums are getting their animals from.and where they are being released to. Some have been known to get their animals from poachers and nonrepeatable dealers. They have also been known to release their animals to game  where hunters offer to pay to kill them, or to smaller or laboratories for experiments (PETA, 1). Therefor, by regulating where they buy and sell their animals to, it will ensure a more humane way of handling these animals. The should not be allowed to get their animals from the wild anymore. Instead, they should just breed the animals they have in the zoo at that time. This would eliminate future generations of animals from being torn from their natural habitat. By breeding the animals in their zoo, they will grow up in captivity and it will be all they have really known. Yes, this does not entirely solve the issue of animal captivity but it does alleviate some of the stress that goes along with capturing these animals. This will benefit PETA because they have to worry about the getting their animals from inhumane places and it also benefits WAZA because the will still be able to keep their animals and get new ones. However, PETA will have to accept that animals will still be held captive and the will have a harder time getting new animals for their exhibits if they are restricted to only breeding animals from their or other reputable As far as releasing the animals, they should only be allowed to release them to animal sanctuaries. Animal sanctuaries take animals and often rehabilitate them if needed, as well as provide them with large natural habitats free of cages and concrete. By strictly regulating where the release their animals to, it will ensure that they are taken care of properly and safely. Animal sanctuaries provide animals who have been in captivity a new home where they can live out the rest of their days in an environment just like their natural habitat. This allows them a sense of freedom without simply releasing them into the wild where they would not know how to fend for [Last 4 themselves. This would appease PETA because the animals would be given a chance at life outside of the zoo in a safe, professional, and ethical environment. This would also appease WAZA and the because they would know that their animals are going to be happy and healthy and in good hands. In the end, I was able to find common ground between my stakeholders and propose a compromise that would benefit both sides. Overall, my compromise benefits both sides while each are also required to give up something. Since both stakeholders care about the overall well being of animals my compromise will work. By enforcing stricter regulations on breeding within and the release of zoo animals, it will positively effect the overall health and well being of the animals. Thus making both stake holders happy. [Last 5 Works Cited MacDonald, Anna-Marie. History of Zoos - Doc Zone -  CBCnews. CBC/Radio Canada, 10 Apr. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Waza. WAZA Is the Unifying Organisation for Theworld Zoo and Aquarium  WAZA : World Association of Zoos and Aquariums. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. The Wild Animal  The Wild Animal Sanctuary. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.