Rishi Gusam 1/30/17 The federal legalization of Marijuana is a topic that has been debated for ages. There is a lot of controversy that surrounds it, with various questions aimed at the topic. Is it safe for use? it considered a gateway drug? Does it deteriorate short term memory? Can it actually help patients suffering from severe chronic pain, and make their day more bearable? Opponents of legalizing marijuana, argue that there is still little research on it, and that legalization would be a rash decision, one that might be regretted in the future. However, supporters argue that a waste of time fighting against it, and the benefits are crucial for those who need it. Currently, marijuana is the 3rd most popular drug to use (Drugfacts). As a result, various opponents fear that abuse rates are going to increase, and with the legalization of marijuana, it will be at the expense of the general public. But with legalization, it saves all the Americans with possession charges, having a significant impact on their future. Between the two stakeholders, one opinion is shared, which is to ensure safe use of marijuana, and that used responsibly. Whether marijuana is legalized, safety is the number 1 priority, which is agreed with all. There is plenty of research, validating the claims that marijuana is beneficial, with numerous medical uses. But the biggest issue with certain stakeholders, especially NORML, is how the government deals with those who have been caught smoking or possessing marijuana. marijuana prohibition costs taxpayers an estimated $10 billion annually and results in the arrest of more than 693,000 individuals per year -- far more than the total number of arrestees for all violent crimes combined, including murder, rape, robbery and aggravated (NORML). As a result of the drug war, the incarceration rate of the US is between 6 to 10 times higher than various European countries. With legalization, you are cutting that number by around 693,000 people. NORML is against people getting arrested, essentially getting their lives ruined, since they have a criminal record. Many people assume that people who get caught, are drug dealers, with the intent to sell for profit. But contrary to popular belief, 88% of American who were caught, were only caught for possession, essentially were caught with enough marijuana for personal use (NORML). As ironic as it sounds, legalization results in adolescent usage dropping. With legalization comes government regulation of marijuana, reducing the demand from the black market of marijuana. As a result, the government can set an age restriction, restricting the population under the age limit to have access to it. Unfortunately, the black market for weed will still exist; there is no way of completely eliminating it. At least with legalization, demand from the Black market will be reduced, also reducing the crime and violence that follows with it. Marijuana has been used medically for over 5,000 years (NORML). Recent research shows that marijuana has various medical uses, include pain relief -- particularly of neuropathic pain (pain from nerve damage) -- nausea, spasticity, glaucoma, and movement (NORML).There is even research stating that it helps protect the body from various tumors. Multiple health organizations, such as the American Public Health Organization, support the use of marijuana medically. According to a study done by Harvard, 44% of oncologist have recommended to their patients to use marijuana, as a form of therapy (NORML). If various trusted health organizations are implying that marijuana should be considered as an alternative to medicate certain conditions, it makes one question or at least consider using it. On the other hand, if marijuana is abused and not safely used, it can cause havoc in the life. Various substance abuse groups are worried about the effects it has on teenage users. Studies show that also affects brain development. When marijuana users begin using as teenagers, the drug may reduce thinking, memory, and learning functions and affect how the brain builds connections between the areas necessary for these functions Another study showed when people started smoking heavily, during their adolescent years, it reduced their IQ by an average of 8 points (Drugfacts). You may think that once you stop smoking, your IQ level will be restored. Unfortunately that is not the case; for those who quit during their adult years were unable to restore their previous IQ levels. However, those who started when they were adults, did not show any decline in mental ability. With the medical benefits that come with it, there are physical and mental effects as well. Breathing problems are a common issue with users, since marijuana smoke irritates the lungs. As a result, marijuana smokers are more prone to various lung diseases and infections, and produce more phlegm (Drug Facts). Another issue, especially among older users, is the increased heart rate while inebriated. The increased heart rate makes users more prone to heart attacks. Various mental issues occur among users, such as temporary hallucinations, paranoia, depression, anxiety and issues with patients who suffer from schizophrenia. Contrary to common belief, marijuana can be addictive. Research suggests that 30 percent of users may develop some degree of problem use, which can lead to dependence and in severe cases takes the form of facts). With legalization, comes a potential scenario where a national issue with marijuana dependence and addiction is common among the population. There are various withdrawal symptoms, such as increased irritation, sleeplessness, and anxiety; with no current medication to relieve such symptoms. Another major issue with legalization is driving under the influence, in terms of marijuana. Marijuana is known to impair judgement of time, distance, and coordination, which are all important aspects of driving safely. studies have shown negative effects of marijuana on drivers, including an increase in lane weaving, poor reaction time, and altered attention to the road. Use of alcohol with marijuana made drivers more impaired, causing even more lane (Drugged driving). Current drug testing methods look at THC levels, which will show positive for weeks, even if they high. There is no to determine if someone is high while driving . Teens driving under the influence, pose a higher risk of an accident, due to the lower experience with A study of college students with access to a car found that 1 in 6 had driven under the influence of a drug other than alcohol at least once in the past driving). The statistic is high, despite marijuana being federally illegal. Opponents of legalization question how much higher it will become, after legalization. Both stakeholders in this argument, have valid claims, with research behind it. Despite the differences, there is one common denominator, which is general safety. With that, the solution is to educate the general population on all the effects of marijuana. I propose that the federal government should legalize marijuana. With legalization, medical patients will be able to use the benefits. Regarding recreational use, the minimum age should be 21, since research supports that usage during teenage years results in a lower mental capacity. If a person, 21 or older, decides to purchase marijuana from a licensed dispensary for the first time, they must take an online course. The course would be composed of general history and education of marijuana, with a test at the end, which must be passed with an 80% or higher. Theoretically this compromise, will educate the general population on the benefits and disadvantages with marijuana, allowing people to make safer choices. Whether is marijuana, alcohol, or any other substance, users should generally be aware of what they are using, and should have an understanding of how to use it in a safe manner. Regardless if you are pro or anti legalization, misuse is the number one issue, and putting yourself or others at risk is something that everyone is against. Bibliography 1) DrugFacts: Marijuana National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). NIH, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. 2)  DrugFacts: Drugged Driving National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). NIH, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. to Reform Marijuana  About Marijuana. NORML, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. to Reform Marijuana  Introduction - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. NORML, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. 5) Drivers: Get the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 13 Oct. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. 6)MHS, Kevin P. Hill MD. Medical Marijuana for Treatment of Chronic Pain and Other  Medical Marijuana for Treatment of Chronic Pain and Other Problems Demyelinating Disorders JAMA The JAMA Network. The JAMA network, 23 June 2015. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. 7)Bull, Sheana, Arnold Levinson, Ashley Brooks-Russel, Karen Corsi, and Elizabeth Brooks. Awareness of Marijuana Law, and Attitudes towards Marijuana Use among two samples in Colorado,  Colorado gov. Colorado gov, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 17.