Alexandria Torres Intermediate Draft Deep Water Drilling In 2010 the Deepwater Horizon oil rig had a spill occur in the Gulf of Mexico. Since the oil spill, ocean drilling has become a controversial topic.Organizations such as WWF are fighting against companies such as BP, to end ocean drilling as a whole. But what they do not know is that ocean drilling is essential to economic and social growth. Also the only way to actually find evidence of global/ocean warming is through ocean drilling. Therefore, by regulating the amount of ocean drilling, as well as increasing the regulations that go along with it will help improve ocean life, while still allowing research to continue. On one side of the argument, there are those who believe that deep water drilling needs to end. The reason that organizations such as WWF believe this is, because it is causing pollution within the ecosystems. WWF has been protected the future of nature for around 50 years,they believe that by working together, anything is possible. endures as a living discipline because it is inhabited by a magnificent collection of people. Only by working together can we create solutions to the most vexing problems we (WWF). World Wildlife Foundation, has been fighting against ocean drilling due to the issues it is causing within the ecosystems. and gas operations could release many tons of harmful pollutants into the air and discharge dangerous chemicals into the Also oil rigs disrupt echolocation, which marine mammals use to navigate the vast ocean waters. WWF is protecting sensitive places from oil development. As well as advocating for tighter standards for oil drilling, in response to the recent oil spills. British Petroleum (BP) on the other hand, has a commitment to help the people of the Gulf Coast recover from the Deepwater Horizon (BP). When the spill first occurred BP posted a response article on their website explaining what happened and what they were going to do about it. British Petroleum claimed it was a well integrity failure, which was then followed by the loss of hydrostatic control. BP wrote regret the impacts on the environment and livelihoods of those in the communities affected. We have, and continue to, put in place measures to help ensure it does not happen (BP). Over $61 billion dollars was spent on restoration and clean-up by BP. company has done more to reason to an industrial accident than (BP). Data that was collected from the Gulf has shown that though damage was done, the Gulf is recovering and faster than most scientist thought. BP has been apart of the oil frontier since the 1950s, as well as participated in exploring the deepwater of the Gulf in the recent century. BP has created over 28,000 jobs, by supporting other Gulf companies. Though BP is at fault for what happened within the Gulf of Mexico, they are still trying to make-up for their mistakes. Furthermore, after the BP oil spill there was permanent damage done to the Gulf of ocean ecosystems. Not only was there damage to fish, birds and mammals as most anti-deep sea drilling organizations showed, but also deeper down in the plants and sand. driven plant death on the edges of these marshes more than doubled rates of shoreline The effects after the BP spill proved that by already degrading marshes and ocean environments can cause stressors can hasten ecosystem decline. In order to save the aquatic organisms and habitats, precautions need to be taken in order to accomplish this. Some precautions that can be taken are creating and understanding spill impact models and creating stricter guidelines for oil drilling within the ocean. There are many different types of spill impact models but not a lot of people truly understand them, especially the people who need them the most, the oil companies. Within the models the scientist who create them take into affect the certain biological risk for that certain environment, as well as natural resource risks. These models are bases on regulations that are set by Natural Resource Damage Assessment (NRDA) and acts that have been created to protect the ocean over the years. These models are created with algorithms based off of data collected from a specific area, or multiple areas. With these models oil drilling companies can predict how much damage they can to the environment before it happened. Therefore, hopefully by giving oil companies risk models it can help them better understand what precautions to take and how. Also by creating regulations/laws that deep ocean drilling companies must follow or they will get fined, will cause them to better their safety. BOEM or Bureau of Ocean Energy Management is just one of the organizations that is in charge of offshore leasing and operations. Though the BOEM did create stricter regulations for ocean drilling, some feel that these regulations still need to be modified. Organizations such as WWF would like for oil companies to try and find new ways to dispose of waste, and also find new ways to use renewable energy on their drilling plants. By using new regulations and spill models, the likely hood of another oil spill will decrease more than it already has. are in backyard and new light needs to be shed on ocean drilling. While ocean drilling is embedded in the United States of economy, it needs to regulated. Oil spills keep occurring, even after efforts made after the 2010 BP spill. Just further proving that new regulations and models need to be created in order to prevent further destruction of ocean ecosystems. The ocean is in everyones backyard, yet not enough people care or simply do not know all of the long lasting effects deep sea drilling has caused. Though deep sea drilling is also the only way for scientist to truly understand the ocean and global warming, it needs to be monitored to protect not only the ocean but human future. References French-McCay, Deborah . Oil Spill Impact Modeling: Development and validation  (2004): 2441-456. USF Online Library . Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http:// onlinelibrary.wiley.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/10.1897/03-382/full>. Horizon accident and  Bp.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http:// accident.html>. Gulf of Mexico  Bp.com. BP, n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. bp-us/commitment-to-the-gulf-of-mexico/gulf-mexico-restoration.html>. Oil and Gas  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http:// www.worldwildlife.org/threats/oil-and-gas-development>. Regulatory  Regulatory Reforms BOEM. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. < https:// www.boem.gov/Regulatory-Reform/>. Silliman, Brian, Johan Koppel, Michale McCoy, Jessica Diller, Gabriel Kasozi, Kamala Earl, Peter Adams, and Andrew Zimmerman. Degradation and Resilience in Louisiana Salt Marshes After the BP-Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill  (n.d.): 11234-11239. USF Online Library . Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pnas.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/content/ 109/28/11234>.