Bourne 1 Aaliyah Bourne Professor Maria Theodosiou ENC 1101 25 January 2017 Conflict Regarding Vaccination Since recent years the controversy of getting a child vaccinated at brith or by the age of two has grown significantly. According to Any Vaccines be Required for , ProCon.org the Center of Disease Control reported that approximately three hundred and twenty two million cases of childhood illness were prevented between the years of 1994 and 2014 due to immunization. Nevertheless there were 30,000 reports were made to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System about adverse reactions to vaccines. The organization Vaccinate Your Baby, a program by Every Child By Two (ECBT), runs an awareness campaign that began in 2008. For twenty five years ECBT and their public health partners have emerged and developed multiple programs to try and ensure that every child in this nation is protected from vaccine preventable illnesses. They stand by the fact that every child should be vaccinated by the age of two. While on the other hand The World Association For Vaccine Education ( WAVE) mission is to independent thinking, personal responsibility, and social evolution. We are dedicated to the prevention of vaccine injuries and deaths through public education and (novvaccine.com). They do not support vaccination due to the fact it is ineffective and there are risks. They are focused on the world on a whole by providing non-medical information about vaccines and advocating for their supporters. A complete separation of views exists between these two stakeholders yet they both just want what they believe is the best for the public. Due to this a possible compromise could be to educate parents and legal guardians about the positives and possible negative effects of vaccines and allow them to make their own decision. Bourne 1 Vaccinate Your Baby targets families informing them of the benefits of vaccination, they do so by using scientific based research. Vaccinate your baby informs families that getting a child vaccinated is a privilege that was not around years ago, this caused multiple fatalities due to diseases like Polio. Recently in 2014 there was a breakout of measles, majority of measles cases reported in 2014 were in people who were unvaccinated or who had an unknown vaccination (vaccinateyourbaby.org). Due to similar cases like this Vaccinate Your Baby main goal is to locate every child in our nation and get them vaccinated by the age of two. As they believe the children in your community are vaccinated, they the only ones who are protected. also doing their part to keep your child healthy and to help stop the spread of disease in your (vaccinateyourbaby.org). They recognize that claims have been made regarding the safety of routine vaccination in a life proposing that it causes disorders like autism. Yet they appeal to the public letting them know that top researchers from around the globe have looked into the matter and there is no correlation between vaccines and autism, or any other long-term diseases. World Association For Vaccine Education ( WAVE) is an global organization that aim is to inform the public of the harms and ineffectiveness of vaccines that familiar. WAVE explains that a disease is so harmless that vaccination is deemed unnecessary, it cannot be a disease is found to be, in fact, beneficial to the development and maturation of human immune systems(1), any prevention of the disease through the use of vaccination cannot be thought of as (novaccine.com). They go on to explain that the history of vaccines has shown that it has little effect and that it was developments in hygiene, sanitation and improved water and food supply that impended the widespread of diseases. Vaccines played a small part in the eradication of diseases like smallpox, polio or tetanus (novaccine.com). WAVE believes under reporting is a huge issue as FDA has confesses that serious reactions to vaccines go unreported by doctors nearly 90% of the (novaccine.com). The organization informs us, the public, that to the extent that vaccines avert or postpone diseases we in return trade benign diseases for autoimmune and Bourne 1 neurological diseases as these type of illnesses have increased throughout the years, autism for one has increased more than 300% or more depending on the state. (novaccine.com). In a journal article titled Hesitancy and Healthcare written by the authors Pauline Paterson, Meurice , Lawrence R. Stanberry, Steffen Glismann, Susan L. Rosenthal, and Heidi J. Larson, it agrees with the views of the organization WAVE. This is so as they explore the fact that some health care practitioners find it hard to engage in conversation with parents who do not want to vaccinate their child ( Paterson et al., Introduction, para. 3). This relates back to the fact that vaccination is something they believe in and they do not any negative effects to inform their patients about. The journal article written by Carmen Liliana Barbacariu titled Refusal to Vaccinate Their Children: An Increasing Social Phenomenon Which Threatens Public  further explains the matter that public does not trust the health care system which is a reason why some parents do not vaccinate their child. Barbarcariu trust in the safety and efficiency of vaccination programs has been severely damaged due to the numerous contradictory statements surrounding adverse effects of The journal article tilted and challenges of vaccination: an interview with Elizabeth written by Elizabeth Miller shares the same views as Vaccinate Your Baby. The author talks about the intentionally unvaccinated child in San Diego who contracted measles while traveling abroad. He further infected other individuals who were unvaccinated including a new born who was too young to be vaccinated (Miller, Introduction, para.7). This relates to what Vaccinate Your Baby believes, as they say that not vaccinating your child only endanger them but possibly the people they are surrounded with. Both organizations although have separate views, have something in common, they ultimately want what is best for the people of this nation. They are both seeking to inform the public of their point of view. These two stakeholders would not exist if there were no possible harmful effects of not vaccinating your child. A compromise to this problem it to educate parents on the Bourne 1 positive effects and possible negative effects of vaccination and allow them to choose if they want to vaccinate their child or not. In this compromise both sides will benefit and suffer something. WAVE will benefit in the way that vaccination will not be mandatory and in the same breath Vaccinate Your Baby will suffer that consequence. Both organization will benefit in that both their issues will be fairly publicized. According the journal article Rights and Decision Making Regarding Vaccinations: Ethical Dilemmas For The Primary Care written buy Alison Fernbach she voices her opinion that ultimately parents should be able to make the final decision whether their child is vaccinated or not. She notes that nurse practitioners should be able to give parents credible information on the risks and benefits of vaccinating their child and also clear up any misinterpretations that exist. She goes on to say Parents must be given accurate information regarding possible adverse events. It is important they know that tragedies, such as the Hanna Poilings ( Fernbach 343). This solution is feasible yet there are some other things to sort out starting with uniting these organization and starting a movement to allow vaccinations to be optional in all states. They could unite other vaccination organizations and get a cabinet member to endorse their movement. Their campaign would involve the testimonies of parents, future parents, doctors and members of both organizations .They could also open a donation page on both their websites to raise money towards the movement, their aim would be to get the government to recognize their issue and make a change. They could go on to hold conferences about the pros and cons of vaccination and even write and design pamphlets or books and ask hospitals to give it out to their future mothers. In conclusion both Vaccinate Your Baby and World Association Vaccine Education are trying to educate the public on vaccination. Nevertheless they stand on two different sides of the fence. In efforts to unite these two organizations a compromise was developed. Educating parents on the benefits and hazards of vaccination then allowing them to have the final say on whether or Bourne 1 not to vaccinate their child.This compromise would be beneficial as it allows neither side to win but allows both organizations beliefs to be heard and considered. Bourne 1 Annotated Bibliography Barbacariu, Carmen Liliana. Refusal To Vaccinate Their Children: An Increasing Social Phenomenon Which Threatens Public  Procedia - Social And Behavioral Sciences 149.LUMEN 2014 - From Theory to Inquiry in Social Sciences, Iasi, Romania, 10-12 April 2014 (2014): 84-91. ScienceDirect. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Carmen Liliana Barbacariu, MD, PhD is currently a teaching assistant in Romania at Grigore T. Popa University of Medicine and Pharmacy. When attending medical school she specialized in both pediatrics and general practice then went on to receive a PhD in research in childhood developmental disorders. She has numerous scientific publications and have been a co-author in scientific related journals and textbooks. All her achievements displays her credibility on the topic of vaccinating children. The journal was published out of Elsevier Ltd and has been releasing volumes since 2009. The journal has also been peer reviewed which points to its validity. It helps my paper as she backs up the argument of one my stakeholders, Work Association Vaccine Education. Fernbach, Alison. Parental Rights And Decision Making Regarding Vaccinations: Ethical Dilemmas For The Primary Care  Journal Of The American Academy Of Nurse Practitioners 7 (2011): 336. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Alison Fernbach is a nurse practitioner and specializes in transplant surgery at Stanford Health. She received her first degree at Emory University then received her MSN and BS at Colombia University School of Nursing. Her expertise makes her a credible source along with the fact that this is a peer reviewed article. She has been the co-author on multiple different journal Bourne 1 articles, one specifically titled Journal of Pediatric Oncology The journal was published by Wiley Subscription Services Incorporated. The journal had been around since 1989 with their latest publish in 2017. This helps my paper as she endorses the compromise I provide for both organizations. This is also a peer reviewed journal article. Miller, Elizabeth. Controversies And Challenges Of Vaccination: An Interview With Elizabeth  BMC Medicine (2015): Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Professor Elizabeth Miller is currently a Consultant Epidemiologist at Public Heath England. She graduated from University College Hospital Medical School in the United Kingdom in 1968. She is received honors when receiving her Doctors of Science degree in 2008. Elizabeth Miller is currently the author or over 300 peer reviewed papers. Over the years she has engaged in projects conducting research mainly in epidemiology. Her accomplishments accounts for her credibility and also the fact that the interview was peer reviewed. This journal was published by BioMed Central Ltd. The journal has been in operation for a couple years now. This articlel has been peer reviewed. This article was chosen as it helped to back up the beliefs of the stakeholder Vaccinate Your Baby. Paterson, Pauline, et al. Vaccine Hesitancy And Healthcare  Vaccine 34.The Changing Face of Vaccines and Vaccination (2016): 6700-6706. ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Bourne 1 Vaccinate Your Baby, Every Child by Two, http://www.vaccinateyourbaby.org/index.cfm. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. The Vaccinate Your Baby campaign began in 2008 by Every Child By Two. Every Child By Two was founded in 1991 by Roselynn Carter and Betty Bumpers. Their mission is to protect individuals of our nation from vaccine preventable diseases by informing the public about the importance of scheduled vaccinations, benefits of vaccines and instilling confidence about the safety of vaccines. I chose this site as they are well known and seem to be making progress regarding influencing parents to immunize their child. World Health Association For Vaccine Education, http://novaccine.com. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. The organization was founded by a group of health care practitioners in 2014. Their mission is to promote independent thinking, personal responsibility, and social evolution. We are dedicated to the prevention of vaccine injuries and deaths through public education and awareness. I chose this organization as it was one of the more reputable sites as it relates to being against vaccination and also the fact that it relates to the public in understandable terms.