Water Resource Use and Allocation of the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapossa (ACT) and the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint (ACF) Water Basins By Randy Wamsley Water is vital to all life; civilizations have risen and fallen with the availability and quality of their water resources. As a result, conflicts are numerous and on-going throughout history, even today, disputes go unresolved. The United States have many regulatory groups, legislation, and interest groups that influence how water is used, who has rights to it, and how to maintain its quality and abundance. Despite this, due to increases in population and greater agricultural/industry need, many conflicts are complex and are difficult to resolve such as tri-state water This conflict began in August of 1990 with law suits between Florida, Georgia, and Alabama. Today, disputes continue over ownership and rights to the two adjacent water basins supplying the southeastern United States with fresh water. This system collects and transports water over the three state range. Water supply downstream is diminished compared to its natural flow due to over-consumption at it headwaters north of Atlanta, Georgia. The states of Florida and Alabama are experiencing a limited supply of freshwater causing degradation to the environment and ecology, as well as less water available for human consumption and use. After years of conflict and legal battles, no agreement has been met or kept. There are numerous stakeholders in play involving the interests of each state and many of their interests can be grouped together. This paper will focus on the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (GDNR). The Shared water resources can be restored to its natural state, and then the remaining excess can be evenly and fairly distributed between Florida and Georgia without further degradation to the environment. The water resource conflict originates with two major river basins; the Alabama, Coosa, Tallapoosa River basin (ACT) and the Apalachicola Chattahoochee, Flint River basin (ACF), as seen in the image below. In the congress charges the http://www.atlantaregional.com/environment/tri-state-water-wars United States Army Corp of Engineers with developing and maintaining navigation on waterways, flood control, and hydroelectric power production. As a result, the US Corp of Engineers built numerous dams, one of which was at the headwaters of the Chattahoochee River, just north of Atlanta. This is called the Buford Dam and the resulting lake is Lake Lanier. population was booming and required 705 million gallons of fresh water per day pumped from this and several other reservoirs (chattahoochee.org). The trickle-down effect resulted in a severe loss in water downstream causing economic and environmental hardship in Florida and limited water uses for a number of purposes. There were claims that water needs were favored over those of Florida and Alabama. All three states depend on the water supply to support their growing populations, agriculture, industry, hydropower, and maintain protected environments. Legal battles have had no resolution and the Tri-State Conservation Coalition was formed to facilitate and oversee negotiations to settle the argument. The Southern Environmental Law Center (SELC) also oversees the dispute to ensure a final outcome protects water quality and quantity, taking environmental needs into account (southernenvironment.org). To add complexity to the issue, Alabama does not have a comprehensive water plan developed and leadership failed to produce significant agreements with Alabama and Florida (chattahoochee.org). The state of Georgia felt entitled to the water and was accused of having favor with the US Corps of Engineers, being allotted such an excess of the shared water supply; Florida blamed Georgia. They routinely left Alabama and Florida in a deficit. population boom and South Georgia billion dollar agriculture industry was very dependent on reservoirs and they had control of the source, the headwaters. The legal battle lasting over 50 years has been costly to the taxpayers and no solutions have developed. In 1991, the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint (ACF) compact was underway but deadlines for deal were routinely missed and extensions granted. In 2003, Georgia and hydroelectric companies cut a deal with the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers that granted Atlanta a lot more water from Lake Lanier( 65% increase); Florida and Alabama accused Georgia of secret deals (Chapman, 2016). never had any intention to limit its water stated David Struhs, then secretary of FDEP. Georgia later promised a minimum flow at the state line to protect endangered mussels, and sturgeon during droughts, but Governor Sonny Perdue refused to cap water use and protected cotton and peanut farmers who were digging wells (Chapman, 2016). Latest news revealed a current attempt to end the long argument. The Weather Research and Forecasting Act of 2015 would authorize funding for a NOAA National Water Center to facilitate collaboration across water management agencies. It also would allow the National Oceanic and Atmosphere Administration to purchase data from the private sector for seasonal forecasting and predictions (Fitz, 2016)). This act could have benefited the cause. It was not passed. When generating a solution, all factors must be considered. Existing Legislation of both the state and federal level must be adhered to. The solution must appeal to all the stakeholders, so they benefit equally. The Florida Department of Environmental Protection wants to protect and improve the quality of its natural resources, through long- term restoration, and maintenance (dep.state.fl.us). Florida needs enough fresh water to reach the Apalachicola Bay to sustain the million dollar shellfish industry. This ecosystem has been under severe ecological stress from saltwater intrusion and low volume river flows (Chapman, 2016). The Georgia Department of Natural resources wants to maintain quality and quantity of water (gadnr.org/natural). growing population needs to be maintained. They are both charged with maintaining quality and quantity of the ACT and ACF river basins as well as meeting the needs of their social and economic obligations. A possible solution goes as followed: 1. Both states must maintain and update their comprehensive water plans routinely. 2. With help from the EPA and other agencies, determine the minimum requirements of water needed to restore and maintain the ecosystem in the effected region. This quantity of water must remain unaltered as to sustain the natural system. 3. Source alternative water supplies to ease the burden on the effected river basins and develop conservation methods. 4. The remaining quantity may then be divided amount the states based on social and economic need; per capita, per acres of farmland, etc. This must be as fair as possible and also with growing population in consideration. 5. Any and all excess of water must remain in the system. (Plan is similar to proposal in (Chapman, 2016).) This plan levels the playing field by charging the states with maintaining their respective environments and allots water based on quantifiable needs. With comprehensive water plans, census data and projections, and other resources, all three states can state their specific needs and come to an agreement that is fair to all. If an agreement were to fail, as in the past, the federal government needs to step in and mediate. No final deal can be made without the US Corps of Engineers (Chapman, 2016). Florida would benefit with the restoration of the Apalachicola Bay, as well as the local ecology. The return of fresh water flow to the gulf will replenish shrimping and shellfish industry, thus providing economic stability in the region. Alabama would have alternative sources to support their growing cities. Several occurrences of drought in the past have proven that they depend on the ACT and ACF river basins alone, they need other solutions. Desalination and reclaimed water could benefit by reducing the amount of water drawn from natural sources. Both the Florida Department of Environment Protection and Georgia Department of Natural Resources must know what impacts their water use has on the environment. The Coosa River (part of the ACT river basin) has seen mussels and 36 species of snails go extinct due to damming of headwaters. Large fish such as the Alabama Sturgeon are on the brink. Currently there are 24 endangered aquatic species, 15 threatened species, and 4 candidate species awaiting federal protection under the Endangered Species Act in this river system (Chitwood, 2016). Restoring river systems and maintaining their natural state is more critical than ever. As proved time and again, the impact and effects go unforeseen until it is too late, the destruction of natural systems tends to hit hard in the years to come. If we wish to keep a continuous supply, we must maintain the state of the source. Works Cited 1. Fritz, Angela. A decades-long, tri-state water war killed a bipartisan weather bill last  The Washington Post (2016). Web. 2. Chapman, Dan. could be answer to Georgia-Florida water The Atlanta Journal-Constitution (2016). Web. 3. https://chattahoochee.org/our-work/tri-state-water-conflict/tri-state-conservation- coalition/. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. 4. https://www.southernenvironment.org/cases-and-projects/tri-state-water-wars- al-ga-fl. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. 5. http://floridawatercoalition.org/. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. 6. Chitwood, Frank1. Who Owns Coosa River? Impact On The Tri-State Water Wars Muted By Private Ownership Of Riparian  Virginia Environmental Law Journal 34.2 (2016): 230-254. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 23 Jan. 2017. 7. http://www.dep.state.fl.us/mainpage/default.htm. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. 8. http://www.gadnr.org/natural. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017.