Busaidi 1 Abdulrahim Al Busaidi ENC 1102 Ms. Collins 29 January 2017 Integration of Technology in has advanced our generation to become one of the most successful generations ever, as it had a huge impact on the people and the organizations all around the world. Technology made our lives much easier and accessible. Due to this fact, most people tend to integrate technology to their entire foundations to make it comprehensible for them. Education is considered one of the main core origins that create our society. Therefore, incorporating technology to this origin might enhance it to become more essential that it ever was. Multiple participants will be affected by this change. They must be aware of the consequences that it might bring with it. Consequently, is technology going to develop the way that people reach out to education or is it going to add more issues to this is well known of the huge benefits that it can create. Arguably, we cannot just ignore the setbacks that might occur if we incorporate it to education. Organizations that revolves round education always tend to want to introduce the technologies to their systems to make the process much more compassionate. To illustrate, schools always need to keep record files for every student. Paper Busaidi 2 get lost or damaged easily. Therefore, making an online record will be much more secure and there will be less chances of it being damaged. Multiple stakeholders are going to be affected by this change. Students, teachers and board members are all in stake in this situation. Most students use technology on daily basis, adapting to it would not be a big issue for and Lowther (2010) surveyed 1,382 public school teachers and found that teachers who believed that technology positively affected learning were more likely to use technology in (Jung Won, Shannon & Wolf, 107). quote shows that the students do not have any issues with the addition of technology. Instead it is beneficial for them. They become more excited to learn education and this will lead to more future production. The real issue is between the board members and the teachers. Both stakeholders strive to achieve the same goal but there are boundaries that set them back from each members are the ones who decide whether the technology will bring good to the process of the education. They consider multiple factors while they plan the whole process of integrating technology. Costs and installation processes are very essential at this point. They expect the new system to work as soon as it is installed. On the other hand, teachers are the ones who are going to use the new system the most. Donald G. Knezek results of their work -- be it new proposals, new knowledge or solutions, persuasive advocacy (in a variety of interactive media formats), or creative ideas and expression -- in ways that previous generations could only proves that teachers are able to work Busaidi 3 harder on their own to make sure their students get the information spot-on. At the same time, they put some effort and discover new methods to share the needed material to their students. Both those stakeholders want to achieve similar goals, but getting used to the system might take a very long time and it will be time consuming. However, Board members do not want any delays, which will affect the learning of the best way to fix this issue is to create a tutorial course, which will be for a specific amount of days, preferably a week. During this week the teachers will learn and find out about the instructions of the new system. Once a day they learn about a specific feature in the system. Based on their learning, they will be tested by the end of the course. The results of the quiz will demonstrate knowledge of the teacher in the new system. Board members can then decide whether they should extend the course or end it. This process might be time consuming, but it will avoid any future issues that might occur. Teacher can be unique while using the system; they can create their own ways to deliver had used their laptops to structure their resources on their own. The results showed that laptop is a powerful tool that could enable teachers to create teaching resources that are geared to the (Khambari, Luan, Nida & Ayub, 558). quote illustrates how the teachers will find numerous ways just to deliver the information to the students. While at the same time, making it simpler and accessible for the Busaidi 4 conclude, education is still the number one factor to evolve our generation and society. Technology may assist if you use it in the right I said earlier, the learning process can best be defined as an exchange. That exchange requires both parties to actively participate in order to get the most out of the exchange for (Benjamin, 1). achieving a goal, there will be barriers, but it is not that hard to avoid them if stakeholders work together and fix the issues. Benjamin mentions is a great aid in my learning. Not only does much of it allow the professor or students to communicate knowledge and ideas in new and exciting ways, it also eases the ability to then access that information for later are the ones who are inducing the education and stakeholders must guarantee their satisfaction while they are use the new enhanced technological system, as well as to create a better learning Busaidi 5 Work Cited 1. Hur, Jung Won, David Shannon, and Sara Wolf. An Investigation of Relationships Between Internal and External Factors Affecting Technology Integration in  Journal of Digital Learning in Teacher Education 32.3 (2016): 105-14. Web. 2. Khambari, Mas Nida Md., Wong Su Luan, and Ahmad Fauzi Mohd Ayub. Technology in Mathematics Teaching: The Pros and  Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences 8 (2010): 555-60. Web. 3. Weber, Scott. Addressing Technology Pros and  Journal of the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners J Amer Acad Nurse Practitioners 17.11 (2005): n. pag. Web. 4. Boss, Suzie. Technology Integration: What Experts  RSS. N.p., 2011. Web. 10 Sept. 2016. 5. Center for  Center for Teaching. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Sept. 2016.