Cong Xu ENC 1102 Kristen Collison 01/29/2017 Globalization on Linguistic Diversity Globalization has contributed in our society since the dawn of time and has been spreading in every area through the sharing of politics, cultures and economics. Globalization has transformed the way humans live through the invention of machines and the spreading of technology. Hence, society has been reunited and influenced on a different level via the sharing of diversified culture and the climate change issue, etc. Culture has been impacted due to globalization and this has caused the diversification in language to deteriorate in a sense that people have to study international language which is seen to be globally adapted, mainly English, in order to keep up with the surrounding in getting a better education and jobs. In particular, people who speaks a minor language tends to forsake his/her mother tongue along with their culture to adapt more into the latest trend to keep up with this world resulting in a large number of languages to disappear. In reference to the book Death, 1 human language will disappear every 2 weeks for the next 100 years (Crystal 19). In total, the number of languages are decreasing but globalization do create some new languages too. According to Globalization as a Reflection of Cultural the writer mentioned that English has been an international language which is paradoxically contributing to language diversity via mixed culture (Witalisz 8). In a nutshell, some linguistic experts believe that globalization is the reason for minority languages to disappear, and that people should take action to save these languages because language diversity is very important to humans. On the other hand, others believe that people do not need to worry so much on saving these minor languages since globalization is helping the preservation of linguistic diversity and saving endangered languages is unavailing. Although these linguistics have different view on this issues, there is a compromise for both parties which is; promoting minority cultures that can be used as an attraction for learning while eliminating those languages which attract people to learn. This world has been simplified for human convenience that English as become a main language in communication but this tends to lead to the death of other languages. Quoted by Garland Eric in the article Minority Language Be Saved? Globalization vs. economics and media are changing the face of culture around the global; reducing the number of languages that humans (211). Nearly 3000 languages are predicted to become extinct in the next 100 years (212). Thus, people should do something in improving the loss of linguistic diversity in this world as it means more than itself. This is because, language diversity is a symbol of cultural diversity and according to David Crystal, a British linguist he said language an element of culture itself but rather it is the base for all culture within (39). Meaning, the disappearing of languages in turn represent the death of culture. Nonetheless, languages can be viewed as a identity and in definition identity is what makes a group of people recognizable (Crystal 39). Take a look at the world, each country within has different languages which is used as an identity to set themselves apart; for instance people speak different languages which an individual can be recognized by and this language can be linked to their education level. So, with the disappearing of languages comes the disappearing of identity as well. The idea of preserving a certain language is possible as it has been successfully done before, for instant the rebirth of Hebrew language was a success due to the reinforcement of public law to learn Hebrew from their children and any business dealt or government activity should be in Hebrew (Garland 2). And these was a major success as Hebrew is still a language used for people have to stop losing languages and do something for endangered languages. Although some linguist experts agree that globalization is one of the reasons that leads small languages to extinction it is also causing language diversity prevention in some way. First of all, globalization provides more platforms to save endangered languages. Mark Turin, the author of Helps Preserve Endangered argued that globalization has widen the access to technology which can support indigenous and scholars in documenting language for a certain culture which will last forever and help protect our shared linguistic heritage for the future generations (1). Secondly, people come from all other the world and mixed together because of globalization which is creating new languages because the world seems a lot smaller now. Witalisz came up with the term which means the numerous classifications or modifications of borrowed language elements (5). Owing to linguistic research Rise of English: The Language of Globalization in China and the European author Anne Johnson gave an example of hybridity which generally takes place when Chinese language mixed with English (140). For instance, is directly translated from the Chinese pin yin means starving in English, or to have meaning shameful thus these is called hybridized English. Backing up with Turin and Johnson that globalization is helping preserve language diversity since there is technology which enabled recording to be easier and faster than previous generations and it mixes different cultures to give birth to new languages. Hence, there is no need to find ways in preserving endangered languages. Moreover, protecting a minor languages is more complex than it seems and even if a languages is being preserved there is not guarantee that it ever be at a stake of disappearing since globalization will be around the society. A German author , Anthony Onyemachi Agwuele gave two reasons in showing the futility of saving endangered languages in this article Globalization, Dying Languages and the Futility of Saving said that language endangerment is irreversible against globalization as globalization will be around for a while and it going anywhere. Two, there are groups of speakers who are willing to shift to mainstream languages as their own languages lack the prospect that makes them a global player (1). Indeed, language diversity is important, however saving them are not necessary under the pressure of globalization since globalization in turn is creating many new words for humans. Majority of linguists, anthropologists and researchers has come upon an agreement that language diversity is very important to the society but is it necessary for people to make more effort and investment on saving minority languages. Paradoxically, the world is gaining new languages while losing it on the other hand as a matter of fact, things in this world last forever. The answer is that people can still keep their own mother tongue and not give into globalization because these minority languages/ culture can be a main attraction for tourism. Those cultures are worth investing on because if does bring in profit for a countries economy. According to Deidre article Any Means Necessary? Tourism, Economics, and the Preservation of he pin points that is the most direct beneficiary of cultural (1). This has been proven that tourism is the best way in promoting a culture and language while driving income into a country. Specifically, people can promote certain selected minor cultures or heritage to attract foreigners as many developed country have much preservation of antique heritage due to globalization. This can be the main reason in encouraging people to study their minor language while making profits at the same time. In addition, tourists that visited can bring some learnt cultures with them; enriching language and culture diversity. In contrary, there has been dispute on globalization of linguistic diversity but there will always be a way to maintain the best interest while keeping up with globalization. Not everyone will see a value in minor language but they can see the importance by using language to differentiate one another. Works Cited Agwuele, Anthony Onyemachi. dying languages and the futility of saving In: TRANS. Internet-Zeitschrift Kulturwissenschaften. Sep 2010. Web. 11 Sep. 2016. Anne, Johnson. The Rise of English: The Language of Globalization in China and the European Macalester International. Macalester College. 2009. Web. 11 Sep.2016. Crystal, David. Language Death. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge UP, 2000. Print. Deidre. By Any Means Necessary? Tourism, Economics, and the Preservation of  Cultural Survival. 04 June 2014. Web. 11 Sept. 2016. Garland, Eric. Can Minority Languages Be Saved? Globalization Vs.  Futurist 40.4 (2006): 31-36. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 11 Sep. 2016. Turin, Mark. Globalization Helps Preserve Endangered  The MacMillan Center. YaleGlobalonline, 3 Dec. 2013. Web. 11 Sept. 2016. Witalisz, Alicja. Linguistic Globalization as A Reflection of Cultural  Annual Conference of the Global Awareness Society International. May 2011. Web. 9 Sep. 2016.