Daya 1 Joshua Daya Ms. Collins ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Project 1- The Death Penalty The topic of the death penalty is a very interesting topic that continues to create controversy to this day. Even though the topic of the death penalty is a worldwide topic, this conflict will be between groups and people in the US only. There are different sides to this conflict on whether or not the death penalty should be used as a form of punishment for the guilty defendant. The morality of using the death penalty is a point that is discussed often when people go against the death penalty. It just seems like there are simply two stark contrasts/sides to this controversial topic. There needs to some form of resolution or compromise between the sides. For this project, the two stakeholders being presented for the topic of the death penalty are weleylowe.com and The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. The following two stakeholders have seemingly incompatible goals when it comes to the death penalty. The stakeholder weleylowe.com has the goals of enforcing the death penalty as a form of punishment for the guilty here in the United States. On the other hand, the stakeholder The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (ncadp) desires for the death penalty to be completely removed from all states in the US. Due to these seemingly incompatible goals between these two stakeholders, there continues to be conflict which is why they have not come to a resolution. However, it is possible for these two stakeholders to come to a resolution that can work for both of them as long as they can work together and they are willing to follow through with a given resolution. The two stakeholders must provide full cooperation with each other which can then Daya 2 lead to a peaceful situation in future conflicts between stakeholders in the topic of the death penalty. The first stakeholder in this project is wesleylowe.com. On the website it brings up several subtopics that are widely discussed when defending or going against the death penalty. This stakeholder brings up debatable topics on the death penalty including the cost of the death penalty, the racial problems associated with death penalties, the morality of capital punishment and even brings up religion into the discussion of the death penalty. The website utilizes all of these topics in the defense of using the death penalty as a form of punishment for any guilty person or party. For example, the stakeholder discusses the deterrent effect of capital punishment. According to the website of the stakeholder, it brings up that argument states that the death penalty does not deter murder. Dismissing capital punishment on that basis requires us to eliminate all prisons as well because they do not seem to be any more effective in the deterrence of This website shows a firm belief in the death penalty as a valid punishment to the people deemed guilty in a court case. The website brings up the debate of capital punishment vs. life without parole to further back up the usage of the death penalty. explained that it would be better for one to be executed rather than give them the chance of coming back to harm other people in the future. The website brings up the example of who was serving a 48-year sentence for the 1973 murder of a cab driver when he escaped a road work gang and stabbed to death a storekeeper named Gadys Nopwasky in a 1988 robbery that netted This stakeholder presents several points that make sense for one discussing the death penalty as well as trying to defend the usage of it. Additional support for the stakeholder website weleylowe.com can be found in a scholarly journal study titled of Variation in Pro-Death Penalty Attitudes in China: An Daya 3 Exploratory Study of Chinese Students at Home and This study focuses on the views of different Chinese groups in different surveys that analyzes the amount of them that support the death penalty and the reason for this support. Granted, the authors of this article and study explain that there can be some Western influences on the Chinese but the death penalty has been there for a long time. According to Liang, Chinese slogans such as killer should be one as a warning to a and a chicken to scare the reflect the deep-rooted Chinese traditional cultural belief in retribution and deterrence of capital So been well established that capital punishment can serve as an effective tool in preventing or at lessen the rate of future crime in the country of China and the different factors such as economic factors relate to at least more than 50% of the different groups surveyed having a pro-death penalty mentality. The second stakeholder in this project is the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (ncadp). This stakeholder has the goal build a diverse and powerful national constituency favoring death penalty repeal The stakeholder website also states that they wish to assist other worldly organizations in their fight to abolish the death penalty. The NCADP also brought up the same topics that the first stakeholder presented such as with racial problems, the costs of the death penalty, and problems with executing innocent individuals. For example, the stakeholder website discusses the problems with the current justice system and how people of color are treated unfairly and how this is damaging the justice system. The website brings up that in 1990, multiple studies were ran and 82% of the studies found that the race influenced the likelihood of the defendant being charged with capital murder or receiving the death (ncadp). It is interesting to point out these figures reflect the way society is and the racial conflicts there. Daya 4 Additional support for the ncadp stakeholder comes from an article titled Case Against the Death This article comes from the American Civil Liberties Union. Similar to the ncadp, they bring up valid points which can further emphasize the need for the complete prohibition of the death penalty in the US. This article references human rights in the constitution and how capital punishment violates those human rights. Hugo Adam Bedau writes, punishment is cruel and death penalty violates the constitutional guarantee of equal (Bedau). The article talks about how the justice system is unfair and treats people of color differently and much harshly compared to white people under the same circumstances. Therefore, the article by Bedau shows that there needs to be a major change in the justice system especially when it comes to the forms of punishment used on people considered guilty. This is due to the human rights that are violated as well as the conflicts with American society in general. Even though it may seem that the two stakeholders and the issue of the death penalty may have no possible solution, there actually can be one that can satisfy both stakeholders given that they are willing to cooperate with each other. The compromise is straight forward and in the name: death-in prison. The name explains exactly what the compromise contains. This compromise is able to satisfy both stakeholders in that the death penalty is not used but this method utilizes deterrent effects promised by the contemporary death penalty (Covey). They would be forced to be incarcerated for life with no chance whatsoever of having parole. Similar to the death penalty trials, this kind of case would still require a special type of trial. This compromise would serve as a very effective solution for the two presented stakeholders. It incorporates elements from both sides to make this a valid compromise for the issue of the death penalty. Daya 5 So through this project two stakeholders were presented with incompatible goals. Weleylowe.com and The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty had goals that definitely contradicted each other. Fortunately, through the cooperation of both stakeholders they are able to reach the compromise of death-in prison that utilizes some goals from both stakeholders for a very effective solution. Daya 6 Works Cited Bedau, Hugo. Case Against the Death American Civil Liberties Union, 2012. Web. Accessed 28 January 2017 Bin Liang, Hong Lu, Terance D. Miethe, Lening Zhang; Sources of Variation in Pro-Death Penalty Attitudes in China: An Exploratory Study of Chinese Students at Home and Abroad. Br J Criminol 2005; 46 (1): 119-130. Covey, Russell. in Prison: The Right Death Penalty Race, Racism, and The Law, 2012. Accessed 28 January 2017 Lowe, Wesley. Death Penalty in The United Wesley Lowe, 2011. Web. Accessed 28 January 2017 of the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, n.d. Web. Accessed 28 January 2017