Son 1 Declan Son Instructor Kristen Collins ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Protection Against Substance Abuse Addiction can happen to anyone. They come with dangerous consequences that affect the addicts physically and mentally. With an altered mind state, they cannot think clearly and make regrettable decisions that allow harms to come to them or people close by. Drug Policy Alliance is an organization dedicated to promoting drug policies based on compassion, health and human the Drug Policy n.p.). This group helps advance policies on drug use and promote safety to give control back to individuals. On the other hand, Mothers Against Drunk Driving aims to end drunk driving and prevent underage drinking. With the support of volunteers and sponsors, they promote awareness and new strategies to achieve their goal. Both organizations want to provide a safer community by seeking solutions to reduce the repercussions that come with the use of harmful substances. With this common ground, they may be able to achieve their visions more easily by utilizing each strengths and covering their weaknesses. Drug Policy Alliance and Mothers Against Drunk Driving need to cooperate in order to effectively provide support to those affected by substance use and implement new tactics to minimize the effects on the society. Drug Policy Alliance (DPA) is a drug policy reform movement that aims to regulate the use of drugs with science, compassion, health and human rights in mind. It formed numerous Son 2 programs that assist in serving the public with a goal to reduce disease, death, and pain. They provide counseling and treatment for people struggling with addiction and reduce the spread of HIV and hepatitis C through sterile syringe exchange programs. DPA also raise awareness about common addictive drugs, ranging from heroin to synthetic cathinone, educating the public about each type of drugs with research-based evidence. Their vision consists of a society in which drug users are not incarcerated for what they put inside their body, but for crimes committed against others. DPA has a crucial role in making a national impact as they have successfully reformed laws previously. Their recent victories include the legalization and regulation of Marijuana for both commercial and medical use within the last few years. involvement in this issue has also paved the way to decriminalization for possession of small amounts of marijuana. With prominent figures on the honorary board in the fields of business, law, medicine, media and politics, they have successfully implemented new drug policies beyond the states. South America to Europe, and in countries including Australia and Iran -- health-centered drug policies are being implemented that are proving to be remarkably more effective at improving public safety and health than outright the Drug Policy n.p.). This organization utilizes all their resources to inhibit the harms from the drug war and give back control to individuals on a global scale. Even though both these organizations want to protect the health and wellbeing from substance use, their approach to accomplishing it is vastly different. Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) began with the death of the daughter who got in a car accident because of a drunk driver Us: n.p.). With an intention to reduce drunk driving from occurring and prevent underage drinking, the organization hopes to make the road Son 3 safer and maintain the safety of teens and communities. To achieve this, they have successfully passed a law that requires drivers with DUI conviction to install an ignition interlock into their vehicles n.p.). This technology connects to the ignition system and the driver must blow into it to measure their blood alcohol level. MADD provide support to families by providing all the tools they need to get through the struggle. With the partnership and sponsorship from big-name companies such as NFL, StateFarm, Uber, and Google, they are able to expand their audience and share their ideology of reducing the harms caused by alcohol consumption all over the nation. Although DPA and MADD come from two different backgrounds with unique approaches to tackling public health, they work towards the same goal. Their common ground traces back to the cause of substance abuse. According to Richmond-Rakerd, findings show that there is an in both the familial and unique environmental liability to early substance involvement and later disorder, suggesting that there are shared pathways of risks for nicotine, alcohol, and (957). These organizations have an exceptional connection that could allow them to start an effective collaboration project to successfully accomplish their mission by addressing the liabilities linked to familial and environmental influence. However, strategic plan to surrender all laws regarding the prohibition of substances intervenes with philanthropy. MADD wants to put more restrictions on alcohol to prevent drunk driving incidents and underage drinking. On that note, DPA points out that prohibitions will not work, as seen in the 1920s with the alcohol prohibition which led to production and sale of liquor, the proliferation of speakeasies, and rise in gang n.p.). This organization believes that drug prohibitions today have followed the same paths and the only Son 4 results that came out of them were wasted money, lives, and opportunities. If both associations can overlook their pieces of evidence and view from each perspectives, a compromise can be reached. Their common grounds can unite them to provide better access to resources to help substance users and provide a safer environment to the community. To start the foundations for a compromise between Drug Policy Alliance and Mothers Against Drunk Driving, both ends must sacrifice a little to achieve their common goal. These two organizations will come together to form an affiliation that would work on a new policy to address the dangers of substance use. The policy would set a certain time frame in which the use of all substance, drugs, tobacco, and alcohol, are permitted. It would be late in the night, around 11 p.m. to 3 a.m., so that majority of the community will not be disturbed. Limitations would accompany this policy in order to reduce harms. During this set curfew, individuals caught driving under the influence will be subjected to a heavy fine. If harms caused by the intoxicated or drugged arise, they will be charged for assault and battery or felony murder. Given the predicted prevalence of alcohol and drug consumption, these charges would discourage the possible rise in motor vehicle accidents which is leading cause of death among youths and young adults aged 16-25 years in the United (Azofeifa et. al. 1325). In addition, packagings for all substances must be standardized with health warnings and plain color design. As stated in the article by Moodie, of cigarette packaging is considered important for brand selection among young people, and pack color alone is sufficient to mislead youth about product strength and (Moodie et. al. 104). Although the article centralizes on cigarettes specifically, its findings can also be applied to alcohols and drugs. Using an unattractive color, such as a mix of green and brown, would associate negative meanings with the substances and Son 5 entice them to drop their habits. A heavy 20% tax on all sales of substances would also be imposed on top of the mandatory state tax. All the earnings from the taxes would go directly to DPA and affiliation to fund their projects on further improving the quality of public health. In this compromise, Drug Policy Alliance grants the freedom to people to put whatever substances in their body without punishment, except for crimes committed against others. The limitations enforced with the policy may hinder the control of substance use, but it is necessary to meet the demands from Mothers Against Drunk Driving. The new policy would deter the drunks and drugged from driving due to the severe consequences. Teenagers and young adults are less likely to get into these substance use with restricted guidelines on marketing by tobacco, alcohol, and drug companies. The large tax would also prevent people from buying and supports their revenue growth to strengthen their organizational effectiveness. In position, the only downside is that there will always be a few exceptions. The wealthy are invulnerable to these policies because they would be able to afford all that they want. The new affiliation between DPA and MADD could potentially revolutionize the way people use harmful substances. The common grounds that they share can be mutually achieved, to inhibit the harms that can be caused by substance use. These two organizations can still complete their missions by creating an affiliation that would use their resources and partnership with other organizations to implement a new policy that would limit the consumption and use of drugs, alcohols, and tobaccos. The adoption of this policy would lead to a drastic decrease in crime rates, fewer tax dollars wasted in controlling the drug wars, and lower rates of motor vehicle accidents, among other advantages. If other countries also follow in the same footsteps, the benefits would expand and positively influence cities all over the world. Since the use of Son 6 illegal and harmful substances cannot be stopped, having a better control on the issue can alleviate the impact on the rest of the populations. (WC: 1534) Son 7 Works Cited the Drug Policy Policy Alliance, n.d. Web. 27 January 2017. Us: Against Drunk Driving, n.d. Web. 27 January 2017. Azofeifa, Alejandro, Margaret E. Mattson, and Rob Lyerla. Driving Under The Influence Of Alcohol, Marijuana, And Alcohol And Marijuana Combined Among Persons Aged 16-25 Years - United States,  Morbidity & Mortality Weekly Report 64.48 (2015): 1325-1329. Search Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Against Drunk Driving, n.d. Web. 27 January 2017. Moodie, Crawford, et al. Young Perceptions Of Cigarette Packaging And Plain Packaging: An Online  & Tobacco Research 14.1 (2012): 98-105. Academic Search Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Networks, 2009. Web. 29 January 2017. Richmond-Rakerd, Leah S., et al. Age At First Use And Later Substance Use Disorder: Shared Genetic And Environmental Pathways For Nicotine, Alcohol, And  Of Abnormal Psychology 125.7 (2016): 946-959. Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.