Li 1 Zhenwei Li Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 (036) Jan 29th, 2017 Barry Brook and Ian Lowe on solution for Climate Change Barry Brook and Ian Lowe are two credible scientists who are involved in solving the energy problem of Climate Change. Today, Climate Change, or global warming, has become one of the most urgent issues in the world. According to NASA and many other climate scholars, the main cause of current global warming trend is excessive emission of which blocked heat on the earth from escaping and directly caused the average temperature of the earth to go up (NASA). Barry William Brook, a scientist in Australia, is an ARC Australian Laureate Professor and Chair of Environmental Sustainability at the University of Tasmania in the Faculty of Science. (Wikipedia) Because of Global warming, according to Professor Barry Brook, we are losing ice from high mountains, Antarctica, and southern hemisphere, causing the average sea level of the earth rapidly raise (Barry Brook). Thus, in order to mitigate the severe situation of global warming, emission must be largely reduced, and humans have to find a new energy resource that is cleaner and more efficient. From this point, Nuclear energy is said to be the best fit energy resource to face the climate change. On the other hand, some argue that nuclear energy cannot take the role of future main energy resource. Ian Lowe is Emeritus Professor of Science, Technology and Society and former Head of the School of Science at Griffith University, as well as an adjunct professor at Sunshine Coast University and Flinders University. (Wikipedia) Although Barry and Ian have different point of view on if nuclear energy should be the solution for climate change, they have the same goal of finding a Li 2 new reliable source of energy and mitigate the climate change. If they were to work together and do more research on the energy sources, they will find a better solution for climate change. According to the article Global Warming Impacts from UCSUSA website, global warming is a severe problem and is already showing significant and costly effects on our communities, health, and climate. (UCSUSA) It is having the most impact on coastal and low- lying communities since the rise of sea-level is still constantly accelerating, putting massive amount of human properties under risk. (UCSUSA) The article mentions: we take immediate action to reduce global warming emissions, these impacts will continue to intensify, grow ever more costly and damaging, and increasingly affect the entire planet including you, your community, and your Barry brook is a big supporter for nuclear energy in the solution for global warming. In Potential for Worldwide Displacement of Fossil-Fuel Electricity by Nuclear Energy in Three Decades Based on Extrapolation of Regional Deployment Data, one of the articles Barry has published, after analyzing empirical data from the Swedish and French light water reactor programs of the 1960s to 1990s, he concluded that nuclear energy has great a potential for a large-scale globally expansion to replace current fossil fuel power. (Barry Brook) Barry also states in this article, more conservative projections that take into account probable constraints our modelling estimates that the global share of fossil-fuel-derived electricity could be replaced within He is very confident, based on his modelling of data and estimation, that his plan is going to be the most efficient in treating the earth climate and to meet stringent greenhouse-gas mitigation (Barry Brook). In the Introduction of the article, Barry states that human agricultural and industrial activities have mainly been responsible for the emission of carbon dioxide. Countries like China and India are responsible for a big percentage of the total emission of those Li 3 due to their large demand of cheap and reliable energy resources to fuel the rapid growth of economy. (Barry Brook) In order to mitigate the current global climate situation, an urgent need for a reliable energy resource that is able to handle the level of electricity demand and cut down the emission of carbon dioxide at the same time. Barry further demonstrates his point as he provides an example of what nuclear capacity impact on carbon dioxide emission is. Sweden is a great example of a country that her gross domestic product (GDP) per capita while reducing its per capita carbon dioxide emissions through a rapid expansion of nuclear power (Barry Brook). According to research, Sweden unintentionally achieved to reduce the emission, reduction in CO2 emissions was not an objective but rather a fortunate by-product, since the effect on the climate by greenhouse-gas emissions was not a factor in political discourse until much more (Barry Brook) As introduced, Sweden decided to replace fossil fuel by nuclear plants for other reasons, power was introduced to reduce dependence on imported oil and to protect four major Swedish rivers from hydropower (Barry Brook). Base on the data found in World Bank Database, from 1960 to 1990 Sweden appears to be most rapid installation of low-CO2 electricity capacity on a per capita basis of any nation in thus becoming the best example on whether nuclear power should be expanded in the future or not. (Barry Brook) Though many think that nuclear power is a good replacement for fossil energy, Ian Lowe, on the other hand, has a different point of view on energy solution for global warming. In the 2010 book Why vs. Why: Nuclear Power, Barry Brook and Ian Lowe discuss and articulate the debate about nuclear power. (Wikipedia) Barry first listed 6 points on why nuclear power is able to solve the problem of climate change, energy and energy efficiency solve the energy and climate crises; nuclear fuel is virtually unlimited and packs a huge energy punch; Li 4 new technology solves the nuclear  problem; nuclear power is the safest energy option; advanced nuclear power will strengthen global security; nuclear true costs are lower than either fossil fuels or renewables; nuclear power can lead the clean  (Wikipedia). To refuse points, Ian Lowe listed 6 reasons, namely power solution is not a fast enough response to climate change; it is too expensive; the need for baseload electricity is exaggerated; the problem of waste remains unresolved; it will increase the risk of nuclear war; there are safety concerns; there are better (Ian Lowe) Ian Lowe, in one of articles he published online (Academia.edu), states that he would even support nuclear energy if it is the only effective way of slowing climate change, but he because nuclear waste is a big problem to take care of and there are, in fact, other sources of energy that are eligible for slowing the global warming. (Ian Lowe) He further points out that nuclear power is not fast enough to respond to climate change, neither it is affordable for most countries, power is certainly not a fast enough response to climate change. In Australia, for example, a strongly pro-nuclear government committee concluded that it would take to build one nuclear reactor from scratch. It proposed a crash programme of 25 reactors by 2050 but then calculated that this would not actually reduce carbon-dioxide emissions; it would only slow the growth rate. Nuclear power is also (Ian Lowe) To demonstrate that renewable energy sources are reliable and doable, he has come up with a 6-point plan. The plan includes, up a domestic emissions trading scheme; adopting electricity from renewable sources completely by 2050; Installing solar hot water system in all new dwellings; introducing minimum fuel efficiency standards for new vehicles; purchasing out the existing subsides for fossil fuel use (5 billion per year) over 5 years; extending to all major domestic Li 5 appliances and commercial energy-using equipment the system of minimum efficiency (Ian Lowe) Although Ian Lowe and Barry Brook have different views on whether nuclear energy should be widely introduced to the world to slow down the climate change or not, both of them share the same goal of trying to ease the tension of global warming and to find the best energy solution for the world to fight against it. In fact, if Ian Lowe and Barry Brook are both willing to take a step back and allow room for agreement, they will make a great research partner with each other. To satisfy Barry Brooke, Ian Lowe needs to convince him with evidence and research result that Renewable energy and energy efficiency may actually solve the climate crisis. Also, better alternatives that are usable need to be introduced. To satisfy Lowe, his concerns for nuclear energy need to be eliminated. Further research on the safety of nuclear power need to be done and safety need to be assured. The problem of nuclear waste need to be solved. Barry must give up his opinion that renewable energy may not solve the climate crises and do further research with Ian. Ian Lowe must give up his opinion that the problem of nuclear remain may be remain unsolved. He need to work with Barry and research on those problems and eventually come up with a specific usable alternative with nuclear power. Also, research and report on whether Renewable energy is reliable or not need to be investigated and agreed by both Ian and Barry. Real life experiment also need to be done to see if those renewable energy sources are actual stable and reliable. Once the reliability is ensured, both stakeholders should come to agreement that renewable energy can be recognized as one of the solution for Climate Change. For further agreement and compromise, both stakeholders need to work together to gather the research and report for the safety and treatment for nuclear waste. Once the safety for nuclear Li 6 waste is ensured, they can come up with a better energy solution for climate change involving both nuclear power and renewable power. Li 7  Brave New Climate. N.p., 05 June 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dunbar, Brian. NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 10 reasons why climate change is the issue of the  EARTH HOUR. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. for Climate NASA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Barry Brook  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.