DONG 1 Yongfeng Dong Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 01/29/17 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Nobody ever thought that learning institutions would be establishments that are marred with frequent gun attacks. are safe sanctuaries for learning, and they are endangered by the presence of claims the Women Against Gun Violence. In contrast to this, the National Rifle Association reiterates that current state laws and school policies against concealed firearms favor dangerous Many people in America support the idea of students not carrying guns to schools. While organizations may have a conflict and debate on whether guns should be brought to school or not, there may be reasonable restrictions that could be placed on listening to both sides on the concealed carry laws where both parties can arrive at a compromise position. The Women Against Gun Violence is a national center that mainly focuses on the provision of comprehensive legal expertise in supporting the prevention of violence caused as a result of guns. It promotes the control of gun usage through the publication of information based on gun laws. The National Rifle Association is a non-profit organization located in America that advocates for gun rights. The association informs its members on the bills related to firearms and directly lobbies for and against the legislation. Furthermore, it is the oldest organization in the United States that continuously advocates for civil rights. The Women Against Gun Violence (WAGV) is interested in public law. The center provides legal assistance and educates the community, policymakers and the media about public DONG 2 health, financial and human consequences of gun violence (WAGV) to oppose gun violence and promote gun control (Terry). In addition to this, WAGV publishes information on gun control and gun laws. The center has been active in the promotion of gun control ordinances and spearheads the litigation to defend the laws on gun control against the challenges imposed. According to WAGV, guns have no place in American schools. WAGV argues that guns should not be allowed in the schools of America. Numerous tragedies in schools have happened before around the country revolving guns. For instance, Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 4 th , 2012 where a gunman killed six adults and 20 children in Newtown, Connecticut then he committed suicide afterward. Another attack was at Virginia Tech where a lone gunman killed 32 people. Those who died were mostly students, and this is proof enough that guns should not be carried to school (WAGV). These instances demonstrate the shattering consequence that guns can have in schools as well as the surrounding communities. WAGV claims that the calls that are made for children and their teachers to own guns and allow them to carry the weapons to school will lead to further injuries and deaths. Indeed, shootings that take place in schools scare and shock everyone since schools are considered to be free from gun attacks that are very frequent in some other establishments. Between December 2012 and February 2014, there have been at least 44 shootings that have taken place in schools, in the United States that include fatal and nonfatal assaults, unintentional shootings and suicides. The US Department of Education and Justice states that a minimum of 50 deaths of students the age of 5-18 years have happened when they are not in school. Moreover, youths have committed suicide in off school property in more than 140 instances (WAGV). An estimation of 1% of the homicides of the students that happen in the United States occur within DONG 3 the school, during school events or on their way to school. During the academic year of 2010- 2011, there was an average one suicide or homicide of a youth in school per 3.5 million students. WAGV argues that since the constitution deemed schools as a zone where guns should not be found, gun violence has significantly reduced in such areas. Since the adoption of these laws that restrict the usage of guns within learning institutions back in the 1990s, homicide rate has decreased. The proposals made to rescind the Gun-Free School Zones Act and equip the school teachers with guns as one of the solutions to curb the uncommon cases of gun attacks in schools is counter-productive and dangerous. WAGV argues that teachers do not receive training on law enforcement and their primary objective is to be role models and educators. To avoid gun violence, focus should be on educating the students on the threats they are exposed to with the presence of guns and a constant reminder be made to the owners of these firearms to safely secure the firearms. On the other hand, the National Rifle Association (NRA), a non-profit organization was instituted to promote rifle marksmanship. Currently, NRA teaches firearm safety and competency and instructs the law enforcement and civilians, adults, and youths. NRA has published numerous magazines and sponsored sports centered on marksmanship. NRA has opposed or endorsed various candidates, initiated or participated in lawsuits, and influenced legislation. The primary goal is to uphold the Constitution of United States in regards to the immutable freedom of the American citizen to purchase, own, and use guns. After the mass shooting in Connecticut which left 20 children and six adults dead, NRA made its position clear. The gun rights organization did not budge an inch towards the gun control discussion. To the contrary, NRA announced that it would fund a team that would design a program that would get security personnel on the school grounds across the country. NRA has DONG 4 been advocating for guns to be allowed in school since everyone knows that school is a gun free zone and the shooters feel very confident that schools are easy targets. The organization argues that having armed personnel on the school grounds can serve as a deterrent and in situations of shootings, armed guards, staff, and teachers can quickly put it to stop. The NRA CEO Wayne LaPierre testified before a Congressional hearing, following the Columbine shootings in 1999. He said, think it is reasonable to support the Federal Gun-Free School Zones After the murder of 20 students and six adults back in 2012, LaPierre gave a speech reversing his position, stating that a lack of armed personnel and the free was a primary reason for the massacre (CNN). He claimed that the only thing that could stop a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun. LaPierre presented a plan that had the active and retired military and the police, and other armed staff of the school to guard the schools. Jacob Paulsen, an NRA-certified firearms instructor, added that the number of students in his class increased every time there was a shooting in a school. The teachers tell him that they feel like they are the targets (NRA). They felt they were just seated waiting for their turns. The NRA argues that the no-weapons policies in school endangers the lives and put them at a high risk. LaPierre claimed that the lack of guns in school was to blame for these tragedies. He went ahead to suggest that his organization would finance and develop the National Model School Shield Program which would work and train the school guards which would include the retired officers as well as volunteers. He added that before the Congress could go ahead and pass another new gun restriction, it should instantly to appropriate whatever that was necessary to station armed police officers in every school around the With all these suggestions made and each organization holding its end of the bargain on what to do on the debate of whether or not to carry guns to school, if a compromise is not DONG 5 reached soon enough, this current discussion will never come to an end. While WAGV argues that the presence of guns in school would expose the children to a far greater risk of gun violence compared to the small risk they face currently; the NRA suggests that there should be armed personnel on the school grounds that will curb the shootings. It is clear that both sides want what is best for the schools and the children and that is safety first. We should all come together and establish a culture of gun safety and safe communities. As the purchases of guns are increasing, the mental health care is decreasing as well. We should face this stigma and reduce it furthermore; sensible gun laws should be passed. All this can be done if we go back to our roots and first make our families and communities safe. Research shows that it is possible to prevent the killings and shootings in the long term (Prevention Institute). However, our communities lack the resources needed to carry out this. The passage of the Youth Promise Act will make our communities safer than they are currently. We should all commit to helping our families and communities in identifying and implementing the solutions. DONG 6 Works Cited Carter, T. Battles Won, War Continues: group succeeds locally with firearms initiatives, looks to branch out. 2001. Journal. 2017. CNN. NRA Clear on Gun Debate Stance: Arm Schools. 2012. Edition.cnn.com Website. Document. 2017. NRA. National Rifle Association. 2017. Nra.org Website. 2017. Prevention Institute. Gun Violence Must Stop. What We Can Do to Prevent More Deaths. Preventioninstitute, org Website. Document. 2017. Women Against Gun Violence. Women Against Gun Violence. 2016. Wagv.org Website. 2017