Al Maamari 1 Mohammed Al Maamari Professor Collins ENC 1102 01/29/2017 Free-smoke campus policies Smoking around campuses especially among youth has remained an extreme threat to public health. Moreover, smoking has many types like cigars and smokeless tobacco, using these types causes various health issues and diseases. 22% of United States adults, who are between 18 to 24, are current smokers. (Seo, Macy, Torabi 1) For instance, it has been detected that the rates of secondhand smoking, which is smoking from others cigars, and passive smoking, which is breathing others tobacco smoke, over college students have raised. Recently, college campuses started to establish regulating policies which prohibit smoking on campuses and has become common in different colleges and universities around the United States. In 2008, one of the American college campuses went smoke-free which is Indiana University-Bloomington which enrolls over 42,000 students. This policy has made in order to prohibit smoking on all indoor and outdoor spots around the campus. (Seo, Macy, Torabi) In fact, there are smoker students, who are willing to have the right to smoke freely around campuses and there are non-smoker students who live on campus and try to have a clear and healthy environment free of tobacco smoke and smell. In my point of view, the appropriate compromise that should be applied between smokers and non-smokers around campuses is that colleges should spend more money and efforts in creating smoking cessation courses and therapeutic programs for smokers since advice is more powerful than enforcement. Al Maamari 2 4 out of 5 college students do not smoke at all. In other words, the majority of college students are non-smokers. Moreover, 21% of University of South Florida students live on campus housing. (U.S. News 1) Non-smoker students deserve to have clear and healthy environment to study and live. As it was reported in a study called effect of a smoke-free campus policy on college behaviors and secondhand smoking rates are getting higher and college students who are adults are more likely to get affected by the secondhand smoking. It was Exposure to secondhand smoke among college students has received increased attention in recent years. Because of college lifestyles, they are more likely to be regularly exposed to secondhand smoke in bars, clubs, and college Moreover, laboratory studies showed evidence and proved that passive smoking is a reason for heart diseases. Also, it causes to make the blood unable to supply the heart with oxygen. (Glantz, Parmly 1) In the research Smoking and Heart Glantz and Parmly Recent clinical, laboratory, and epidemiological evidence that passive smoking causes heart disease was reviewed. Passive smoking reduces the ability to deliver oxygen to the heart. Secondhand smoke increases platelet activity, accelerates atherosclerotic lesions, and increases tissue damage following ischemia or myocardial For that reason, non- smoker students support and enhance the chance for smoking around campus ban to happen to keep passive smoking away from them. Generally, smoking is not illegal so smokers argue that the policies of banning smoking on campus are disregarding their rights and freedom. Moreover, the air belongs to everyone, not to specific group or authority such as smokers, non-smoker or even legislators. Most of the policies that are established aim to assist smokers to quit smoking. However, free-smoke campus policies are not likely to stop smokers from smoking and otherwise, smoking rates keep rising. Al Maamari 3 Joe Jackson stated in his article that included the reasons why smokers are opposing the Even if it were appropriate to ban smoking in pubs in order to pressure people into quitting which, as an attack on personal choice, it is not the ban have the desired effect. In many places (including the countries with the longest-standing bans in Europe, Ireland and Italy) smoking rates have risen since bans have been People who are opposing smoking bans considering these bans as interference from the legislators to their own lives. Likewise, college students consider free-smoking campus policies as interfering to their decisions. As a consequence, smokers oppose smoking bans since they believe that enforcement is not the appropriate decision to be implemented. The University of South Florida is one of the education organizations that supports banning smoking on campus and started to make free-tobacco campus policies. According to the department of facilities managements of the University of South Florida, a free-tobacco campus policy went into effect on January 4, 2016 where the entire campus must be smoke free. For instance, this policy targets everyone including students, staff, faculty, volunteers and visitors. Moreover, this policy applies to any property owned, leased, operated, controlled or occupied by USF. The policy University of South Florida Tampa is committed to providing a safe and healthy learning, living, and working environment for the campus community. This Policy intends to reduce the health risks related to smoking, tobacco and related products, as well as to reduce the smoking and tobacco-related waste from The department of facilities managements states that the policy is intended to assist behavioral changes and gaining healthier lifestyles not to punish or enforce users of smoking or tobacco derivatives. Both smokers and non-smokers, people who support or oppose smoking ban policies should reach a satisfying compromise. In my way of thinking, the appropriate compromise that Al Maamari 4 should be implemented is to remove the bans on smoking and using tobacco derivatives. As it is mentioned previously, the advice is more powerful than enforcement. If smoking has been banned on campuses, that would not stop smoking. Furthermore, that is not going to help to change behaviors and lifestyles because smokers will find another way or place to smoke away from the campus and the problem is not solved therefore. However, universities and colleges should consider advising those smokers rather than enforce them to stop smoking. Similarly, these institutions should specify allocations for advancing courses that help smokers to quit smoking. Moreover, they might provide cessation or therapeutic programs that assist smoker students in changing their behaviors and lifestyles. Smoking has been a large danger that targets the society and threatens the different layers of society. As university life is a part of the society, it has involved in the threat of smoking since large numbers of deaths and heart, blood diseases have been detected among college students. There has been a long-term conflict between people who support free-smoke campus policies and those who oppose such policies. Universities are committed to providing the appropriate environment for students and employers in terms of safety, health and quality of living for those live on campuses. However, that does not mean to enforce smokers to quit smoking since they have own rights and freedom. Therefore, it has been important to reach a satisfying compromise to give everyone his rights and avoid disregarding specific group. The University of South Florida Tampa has applied satisfying policy regarding smoking on campus and it states that the entire campus must be smoke free. However, there are specific spots have been assigned to allow smokers to smoke in because the main goal is to teach and advise students to change their bad habits and behaviors not to enforce them to do specific actions and disregard their rights. For Al Maamari 5 instance, establishing and providing courses and programs that help smoker students to quit smoking is more effective than putting tough regulations and banning policies. Al Maamari 6 Works Cited Department of facilities managements. Tobacco  University of South Florida. Department of facilities managements, 04 Jan. 2016. Web. <http://www.usf.edu/administrative- services/environmental-health-safety/tobacco-free/faqs.aspx>. Fallin, Amanda, Maria Roditis, and Stantos Glatz. Association of Campus Tobacco Policies With Secondhand Smoke Exposure, Intention to Smoke on Campus, and Attitudes About Outdoor Smoking  Research and practice 105 (2015): 1098-100. USF. Web. History and Debate of Smoking  Debate.org (n.d.): n. pag. Web. <http://www.debate.org/tobacco-rights/>. Levinson, Arnold, Shelly Campo, Jan Gascoigne, Olivia Jolly, Armen Zacharyan, and Zung Tran. Identity among college students who smoke  Informa healthcare 9 (2007): 845-52. USF. Web. Seo, Dong, Jonathan Macy, Mohammed Torabi, and Susan Middlestdt. The effect of a smoke- free campus policy on college smoking behaviors and  Science Direct 53.4-5 (2011): 347-52. USF. Web.