Racism has been a hot topic for over the past 300 years that America has been established as a great nation. From slavery to the Jim Crow laws and the many legislations that were put in place in order to keep African Americans in a permanent level of subservience. African Americans did not have any rights in America, and therefore, they continued to march and fight for equal and fair legislation and rights until they, as a people, obtained these equal rights. But lately, these rights seem to be being revoked by the government due to a series of unjustified murders of African Americans by white Americans, more specifically various police officers. These acts sparked many riots because unlike in past generations when these acts were done in the dark, these recent acts were all caught on video and broadcasted all over the internet so that everyone would be able to view these acts of murder. In all of the different killings, the police officers were set free and they were convicted of nothing because they were said to have simply been doing their job. This has caused much outrage in the African American community and especially has not settled well with the NAACP. They have started the Black Lives Matter movement which has been fighting for the equal rights of blacks that have been mercilessly killed by these various police officers who have not received any form of reprimanding. On the other side of the spectrum is the U.S. Department of Justice who is in charge of the overseeing of the many different police departments nation-wide. They have taken much criticism over the past few years because of how these various police officers have acted and the small discipline that the police officers received after these incidents. In both instances, each group expects the other group to be held accountable without first understanding what the other group stands for. The cooperation and co-existence of both groups relies upon the equal understanding of each group and their ability to change and adapt to one another. The NAACP is an organization that focuses primarily on the equal rights and advancement of African American culture. They preach equal treatment in politics, education, the workforce, etc. The NAACP was founded in 1909 and they have held fast to their mission for all this time. They marched with MLK and have continued to fight for the equal rights of African Americans. In more recent times, they have been fighting for the equal treatment of African Americans by police officers throughout America. Many African Americans have had much animosity against police officers for decades because of the Jim Crow laws that essentially made the mistreatment of African Americans legal and whenever a police officer was brought to court for their crimes, they were acquitted because they were white and were simply seen as protecting America from these criminals. In all these issues, the NAACP was at the center of everything, marching and protesting these actions and hoping for a change in the legislation and fair compensation. They marched and protested because they wanted their voices to be heard throughout the nation and to pressure the government into changing the laws or to pressure the Department of Justice into holding these police officers accountable for their actions and to have much more severe punishments for the police officers who do not follow these new rules. The NAACP has been very angry because of these recent killing of unarmed African American men. These recent acts of police brutality have left a bad taste in the mouths of many African Americans and have left many people scrambling for answers and punishments for these police officers. In every major case that has made national news, the police officers have simply been put on paid leave which has outraged the African American community because they believe that the police officer was acting in a manner that was racist and treated the culprits much more harshly simply because they were black. They believe that these officers should be relieved of duty and forbidden from working in a police department ever again because their moral compass is skewed. On the other side of the spectrum is the Department of Justice. Their mission statement says that they live to serve and protect American citizens from foreign and domestic terrors. They organize and oversee the many police departments all across the U.S. and make sure that these different departments are successfully doing their job as well as acting within constitutional means which would also mean that they cannot single out an individual simply because of the color of their skin. The Department of Justice believes that they have come a long way in the battle against racism in the justice system but many individuals across the nation believe that they have not very far. With these recent killings and acts of police brutality, the department of Justice has taken much heat because they, along with the respected department of these districts, are held responsible for these actions and since all of the deaths were caught on camera, the department of justice along with many government officials have to determine whether these actions were justified or not. In about every case, they determined that the police officers were justified in their actions because they felt that even though these men were unarmed, they posed an immediate threat to the police officers in question. With the idea of police brutality, the Department of Justice knows that there may be some police officers out there that are not as honest as they are expected to be and therefore they hold every cop to the same standard in the hopes that there is no corruption in the police department. The common ground that these two groups have is that they both preach safety and equality. The NAACP preaches equality and peace for African Americans in all of the societal realms: political, social, judicial, etc. the Department of Justice also wants peace for the American citizens so that they can sleep peacefully at night knowing that they are being protected. Another realm of common ground that these two groups have is that they both want to weed out crooked police officers so that they only have the best and most honest men and women protecting the American citizens. The NAACP want this because they wish to bring an end to these merciless killings that have many African Americans living in fear and overall not respecting police officers because they feel as though they are being singled-out as a people. The Department of Justice want this because they do not want these crooked police officers to tarnish their name and reputation. One compromise that they could try is to have much more efficient police training at the various police academies that will teach tolerance within the African American communities and the Department of Justice should have new police officers interact with many African Americans in low-income neighborhoods so that they can gain a better understanding of these individuals. In return, the NAACP should have many different functions that help African Americans to become much more tolerant to police officers and teach many of these people about the many hardships that police officers deal with on a daily basis and the stress that their families are put through when their father or mother leave for work. Together they can help raise a collective understanding of the different hardships that each group endures and they can better co-exist without all of the violence.