Lingyi yang ENC Erika Staiger DRAFT Animal experiments have always been a focus of society and technology. With the development of animal rights, more and more people began to oppose or restrict animal experiments. But there are a lot of animal experiments.Animal experiments have always been a focus of society and technology. With the development of animal rights, more and more people began to oppose or restrict animal experiments. But there are a lot of animal experiments.The Royal Societyand Foundation for Biomedical Research, for example, are part of an animal experiment. Anti-vivisection Coalition (AVC)and Cruelty Free International (CFI)are against it. But in fact, their common purpose is to reduce the number of lives to be hurt. Due to the high similarity between animal and human subjects, they become perfect. Mammals have a common ancestor, which means that our organs, circulatory system, endocrine system and nervous system, and so on in a similar way to run. Mouse DNA and human DNA similarity of up to 98%, chimpanzee is as high as 99%. Animals also suffer from a number of diseases, such as human beings, that are the most common type of insulin to treat diabetes. The researchers will not only be exposed to potentially dangerous side effects, but also need to use genetic manipulation techniques. Because of the potential danger of this experiment, it is inhumane to carry out human trials without the safety of animal experiments. Therefore, the World Medical Association in 1964 issued the Helsinki , requiring only after the animal test, in order to carry out human trials. Since the federal government introduced the animal welfare act in 1966, animal experiments in the United States have been subject to strict regulation. The law provides for the minimum standards of living conditions, drinking water quality and veterinary care for laboratory animals. Each laboratory or laboratory equipment used for animal testing must be subject to the Use (Animal Care and Committee) supervision to ensure that the animals are entitled to benefits. The committee will assess the above indicators, if there is a discrepancy, animal experiments should not be carried out. Without affecting the results of the experiment, all experimental animals must be euthanized. The equipment donated by the public health service shall also comply with the relevant provisions of the organization for the use of laboratory animals. Similar animal welfare systems have been widely adopted in other countries. The Royal Society is the National Academy of Sciences in the United states. The Royal Society is fully supportive of animal experiments and is dedicated to ethical and humane treatment of animals. Therefore, their approach is to support animal testing, while still encouraging the development of alternative approaches to animal testing as well as respect for animal care. The biomedical research foundation is an old British organization dedicated to the safety and ethical treatment of animals. Their position is to achieve a more transparent and humane study by raising public awareness of animal experiments. They are responsible for the use of religious organizations, animal testing and human health is to improve the nature of basic knowledge. In addition, they kept records of illegal and harmful activities of animal rights activists. On the other hand,According to the Taiwan Animal Abuse Prevention Association (TSPCA) recently commissioned a national poll showed that 69.2% of people want to ban cosmetics animal, while 76.5% of people believe that the animal is not because of beautiful and sacrifice. The day before the amendment by the legislator Wang Yumin in Taiwan cosmetics hygiene management regulations proposed by amending the law, hoping to end cosmetics animal, and to prohibit new finished goods or raw materials for animal experiments (animal experiment for the implementation of the new law still means the cosmetics sold in Taiwan). Humane Society International is one of the largest insurance organization dynamic global (international humanitarian Association) since 2012 let Be Cruelty Free Pledge away from the cruel  campaign so far, there have been many countries to participate, such as the largest cosmetics market: the European Union from 2009 a total ban on animal testing for cosmetics, 2013 banned all relevant experimental products. The common interest is to protect more lives. But supporters see animal life as non life. Opponents forget the development of medicine and human health. These are two opposing points. Therefore, a better way is to neutralize. Animal experiments are limited, given the proper respect for animals. And popularize the knowledge of animal experiment. I think proper animal experiments should be done, but they need restraint and restraint. The life cycle of animals contributes to the development and progress of medicine. Animal experiments have brought about a more secure development of human life. To reduce or stop an experiment on an emotional animal. The reason for the cessation of human experimentation is moral and emotional. However, many animals also have the corresponding emotional performance, so in respect of animal rights, should stop the experiments on these animals. And do non cruelty to animals. more, apes are more similar to humans, but there are a lot of different things. However, we cannot guarantee that the experimenter will be insatiably avaricious not satisfied with apes do experiments, and privately used human experiment.