Christopher Becker intermediate draft The Subject of government surveillance is a multifaceted discussion that allows for complex real world problems to emerge. Moving forward in history the American people have been presented with a choice between safety or liberty. As it currently stands the trade offs towards safety over liberty have led to an increase in mistrust of the government due to abuse of power and concerns over personal privacy (Dawinder). The goal of this paper is to attempt to strike a balance between the current programs in place at agencies like the NSA down to local law enforcement and the constitutionally protected rights of every citizen of the united states of America. While the concept of mass surveillance is only a couple decades old (Henderson), the concept of unlawful spying dates back to ww2 with the OSS intercepting domestic and foreign mail in a project known as project SHAMROCK according to NSA whistleblower William Binney (Binney). By this projects end (mid several other projects had emerged that had largely the same goals. One such program being COINTELPRO or counter intelligence program which subverted groups such as the black panthers and carried out domestic spying on these groups. Another program being project Mockingbird A CIA program to infiltrate the media organizations of the united states, in addition to this, surveillance on at least 2 journalists who refused to turn over their sources. (CIA page 5) With the dawning of the computer age the government sought to expand its surveillance capabilities however these programs remained relatively small and specialized until 9/11 happened (Binney). Post 9/11, Surveillance without warrant or reason was made legal under the patriot act (Henderson). While these programs were largely secretive, as is the governments prerogative information about these programs, and devices used has leaked out to the public. One such device is known as the This device enables anyone, but mostly local law enforcement to listen in on communications such as phone calls and SMS messages. It does this my simulating a cellphone tower and capturing the information meant for the tower (Norman). Some programs that the NSA has worked on that have been leaked by people like William Binney and Edward Snowden include StellarWind a program that tapped into the AT&T and Version phone networks and intercepted communications. as well as Xkeyscore an analytics program and PRISM a program with taps into the fiberoptic networks of 9 internet companies. (Binney) In the wake of this information agencies such as the ACLU as well as cyber security companies have come forward and been in legal and vocal opposition to these programs as they were made known to us. In one such case in northern Florida the ACLU exposed actions of law enforcement when they cited information obtained from stingray devices as from a confidential 150) As of 2009 the ACLU has stated over 58 departments use stingray technology(Norman 154). In a panel at the hacker conference DEFCON 21 a representative of the ACLU stated strategy has been to collect everything and worry about the law later. This Highlights the attitude of some the public towards the government on this issue, they feel it is illegal and an abuse of power. The speakers later go on to discuss how the Stingray was originally a weapon used overseas that was adapted for use domestically. The United States government, being a governmental institution is bound to protect its citizens and to have a monopoly on power or force within the country. As such some leaders have thought during times of crisis that it is necessary to conduct surveillance on citizens within the country, as evidenced by projects and more recently and (Binney, CIA) Agencies like the NSA and the CIA rely strongly on SIGINT or signals intelligence; this is an integral part to intelligence work as it is the most reliable (Binney). With a need to protect people foreign and domestic how can the government possibly ensure protection while also ensuring privacy. While the pro privacy groups and the anti privacy groups play a seemingly never ending tug of war a breakdown of the commonalities and differences is prudent. Agencies like the ACLU create court cases in the interest of constitutional rights, the Government requires someone take an oath of office to defend the constitution. The people want privacy, autonomy and security, while the government wants, security and autonomy. Unfortunately the spying currently occurring can sometimes lead to unforeseen consequences that neither party wants such as economic loss of domestic companies due to revelations about their privacy breaches(donohue 2). Or the limiting of peoples autonomy and intellectual freedoms via self censorship (Dawinder). Both of which could have implications in limiting intellectual breakthroughs. Additionally, by attempting to gimp encryption systems as the NSA has done they open the door to foreign malicious attackers. (Binney) Given the History of the situation; the stakeholders and the desires thereof, changes in the surveillance laws currently in place are imperative for the United sStates to continue smoothly functioning as a democracy. Currently as it stands the United States surveillance system is as William Binney said powerful than anything the soviet union or nazi germany (Binney) this statement along highlights the need to end domestic spying without an explicit warrant of what device and what looking for, lest we sink into a tyrannical state of existence. However; in the interest of national security overseas spying should still be allowed; stingray type devices attached to drones should still be flown as they were originally intended; however such devices should, in interest of the 1st, 4th and 5th amendments, never be used domestically. Works Cited: Henderson, Nathan. patriot acts impact on the governments ability to conduct electronic surveillance of ongoing domestic Duke Law Journal vol 52. Norman, Jason. the sting out of the stingray: the dangers of cell-site simulator use ad the role of the FCC in protecting privacy & Federal Communications Law Journal vol 68. Donohue, Laura. technology, Consumer privacy, and U.S. National Georgetown University Law Center. Dawinder S. Sidhu, Chilling Effect of Government Surveillance Programs on the Use of the Internet by Muslim University of Maryland Law journal. vol2 issue 2 article 10. Binney, Williams Interveiwed by Richard Grove Future of 2015 Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Declassified internal document; 16th may 1973. retrieved from: https://www.cia.gov/open/Family%20Jewels.pdf ACLU/DEFCON 21 ACLU Presents NSA panel discussion. retrieved from: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UngjWrUo9sE