Name: Weidong Yang Class: ENC1102 Assignment: outline Date:1/29/2017 Animal Testing Animal testing is a very sensitive topic, a lot of people think Animal testing is very dark and merciless. In practice, they just know that Animal testing is a phrase that most of people heard it but they know involved of the Animal testing. Animal testing is a research project, researcher do some testing on the animal for get some new medical and find the activity of the human body work. While supporter believe they can contribute to human development and progress, and they can get some medical achievements through animals testing. The other people opposed animal testing thinking human should not take the animal experiment because people do animal testing will affect and destroy the integrity of the food chain, human evolution is also come from animals, people have not right to decide the life or death for anyone. With the development of the time, people find a new technology to replace or compromise this stakeholder which is use computer technology to help both side this argument that to make human life better. According to a article is Experimentation: Cruelty or the author Nancy, she discusses two views of the animal testing after she did some animal testing and consequence of animal testing. One view, she thinks animal testing bring some benefits for people, because it promote the progress of humanity. One view, she accused human did some damage for animals, it is ruthless, unmerciful and selfish. The develop of biomedicine have to depend on the animal testing, it can help people easy to find the correct methods to treatment for people. So those animal experiments are correct and necessary, people should to support. In the human society, animal testing is benefit for everyone, if you have ever taken a medicine or vaccine, you have benefit from animal testing. Those medicine and vaccine help your body to resist illness and virus. Such as the first vaccine is from a cow which is help people end smallpox. According to the Biomedical Research that state animal test can help people make some safely medicine and find good treatment. In the last 100 year, most of medical result and achievement has from the animal testing, such as people test in dog to find the insulin, this discover is very important for diabetics to saving life. And animal testing is very for people to understanding and treatment, such as leukemia and cerebral injury. Animal and human are very similar, we have the similar body symbol, apparatus and activity. Marke Davis is a patient, he have Pakinsonism for 15 years. But today he get the healthy body, and healthy life because a medical technology that is deep brain stimulation, this medical technology is research by monkey. People have to consider which one more important Marke Davis or the monkey? A medial technology can saving million life, for human it is very important, for animal it is selfish. Some animal testing include forcing mouse and rats to inhale toxic fumes, it can test medicine function, the safety of the props and the human body movement. Even some product is harm for animals, but it is useful for consumers. And by the researcher, some tests in the animal body show it is safe, but nobody can promise it is safely to use in humans. There has very famous event that is Thalidomide Event, in the 1957 year, doctor use Thalidomide for sedative or hypnotic, Afterwards,it was used in against nausea and for women. It is very bad event, because researchers do enough test for human and animal, the company forced sales for gain much money these cause 5000-7000 baby were born with phocomelia, only 40percent children can grow healthy. Through the world, recording 10000 case at that time, only 50 percent baby can survived. These children suffering from malformations of the legs and arms will be die, and their mental and physical are different with healthy people. This drug withdraw from the market, and people call this event thalidomide event. But in the recent year, people start to test thalidomide again, fortune, human get great success form the thalidomide of animal testing. People can use thalidomide for against cancer. The opponent thinking animal testing will result wrong information and testing. According to CNBC article flu in China sparks concern as Asia travel peaks for talks in the recent years, some sick such as bird flu, pig flu, HIN1 and some disease still appeal in the human society, some disease people still can resolve those problems. And that researcher did a lot of experiment on the animal, but those animal just sacrifice for medical science. They did get any useful animal test from the test. In the other point, human and animals still have some different in the physical structure, so people suspect the value of animal test on the different species. Follow the development process of the society, people find a new way to compromise animal effect that use computer technology to instead animal testing.Recording a research from the PETA that is a animal rights organization, it related in the world, there have million of mice, dog, rabbits, dog and other animals are using in the testing, training and experiments. People use computer test can reduce the animals are injured. Also use computer is benefit for animal, it can check animal body good or bad. So animal testing is necessary for development of human. People who dislike to animal testing will be happy because this technology will not hurt animal. Both side are benefit from this technology, and both side can make a good gold together for human. The new computer technology can see the medicine effect for human on the technology, it will not effect human and animal. In the conclusion, People have to respect for researcher, animals and science. About people use animal to do the test, we have to make a smart decision. Animal and human both have the same feeling. In the future, people will not make same mistake again. Human and Animals are equal to share the resource on the earth. Annotated bibliography: Day, Nancy. Animal Experimentation: Cruelty or Science? Hillside, N.J., U.S.A.: Enslow, 1994. Print. Nancy Day discusses the two different viewpoints of the widely debated topic of animal testing and thoroughly talks about the consequences of animal testing and experimentation and also the benefits we gain and build upon. Chenes, Elizabeth D., ed. Animal Welfare. Farmington Hills, MI: Greenhaven Press, 2010. Print. Animal welfare states the laws and regulations needed to follow to ensure a safe and ethical lab experiment on animals. It also argues the point that animals have absolutely no right or say in what is going on with them nor are they subject to any court trials on behalf of their abuse. PETA. Animals Used For  Peta.org. PETA, 2012. Web. 12 Sept. 2012. . This website covers the many conditions that are forced upon animals as awaiting their turn to be cruelly tested on. China sparks concern as Asia travel peaks for http://animal-testing.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=006512