Yiqing Wang Kristen Collins ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Atmospheric pollution in China Environment is the most important factor which affect economic development. A economic development level and strength can also affect the improvement of the environment objectively. In this article, it will introduce the status and characteristics of economy and the environment focus on atmospheric pollution. The analysis of atmospheric pollution in China will lead to find the problems of atmospheric pollution has its own unique characteristics than the pollution in other countries. In recent years, China has greatly improved its level of economic development. Although, GDP has remained high, in general belong to the extensive economy which means large energy consumption and heavy pollution. Economic development at the expense of the environment pollution this is actually limit the long-term development. As the changing mind of people, they are taking more consider about environmental factors. Being aware of the priority is to effectively deal with relationship between economy and environment. Most people who works on increasing GDP think earn money to survive ourselves and develop the country is more important than reduce the atmosphere pollution right now. However, the Environmental Protection Organizations think the basis of developing a country is to keep a healthy and clean environment. So people who works with increasing GDP and the environmental protection organization will be two big stakeholders that will be discussed in this article. The reason for why to keep increasing the Gross Domestic Production Rate have five main answers. First, ensuring economic growth can also ensure investment attraction for foreign capitals. Secondly, to ensure economic growth can ease up social contradictions. It is because economic growth can bring out more working chances and protection welfare. That can make people living in a better level so that social contradictions can be reduced. To ensure economic growth can make political problems not infinitely expand to social unrest as well. To reduce violence the only way is to maintain rapid economic growth, so that can also stabilize employment. If there are lots of unemployment and survival become a problem of time, otherwise may increase social violence. In some ways, it seems similar with the second reason, but they start with different origins. High growth in China is a good way to show to other countries that the Chinese social system has their own advantages. The development of the economic foundation is to support the political superstructure. As the above five main reasons of advantages that increasing GDP, people who works with increasing GDP do not agree with giving up GDP to completely working on protecting and reducing atmosphere pollution. Air pollution is very serious in China especially shows on coal combustion pollution characteristic. Total suspended particulate matter in the urban atmospheric environment generally limit; Sulfur dioxide pollution to keep at a higher level; Motor vehicle exhaust pollutant emissions increased rapidly; Nitrogen oxides pollution showed a trend of increase; The formation of multiple SuanYu District central China, southwest, east China and south China. The main source of air pollution in our country is the production and living with coal, the main pollutants are sulfur dioxide and soot. In some cities in addition to the coal pollution, and with the local industrial pollution and meteorological geographical conditions closely related local characteristics. Obvious trait of time and space distribution of air pollution in China, with the worst air pollution in winter, followed by the spring and autumn season, summer is the best. Pollution on the whole, the north is better than the south. Urban air pollution by human activities and the local special geographic location comprehensive influence, the dust weather increased the northern atmospheric pollution. (Kirk R. Smith, P530-531) In contemporary China, the society is in a special and accelerating transformation from traditional to modern. In this particular stage of social development, environmental problems as one of social problems also has a distinct social characteristics. First of all, is the most significant with the acceleration of social transformation, the problem of environment becomes worse and worse. Depends on the breaking up atmosphere, people should deeply think about the step of development which begins with environmental protection organization aspect. Expand can cause environmental problems of economic activities, but also can help to solve these problems, there are three main ways: first, as income increases, some problems will be reduced. This is because the increase of income for the public service such as providing sanitation and rural power equipment provide a source of funds. When a person is not need to worry about the survival of a day, he will provide profitable investment for environmental protection. For economic growth and environmental quality between this positive synergy, cuts cannot be underestimated. Secondly, some problems begin to be worse, but will reduce with the increase of income. Most air pollution and water pollution are belong to this type, some types of deforestation and encroached on natural habitats. But only when these countries carefully take environmental policy to ensure that the additional funds to solve environmental problems, this improvement happen. Finally, with the increase of income, some environmental degradation index continues to improve. Case in point is that carbon dioxide emissions. In this case, reduce the emissions of cost is higher. But the cost caused by the high emissions and waste have not been recognized to - the reason for this is usually the costs are for others. The crux of the problem is still the policy. In most countries, individuals and businesses have little incentive to reduce waste and emissions, and by the rules and regulations, collect fees or other ways to encourage measures before, also increases the emissions and waste. But, in reducing other forms of pollution experience has shown that once made the policy commitments, can make a difference. Environmental protection is a vital part of the development, not to environmental protection, the development will be destroyed. But not development, for the funds needed for the investment will be insufficient, environmental protection work is unsustainable. The next generation will be faced with unprecedented challenges and opportunities. In the 1990 s and 2030 s, the population will increase by 3.7 billion, so food production needs to double, global industrial output and energy use is likely to increase 2 times, while developing countries will increase 5 times. (He, K., Huo, H., & Zhang, Q. 2002). Along with the development of is a serious environmental damage. In another case, economic development can also bring the improvement of environmental protection work, bring more fresh air and clean water, and actually eliminate absolute poverty, will be the cause of the different situation policy choices. For developing countries, especially in the period of transition economy less developed countries, the environmental policy is likely to be slow down the environmental damage. Reference Smith, K.R. (1994). Fuel combustion, air pollution exposure, and health: the situation in developing countries. Honololu, HI: East-West Center. Sarah K. (2015, August14). Air Pollotion in China is Killing 1.6 Million People a Year. Retrieved from: https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2015/08/14/air- pollution-in-china-is-killing-1-6-million-people-a-year-researchers- He, K., Huo, H., & Zhang, Q. (2002). URBAN AIR POLLUTION IN CHINA: Current Status, Characteristics, and Progress. Annual Review of Energy and the Environment,27(1), 397-431. doi:10.1146/annurev.energy.27.122001.083421