First Source I plan on writing my papers on the extensive history of the Great Barrier Reef. I hope that this book will help me find out more about the Great Barrier Reef and its effects it has had on the environment over time. My research question focuses on the Great Barrier Reef and its effects, both negative and positive that it has on the ocean around it. I believe that an important part of understanding the reef and its effects on the ocean is by also understanding the reefs history. My question that I am focusing on is, how does the Great Barrier Reef affect the ocean surrounding it? The Great Barrier Reef by James and Margarita Bowen talks in depth about the Great Barrier Reef as an ecosystem. They consider the history of the reef and the impact that not only the history had on the reef, but also the present day complications. The book takes us back to when the reef was a main attribute to the ecosystem surrounding it. The book also talks about the different historical events, such as the discovery of the reef, and changes that have led to today when the reef is dying and bleaching. Another great subject the book includes is the biological inhabitants that the reef provides a home for. It talks about the research that has been done on the reef and the research continuing on today. The book, The Great Barrier Reef, Is a scholarly article published by the University of Cambridge.This book is a reliable source because of its many attributes from other reliable sources. The author, James Bowen, Studied environmental subjects in the United States, Canada, and Australia. He has published numerous articles and books on ecological subjects. James spent over a decade pursuing his interest in the Great Barrier Reef. He used, in his studies, archived research as well as underwater and field research to ensure his studies were accurate. Second Source My paper focuses on the various attributes that the Great Barrier Reef has on its surrounding environment. These attributes involve both ecological and economical. Not only does the Great Barrier Reef provide a needed environment for sea creatures, but it also provides numerous jobs for humans. The Great Barrier Reef and its obvious ecological decline has led to numerous jobs being created. The subject of the reef has also led to the controversial topic of human prints on the Earth. People working on the reef focus on environmental impact that humans have had on the reef. They study the effects and implicate ways to reduce pollution and the reefs slow decline. Ecosystem health of the Great Barrier Reef: Time for effective management action based on evidence, is a scholarly article written by Jon Brodie and Richard G. Pearson. The article talks about how the Great Barrier Reef is not only affected by humans, but also how the reef affects humans. This happens in both environmental and fiscal ways. Human impact is one of the main focuses on most articles I have found. This article, however, mentions the numerous jobs that the reef provides and what those participating in those jobs are doing to save the reef. Third Source An aspect I believe is important to highlight in my paper would be humans outlook on the Great Barrier Reef. This is an idea that has to be understood in order to conceptualize why the reef is dying and why are we letting it die or why are we helping it. There are those that are avid supporters of helping the environment get on its These people are seemingly concerned and surprised that such a large epitome of life can be dying and bleaching. There are also those that believe problems that do not immediately affect them are nonexistent or not important. The article A new approach to the problem of overlapping values: A case study in Great Barrier Reef, From the book Ecosystem Services, Brings up the importance of beliefs in direct correlation to aid for the environment. It highlights the statistics of successful rehabilitation of our ecosystems along with the belief that we effect our environment. It weighs out the pros and cons of jobs being created to support the dying reef. One aspect of this article that I find interesting is the amount of people against helping the Great Barrier Reef. Many believe that the financial burden of aiding the environment outweighs the otherwise benefits. Fourth Source The topic requiring the most attention about the Great Barrier Reef is what is occurring to the reef. For quite some time, the reef has been deteriorating through a natural process called bleaching. However, the cause for this process to occur has not been natural. Bleaching of coral occurs when water temperatures are too warm for the creature to survive. This results in the coral expelling the algae inside of it in end transforming it into a white color. Over the previous century, the Great Barrier Reef has become, for the majority, bleached. This has resulted in the production of oxygen to greatly diminish and for a lot of sea creatures to perish. The article by Scott A. Wooldridge talks about the bleaching of the Great Barrier Reef. Water quality and coral bleaching thresholds: Formalising the linkage for the inshore reefs of the Great Barrier Reef, Australia, From the Marine Pollution Bulletin recognizes the premature death of the reef and considers the different causes that has led to the tragic circumstances. The article, however, also talks about hopeful processes that may be implemented to save the reef. As of now, the reef is dying due to its stress response to the water quality or bleaching. Scott A. Woolridge talks about the process of bleaching, what may have caused it, and what is being done to save the reef. The article focusses on the scientific processes involved in the dying Great Barrier Reef. Bibliography James, and Margarita Bowen. The Great Barrier Reef. [Electronic : History, Science, Heritage. n.p.: Cambridge, UK ; New York : Cambridge University Press, 2002., 2002. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Brodie, Jon, and Richard G. Pearson. Ecosystem Health Of The Great Barrier Reef: Time For Effective Management Action Based Natalie Stoeckl a,n , Marina Farr a , Silva Larson a , Vanessa M. Adams b,c , Ida Kubiszewski d , Michelle Esparon a , Robert Costanza d. Ecosystem Services. Vol. 10. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Science DIrect. Web. Scott A. Wooldridge. Marine Pollution Bulletin. Vol. 58. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Science DIrect. Web.