A conflict exists between the right of freedom of speech and civil rights protecting individuals from discrimination. Should the government protect victimized constituents or should the people be allowed to speak freely, even if harmfully, to this same abused group? Throughout the history of this country, we see discrimination of certain groups based on gender, race, age, sexual orientation or religion. A group that has been rapidly emerging as a target is the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transexual (LGBT) community. They feel threatened by an unwelcoming social climate and demand some type of protection. A popular organization representing this particular grievance within the LGBT community is the American Unity Fund. The relationship between the government and the people should always be strong and supportive, even if the people in question only represent a small portion of the entire nation. Even if a government is unwilling to change some of its core beliefs, it is beneficial for them to empathize with an unhappy group because it will garner support from more members of its population and unify the country closer to its people. In this particular case, if a political party, such as the Republican party, could mitigate some of the adversity faced by the LGBT community by disbanding negative misconceptions about its members and spreading a new positive image, it would quiet some of the frustration from LGBT groups such as the American Unity Fund; in fact, it would draw more political support from that group to the Republican party. The American Unity Fund is a non-profit organization with a mission of freedom. They state, are dedicated to advancing the cause of freedom for LGBT Americans by making the conservative case that freedom truly means freedom for (American Unity Fund). When they say for they imply that the LGBT community does not receive the same liberty as other Americans. According to an article from the Federalist LGBT Activists Arm For Further War On Free is so much bigotry and hate throughout this land of mission statement of the American Unity Fund is trying to up the idea that we need a lot more anti-discrimination laws in The American Unity Fund shares many ideals with liberals. Like many liberals, they believe that, serves as an obstacle to prosperity for millions of Americans as stated by Margaret Hoover, President of the American Unity Fund. Hoover believes that in order to protect the freedom of the LGBT community, laws must be passed to silence hate speeches targeted at this minority group, and its up to the conservative and evangelical-dominant Republican party to pass them, as further detailed in his official about-us blog post on the American Unity Fund website. Their discontent with the government stems from the belief that people are exploiting the freedom of speech right as justification for freely discriminating the LGBT community and that the government are not doing enough to address the issue. The Republican beliefs are based around the idea of To generalize, they believe in widespread control by a central government, they place that power on the people and states, with the constitution as the guiding force in politics. The Constitution is everything. It gives the people the rights that they deserve and it lays out the rules for a government to be sustainable and benevolent to its people. According to the official platform, the, should be honored, valued, and One of the biggest component of the Constitution is the Bill of Rights and the first amendment- the right to free speech. Their idea of freedom is that everyone has the right to believe and say whatever they want, because it is after all, their god given right. Policing hate speeches is just simply denying the freedom of one group of people to appease another group. Needless to say, Republicans believe in passing national laws, especially ones that impede personal rights and challenges the Constitution. As much as these two beliefs conflict with each other, they need each other. more than just the idea of having the government get along with its people. The Republican party is not in full control of the nation. According to the Gallup Poll in 2015, only 23% of Americans are identified as Republicans trailing their political rivals, the Democrats at 30%. In order to succeed in politics, you need support. Most importantly, you need to appeal to your nation and have them on your side. Democrats are owning the LGBT community with 44% affiliation to the Republicans 13% as surveyed in the Gallup polls. If the Republican party can find a way to sway LGBT members away from the Democratic party, which, as far as the LGBT community is concerned, is just as inactive as the Republicans, then they will gain that much more of a political edge. And when it comes to the American Unity Fund, the well-being and interest of the LGBT community supercede any political affiliation. Although they do have an agenda of pressuring conservatives into censoring hate speeches, all meant for the greater good of the LGBT community. Even the president Hoover believes in cooperation with Republicans stating that the American Unity Fund is, new effort to build more Republican support for LGBT These two groups will only meet eye to eye if they can earn each support both politically and culturally. In order to compromise, the two groups must find mutual groups to work with and use that cooperation to create an educational program similar to that of a sex educational program present in most schools in America. This educational intent is to teach young Americans about the LGBT community and to disband the negative misconceptions about LGBTs like men being too or that are just sexual The Republican party would only have to sponsor the program and try to get it pass in congress. The actual program itself should be handled by people who understand the community better, people like the American Unity Fund. The American Unity Fund would have to coop with other groups close to the Republican party for this project, a great group to coop with in this situation is the LGBT+ Conservative; a group that, according to their about-us page, an LGBT voice within the Another great group to work with is GALE, the global alliance for LGBT education. These groups can work together to form an LGBT educational program that would not only dispatch all the negative attitudes towards the community but also educate them with what the LGBT community is and the adversity they faced, along with anything else this coalition wants to add. This compromise requires both the Republican party and the American Unity Fund to take a step forward away from their own agenda. In return, they will both find advancements to their respective agendas. Republicans will draw a lot more support from the LGBT community away from their political rivals without having to meet the demands of the American Unity Fund and challenging their beloved constitution. On the other hand, the American Unity Fund gives up their attempts to censor American hate speech to improve the image of the LGBT community, the community they wish to protect, by rallying behind the sponsorship of the Republican party and their mutual groups.