Kelly 1 Catherine Kelly ENC 1102 Intermediate Draft Standardized testing has been changing schools and teaching methods consistently since George W. initiatives. Since then, there have been both numerous arguments and statements of support towards the new systems. These tests allow for a simple way to gauge the abilities of students, but they may also not gauge all abilities correctly, leaving some students with extra work such as summer school, or in classes not as advanced as they belong in. Many people have witnessed the benefits to these tests. These tests are often incentives and motivators for the students to learn. Students will want to show their best work when they understand the meaning behind tests and they look forward to a feeling of accomplishment after doing well on the tests they have been preparing for. Advocators of testing understand that students sometimes need testing as an incentive to do well. They are more motivated than if there was nothing to show how much they have learned and accomplished. There are also many downfalls to the quantity of high intensity tests that young children are given. Along with students not being able to focus on just learning to gain knowledge and information, the focus of their education becoming testing, there are also many errors that can occur within testing and have many effects on students through their time in school. Six thousand students in New York were once sent to summer school because of a mistake in the grading system of their standardized tests. This is very unfair to the students as not only did they lose time while relearning concepts they had already grasped, the incorrect grading instilled in these students a sense of failure that tells them they are inadequate. Teachers also have to base lessons around these tests and are unable to customize lessons plans around what they feel will best fit Kelly 2 their students. Not all students learn the same way and at the same pace, but standardized testing tries to make them. Both the people for and against standardized testing share a common goal. They each wish to ensure that students are offered the best education that they possible can be. They want to see students succeed, they just think that there are different routes to seeing this occur. Students need both a pressure free environment to learn, as well as some testing as a motivator and tool to see what has been learned and accomplished. Rather than testing all throughout the year, with generic lessons plans in between, teachers should be able to teach as they best see fit for their students, and then with one single test at the end of the year the students will be able to show their accomplishments without the stress of year-round testing and lessons that do not fit their needs. Kelly 3 Defending Standardized Testing Edited by Richard Phelps Print publication date: February 2005 Online publication date: March 2005 The Case Against Standardized Testing: Raising the Scores, Ruining the Schools Gallagher, Tom The Progressive. August 2001, Vol. 65 Issue 8, 44 The Progressive, Inc. 2001