Gruman 1 Taylor Gruman Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Medical Marijuana Medical marijuana has always been a controversial topic due to the large amount of both benefits and risks that accompany marijuana. Two active groups within this situation are the Americans for Safe Access (ASA) group and Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana (CALM). These two groups have very different, and justifiable, stances on how medical marijuana should be handled. ASA is determined to safe and legal access to cannabis (marijuana) for therapeutic use and The goal for CALM is to ensure that the laws against the use, cultivation, and transportation of marijuana should be maintained and enforced and should not be relaxed or (https://calmusa.org/). Both groups are very passionate about the topic and have very different stances on the situation but the overall goal for both groups is to help others and keep people safe. Since both organizations share the same overall goal, it is possible for them to come up with a compromise in which they both are able to agree. A solution to benefit both groups could be that patients who require medical marijuana treatment can only consume/inhale cannabis in the presence of a doctor, in a controlled environment. The first organization, Americans for Safe Access, was founded for the purpose of promoting and helping to support the idea of marijuana as a medical substance The organization was founded by Steph Sherer and has active members across the entire country ASA Gruman 2 has accomplished many things just within this past year. They helped to create new programs in Pennsylvania and Ohio, improve the dispensary situations in Virginia, and assisted in the voter initiatives for legalization in many states In an article written by Representative Dina Titus titled Puff, Law: The changing Legislative Environment of Medical she supports the idea of medical marijuana and encourages scientists to continue studying it. She states, in regard to legalization policies, aid in the treatment of patients with cancer, epilepsy, and other conditions as well as help veterans cope with mental and physical wounds of (56, Titus). She makes it clearly several times throughout the article that medical marijuana is beneficial. CALM is an organization that is made up of citizens from all around the country. The group is dedicated to preventing any change to the laws against marijuana. They believe that it be legalized for any reason due to the high risk that it brings (https://calmusa.org/). CALM believes that legalizing marijuana is a major risk and studies seem to support this idea. A studied conducted by Magdalena Cerda, Melanie Wall, Katherine Keyes, Sandro Galea, and Deborah Hasin claims that marijuana uses for medical purposes have significantly higher rates of marijuana use and of marijuana abuse and (22). Facts like this are the reason why this group exists. They believe that marijuana is a dangerous substance and legalizing it will only put more people at risk for substance abuse. These two organizations have a lot to argue about but a compromise is still feasible. They both stand on opposite sides of the situation and have solid facts to back-up their arguments. The two groups are both concerned about protecting the people. ASA wants to protect those that are suffering from major medical problems and they feel that marijuana may be what is best for Gruman 3 them, but CALM wants to protect citizens from the possibility of substance abuse. The best way to handle this situation is to come up with a compromise that would benefit both parties. A feasible compromise would be to set forth a law in which people who require medical marijuana treatment can only consume/inhale marijuana in a controlled situation with a doctor present at all times. The best way to carry this law out would be to set up controlled rooms in hospitals and specialized buildings where patients can go to receive treatments and requiring them to stay within the controlled area for a specified amount of time. Substances would not be allowed to leave the area to help with the prevention of substance abuse among citizens and those who are not prescribed to the cannabis. This compromise would help both organizations achieve their goals. ASA would be pleased because medical patients would have access to the substance but it would achieve goal of preventing substance abuse from citizens. In the past the two groups were unable to determine a solution due to the complications that come with medical marijuana. As of right now, states that have legalized the substance are helping medical patients but laws are not strict enough to protect citizens from substance abuse so CALM did not approve of the distribution situation. While there is no exact proof that this compromise will work exactly as it is expected, studies suggest that states that have legalized marijuana have not experienced an increase in crime due to the installation of marijuana businesses. (Kepple and Freisthler, 523-530). This studies helps to promote the proposed compromise because not only will crime rate go down based on this study, but due to the regulation standards, it will help to make sure that marijuana does not get distributed to those that may be at risk of abusing it. Essentially, both organization are accomplishing their goals by keeping people safe but still helping those who are suffering with diseases that may cause them to require marijuana treatment. Gruman 4 Works Cited Kepple, Nancy; Freisthler Bridget. the Ecological Association Between Crime and Medical Marijuana Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs, Vol. 73, no. 4, 2012, pp. http://www.jsad.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/full/10.15288/jsad.2012.73.523 Titus, Representative Dina. PUFF, PASS . . . THAT LAW: THE CHANGING LEGISLATIVE ENVIRONMENT OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA Harvard Journal on Legislation, vol. 53, no.1, 2016, pp.39-58. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=7690cead-daae-484b-8090- 1f8f03c0b7b3%40sessionmgr4006&vid=21&hid=4108 for Safe Americans for Safe Access, www.safeaccessnow.org/. CALM USA, calmusa.org/. Cerda, Magdalena; Wall, Melanie; Keyes, Katherine; Galea, Sando; Hasin, Deborah. marijuana laws in 50 states: investigating the relationship between state legalization of medical marijuana and marijuana use, abuse and Alcohol vol. 120, no. 1-3, 2012, pp.22. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3251168/ Gruman 5