Juan Rodriguez Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 1/29/2017 The socio-economic impact of Southern Hip-Hop in Atlanta, Georgia. Many call it the home of Hip-Hop: Atlanta, Georgia is rich in culture and history, often involving rap music. In the and (residents of ATL) witnessed the rise of Hip-Hop music, predominately hard hitting New York poetry and melodic Californian rhymes can be attributed to the successes in the music industry by blacks in East and West coast Hip- Hop. Southern Artist like OutKast, Lil Jon and Organized Noize felt the need to express their underrepresented culture and set the scene for southern which went on to influence a new generation of Atlanta Hip-Hop in artists like Childish Gambino, Migos and Metro Boomin. In a world where everyday problems of life in urban black ghettos contributed to the subject matter and complex politics of (Grem 57), Hip-Hop music became much more than just music. It became hope for the hopeless. A means of expression for a chance at progression and an opportunity for success: overcome the struggles and plights of blacks in an impoverished southern America. In this intricacy, one must pose the question: what have been the most remarkable social and economic impacts of southern hip-hop in Atlanta, GA. Grem, Darren E. south got something to Dirty South and the southernization of Hip-Hop Southern Cultures, Vol. 12, No.4, Winter 2006, p.55. DOI: 10.1354/SCU.2006.0045 In the the music recording industry was growing with hip-hop artists left and right. George Nelson once referred to it as the dollar business of hop (Grem 56). Musicians coming from New York and California epitomized rap culture and what it meant to be a young black male in America. However, the industry was missing a huge part of American culture, The South. In 1995, OutKast (Andre 3000 & Big Boi) debuted their platinum-selling album addressed all facets of growing up in urban Atlanta, Georgia. With the help of Organized Noize and LaFace Record Company, OutKast reached international success and told the true story of being southern. Their sophomore and junior efforts (ATLiens & Aquemini) helped solidify their leadership in record sales, transforming OutKast into a household name amongst rappers and earning the several Grammy awards. Another prominent artist to the Southern scene rising out of Atlanta was Lil Jon & the East Side Boyz. Lil Jon led a movement in Hip-Hop knock as crunk or music to make you wild out in the (Grew 69). Crunk music gave radio stations the energy they were looking to play and made for excellent party music, a vibe that OutKast offer, giving Atlanta music versatility and radio airplay. Darren Grem earned his Bachelor and degree from Furman University in South Carolina and received his Ph.D. at the University of Georgia. Grem has concentrations in 20 th Century U.S. History, Southern history and southern studies, culture, capitalism and religion. A published author, Darren E. Grem has written particularly in regards to southern culture, religion and economics. Outkast, Organized Noize and Lil Jon were some artists that popularized southern rap and helped develop culture and economics in Atlanta, Georgia. Management created opportunities for Atlantans to get involved in the music industry and musicians were relatable because they painted stories of growing up poor in the poverty stricken south and overcoming struggles all while painting the beautiful lifestyle that being truly southern comes with. Hart, Melanie, et al. and my Exploring the relationship between Musical preferences & purple drank American Journal of Criminal Justice, Vol. 39, No.1, Jan. 2013, p.172-186. Doi: 10.1007/s12103-013-9213-7. Are listeners of Hip-Hop and Rap music more likely to commit acts of violence and use drugs? Research shows us that there are indeed several correlations between music preference and lifestyle. Hip-Hop music often tells stories of growing up in less than fortunate situations where drug abuse and violence are the status quo. Many songs written in the and were devoted to the promotion of drugs, particularly marijuana and a mix of promethazine codeine cough syrup and sprite. The research population was a group of students from a large university in the southeastern region of the U.S. A sample group was asked about their misuse of codeine syrup and reported that much of the appeal came from in other words, lot of rappers are doing and it was the popular thing to do. Research discovered that in young African Americans, listening to Rap music increased aggressive behavior and controlled substance abuse. The data came from over 2,300 students who expressed their musical preferences: Country/Western, Rap/Hip Hop, Rock/Alternative or Jazz/Other and their experience with drugs: Purple Drank, Tobacco, Alcohol, Marijuana, Cocaine and Pharmaceuticals. Results showed that listeners of Rap/Hip Hop had the highest percentage of lean and marijuana use. There seems to be miseducation of the true dangers of promethazine codeine syrup and the drink has become too popular to eradicate in the foreseeable future. More studies need to be done to really understand the correlation between Hip-Hop music and drugs. Southern Hip Hop figures DJ Screw and Pimp C are only the most notable out of hundreds of cases of a codeine overdose but, in reality these cases only popularized the use of the drink throughout the south. Rap superstars flaunted the quality of their dirty sprite in like rapping never sip no lean like With massive radio exposure and publicity, songs like these influence listeners to be more receptive to experimenting with illegal drugs. Drug culture also creates a conflict of interest when drug dealers are making an effort to keep up with the high demand and move into a neighborhood with low socio-economic status. The real problem comes into play when you consider that drug culture also insinuates violence. Where there is drug money, there are guns and a high rate of risk. There are 4 authors in this journal publication. Melanie Hart, credited as the primary author, holds a degree and is pursuing a from Georgia Southern University. She focuses on Criminology and Justice Studies as conducting research of drug use, school violence and threat assessment. Laura E. Agnich, Ph.D., John Stogner Ph.D., and Bryan Lee Miller are all assistant professors at Georgia Southern University specializing in several fields. Criminology, Law, Psychology, and her work has been published in several academic journals Addictive Behaviors, Deviant Behavior and Journal of School Violence. Miller, M. (2004), Dirty South: From Subculture to Pop Culture. Journal of Popular Music Studies, 16: doi:10.1111/j.0022-4146.2004.00018.x Dirty became popularized in the by journalists and rappers hailing from all areas of the south. From Louisiana to Tennessee to Georgia, the term became synonymous with several ideas: poverty stricken, slang speaking, blunt smoking and sexually explicit. Though this is the definition painted by the media, it is difficult to decipher and conceptualize what it means to be from the dirty south without having either lived in it or lived through it. There is not a single definition for dirty but there are several cultural and economic truths that become exposed when searching for its meaning. Rap music begins in The Bronx, New York and finds its way across the country to Los Angeles, California and for years the battle was between the two. Who could rhyme better, faster, more smoothly or more gritty. There was really no interest in Southern rap and there were no recording companies in the south to sponsor and develop a musical movement. The beginnings of southern rap commence down south in rural Miami, Florida where the music group The 2 Live Crew got its start. 2 Live commercial success in the attracted music moguls seeking young talent to exploit for profits and, in the late with the help of its founders L.A. Reid and Babyface Edmunds, LaFace Records, a unit of Sony Music, settled in Atlanta, Georgia and within a few years were in the process of managing superstars Goodie Mob and OutKast. Atlanta was a city that was yet to be discovered and had no credibility in terms of Rap music. Founder of So So Def Recordings, Jermaine Dupri commented in 1993 from Atlanta, hard to get respect from people in New York and Matt Miller earned a Ph.D. in American Studies from Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia and is currently an adjunct faculty member at Emory. Being that Matt lives in the city, it gives him a first-hand perspective at the influence of Hip-Hop in the city and how the culture has been shaped by the rise of southern rap. His dissertation titled music and Local Identity in New Orleans, 1980-2005 is very similar in style to the research being conducted for this project. Dirty southern Rap music spoke of gangsters, drugs, racism and sex. It gave rappers a medium to express their ideas, which is often observed from the surface but to understand southern rap one must go deeper. Goodie Mob song explains the struggles of having to sell drugs in order to survive and the troubles that come with getting involved in the drug game. In a southern society where oppression and aggression between blacks and whites still exists, it is evident that white usually has the upper hand. Southern rap songs painted pictures of psychological pain and suffering that Africans were subjected to whilst enslaved in American. The stories of hate are passed down generation to generation and many African Americans carry a deep resentment to this day. Multiple southern rappers held burning confederate flags high to symbolize their dissociation with the old Jim Crowe south. Southern rap was a form of meditation and empowerment, a place where blacks could go to talk about their problems and how they felt in the communities they inhabited. When Hip-Hop artists speak of the they describe it as a representation of their lifestyles. Though the black community is strong, the white elite are the ones who truly hold positions of power, building their corporate offices and imposing their superiority in racism of African Americans. The music often speaks for itself in terms of social divide. On the other hand, what also makes the is the inescapable truths of southern black life: Lincolns, talking about bar-b-cue, back yards, big houses, up by your (Miller). What really makes rap dirty is being southern! Donald Glover Challenges Stereotypes About Rappers In  Fresh Air, 1 Nov. 2016. Literature Resource Center, go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&it=r&id =GALE%7CA473615297&asid=3d192cb6d7179d43858570a16a317e31. Accessed 6 Feb. 2017. Donald Glover (also known as Childish Gambino) is a rapper, writer, comedian and actor from Atlanta, Georgia. Glover is invited by Terry Gross to National Public Radio (NPR) to discuss his life and his TV series Glover speaks about growing up in a predominately white suburb of Atlanta and comically jokes that the white kids were excited to see someone of color in the class, stereotypically asking him about rap music and sneakers. Glover attended a performing arts school in Atlanta and New York University for dramatic writing, where he aspired to write for shows like Saturday Night Live and Mad TV. After writing for the TV series 30 Rock, he took on the moniker Childish Gambino and Glover found himself in rap music and becoming one of the most prolific rappers to come from Atlanta in years. It is interesting to see the differences and the evolution of Atlanta rap, from OutKast preaching Cadillacs and to introspective and melodic Hip-Hop. Nonetheless both groups are heavily influenced by Atlanta, Georgia and are proud members of the Atlanta takes viewers through the life of a broke young man in Atlanta who tries to escape his poverty by managing his rapper, drug dealer cousin: The show capitalizes on the lifestyle of rappers who are trying to from the underground to commercial success and the similarities between the life of Paper Boi and other Atlanta rappers such as Yung Joc and Gucci Mane are uncanny. The reality is that often times, being a Hip-Hop musician is not indicative of being wealthy. The painted pictures of glamorous rappers in luxurious clothes and vehicles are often a used to intrigue and deceive the public into believing that they can maintain that lifestyle. For rappers trying to in Atlanta, the sure way to make easy money fast, is to sell drugs. Glover uses Atlanta as a microcosm to portray that although rappers work that lifestyle to earn their living, many resent it and wish they were not forced to live in such a way. Terry Gross is the host of Fresh Air, a radio show transmitted through NPR. Fresh Air has been airing with Gross as her head host since 1975 and has interviewed thousands, from rock stars, to publicists, to political figures to rappers. Gross began her career studying at the State University of New York at Buffalo where she earned a degree in English and a degree in Education. She is an accomplished and successful radio host with several awards including an induction into the National Radio Hall of Fame in 2012.