Alberto Barroso Campos Brenden Jackson ENC1101 2/5/2017 Should college athletes get paid The big sports as football and basketball generate billions of dollars in TV, contract marks, tickets sales and merchandising. The NCAA (Athletic Association) gets a part of this money, the universities get another part, and the rest of the money goes for the coaches. Athletes, who are basically the most important part in college unfortunately do not have the ability to get paid because it violates the NCAA guidelines. Student athletes are considered amateur that is why they are not allowed to earn money. In the future this might change because recent rulings can affect the rules. In August, a federal judge decided that players in top college football and basketball programs, the two most important sports in college are entitled to receive payment if their images, and are used in video games or TV broadcasts. gentleman never competes for that is what Walter Camp wrote in his 1893 handbook on college sports. The amateur code was officially adopted in 1956, and since then the view has been that college athletes are students not professional athletes or employees entitled to paychecks. The NCAA says that top student athletes get other benefits, like scholarships, often covering tuition, and college degrees. My research question for this semester is: Why everyone is getting benefits expect the student athletes? In the chapter college athletes get Veronica Majerol is a managing editor of digital at the New York Times. In her article, she says that Football and Basketball are the main sports and generate the most income. In Basketball, the NCAA takes about 800 million in revenue per year from the basketball tournament. The NCAA is trying to change the rules and make the college athletes feel more important because student athletes are the ones who make the institutions to earn money and they do not get anything back. Most opponents of directly paying college athletes do not claim the current system is perfect. Many people say they support more liberal scholarship benefits, including a stipend that provides players with enough money to cover the full cost of college. They believe that allowing athletes to collect a paycheck for playing would destroy the idea of the concept and create several additional problems. is my strong belief that universities should not be in the business of running professional terms and semi-pro says Amy Perko, executive director of the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, which was created in 1989 by the charitable Knight Foundation to keep college sports true to the educational mission of universities. Knight affirms that paying student athletes would mean schools were essentially operating professional teams under the banner of an institution of higher learning. Perko says that the commission believes that the college athletic system needs to reform the opposite direction: putting the in student-athlete first by re-emphasizing academics. To that end, she adds, the commission supports giving students more time for classes and a greater chance of completing school with a meaningful degree. Reed Karaim is the author of If Men Were Angels, a Barnes & Noble Discover Great New Writers selection. He lives in Tucson, Arizona, with his wife and daughter. This article explains that to earn a degree is very important, that is why they do not consider student athletes as a professional so they believe that by giving student athletes scholarships and free tuition is enough. Student Athletes are very disappointed with this rules because they help the university to make money. They are the icon, so student athletes should get at least a percentage of the money that the university earn. Jeff Schultz explains in his article that in the past college sports were a little part of the university and did not have the name that have nowadays. With the passing of time this has changed, college sports have grown up and major sports like Football and Basketball had increased the institution income. College sports have become a major spectacle, eleven out of fourteen football coaches make more than $3million per season plus the major conferences have television deals with CBS and ESPN that are worth more than $3billion. Schultz affirms that there are logistical and financial motives why student athletes probably never get paid. He was against paying student athletes, but that changed when presidents permitted 12 or more games schedules, morning kickoffs, weeknight kickoffs, games almost every weekend at any time. With all these games plus classes and studying student athletes do not have time to get a part time job and earn money. Student athletes should get rewarded for all the income they produce from their likeness. We have to keep in mind that there are other issues that must be resolved before making big decisions, like whether the payment would be the same one for all the sports. Student athletes have to be aware that if this changes and they start getting payed they would be recognized as employees and employees they can also get fired. Jeff Schultz is considered one of the most extremely regraded sports writers who works for the Atlanta Journal Constitution since 1989. He is a common blogger and sports columnist who freely shares his opinion. Jeff Schultz now works for the AJC and writes one or two articles weekly in the newspaper, but he is known for his personal daily blog on his Atlanta Journal Constitution website. His article explains very clear why student athletes should get paid. It is not easy to be a student athlete, they have a lot of responsibilities inside and outside the field and their coaches, professors, directors expect from them their best. College athletes do not have time to have a job, that is why they should get at least a minimum of the benefit that the university earns because of them. The article written by Dr. Van Rheenen explains that there are a lot of debates who argue the same question about college athletes, if they should get paid for what they do or not. Some people think that student athletes are being exploited and others think that they get enough rewards by just getting a scholarship. College athletes think that they get an unfair financial reward, but many people think that student athletes are fairly rewarded by getting a scholarship which covers most of their expenses. It looks like there is not too much interest on changing some problems related to college sports, but lately there were some hopeful signs that maybe would change something in the future. Sports help to maintain and support cultural values adopted at a given place. Sports also provide many opportunities, scholarships help people who have low income to get education and at the same time doing what they love which is to play sports. Many athletes do not come from rich families and college it is what helps them to survive and get a degree. It is understandable why college athletes are disappointed with the NCAA rules, being a student athlete, competing, and representing the university is their job but they do not obtain any income. Dr. Van Rheenen guides the Cultural Studies of Sport in Education degree. He has been an invited speaker at the international and national conferences. He had several interviews about the part of sport in society and the connections between sports and school, especially college sports. He knows what he is talking about and he explains that sports include values, race, and education. The term exploitation is very heavy, but college athletes should get recompensed for what they do and provide to their institution. Getting scholarships and free tuition is a big step, but is not enough for all the hard work and effort student athletes put daily. College athletes are the image of the school mostly Football and Basketball which are the big sports, but every single sport represents the institution and just because of that they should get more than a scholarship. Work Cited MAJEROL, VERONICA, et al. College Athletes BE New York Times Upfront 147.2 (2014): 14-15. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web.26 Jan.2017. Karaim, Reed. College Athletes: Are Players School CQ Researcher 24.25 (2014): 577. University of South Florida Library. Web 29 Jan. 2017. Schultz, Jeff. ATHLETICS: NCAA needs to take a hint: At very least, push to unionize athletics will lead to paying The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. March 28, 2014 Rheenen, Derek Van. in college sports: Race, revenue, and educational International Review for the Sociology of Sport 48.5 (2013): 550-71. University of South Florida Library. Web.