Simeon 1 Reneta Simeon Sarah Roth ENC 1101 February 5 th , 2017 How has the use and availability of drugs in the United States and the Americas changed since the declaration of the War on Drugs? Since the 1980s, the United States government has focused many resources on the on a term first popularized by President Nixon in the President Ronald Reagan believed that illicit drugs posed an immediate threat to the National Security of our country and deemed it enemy number one (The American Presidency The objective was to discourage and eliminate the flow and use of these illegal substances. Many people believe it possible but Reagan went as far as quoting a French Soldier who said that are no impossible situations. There are only people who think impossible (The American Presidency The Office of National Drug Policy was created for legislative, security, diplomatic, research, and health policy. In later years those director positions became Cabinet- level appointments. But with all these efforts and resources focused on illicit drugs and drug policy, rates of drug availability, use and abuse have risen exponentially. Per the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), a 2013 study revealed that approximately 9.4 percent of the population had admitted to using some form of an illicit drug in the past month. This number rises from a rate of 8.2 percent only a few years prior. So, the question arises: Have all the policies and laws passed and programs created had an overall positive effect on reducing the use and abuse of illicit substances in the United States? Simeon 2 Borges, Guilherme, DSc, Cheryl J. Cherpitel, DrPH, Ricardo Orozco, MSc, Sarah E. Zemore, PhD, Lynn Wallisch, PhD, Maria-Elena Medina-Mora, PhD, and Joshua Breslau, PhD. Substance Use and Cumulative Exposure to American Society: Findings from Both Sides of the US-Mexico Border  American Journal of Public Health 106.1 (2016): 119-127. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. The objective of the research was to prove a connection between Mexican immigration to the United States and how our culture affected the use of alcohol and drugs as well as any disorders that may arise with continuous use of these illicit substances (Borges et. al 119-120). The US-Mexico Study on Alcohol and Related Conditions (UMSARC) was a cross-sectional, binational survey of 2460 Mexicans and 2336 Mexican Americans, which proved that those who participated had an increased pervasiveness to the use and ultimate abuse of illicit substances with increased exposure to American society. This study was designed because all other research and studies on the subject lacked a binational approach that also included common factors and subject matter across the board (Borges et. al 119). The result did show a correlation between continuous migration and time spent in contact with U.S Society and drug and alcohol use. It also showed that the rates of increased drug use and disorders were much higher than those of alcohol. This is a great source for my research purposes because it provides a detailed analysis of how exposure to our U.S. society affects drug use, addiction and disorders despite an overwhelming commitment by the United States government to the on that formally began three and a half decades prior. As an article from an Academic Journal, this source proves to be credible because it has withstood the scrutiny of peer reviews Simeon 3 since its publication in 2016. In this study, Borges et. al also provides possible counterarguments to balance their findings. Despite the research being binational, it only included Mexicans and Mexican Americans when there are far more ethnicities migrating to the United States. It also addressed the fact that the increase in drug and alcohol use cannot be attributed to a single factor. These outcomes may have also arisen due to several different situations such as in domestic arrangements because of a missing family time in the United States, and a few other factors (Borges et. al 122-123). Patten, Daniel. The Mass Incarceration of Nations and The Global War on Drugs: Comparing the United Domestic and Foreign Drug  Social Justice 1 (2017): 85-105,121. Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Published at the start of this year, this report identifies the increasing rates of individuals incarcerated in the United Sates since 1975 at the start of War in Drugs. From 1980 to 2000 alone there was a 300 percent increase in the number of individuals incarcerated and the U.S. managed to take the lead as the world leader in mass incarceration (Patten 85). alone has more individuals incarcerated than the entire country of (Patten 85). Although many of those incarcerated were not convicted for drug related offenses, the war on drugs still played a major role in their sentencing. In this source, the author explains that along with the War on drugs came a rhetoric that remains true to this day. Patten also analyzes the effects of Strikes which has been the cause of more 25 year-to-life sentences for drug possession than for rape, murder and kidnapping combined (Butterfield 1996). Simeon 4 I support the credibility of this resource. It was published in the Social Justice academic journal, a source that has survived criticism from fellow peers. This research supports the common belief that the on has had an overall negative effect on our country. Our extensive drug policies, both foreign and domestic, have had opposite effects from those initially intended. Despite the goal being to lower drug rates, increased drastically and so has the rate of drug related incarceration. Patten also identifies that the rhetoric has overexaggerated crime as a major problem when rates of crime have decreased in past decades while the drug problem that is less emphasized rises exponentially (Patten 86). Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality. (September 4, 2014). The NSDUH Report: Substance Use and Mental Health Estimates from the 2013 National Survey on Drug Use and Health: Overview of Findings: 1-8. Rockville, MD. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration publishes an annual survey recording information on drug and alcohol use, substance use disorders, treatment, mental health issues and services as well as reasons for not receiving treatment. This administration firmly supports prevention, treatment, recovery for drug use as well as overall health. The National Survey on Drug Use and Health (NSDUH) Report contains information taken from a survey of the noninstitutionalized population of the United States aged 12 years old or (SAMHSA 2014). All survey respondents were asked about their use of illicit drugs and alcohol within the 30 days prior to the interview. The survey definition of illicit drugs includes but is not limited to cocaine (including crack), inhalants, hallucinogens, heroin, or prescription-type drugs Simeon 5 (i.e., pain relievers, tranquilizers, stimulants, or sedatives) that were used (SAMHSA 2014). The survey recorded that 24.6 million Americans aged 12 and older had used some form of illicit drugs in the past month only. Of those, 2.2 million were adolescents aged 12 to 17, representing 8.8 percent of the adolescent population in United States. Alcohol use appeared to be an even more apparent problem with 52.2 percent of the American population aged 12 and older reporting alcohol use within the past 30 days. The credibility of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration is apparent in the frequency and details present in the NSDUH Report published every few years. The information provided is taken at a census level and is very direct and detailed. The questions posed to respondents are clearly defined and provide no room for ambiguity. This source proved to be relevant to my research question because the National Survey on Drug Use and Health publishes this census analyzing changes in drug and alcohol use over the past few decades which directly correlates with the objective of my research. The report also analyzes possible reasons for the continual increase in substance abuse such as lack of treatment and any obstacles that may block treatment or put it out of reach for some. I greatly approach objective approach to their research despite their part in recovery support initiatives. They help us to understand substance use and abuse around us, as well as the effect they may have on our health. Peterson, Kristin. Joseph Drugs for  22 Sep. 2014. Somatosphere. Accessed 3 Feb. 2017. <http://somatosphere.net/2014/09/dumits-drugs-for-life.html> This article by Kristin Peterson analyzes Joseph methodological approach to the pharmaceutical industry and economic growth in his novel Drugs for Life. Dumit emphasizes that rather than focusing on ridding individuals of acute symptoms and then Simeon 6 stopping drug use when full health is reinstated, medicine now focuses on helping people treat health risks that require long-term treatment. risks are quantifiable thresholds that connect cholesterol levels to heart conditions, glucose levels to diabetes, blood pressure to hypertension, (Peterson). These health risks can sometimes have no symptoms indefinitely but the pharmaceutical industry has identified that the only way to increased market growth is to get more people on prescription drugs. The thresholds for these health risks is constantly being changed and lowered to increase the number of people taking that prescription drug. example, Dumit describes how the risk thresholds for cholesterol have been lowered three times over the last decade, increasing the potential to get more patients prescribed more cholesterol-lowering (Peterson). Kristin analysis proved to be quite resourceful because it allowed for the connection between research and mine. It showed a correlation between the change in medicines and treatment and increasing drug use and addiction in the United States. More Americans have legal access to prescription drugs because pharmaceutical companies are treating diseases and illnesses that patients have no symptoms for to increase their profits. This increase in drug access allows for an increase in the potential for these drugs to be misused, and consequently increasing our drug abuse rates. Although the shift from individual to mass health is largely economically, it also allows medicine to focus less on curing and more on preventing illnesses in the first place. These cultural and business logics of science, medicalization, and the drug (Peterson) spark an increase is the abuse of pharmaceuticals as a latent function of its purpose. Simeon 7