Tabari 1 Mursalin Mahfuz Tabari Professor Sarah Roth ENC 1101 26 th February, 2017. Understanding and treating Schizophrenia. The afflictions of the human brain and mind are a matter that has intrigued, and in cases baffled the common man since we first began trying to understand it. Even today, there is a vast amount of research and conversation going on regarding the comprehension and treatment of mental illnesses such as schizophrenia. Individually, I have seen the effect of schizophrenia in a distant cousin of mine; noticing her struggles with depression and mood swings before she was diagnosed. It causes me concern to think that schizophrenia may be a matter that I might have to face, whether it exhibits itself in my future self or in my loved ones. However, after reading the mentioned articles, I now have a deeper understanding of the causes, effects and treatments alluding to the nature of schizophrenia. An article by Piotrowski in January 2016 by Piotrowski et al, January 2016) states that the word schizophrenia roughly translates to mean alluding to how a schizophrenic experiences the world- it can be one way inside their mind and another way in what is going on around them. This intrigued me and brought me to the question: How much progress have we made in understanding and treating Schizophrenia? Tabari 2 Piotrowski, Nancy A., Ph.D., Tischauser, Leslie V., Ph.D., Medical Guide (Online Edition). Schizophrenia. January 2017. Accessed 29 January 2017. In this article, Piotrwoski et al discuss how the diagnosis for schizophrenia is based on a set of characteristic symptoms: the positive symptoms such as hallucinations, delusions et cetera are considered since they do not manifest themselves in people without the disease and the negative symptoms, which are more difficult to observe, include withdrawal from society, a lack of facial expression, inability to show emotion and many other traits. All these symptoms must last for several months in order for a significant diagnosis to be made. Furthermore, Piotrowski et al mentions how schizophrenia generally develops during late adolescence. The disease is also thought to be at least partially a genetic disease due to its propensity to run in families. Treatment for schizophrenia includes the use of various non-addictive, antipsychotic drugs. Unfortunately, these drugs have many negative side effects, some of which have to be treated by addictive substances such as benzodiazepines. Other than the use of medication, psychotherapy can also be effective and beneficial to many patients. Dr.Nancy A. Piotrowski, one of the authors of this article, is a clinical psychologist and certified as a Psychological Autopsy Investigator by the American Association of Suicidology. She has made significant contributions to the field of mental illnesses throughout her career. Kurtz, Matthew M. Schizophrenia and Its Treatment: Where Is the Progress? Oxford Scholarship Online, 2015. DOI: 10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199974443.001.0001 Online Accessed 29 th January 2017. Tabari 3 Published in 2015, Kurtz converses elaborately about what schizophrenia exactly is (both biologically and psychologically), its symptoms, as well as the most effective biological and psychological methods of treatment for it. Most of the research in the book involves comparisons between groups of people diagnosed with schizophrenia and matched healthy controls. The book also contains a historical perspective on the diagnosis of schizophrenia, which begins from Ancient Roman and Greek texts to the modern day Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). Furthermore, Kurtz mentions how the development of MRI and fMRI has helped immensely in the biological study of schizophrenia as it allows for an in-depth look at the human brain, making comparisons possible between brain volumes in patients versus healthy controls, for example. Various psychological aspects of schizophrenia have also been explored throughout the book such as neurocognition, processing speed, social cognition et al. Dr. Matthew M. Kurtz received postdoctoral clinical neuropsychological training from the City University of New York, and research training through a three-year National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) postdoctoral research fellowship in neuropsychiatric aspects of schizophrenia in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. He has published more than 50 academic papers, six book chapters, and an edited book focused on topics related to cognition and treatment of cognition in severe mental illness with a focus on schizophrenia. Tabari 4 Waite, Felicity, et al. Treating Sleep Problems in Patients with  30 July 2015. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1017/S1352465815000430 Web Accessed 5 February 2017. One of the main problems that people with schizophrenia face is sleep disturbance. Up to 80% of people with schizophrenia report symptoms of insomnia (Cohrs,2008). However, that is rarely the direct focus of treatment. Waite, Felicity, et al discuss in this article about what they learned about clinical presentations of sleep problems in schizophrenics and the adaptations to intervention that they recommended for patients with current delusions and hallucinations. Twelve factors that that could particularly contribute to sleep problems in schizophrenia were identified, such as delusions and hallucinations interfering with sleep, circadian rhythm disruption, insufficient daytime activity and other factors. Specific adaptations for psychological treatment related to each factor were described. In conclusion, Waite, Felicity et al found out that patients wanted help to improve their sleep; sleep problems in schizophrenia should be treated with evidence-based interventions and that the interventions may have the added benefit of assuaging the psychotic experiences. Felicity Waite, one of the authors of this article, is an HCPC registered Clinical Psychologist and completed her clinical doctorate degree at the University of Oxford. She has made various significant contributions to the field of psychology and was the trial coordinator and therapist on the Better Sleep Trial (BEST). Tabari 5 McIntyre, Roger S, et al. Comparison of the metabolic and economic consequences of long- term treatment of schizophrenia using ziprasidone, olanzapine, quetiapine and risperidone in Canada: a cost-effectiveness  Vol. 16.Issue 4, p744-755. 12p. 6 Charts, 1 Graph. (2010). DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2753.2009.01189.x Web Accessed 5 January 2017. Published in August 2010, McIntyre, Roger S, et al state how second-generation antipsychotic agents have varying tendencies to cause weight-gain, elevated lipid levels and associated long- term complications. This study evaluates the cost-effectiveness of four second-generation antipsychotic agents used in Canada for the treatment of schizophrenia (ziprasidone, olanzapine, quetiapine and risperidone) with a focus on their long-term metabolic effects. Data from the Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention Effectiveness Study was used to predict the incidence and associated costs of type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular complications and acute psychiatric hospitalizations in patients with chronic schizophrenia treated over 5 years. The results showed that Ziprasidone had the lowest predicted number of type 2 diabetes cases and cardiovascular diseases but the highest QALY gains. However, recipients of Quetiapine had the highest predicted number of hospitalizations. Based on this analysis, Ziprasidone treatment holds cost and therapeutic advantages over olanzapine and quetiapine. Dr. Roger S. McIntyre completed his medical degree at Dalhousie University. He received his Psychiatry residency training and Fellowship in Psychiatric Pharmacology at the University of Toronto and was named by Thomson Reuters in 2014, as one of Most Influential Scientific His work focuses on various aspects of mental disorders and his analysis of Tabari 6 the cost-effectiveness of antipsychotic agents has helped researchers make significant understandings about its long-term effects in schizophrenics.