Fleming 1 Brendan Fleming Instructor James Josue 29 January 2017 ENC 1101: English Composition II and The Debate Within Since the invention of Genetically Modified Organisms there has been plenty of back and forth discussion on the ethics and safety behind these so called in agricultural and scientific discovery. The first GMO approval came in 1982 with a genetically modified insulin and it first hit the grocery stores in 1994 with the introduction of the Savr (Woolsey). From that point forward the grocery shelves be the same as GMO modified foods are seen everywhere. With such prevalence comes great controversy and the vast majority of controversy within the U.S. comes from two major stakeholders on either side of the issue. The pro-GMO side is led by major agricultural power house Monsanto and the anti-GMO side is being led by the organization GMO Free USA. Monsanto is in the industry to make profits using to grow more crops at faster rates with more efficient uses of resources than traditional crops (Monsanto at a Glance). GMO Free USA started in 2012 to support independent research and development into cleaner sources of food and to educate against the potential health effects of (GMO Free About Us). The major issue between the stakeholders lies within each core, so the compromise will involve making compromises for both Monsanto and GMO Free USA to better themselves and the public. The major compromise involves clear and concise research into better labeled products, and the education of the pros and cons of GMOs. Fleming 2 Monsanto as a company exists for the purpose of making money, as it is a for-profit agricultural company. The company profile details in its outline as a agricultural company, engaged in providing agricultural products for farmers, along with its (Monsanto Company). The outline states also that it deals with two different aspects of business with some development spent on seeds and genomics and the other half based on agricultural productivity. Monsanto makes revenue from the selling of seed varieties that have been biologically modified to maintain certain desirable traits not common in the original crop. For an example, they may sell certain corn seeds to corn farmers in Iowa that can grow faster, yield more corn, and last through winters and tough seasons better than a non-modified corn seed. With such a big delivery, they obviously have a strong backing of support within the agricultural community and with it great influence. The Company brings in 15 million a year in revenue and is currently operating around the world with distribution agencies located in North America, South America, and even Europe (Monsanto Company). Their goals are to grow as a company and the use of certainly helps them do just that. Therefore, they would need the compromise to allow the use of to help them sustain their revenue and allow them to grow their company to an even larger. GMO Free USA on the contrary is not based around making profit like counterpart in this argument Monsanto, but rather helping inform the public on the potential dangers of GMO enhanced products. It is led by a woman named Diana Reeves and was launched in 2012 in response to the corporate influence on her that large agricultural corporations like the aforementioned Monsanto would exert on local state legislation (GMO Free About Us). This small organization is not lead by money, but rather passion driven individuals who desire to be the good they see in the world. Their company outline states Fleming 3 decisions we make as an organization will be guided by integrity, first and foremost, and will be the cornerstone for all that we (GMO Free About Us). With such a statement, it shows that money based incentives are not the operational goal of a compromise for them. Their main compromise would be a push for better labeled products that tell the consumer which products include and information on the ones used. This basic concept is listed as a main goal on their website and acts as a first step in allowing complete transparency between producer and consumer. With such contrasting views, there is a strong divide between GMO Free USA and Monsanto and the need for compromise is apparent. Both organizations will need to sacrifice a certain element of policy in order to complete such a compromise and in doing so will lead to a better environment for the consumers and leave both companies walking away feeling accomplished. As it stands today the companies are engaged in a sense with boycotts being led by GMO Free USA and additional companies who feel that products form large corporations such as Monsanto are being misrepresented to consumers. In fact, GMO Free USA lists on their site they are responsible for the GMOs (GMO Free About Us). Compromise would primarily come in the need to label products containing accordingly. This seemingly small compromise would work wonders in setting the precedent for improved relations between the two stakeholders and allow further compromises down the road to be easier to obtain when the time arises. Labeling packages properly would allow Monsanto to continue selling their products as they normally do without sacrificing any of the actual modified crops in the first place. Furthermore, it allows transparency for the consumer to see what exactly they may be feeding their kids and themselves without having to worry about whether it could have harmful long term effects, which is exactly what GMO Free USA would be looking for. Those Fleming 4 against this compromise should be intrigued to find there is already strong public demand and even academic journals published on the subject of GMO labeling such as the one written by Thomas Hemphill and Syagnik Danerjee from the University of Michigan. Their article suggests that such provisions to begin labeling have already began in states such as Connecticut and Maine on select products (Hemphill 9). Unfortunately, the only major con of this implementation is also listed within this article as it states implementation of such requirements necessitates significant capital investment on the part of the GMO food processing industry and increases costs to the (Hemphill 8) This would mean consumer costs would need to increase in order to have complete knowledge of what goes into the food we eat. Concluding on the discussion on the use of GMOs in consumer products, there are two major stakeholders in the conversation, Monsanto, and GMO Free USA. These corporations on paper are nearly polar opposites but in the end if their company outlines hold true are just looking out for the common interests of the people. The proposed compromise between the two sides involves the mandatory labeling of products that contain GMOs in order to inform the consumer they will indeed be eating genetically modified food. This compromise would work to better the relations between the two stakeholders with the minimum amount of damage done to either side and allow them to work towards sorting out their differences in the future. Fleming 5 Works Cited Hemphill, Thomas A, Banerjee, Syagnik, Food Labeling for Regulation. Winter2014/2015, Vol. 37 Issue 4, p7-10. 4p. Monsanto, Monsanto Company MarketLine Company Profile., 9/8/2016, p1-39. 39p GL, Woolsey. Rosebud Magazine, Timeline: A History Of Genetically Modified 2012. www.rosebudmag.com/truth-squad/gmo-timeline-a-history-of-genetically- modified-foods Accessed 29 January 2017. Monsanto, We 2014. http://www.monsanto.ca/whoweare/Pages/default.aspx. Accessed 29 January 2017 GMO Free USA, 2017. http://gmofreeusa.org/about-us/overview/ Accessed 29 January 2017