Zucker 1 Elizabeth Zucker Professor James Josue ENC 1102 30 January 2017 Should We Decide? The phrase are what you has become more popular in recent years due to an increased use of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) and the uncertainty as to whether ingesting these GMOs will cause health issues. Large companies, such as Monsanto who is the leading GMO production and testing company, want to make large profits no matter the safety of consuming the food. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA), whose job it is to protect the population from ingesting unhealthy foods, says that there is nothing to be worried about. Yet organizations like Millions Against Monsanto (MAM) have decided that the ability to trust the FDA has become cloudy. This organization states that not only are GMOs dangerous, but so are the pesticides that this company uses and sells to protect their crops. It is hard to change mind, but hopefully both the FDA and MAM will be open to the idea that they both might have ideas that are correct. Of the many organizations around the world that are formed to properly regulate and oversee the safety of food production, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is one of the more well respected organizations in America. The FDA has many firm stances on how food and drugs should be produced, sold, and eaten. This is done to protect the American people from ingesting harmful Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) and the pesticides used to protect Zucker 2 the food from insects. Since 1992, the FDA has never felt the need to label certain foods genetically modified products as materially different from its conventional since they believe that the of making the changed, due to the being the same as non-GMOs (GMO FQA). There is no need to the if there is no information that bioengineered foods differ from other foods in any meaningful or uniform (GMO FQA). What many understand is that have been cleared safe for daily consumption by the American people and any different or greater safety concerns than do foods developed by traditional plant says the FDA (GMO FQA). There are still many organizations, such as Millions Against Monsanto (MAM), that believe the idea of genetically modifying plants and animals is harmful instead of good due to the way they are grown compared to organic foods. No one would consume GMOs if they knew just how harmful these they are the environment and to health (O.C.A.). MAM believes that companies such as Monsanto hide the truth about how their products are completely unsafe. MAM does not believe that just because scientists have created GMOs and the pesticides that are put on them to keep the food safe from outside threats means that they are safe to ingest. MAM says that the main threat to health is that scientists now use extremely harsh chemicals to protect their new crops with harmful chemicals such as or (O.C.A.). Many organizations the approval of glyphosate in because this pesticide has the of having properties which can lead to cancer (O.C.A.). MAM has told Monsanto that there is no need to use Roundup because there are many methods for weed but Monsanto comply due to this pesticide being the 1 selling for genetically modified crops. Zucker 3 Obviously, the Food and Drug Administration and Millions Against Monsanto are two organizations that do not agree on the health risks and rewards of GMOs. The two organizations need to compromise because they are more alike than they both perceive. Both organizations want to protect people from ingesting harmful foods and pesticides, they just have different ways of getting the job done. The first and major way in which these two organizations can compromise is by having the FDA make all label their (NBC NEWS) text, a symbol, toll-free number, or a digital saying they contain GMOs (GMO FQA). However, the Million Against Monsanto need to understand that it is impossible to label every single item that may contain GMOs because they make about 90% of ranging from corn to soybeans (NBC NEWS). The second major compromise that needs to take place between these two organizations is that the FDA hide information about GMOs and the pesticides that farms use on them as being harmful to consume. The U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) already the agency (FDA) for failing to do such to see if GMOs and pesticides are dangerous for consumption (Civil Eats). The FDA has decided to do their own research on the matter and to start testing certain foods for residue of and whether the GMOs cause harmful effects (Civil Eats). With this new testing MAM, must understand that these results when found will be and are not meant to be (NBC NEWS). If each organization can just understand that the other wants the same end-result, which is safe food, then they can work together to achieve this goal. Zucker 4 Annotated Bibliography Ronnie. European Commission Fails to Push Through Glyphosate  Organic Consumers Association. N.p., 19 May 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Fox, Maggie. No Need to Label GMO Plants, FDA  NBC NEWS. N.p., 23 Nov. 2015. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Why has the U.S. FDA opposed mandatory GMO  GMO FQA. N.p., 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Gillam, Carey. FDA to Start Testing for Glyphosate in  Civil Eats. N.p., 17 Feb. 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.