Sarah Roth ENC 1101 24. January. 2017 Child Marriage and the Law Worldwide Child marriage, the act of marrying young women before legal age, is a common worldwide practice that affects the lives of children under 18. Up to 43% of girls in some countries get married before the age of 18. In many countries, parental consent is legal and the parents can choose who their daughter marries. Child marriage occurs in both high and low income countries but it is more common in the latter. Poverty is considered to be the biggest reason why girls get married at a young age. A large number of parents are not able to feed their children so they decide to marry off their child. They exchange money with a man who is marrying their daughter and hope that she will have a better life, which rarely happens. The majority of the brides are at a higher risk of sexual, physical and psychological violence throughout their lives when they are forced into marriage. However, in some cases girls choose to get married at a young age because that is their better option they could be running away from a worse situation. How can the law protect young women from being forced into child marriage? Girls Not Brides. About child Girlsnotbrides, http://www.girlsnotbrides.org/about-child-marriage/. This website provides good information about child marriage. They explain what child marriage is, where it happens, why it happens, what the impact is, how we could end it and what the law says. The website also has a link about voices. There you can find many stories from girls all around the world who have personally experienced child marriage. One of the stories is from Nigeria that shows that child marriage is a common thing there. Like the topic says will start if a girl married by the age of 15. Up to 43% of girls in the country get married before the age of 18. A source like this with personal stories could help me a lot with my research paper because it shows how some countries go under the law of child marriage. This source is credible because they have true stories told by young girls who have personally experienced it. hand accounts of this issue are the most credible sources. They tell more information about this practice, such as how it works, their experience from moving from home to a and why it happened. The sad thing is the girls also describe the violence that happens in their marriage and early pregnancy. ICRW. Child  International Center for research on women, http://www.icrw.org/issues/child-marriage/ This source has a lot of good information about child marriage and the reason behind it. This website provides a good counterargument that will protect girls from sexual assault or Typically stories of child marriage include forcing children against their will into abusive situations and sexual harassments. This source tells a different story where they say that child marriage could be a good thing and protect girls from sexual assault or harassment. Furthermore, they also describe how early marriage can affect negatively on the next generation such as educational achievement. This source also has personal experiences and a link with sexual and reproductive health and rights. A source like this is a good counterargument for my essay because they have a different point of view on these issues than the personal experienced. The website says that will protect girls from sexual assault or but when a girl is forced into a marriage they are at a higher risk of sexual, physical and psychological violence throughout their lives. The website has information about sexual transmitted infections such as HIV/AIDS. That involves in their health because some of these girls get infection which could ruin their lives. Sameeksha Trust. Restraining Child Economic and Political Weekly, vol. 44, no. 15, 2009, pp.7. This journal focuses on the restraining of Child Marriage. About eight decades since a law against child marriage was first enacted, the practice is still somewhat rife. The National Family Health Survey-3 (NFHS-3) has found that about 44.5% of women aged 20 to 24 were married before the age of 18. 22.6% were married before 16 and about 2.6% of women were married before the age of 13. These numbers are quite high for the number of girls that are getting married before legal age. This journal also shows what the law has done to help child marriage in 2006. They gave the child bride and bridegroom the right to get their marriage declared void. This journal can be very useful because of the numbers that are given about legal marriage that have been researched by the National Family Health Survey-3. It also describes what is happening in these relationships, such as violence increases, the girls have more insecurity, increasing dropouts from post-primary schooling and some girls experience neglect in physical and cultural development. The inclusion of the current laws in this article helped to shows what already has been done about it. They tried to decrease child marriage with giving the child bride and bridegroom the right to get their marriage declared void. This can be very useful for the essay because the research question is about how the law can protect young women from being forced into child marriage. Nasrulah, Muazzam, et al. Knowledge and attitude towards child marriage practice among women married as children-a qualitative study in urban slums of Lahore, BMC Public Health, vol. 14, no. 1148, 2014. This journal is about knowledge and attitude towards child marriage practice among women married as children- a qualitative study in urban slums of Lahore, Pakistan. In this journal, nineteen women who were married at the age 11-17 agreed to participate in a interview which was tape-recorded by trained interviewers. Most of these women were poor, uneducated or worked as housemaids. They all were satisfied by their decision to get married the age of 18 and even condemned banning child marriages. They saw marriage in a positive way, that they would live a better life, get education and be in a better environment. This source could help explain the statement that was put in the introduction when in some cases girls choose to get married at a young age because that is their better option often because they are running away from a worse situation. Not every girls get into a bad and abusive relationship, there are some that get a better life and education. With the age difference it can be hard for the bride to see her husband as a loved one but instead they see it as a way to a better life. In some cases, girls are trying to escape from a worse situation for example abusive home, sexual assault by father or family so their choice is to run away.