Jessica Villa Sarah Roth 25 January, 2017 ENC 1101.018 In the United States, 2.3 million people are incarcerated for various criminal offenses. 1 in 5 people who are incarcerated are imprisoned due to drug charges. However, what happens when a privileged white male commits a crime that should land him in jail for 14 years, and when a black man has 2 pounds of marijuana in his home with no prior served times for previous offenses is telling of the state of our state and federal prisons. Brock Turner lured and raped a woman after a fraternity party at Stanford University (Buncombe). This offense should have put him away for 14 years. Due to his affluent background, a swimming scholarship, and being only a freshman in college, he convicted of 3 felonies, but only was sentenced 6 months in prison (Buncombe). Consider the effects of his actions and punishment had on his victim, whom remains anonymous. She will forever have to live knowing that the man who has scarred her forever walks free because he had a earned swimming (Buncombe). Consider Brock story while learning about Cornell Hood. Hood had been caught selling marijuana 2 times before being charged with a life sentence in prison for possession of 2 pounds of marijuana. Hood did not take away dignity while invalidating the effects of what his actions had done to them. The only crime Hood had committed was possessing a drug that is already decriminalized in multiple states. These stories are common within the criminal justice system in the United Staes. Too often are white people who commit heinous crimes let off easy while minorities are imprisoned for much longer. The leading cause of racial disparity within the United States criminal justice system of rests on the shoulders of white privilege. This is only one of the many injustices and unfair punishments being committed within our criminal justice system (Wagner, Rauby). The unethical and unfair imprisonment of people in the United States is instilled and repeated by outdated and inflexible laws and policies, and desperately needs revision. Buncombe, Andrew. rape case: Read the impact statement of Brock Independent, 2 September 2016, http://www.independent.co.uk/news/people/stanford- rape-case-read-the-impact-statement-of-brock-turners-victim-a7222371.html. Accessed 29 January, 2017. This article highlights the main events of the People v. Turner case where a Stanford University freshman raped a woman behind a dumpster and left her there when he was caught in the act of violating this woman whom has chosen to remain anonymous. It tells the story of the case. Turner was given 3 felony charges and 14 years in prison, but only had to serve 3 months, out of his 6 sentences months after the judge showed pity on the rapist. Due to Turner being from an affluent family, a promising scholarship to Stanford University for swimming, and being only a freshman when he committed rape, Turner got off easy. National outcry followed. California immediately and unanimously passed policies that will put away people who sexually assault others for their deserved time. At the end of the article, Independent published an open letter victim wrote to him. It describes how her life has been forever changed and calls for Turner to do something good with his life, and become better than a rapist. She challenges him to make a new reputation for himself. This article relates to my topic because it directly highlights a case where privilege saves someone who should be imprisoned for much longer then they actually had served. Due to the judge allegedly seeing in Turner, he disregarded the permanent damage Turner had forcefully put on his victim, and lightened his sentence form 14 years to 6 months. This causes me to ask the question, why is someone in prison for life for having a drug that is in the middle of being decriminalized in multiple states, and a man who has violated a woman and scarred her forever due to not understanding that when a woman is unconscious it is not an invitation for sex only serving 3 months? Andrew Buncombe is the US editor, digital editor, Asia correspondent, and Washington correspondent for The Independent. The Independent has also been named of the for its and editorial stance. Lopez, Ian F. Haney. Post-Racial Racism: Racial Stratification And Mass Incarceration In The Age Of  California Law Review 98.(2010): 1023. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. This source examines how the election of Barack Obama could have potentially changed the prevalence of race and racial stratification. In the journal, discusses how the election of an African American president could either bring more racial equality, or do nothing to end the perpetual racism that occurred at that time. It also discusses that the mass incarceration of African Americans and other minorities could have stemmed from the Civil Rights movement as backlash. During the Civil Rights movement, especially in places where activism was especially present, the police were quick to label people participating in peaceful protests as criminals. Many people were arrested for violating segregation laws. It explains as while the action for Civil Rights decreased, the actions of the War on Crime increased. This is related to my story because it gives information about the conversation during the 1960s, and shows the generally thought opinion from the 2000s. It shows how the conversation has evolved from the earlier years and, if compared to my other sources, it shows how the conversation is still changing. It gives information about race and incarceration, which are both problems that are running rampant within our criminal justice system. This is reliable source as it was been published in the California Law Review, and is a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley. Prison Policy Initiative. https://www.prisonersofthecensus.org/impact.html Accessed 5 February, 2017. This source gives a general rundown of what prison gerrymandering is. Gerrymandering is redrawing district lines in order to place someone or some party with more power. It allows someone to essentially pick and choose who and what areas they choose to represent. It gives an unfair advantage to the person redrawing the lines. Prison gerrymandering is the same concept. Incarcerated people are still counted as people in the census, despite not being able to vote in most states. Therefore, if politicians were to redraw their district lines to include a prison, they immediately have more power than they had before. This allows certain counties or states to obtain an extra advocate to represent them in court. It favors areas with higher populations, and allows them an extra boost in influence. This relates to my topic because it sheds more light on how are prisons are inherently corrupt in more ways than just who we are imprisoning. We have people being misrepresented within our government by claiming that prisoners are part of a state, when they do not even have the right to vote. This can give certain states or districts incentive to arrest more people if they want more influence within the government at any point in time. It gives an unfair advantage to areas that in reality, are being misrepresented. This is a reliable source as it is an affiliate with The Prison Policy Initiative, and is still based under Peter Wagner, who has been researching prison gerrymandering for a decade. He also helped 4 states end prison gerrymandering. Wagner, Peter and Rauby, Bernadette. Incarceration: The Whole Pie Prison Policy Initiative, 14 March 2016, https://www.prisonpolicy.org/reports/pie2016.html. Accessed 25 January, 2017. This source gives a general summarization of who is incarcerated in the United States and why. It gives a rundown of different statistics of each minority that is being incarcerated in our federal and state prisons. It shows that white people are underrepresented in our prisons, while black people and other minorities are overrepresented. This shows that the inequality is real, and cannot be disregarded. This source also shows that many juveniles are incarcerated for offenses, not crimes, half of a million people are imprisoned for drug charges, and 19,000 people are imprisoned for immigration-related issues. This gives a general idea of who is in prison and why. However, this source also calls for criminal justice reform due to the issues listed in the sentences before. The source also talks about prison gerrymandering that occurs. Counting prisoners outside of the county or jail they may be in allows states to attain more prisoners, despite the overpopulation that occurs in our areas or incarceration. This source relates to my topic because it shows who is incarcerated and why. Through these statistics and information listed, I can make solid arguments about how our criminal justice system desperately needs revision and reform. Through these statistics, I can make accurate inferences and accusations about our criminal justice system since I have a reliable source behind it. This source is a reliable source due to its reputable executive director and lead attorney. Peter Wagner has been researching prison gerrymandering for more than a decade. He has written over 21 New York Times editorials about prison gerrymandering, and has led four states to end prison gerrymandering.