1 Carly Whitney Smoking has been around for thousands of years, but we are just recently considering how bad they are and the long-term effects of them. Some stores are even boycotting tobacco, like CVS, and they are no longer selling tobacco products because of the health effects. New technology is always being invented and improving old technology and products and I believe vaping/e-cigs are the new upcoming cigarettes. Many of my friends use a vape and they have never smoked a cigarette in their life, but I have heard stories of them trying to get their parents to stop smoking cigarettes so they have their parents try vaping. Vaping/e-cigs are a new trend that has just come up in the last 10-15 years. Whether people smoke cigarettes or vape/e-cigs is up to them, but the press and researchers can make people aware of the health consequences. The controversy is vaping or e-cigs better for a overall health when compared to regular cigarettes has been up in the air since the product came out. Many people and doctors believe the carcinogens in cigarettes are linked to forms of cancer and other health problems and there are fewer carcinogens in vaping/e-cigs. I would like to research this further to see if vaping/e- cigs is better for a overall health compared to cigarettes. Since we do not exactly know the long-term effects of vaping, I would just like to examine the differences in smoking e-cigs and regular cigarettes. The differences I would like to research is the overall body health including, but not limited to, the mouth, the lungs, and the heart that are known to be connected to smoking, as well as the way cigarettes and e-cigarettes preform differently. 2 Carly Whitney Alawsi, F., R. Nour, and S. Prabh. Vaping versus  Dental Abstracts, vol. 61, no. 1, January 2016, pp. 30. Web. 25 Jan. 2016. doi:10.1016/j.denabs.2015.10.020 In the article versus Alawsi F, Nour R, and Rrabh S compared the main points between regular cigarettes and e-cigs and the advantages and disadvantages of e-cigs. Neither of the authors had a side in which type of cigarette is better for you, they all remained neutral. The article starts with the background of e-cigs by stating that e-cigs are a new health concern, they are banned in some public places, and they are mostly comprised of nicotine and flavor. Most people who use e -cigs are young adults who are not addicted to normal cigarettes, but many adults who smoke cigarettes are making the switch to normal cigarettes to e-cigs. The advantages of e-cigs are that they have fewer health risks than normal cigarettes because they contain less carcinogenic particles, which are linked to cancer. There is also a decrease in the risk of atherosclerosis and secondhand smoke. The disadvantages of e-cigs are that the emissions can still cause damage to the environment and a health, similar but not as much as normal cigarettes. Nicotine, in general, is not good for the human body because it is highly addictive and it is considered a gateway drug. Many e-cig companies and manufacturers are trying to get more and new customers so they tend to omit information or use misleading information to make e-cigs look better. In the end, the long-term effects are unknown, but the information that this article shows is that e-cigs are better than cigarettes even if we are unsure of the long-term effects. This article relates to my topic because it gives good advantages and disadvantages of e-cigs. Even though it contain much information on normal cigarettes, most people know their effects off the top of their head. Even though we are unaware of the long-term effects of e-cigs, we are still aware of what they contain compared to cigarettes and we can compare the health effects from there. We prevent people from smoking, but we can invent new ways to smoke that are healthier for smokers. The ingredients of e-cigs are less harmful than cigarettes so maybe the long-term effects will be less harmful too. 3 Carly Whitney Sherry, Jennifer S., Norine M. Blackstad, and Kasey S. Wheatley. E Cigarettes, Vaping, and Chairside  Allied Health USA, vol. 37, no. 1, January 2017, pp. 45-54. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Smoking cigarettes are known for making your teeth yellow, brown, and it can even make you lose your teeth. What about the consequences of vaping/e-cigs on the mouth? In the article Cigarettes, Vaping, and Chairside Jennifer Sherry, Norine Blackstad, and Kasey Wheatley study the effects vaping can have in the human mouth. E-cigarettes and vaping are the new and upcoming trends in the smoking industry, but do people really know the harmful effects when it comes to your mouth? One of the first things people notice is a smile, do you really want it messed up by smoking? The most important question is does vaping harm the mouth like cigarettes do? According to the article, vaping and e-cigs can harm the mouth similar to cigarettes because nicotine is an ingredient in both e-cigs and regular cigarettes. The negative effects of e-cigs can include damage to the epithelial-rich oral cavity. Epithelial cells are known for regenerating at a fast paste and vapi ng can interfere with this. Nicotine is cytotoxic, or toxic to living cells; therefore, vaping still damages mouth cells and it can also break the DNA inside of the cells. People who frequently vaping multiple times a day for a long period can end up with mouth ulcers, mutations, and possibly cancer. Smoking also makes it harder to kill microorganisms so it can cause other illnesses. According to a study done in 2011 6% participants said they had mouth irritation, 8% said they have dry mouth, and 8% reporte d coughing. The study consisted of people using a vape for certain times and then filling out a survey on how they felt after. Vaping is different than regular smoking because with vaping you can change the nicotine. The nicotine levels can be changed by the flavor cartridge starting from 3mg and going all the way up to 24mg, sometimes people even get 100mg. The main difference is that when smoking regular cigarettes your teeth get yellow and sometimes brown, but there been any signs of nasty looking teeth when vaping. Also, we do not exactly know the long-term effects on vaping on the mouth, but the short- term effects are like cigarettes, there also vary. 4 Carly Whitney This relates to my topic because oral health is a big factor when it comes to smoking. It is one of the first things you see is your mouth. I say that vaping and e-cigs is better than regular smoking, but there are major differences when it comes to oral health. not saying that vaping/e-cigs are a perfect solution for good mouth care, but it have as many side effects as normal cigarettes. It is truly important to take care of your teeth because you only get one adult set and after that, you will need extensive dental care that could end up costing a lot of money. Trtchounian, Anna, Monique Williams, and Prue Talbot. Conventional And Electronic Cigarettes (E- Cigarettes) Have Different Smoking  Nicotine & Tobacco Research, vol. 12, no. 9, 2010, pp. 905. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Convention and e-cigarettes have many internal differences and external differences including their ingredients and how they are each use. The article And Electronic Cigarettes (E- Cigarettes) Have Different Smoking did an experiment testing different kinds of both conventional cigarettes and e-cigarettes. Trtchounian, Williams, and Talbot wanted to know how strong of a vacuum was required to produce smoke (for conventional cigarettes) and aerosols (for e -cigarettes) and compare the differences. Conventional cigarettes were tested in groups of lights/ultra-lights and unfiltered/regular cigarettes. The experiment showed that the light group needed a stronger vacuum than the regular cigarettes. The density of smoke was also stable throughout the whole trial. Each cigarette was smoked completely and the e-cigarettes were smoked 10 puffs of a new cartridge. The e- cigarettes required a higher vacuum than any other the conventional cigarettes. During the end of the trial the density of aerosol started to decrease which led to an increase in the vacuum. This means that the doses of e-cigarettes are not uniformed and it makes the researchers question if e-cigarettes are useful in delivering nicotine. E-cigarettes were testing with different wattage because most e-cigarettes normally differentiate in wattage. 5 Carly Whitney When I look at cigarettes and e-cigarettes I ask myself what is the purpose of them? For cigarettes, most people say they are for people to maintain their tobacco and nicotine levels. E- cigarettes might have a different purpose because some might say a lower form of cigarettes and others will say to look cool. The study showed that the aerosol density decreased while smoking the e - cigarette and this related to my topic because it means that e-cigarettes are not as effective as cigarettes when it comes to nicotine delivery. People buy e-cigarettes with nicotine to get the nicotine in their system, not to get non-uniform doses. This makes me believe that people who smoke e-cigarettes are not really in it for the nicotine as much as cigarette smokers are. Cigarettes produce a steady amount of smoke throughout the whole cigarette. This could be because cigarettes have been for around longer or it could be a difference in the way cigarettes and e-cigarettes are smoked. Keller, Elaine. is safer than  USA Today, vol. 10, 2009. n. pag. Web. In the article is safer than Elaine Keller goes into details about e -cigarettes that most companies want buyers to know. Keller herself was a smoker and she tried almost every way to quit smoking and it finally worked when she tried e-cigarettes. She then read an article about how bad e-cigarettes are for you. She states that the FDA, or food and drug administration, ran a lab report on e-cigarettes and it failed to state how many carcinogens are in e-cigarettes. Her claim is the small, barely detectable amounts of toxins in the cartridges in e-cigarettes are greatly multiplied by tobacco in normal cigarettes. She also believes that most people do not use e-cigarettes because of how they are than normal cigarettes, but because how effective they work. Keller care about the question is vaping safe? She is more concerned what will happen if people continue to smoke conventional cigarettes. Cancer is the big mystery of health issues. Where it comes from and how it evolves. Carcinogens in conventional cigarettes are known for cause a numerous of health problems. This relates to my topic 6 Carly Whitney because this article states that the FDA ran a report and it showed that the carcinogens in the e - cigarettes cartridges are less than the ones in cigarettes. This could be a huge breakthrough when it comes to health problems in relations to e-cigarettes because we know the long-term effects, but we can start using information like this to understand the major health effects.