Garcia 1 Raquel Garcia Sarah Roth ENC 1101 January 29, 2017 with It is no secret that America suffers from a drug abuse problem. From painkillers, opioids, anti-depressants, and other illicit drugs, the impact that these drugs cause to a life are often fatal. The National Institute on Drug Abuse stated that nearly 570,000 deaths occur annually due to drug usage (NIDA). even more terrifying is how quickly the numbers are rising. The UN Office on Drugs and Crime released its 2016 report of world drug use, which revealed that heroin, a common and dangerous drug, has reached an state of high usage for the first time in twenty years (Brophy Marcus). Heroin has had a sharp increase in regards to users since 2007, as the drug became more available and cheaper to get. Heroin has three different methods of administration (smoking, snorting, injection), but all are the same when it comes to health risks and developing addiction (NIDA). According to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), heroin related deaths have nearly doubled from 2010 to 2016. As the numbers and availability of the drug get larger, we are facing a crisis around the world which must be addressed. Part of understanding the problem is observing how heroin addictions begin, how they affect the human body and patterns to help identify people who are likely to gain a dependency on the drug. In this project, I ask: what exactly are those patterns in life which causes them to turn to heroin, the journey of a heroin addicts day to day and ultimately how to recover from the addiction. Garcia 2 NIDA: NIDA (2014). Heroin. Retrieved January 29, 2017, from https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/heroin The National Institution on Drug Abuse is a government organization which publicities all the current information on drugs in the United States (and also adds information about the rest of the world). This web page includes charts, surveys, and scholarly publications on all the different drugs there is. The mission of NIDA is to lead the nation in bringing the power of science to bear on drug abuse and addiction. The organization has various divisions or centers, which specialize in different categories and different drug substances. They provide information on drug abuse for teens, government publications, studies that conduct basic and clinical research on drug use, the consequences and social mechanisms involved. I find this website to be extremely helpful while writing my annotated bibliography as it has extensive up to date info on heroin and all that one may wonder about it. I will be using various information from this source to give accurate-government-approved data, and include their methods of prevention and treatment of substances. The site is credible, not only because it is government approved and funded, but because each center gives information from experts and scientific results. BROPHYMARCUS: Marcus, M. B. (2016, June 23). Heroin use in U.S. reaches  20-year high - CBS News. Retrieved from http://www.cbsnews.com/news/heroin-use-in-u-s- reaches-alarming-20-year-high/ - This was an article written by Mary Brophy Marcus that was published to CBS News. It was an overview to the SAMHSA that was published at the end of 2016. Marcus gives good information on the recent and highlights of the SAMHSA report and its spiking news. is an accredited journalist who works for the Health editor section at CBS News. Although at a first glance, one may be skeptical about the credibility of a journalist who may be biased, the article which I am using gives purely a summary of the SAMHSA and not the ideas of the author. I used this information to give the reader perspective of how urgent the matter of heroin addiction is in todays life. - This ties up with my research question because this article provides important information given by the UN and other sources which allows me to prove my point of how important the issue of heroin abuse is in the United States. The author does a good job summarizing the SAMHSA report of 2016, and is therefore, in my opinion, a good credible source. Mary Brophy Marcus has also written a book related to health concerns and a number of other recognized articles in the department of health and wellness. Garcia 3 NARCONON: Heroin Addiction Information. (n.d.). Retrieved February 07, 2017, from http://www.narconon.org/drug-information/heroin-addiction.html Narconon.org is an organization which is determined to help those who are addicted to drugs, seek help and go to rehab. There are a number of Narconon rehab centers around the United States. Narconon is known for using a different program and new method of freeing themselves from addiction. The website gives information on the history of heroin, and answers to many questions regardin drugs that can be used for this paper. Such as how drugs affect a persons social life, how quickly you can get addicted signs of drug abuse. There is a large section on addiction which gives good information on withdrawal symptoms of addiction, how one becomes addicted, How the drug is brought and consumer use information. Overall the website gives really good information on the actual use of heroin and how it affects a person. This site is credible because it is from an organization led by specialized scientists who convey research on the best and most effective methods for recovery. It is a good source for my research question since with this information I am able to tell the audience precise and recommended methods of recovery, as well as withdrawal symptoms,etc making the point of why heroin is so bad for you. Which redirects to the fact that the US is in an epidemic of drug abuse. MOODLEY: Moodily, K. (n.d.). Norwegian film documents a day in the life of a heroin addict. Retrieved February 07, 2017, from http://www.independent.co.uk/life- style/health-and-families/norwegian-film-documents-a-day-in-the-life-of-a-heroin-addict- 10041015.html This source is an article written by Kiran Moodley; which summarizes a Norwegian film following the life of a heroin addict. In the article, moodley tells of the harsh reality the victim lives day to day and how ruined his life has become. He explains the routine of the subject portrayed in the video and the reveals of the lack of direction to his life. Lilleberg. The subject explains that he is unhappy with his life and explains how he gets the heroin, which he injects 5 times a dy. He refers to heroin as his and finds himself living in unhuman conditions because of his addiction, despite living one of the countries with the best health and welfare systems in the world. This article is a good and credible source for my research paper, as it is the summary of the video made by someone who is a heroin addict himself and tells the struggles he lives with in his every day life. With this I will be able to provide the reader with real life examples and feedback, so they can have some sort of an idea of what it really is like to be addicted, and therefore support the fact that heroin drug abuse is terrible and must be stopped.