Devura 1 Milica Devura ENC 1102 Prof. Davis 29 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft In the world we live in today, beauty standards have taken over the lives of individuals that strive to have perfect skin, perfect hair, and the perfect face. Consumers will go out and buy whatever they need to look young again, or to slow down the process of aging. This causes a huge competition between cosmetic companies and their products, In order to make more products in a more efficient way, industries test on animals to check the effects each product has on skin. Of course, before getting a formula that works the way it is supposed to, many trials have to take place and there are many failed attempts. These failed attempts often result in severe injury or death of the animals. Most cosmetic companies still test on animals, but there are some that are openly against it. Companies such as Maybelline, MAC, Covergirl, Bobbi Brown, Avon, and Mary Kay, just to name a few, all use animal testing as a method in the making of their products. Some people might be wondering why these companies choose to test on animals. Some reasons include it being cheaper and easier, and so that they can sell their products in China. In an article from PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals), it explains that, Chinese government currently requires that all foreign and special-use cosmetics be tested on animals in Devura 2 order to be sold in mainland (Johnson, 2016). This essentially means that these companies pay the Chinese government laboratories to test on animals so that they can make profit by selling to the country. On the other hand, there are cosmetic companies that do not use the animal testing method and actually advertise fighting against it. Lush, NYX, Too Faced, Smashbox, and Urban Decay are some of the companies that do not perform testing on animals, and Lush is a well known industry that advertises their position on animal testing. They indicate on all of their packaging that they are in the fight to end animal testing in the United States. So, how can two sides of one argument come up with a compromise? There are many alternative options that other companies have chosen to use to test their products. Some of these methods as explained by PETA include, and tissue cultures, reconstructed skin grown from human cells, and computerized models that allow extrapolation of existing data to predict the activity of a (OECD). Companies like Maybelline and MAC can give up their methods for these, while other companies that do not animal test can eliminate their advertisements that show their position on animal testing in order to have a level playing field when it comes to selling their products. Animal testing is seen as immoral and wrong, but it was once a normal and accepted method of testing cosmetic products. If a compromise is made, everyone can enjoy products that are safely made and tested, and the lives of animals can be saved. Devura 3 Works Cited Donnellan, Laura. Animal Testing In Cosmetics: Recent Developments In The European Union And The United  Law 2 (2007): 251. OneFile . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. G. Lawton, Quest for Valid Alternatives: Minimizing Animal & Industry , 19 (1997). Web. 29 January 2017 LUSH COSMETICS, THE HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES AND HUMANE SOCIETY INTERNATIONAL LAUNCH GLOBAL CAMPAIGN TO END COSMETICS TESTING ON  News Service 2012: Academic OneFile . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.