Mara 1 Axhens Mara Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 Gun control vs Gun ownership Gun ownership has been a very controversial issue due to its rightness supported by Second Amendment and the violent cases of gun abuse posing threat to communities. There are different organizations supporting both sides of the debate. One of them is The Violence Policy Center which viciously fights for the total prohibition of guns stressing on its consequences. Meanwhile, an association named The National Association for Gun Rights advocates that gun ownership should not be restricted. Although Violence Policy Center and The National Association for Gun Rights seem far away from compromise, more opportunities for gun control education and more excessive background checks would provide this delicate balance between violence and self-protection. Since it was founded, back in 1988, the Violence Policy Center has been working relentlessly on the issue of gun death. Their main concern is to stop gun violence and decrease the number of deaths caused by gun related accidents such as suicides, homicides, and unintentional shooting. According to their studies, 33000 Americans die from gun violence every Gun Violence by the  EverytownResearch.org). Ironically, most of the weapons used in such crimes are issued to citizens for self- protection, therefore to provide safety. Statistics also show that the rate of gun crimes is increasing throughout the years. Despite numerous organizations protesting gun ownership laws, there are also a lot of organizations Mara 2 supporting this trend, because of marketing and financial interests. VPC states that organizations are also designing and manufacturing weapons of increased lethality to offer to the public, therefore leading to higher profit from such industry, regardless of the consequences. The Violence Policy Center has been contributing for decades, to the reduction of the number of lives lost by gun- related accidents, to the increased public awareness to this issue leading to the enactment of new laws and improvement of existing ones. Such contributions are based on research, education, advocacy and collaboration leading to great achievements such as changes in federal policy resulting to a reduction of gun dealers from 250000+ to fewer than 50000 nowadays. The Violence Policy Center also led the coalition to pass the law that bans people convicted of domestic violence offenses to own a gun. VPC is also responsible for the ban of 50 caliber weapons in California. Such contributes are achieved by raising public awareness on the negative effects of existing gun ownership rights and laws. This is done by continuously publishing articles based on research showing how bad the situation is and proposing changes that would lead to a reduction of gun violence problems. In final words, VPC firmly believes the answer to reducing gun violence lies in applying the decades-long lessons of public health injury prevention and consumer product safety regulation to the gun industry and its the VPC.org). Basically, the solution is to ban guns. The National Association for Gun Rights is a non-profit organization with the only purpose of defending the rights of civilians to defend themselves by owning a gun , as issued by the 2 nd Amendment. With partners on more than 20 states and an increasing number of activists, counting 4.5 million grassroots members, the National Association for Gun Rights has been fighting for years on the battle against gun control. Contrary to what other organizations support believing that gun ownership leads to an increase in gun related accidents, the National Mara 3 Association for Gun Rights states that the cases where such lives has been saved due to self- protection outnumbers the cases when a gun is used to take lives. According to the U.S Department of Justice, of felons state they would not mess with an armed Armed Criminal in 27). Furthermore, they are consistently working to improve such freedom in the form of Constitutional Carry Legalization. This consists of the right for citizens to own and carry a gun without the being required to get a government permission slip. NAGR strongly believes that self-defense is a right issued to everybody and such requirement by the government is marking people as possible criminals just because of owning a gun. Some of National Association for Gun Rights achievements include proposing Constitutional Carry Legalization in several states and played an important role in passing Constitutional Carry in Kansas in our founders Nationalgunrights.org). Throughout the years, they have been fighting with gun control supporters and organizations following their mission and defending the rights stated in the 2 nd Amendment. year, guns are used 80 times more often to protect a life than to take CDCP). Although both stakeholders seem to be at great opposition to each other, they both still value the public safety. What is different is the way they want it to be provided. Many cases of people being killed without being able to protect themselves prove that gun control is not viable. However, handing out guns to everyone would, most probably, result in chaos among the people, and therefore is not an effective solution. What could be effective and safe is to educate the public about the use of guns, their importance, and hazards. High schools, colleges should have courses that specifically teach how to safely use a gun. A reporter for RedState.com, Susan Clouse writes was afraid of guns for most of my adult life because I knew nothing about Mara 4 them. I was afraid I would accidentally hurt myself or someone else. Hunting for me either. The culture of America seemed to echo and confirm my (Clouse, RedState.com). If people want safety, people should know how to make themselves safe. American culture indeed correlated the gun ownership with violence and murder, and this should change to against violence and However, this solution is not about being pro-gun, it is much more complicated than this. Gun ownership should only be the privilege of people who have passed the course with a satisfactory grade and who have been identified as clear in the intensive background check. There already increasing number of organizations which provide quality course on gun usage. For instance, a nationally recognized Firearm Training organization offers courses in a wide range of categories, and awards a certificate with the help of which one can obtain a gun Firearm Training). What is crucially needed is to control the certificate system of these independent organizations, and make it stricter. In the end, people who want self-protection will be able to get not only certificates, but actual education about the use of guns. Public safety is a critical issue for everyone living in this country, and as witnessed there exist different ways of providing this safety to people. Both Violence Policy Center and the National Association for Gun Rights have some valid points and concerns, and that is the reason they have acquired massive number of followers. However, as the best solution would be educating the public about the significance and as well as dangers of gun control from a young age. If a self-protection is needed, only people with understanding of gun use would be able to obtain the guns. In general, education is always the best solution against violence no matter what are the circumstances. Mara 5 Works Cited  NRA Explore Firearm Training. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About the  Violence Policy Center. N.p., 01 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. All  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 07 Oct. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. As the Founders  About NAGR. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Clouse, Susan. Gun Education over Gun  RedState. Red State, 8 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gun Violence by the  EverytownResearch.org. N.p., 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. U.S., Department of Justice, National Institute of Justice, The Armed Criminal in America: A Survey of Incarcerated  Research Report (July 1985): 27.