Riley Masse Robert Ryan ENC 1102 27 January 2017 Student-Athletes and the NCAA A debate that is most often argued amongst the world of college sports is that depicting whether or not college athletes should be paid as employees of the National College Athletic Association (NCAA). In order to understand the issue, one must be able to be able to comprehend both stakeholders involved. According to its website, is a non-profit association which regulates athletes of 1,281 institutions, conferences, organizations, and (NCAA.com). Meanwhile, the other stakeholder involved would be the student- athletes that participate in these sports that are regulated by the NCAA. The issue is that these student-athletes believe that they should be viewed and paid as employees of the NCAA, as opposed to being seen as In doing so, these players would receive a share of the revenue that the organizations that they play for receive. The NCAA, meanwhile, believes in the idea that students attend a University primarily for schooling and receiving an education. As a result, it will compensate these student-athletes for the time they spend playing sports with scholarships for tuition, housing, etc. Despite differing views, these two stakeholders share the same core value. Both the NCAA and the student-athletes have a common passion for the sports that these players compete in. In the end, neither side wants to lose sight of that, and that breathes a chance of compromise. The National College Athletic Association holds a firm stance in this debate. In the mission statement, the position is made clear that they believe student-athletes need to maintain a level of whilst competing in NCAA regulated sports. The interpretation of amateurism is as follows, taken directly from the organization website: requirements do not for participating in athletics...agreement to be represented by an delayed initial full-time collegiate enrollment to participate in organized sports (NCAA). In a sense, the statement enforces that players cannot be viewed as professionals under the regulation of the NCAA. This enforcement is done with belief that these players are not participating at anything more than an level, and the organization would feel that paying these athletes compensation would be to its mission of fostering amateur (Time). This belief of not compensating athletes as employees can hypothetically be justified by the motion to grant exemplary student-athletes with scholarships. As long as the student competes and participates in the sports program to which they are associated with they will maintain this scholarship. This often includes tuition being waived, as well as free on-campus housing and meal plan. In a typical year, more than $2.7 billion in scholarships are awarded to over 150,000 students through the NCAA (NCAA). As a result, the organization feels that it is doing enough to compensate for these athletes. For this reason, the NCAA feels it can hold its stance of viewing student-athletes as amateurs as opposed to employees. Student-athletes share the belief that the hard work and time they put into these organizations should result in something more than free education. Often times, the coaches of these organizations see that the players are at the university to compete. In their eyes, the primary purpose for these students to be at the school is to play in the sport. Professional football player Richard Sherman, who plays in the NFL and went through the NCAA system, said this about the topic in 2015: pay for your room and board, they pay for your education, but to their knowledge, there to play not on scholarship for are the things coaches tell them every (Volk). This statement says a lot about how athletes feel in regards to the compensation they receive for competing for their universities. The coaches see the athletes there to play their sport. Similarly, the players view themselves as being there to help bridge their career to playing at a professional level. All this taken into account, student-athletes view a free education as an unfit compensation for their commitment to the program and the sport. If they are not there to achieve an education, then they feel that a tuition is not acceptable. As an alternative, they suggest being paid a salary that accounts for the time and physical commitment that comes with playing for these programs. Another aspect to the reason why student-athletes want to be paid a salary is because they feel that the schools and programs are benefitting financially from their efforts, yet they do not get a share. The coaches, trainers, scouts, etc. that work for the team all get paid a salary for their duties. An article released by ESPN in 2011 highlights this fact. Students from Arizona, Georgia Tech, Kentucky, Purdue, and UCLA the NCAA and college presidents to set aside an unspecified amount of money from what it estimates is $775 million in recently acquired TV (ESPN). This statement sheds light on the disgruntled athletes around the country that see programs and organizations benefitting from their names and their efforts in the playing fields. Furthermore, the players insist that they are being wronged financially and morally through this fact. Because of this and the fact that they do not believe they are getting fair compensation through scholarships, the athletes hold a stance of the need to be viewed as employees and receive a salary. Although both sides clearly show their differing views, there is ultimately a common ground that they agree on wholeheartedly. Both stakeholders share the idea that these sports are played out of the love of the game itself. College sports differ from the professional sports in this area. The NCAA was not developed out of a pursue for money, and the players did not originally participate in these sports out of the desire for a salary. TV packages, scholarships, athletic demand for perfection, and so much more have all skewed this common ground that both of them share. In a way to bring back this common ground and form a compromise, a proposal can be developed. This compromise would include players competing at an NCAA level be issued a for participating in games, workouts, practices, etc. A cash distribution to these players would be of upmost value to them so they can purchase food, clothes, books, and anything else that is not covered under their scholarship. A per diem would be a set value for a game for example, as opposed to being set for an hourly rate that varies per participation. This compromise would work for both stakeholders because the NCAA would not be compromising its athletes being viewed as amateurs. Instead, the NCAA would be supplying the athletes with the necessities that they need to get through the daily life much easier than they do now. Meanwhile, the payers would be getting the compensation that they are looking for. In some cases, these athletes come from poor families that do not have money for spending, so with the per diem system, these players would not be limited to just what the scholarship can offer. A compromise such as this would prove worthy of compensation and is something that both sides could benefit from while maintaining their core values. Since the NCAA is a firm believer of maintaining the amateur position for its players competing, and the players are firm believers of earning compensation for their time that they spend for their respective programs, a compensation such as the per diem would serve both. The NCAA would be able to maintain its financial status by issuing controlled amounts, and the athletes would be able to support themselves better during their demanding college schedules. More so, through this system, both organizations will be maintaining the value that they share at the very core of their beliefs. That is, the love for the game will be preserved, since the players will not be competing for their salary, and the NCAA will not be forced to negotiate with players for their earnings. The integrity of the games at hand will remain true, and that is what separates this organization and these athletes from those around the country. Works Cited NCAA Need to Pay Athletes Beyond Cost of Attendance:  Time. Time, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://time.com/4055730/ncaa-court-ruling-athletes/>. Petition Seeks Slice of College TV  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 24 Oct. 2011. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. athletes-seeking-cut-television-revenue-cover-school-costs>.  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 09 Dec. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.org/student-athletes/future/scholarships>. Volk, Pete. Richard Sherman on the NCAA: Not on Scholarship for  SBNation.com. SBNation.com, 30 Jan. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.sbnation.com/college-football/2015/1/30/7951529/seahawks-richard- sherman-michael-bennett-slam-ncaa>.