Casey Kendall Instructor Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Solution for Planned Parenthood the United States, in contrast to other high income nations, the controversies around reproductive health are confounded by individual and institutional religious views that often overshadow the public health and individual health of access to reproductive health services. These issues are under heightened threat at both the state and national levels and, thus, have risen to the top of the agenda not only for policymakers and politicians, but also for advocacy organizations and individuals (Wood, American Journal of Public Currently Planned Parenthood is reaching a climax point in their history. With the new transition to Presidency, President Trump, has said to have many decisions regarding Planned Parenthood. Will Planned Parenthood get defunded? Will we continue to have abortions? As the stakes grow increasingly larger for change, stakeholders such as Planned Parenthood and the National Right to Life are fighting to promote what they believe in. In all of this, fortunately both Planned Parenthood and the National Right to Life have common ground. Both organizations strive to promote education and better human life. Due to this, both organizations will be able to come to a compromise. Rather than completely defunding Planned Parenthood, the government can dictate what services will be provided and how they will be provided. mission of National Right to Life is to protect and defend the most fundamental right of humankind, the right to life or every innocent human being from the beginning of life to natural death (National Right to Through this mission statement any individual can agree that this should be implemented nationwide. Evidently, National Right to main concern is providing the right to life and maintaining the right to life. Within these descriptions we can take it a step further and analyze that the National Right to Life is defending not only human beings that are yet living but living ones as well. National Right to Life strives to make a better life for everyone. They focus on respect for the worth and dignity of every individual human being, born or unborn, including unborn children from their beginning; those newly persons with disabilities; older people; and other vulnerable people, especially those who cannot defend themselves (National Right to This organization aims to make their mission possible through education, legislation, and political action. They have been established since 1968 and have been advocating for life ever since. National Right to Life has been able to share their information throughout the country peacefully and respectful. A stakeholder that does not take sides with them is Planned Parenthood. National Right to Life also does not support Planned Parenthood and has said you think Planned Parenthood, think (National Right to The only aspect that seems to be driving National Right to Life away from Planned Parenthood is abortion. Planned Parenthood strives to provide healthcare nationwide as well as worldwide. Planned Parenthood is not directly funded by the government, rather they provide health care services and are reimbursed by Medicaid (Davis, Republicans Prepare Efforts to Defund Planned Parenthood). Parenthood believes in the fundamental right of each individual, throughout the world, to manage his or her fertility, regardless of the income, marital status, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, national origin, or residence (Planned Planned Parenthood provides healthcare to ensure a better life for individuals and help those in need. Through these actions it is clear that Planned Parenthood is striving to maintain and provide the best health care possible to all individuals. Planned Parenthood does not discriminate and has the main goal of allowing every individual to have a better chance at life. With the efforts of Planned Parenthood, they are able to comprehensive reproductive and complementary health care services in settings which preserve and protect the essential privacy and rights of each individual (Planned This organization serves health care to individuals who may not receive it elsewhere. Not only does this organization strive to provide health care but, they also strive to share their information to educate individuals. Planned Parenthood provides more than just health care. Planned Parenthood promotes and the advancement of technology in reproductive health care and encourage understanding of their inherent bioethical, behavioral, and social implications (Planned Through both organizations individuals are educated to find a better way to life. Both organizations set their platform on allowing individuals to stay educated as well as having the best possible life. When you look at both mission statements, it is agreed that each of the organizations have no discrimination and want to provide individuals the best opportunity. With this allows common ground between both different stakeholders. The differences that these organizations have fall on the abortion. Planned Parenthood firmly believes that a woman should have the right to choose, if she does choose to, to make any medical conditions regarding her body. National Right to Life stands firm in saying that it is no longer just in the hands of the mother when there is an unborn life, the unborn life has every opportunity to life just as everyone else and it should not be in a hand to take away an innocent life. National Right to Life also provides help and guidance to those who are pregnant but, do not want their child. They believe that with these efforts to educate people of their options it will allow less abortions to occur. These organizations can come together and rather than defund Planned Parenthood completely, find a resolution. Planned Parenthood has been an organization that has been set in place and is now embedded into our society. It would be hard to defund Planned Parenthood completely when it gets funding from different sources and provides services such as cancer screenings and sexually transmitted dieses testing and treatment (Rovner, That Vow To Defund Planned Parenthood: Easy To Say, Hard To Do). With the aim to better life, both organizations can agree on providing health care to every individual even those who do not have financial means. National Right to Life agrees with all services of Planned Parenthood besides abortions. With this, both organizations can agree about how to deal with abortions. These organizations can promote the education of all ways to deal with an unwanted unborn child to all individuals, this will eliminate abortions that are demonstrated by people who think this is their only out. Education will allow individuals to make comprehensive decisions regarding their health care, especially reproductive health care (Woods, 793). They can also direct individuals to other organizations willing to adopt children. Another solution can be to create an extensive application individuals need to complete if wanting to get an abortion. Finally, both organizations can but a time restriction on when to get an abortion. These options will be able to eliminate abortions that are occurring as a means of birth control, uneducated decisions, or from individuals who provided with any other solution other than abortion. With each of these stipulations Planned Parenthood is still able to provide health care to individuals at need and National Right to Life can save lives that would have not had a chance otherwise. Works Cited National Right to Life. Web. 29 January. 2017. Planned Parenthood. Web. 29 January. 2017. Wood, Susan F. AJPH On the Presidential Campaign Trail (2016): 792-793. Journal. Davis, Susan. Prepare Efforts to Defund Planned National Public Radio (2016). Radio. Rovner, Julie. Vow To Defund Planned Parenthood: Easy To Say, Hard To National Public Radio (2016). Radio.