Mercado 1 Alejandra Mercado ENC 1102 S17 Professor Robert Ryans 28 January 2017 PETA VS. AZA: A Fight Against Extinction Zoos have been a source of entertainment for many families, whether they live in the United States or not. Kids enjoy going to the zoo to learn about animals that they would never be able to see otherwise, making it not only fun but also highly educational. However, in recent years, zoos have become somewhat of a controversial issue. The modern world started seeing a crisis as many species have become completely extinct or are in danger of extinction. Because of this issue, many organizations have been created to protect animal rights, whether they are in the wild or not. Many of this organizations believe that zoos satisfy animals of their basic needs. PETA ( People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) have been fighting for many years now against zoos. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) on the other hand, believe that they are saving animals from extinction and providing an adequate habitat for their animals. Both of this organizations share the same end goal, saving and protecting the animals. Nonetheless, they have been on a never ending fight on the methods used to achieve the goal. Even though both organizations share the same beliefs, a compromise between these two would be the way of achieving their shared goal. The best of getting there would be by teaming up and helping each other out. Though animals rights is seen differently by both sides and both organizations, PETA and AZA can break the current impasse by acting in concert on working together to form new Mercado 2 regulations to ensure the fair treatment of animals and ensure that all zoos are affiliated to AZA in order to keep the zoos open. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is the largest organization in the world that works for animals rights as it can be clearly seen in their slogan, are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any (About Peta). This organization has always been against the concept of zoos, as they believe that placing animals in cages and cramped habitats is forbidden them from having the opportunity of fulfilling their basic needs. Going back to the conception of the idea of zoos, they were created specially for one thing: to profit from using animals as entertainment. It has to addressed that throughout the years this notion has in fact changed, however, not completely. Although today zoos are more aware of the necessities of animals there are instances in which animals are still seen purely as entertainment pieces. This issue can be perfectly seen in the situations were breed animals because the presence of babies draws zoo visitors and boosts revenue. But the fate is often bleak once they outgrow their Animals Rights Uncompromised). Also, the zoos restrict natural behavior such as flying and climbing. Apart from all the physical factors, PETA argues on the psychological factors that may affect the animals as well. Animals in captivity often engage in neurotic and self destructive behavior such as self-mutilation and swaying. nonetheless, argue that they are protecting species from becoming extinct. Although a noble act, PETA argues that they merely chose charismatic species while they neglect less known species. While returning the animals seems like the most obvious choice, it would no longer be viable. Animals in captivity have the survival skills needed or their natural habitat is no longer available due to human activity. Mercado 3 The Association of Zoos and Aquariums have a very specific mission and that it of its members with the services, high standards, best practices and program coordination to be leaders in animal welfare, public engagement, and the conservation of Plan). This organization is working towards the conservation of all of the animal species. Not only do they want to improve animal health and care but also increase the sustainability of animals in zoos. As stated before, zoos were primarily invented for entertainment, although moderns zoo organizations argue that modern zoos and aquariums have a vital societal mission to educate zoo visitors regarding the necessity of wildlife conservation and the dilemma of global biodiversity decline and that they contribute significantly to fundraising efforts to support conservation projects in the (Keulartz 44). Zoo policies and treatments of animals have changed tremendously over the years, making them more sustainable and respecting animal rights. Apart from the changes that have been made with animal care, zoos have also started conducting important scientific research. With this scientific research, scientists have been able to breed animals in ways so that they could be reintroduced back into their natural habitats. Both organizations , PETA and AZA, are on opposing views on the ethical part of keeping animals captive. While PETA suggests that the best way of protecting animal species is to protect their habitats, AZA believes that animals in danger of extinction can be protected by keeping them in zoos. Even though there are very distinct points of views, they do share a common goal: protecting and saving the animals. The issue at hand is that both organizations are busy trying to convince each other of their methods, instead of working together. As they might think the same way, both organizations have to make some sacrifices in order to get to their Mercado 4 shared objective. In essence, PETA has to realize that AZA is not going to agree that they have to dissolve the zoo industry completely so they could liberate the animals into the wild. AZA also has to comprehend that PETA will never stop fighting for zoos to realize that animals also have certain rights. That being said, there is somethings that both groups can agree upon in order to make sure both of their missions are somewhat accomplished. First, it would be imperative that all zoos in the United States be affiliated to AZA, this way all of the new changes will apply to all of them. PETA has to agree to that zoos and aquariums would allow to continue functioning and gaining profit. Also, working together they could create new policies that will ensure that animals will not suffer. For example: animals cannot be transferred from their original zoo unless it as an emergency, zoos cannot choose to help species that are popular with the customers, once a baby animal outgrows their they have to remain in the zoo and has to be taken care of, the habitats of the animals must be appropriate depending on their individual needs, the zookeepers must be well trained and under constant supervision to ensure there is no mistreatment. PETA should have some of their experts working the in the zoos to ensure every policy is being followed. Although this two organizations coming together and making sacrifices might be difficult to think that would be able to work, it in fact has happened before. In september of 2014 AZA (with the help of PETA) created a new policy that that all AZA-accredited facilities prohibit staff and elephants from being in the same space, with some limited exceptions, by September 2014. This means that elephants in zoos will be protected from handlers (and the abusive instruments they wield) and that handlers will be protected from (AZA to end Mercado 5 Free Contact). Once before these two organizations were able to put their differences aside in order to make zoos safer for both the keepers and the animals. Having to hear and work with another company that has a different point of view on something important can be impossible. Nonetheless sometimes it is the only way of achieving that one goal. PETA works towards a world in which what they consider animals rights to be are respected by everyone. While AZA works towards a world in which zoos keep species from going extinct and are able to educate the public about the species and the habitats that need to be saved. Even though they both have different methods and ideas, they are both working in saving and protecting animals. Mercado 6 Works Cited Animal Rights Uncompromised:  . PETA, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. AZA to End Free Contact With Elephants at  . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. About  . PETA, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Strategic  Plan . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Minteer, B. A., and J. P. Collins. Ecological Ethics in Captivity: Balancing Values and Responsibilities in Zoo and Aquarium Research under Rapid Global  Journal 54.1 (2013): 41-51. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Keulartz, Jozef, J.Keulartz@science.ru.nl. Captivity For Conservation? Zoos At A  Pojman, Louis P., and Paul Pojman. Environmental Ethics: Readings in Theory and Application. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Cengage Learning, 2011. Print.