Munoz 1 Marcos Munoz Professor Alison Missler ENC 1102 22 January 2017 Should abortion be legal in the United States? Abortion is a widely debated topic in America. A lot of people think that mothers should be able to have an abortion in cases of rape pregnancies or not being able to financially support raising a child. On the other hand, people think that an child that speak for themself should be able to have the rights as anyone else to be able to live a life. These topics have been heavily debated in America for a while now. Both of the sides of this topic both are trying to benefit their own person. In the pro abortion side, they want to benefit the mother or family who can not support a child and do not want to put them through a bad life. On the other side, people want to give the child the chance to be able to live. The NRoL (National Right to Life organization) is a non-profit organization that educates people on the of not taking part in abortions. The NRoL was established in 1968 and has been doing their part in demonstrating why abortions should be illegal. The NRoL states that by promoting respect for the worth and dignity of every individual human being, born or unborn, including unborn children from their beginning; those newly born; persons with disabilities; older people; and other vulnerable people, especially those who cannot defend -National Right to Life organization Mission Statement. Munoz 2 This stakeholder is invested in this topic because they strongly believe everyone should be given a chance at life, even if some can not speak for themselves. The NRoL plans to educate, pass legislation, and take political action to make sure that everyone should get the chance at life they deserve. On the other hand, organizations like Pro-Choice action network believe that abortion should be legal in cases like if the health is in danger, if she was raped, or if she can not financially support the child. The Pro-Choice action network was established in 1987 (originally named BC Coalition for abortion clinics) to ensure the safety of women if they were to get an abortion and give them the high quality attention and tools that are needed. They also lobby for the decriminalization of abortions or anything that impedes the right to choice and access to abortion services. This specific stakeholder is invested in this topic because they want to be able to provide women with their right of choice on if they want an abortion or not. They also want to provide the safety for women if they decide to have an abortion with using high quality facilities and doctors. This organization is constantly working on being able to provide all of the necessary things to make abortions safer for women. Both of these organizations are looking out for the best interest for someone. Whether one is fighting for the unborn right to live, or if one is fighting for the right to choice, both are both looking out for someone. Munoz 3 Works Cited 1. National Right to Life Mission  Right to Life . Mission for NRoL, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. 2. Sarah. About Us and What We  PRO-CHOICE ACTION NETWORK . Lefty Lucy Communications, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. 3. Sarah. Visit National Pro-choice  PRO-CHOICE ACTION NETWORK . Lefty Lucy Communications, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. 4. The Oldest & Largest Pro-life  Right to Life . N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.