Ariana Solano L.E. DuBois Composition 2 January 29 2017 How Ethical are sweatshops? Sweatshops are defined by the US department of labor laws as a factory that violates two or more labor laws. Labor laws have to do with the regulation of wages, benefits, child labor, and working hours. While the government has more control on what happens in the country they do not have control on what happens outside the United States. In many case sweatshop type factory are seen in 3rd world countries or places not as developed as American. If companies have to place their factories outside the country to go around the United States labor laws how ethical came they really be? The two organizations that will be focused on are Gap Inc. and Fair Trades. One company uses sweatshop type factors while the other is against the concept as a whole. With easy ways to cheap labor Gap Inc. overlooks how ethical their workload is, other companies like fair Trades see the easy path but choose a more ethical approach to following labor laws. The first Organization Gap Inc. has five brands which are fairly well known; Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Athleta, and Intermix (Gap Inc. About). All brands focus in the clothing industry making Gap Inc. a global fashion industry. Gap Inc. opened its first store in San Francisco called in 1969 to create the perfect pair of jeans and by the 1970s Gap Inc. went public with 1.2 million stocks being offered. (Gap Inc. About). In 2014 Gap Inc. even raised their minimum wages for all U.S. employees. Gap has set many goals to try and is trying to fulfil them by 2020 (Gap Inc. About). Some goals actually pertain to their factories out of the US. One goal is to try and improve factory working conditions. They are going to start listening to the feedback of their factory workers to show they are valued (Gap Sustainability). Gap also has goals of housing a cleaner world wide business and putting more effort in protecting human rights (Gap Inc. About). Gap was not always this determined to have change in the workplace. On April 24, 2013 a clothing factory in Bangladesh collapsed killing 1115 people and injuring numerous people (Biswas paragraph 1). This was considered to be the deadliest factory incident in all of history (Biswas paragraph 3). While Gap Inc. was not one of the companies tied with the collapse many companies decided to sign an agreement to improve working conditions to improve safety conditions for working while Gap refused (Morrison paragraph 2). Although Gap Inc. was not linked to this major collapse their garments have been found in other smaller fatal factory accidents in Bangladesh (Morrison paragraph 4). In 2013 Gap Inc. completely against that fact of insuring working safety but were uneasy of fact that it could be legally binding that they have to care which is why they did not sign the agreement (Morrison paragraph 5). 4 years later and Gap is now trying to improve the negatives about their factories out of the United States. The second organization is Fair Trades. They are a nonprofit organization with a main belief is that every purchase matters. Fair Trades goal is create opportunities for people who are economically disadvantaged. They strive to improve gender equality in and out of the workplace. They also want to improve the conditions of factories and how employees are treated. They sell products that were made in humanely with respect to the people who made them (Fair Trades USA). In the areas Fair Trade products come from it might not be the best working conditions, work to promote safe, healthy working conditions, protect the environment, enable transparency, and empower communities to build strong, thriving (Fair Trade USA). Money raised for these communities is meant economic and environmental projects. Instead of Fair Trades telling the people what must be done with the money the communities decide what happens to the funds (Fair Trade USA, Impact). They make sure they do their part in helping the people and environment stay healthy and sustainable (Fair Trade USA, About). Fair Trades is against the idea of sweatshops, they make sure their workers are paid fair wages, and make sure they have safe working conditions. They focus on people struggling with poverty, they create a consumer environment instead of a dependency on (Fair Trades USA, Mission). This allows people to provide more for their families, instead of having their children get jobs they can focus on staying in school helping improve their future. The conflict between Gap Inc. and Fair Trades is the usage of sweatshops and the poor labor conditions that are often found in that type of worker setting. Fair Trades is against the use of sweatshops because of what they stand for. They focus on promoting a healthy working environment with fair wages and by definition lacking these factors results in creation of a sweatshop. Gap uses those types of factories defined as sweatshops for the cheap labor. This is such a big conflict because Gap Inc. and Fair Trades are in partnership (Fair Trade USA, Products & Partners). How can a company have a licensed partnership with a company that does not follow their views? Since the companies are in a partnership a compromise could be to improve the Gaps factories workers conditions. If Gap Inc. agrees to pay a higher wage to in factory workers in places like Bangladesh it would help both organizations. With this compromise by Gap Inc. raising the wages of those workers it will help fulfil one of their 2020 goals to house a cleaner world wide business by putting more effort in to protect human rights. By having this agreement with Gap Inc. Fair Trades now has a partnerships that is also supporting the same beliefs like improving worker conditions. With raising wages Gap Inc. loses how cheap the products will be. By paying lower wages means the products are very inexpensive to make meaning a larger revenue, increasing wages would lower the revenue on these products. Even though Fair Trades gains in having the workers paid fairly there are still negative aspects of the factories Gap Inc. uses. For example long working shifts, poor environmental conditions and possible abuse in the workplace. Even though both companies lose something the gain for both outways the what they would lose. This could work because Fair Trades and Gap Inc already have a partnership and Gap Inc is trying to improve the environment and help protect human rights by 2020. In conclusions with easier ways for cheap labor Gap Inc. overlooks how ethical their workers environment is, other companies like Fair Trades see the easiest paths but chooses more ethical approaches to follow labor laws. Both companies have goals of improved human rights when it comes to the work force and both companies care about improving the environment. The conflict of Gap Inc. using sweatshop type factories is prevent both companies to fulfil that goal. The compromise of raising wages for these factory workers has aspects that involve each company gaining and losing something wethers its physical or just the idea of there beliefs but the positive outcome of this compromise outways the possible negatives. Word count: 1209 Works Cited Biswas, Animesh, Aminur Rahman, Saidur Rahman Mashreky, Tasnuva Humaira, and Koustuv Dalal. The Scientific World  and Emergency Management of a Man-Made Disaster: Lesson Learnt from a Collapse Factory Building, Bangladesh (2015): 1-8. Web. Gap Inc. Gap Inc,  Inc. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Gap Inc. Inc Inc. n.p., n.d. Web 28 Jan. 2017. Morrison , Sarah. Bangladesh factory collapse: Gap refuses to back safety  Independent . Independent Digital News and Media, 13 May 2014. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Fair trades USA. Trades Trades USA. n.p., n.d. Web 26 Jan. 2017.