Kim1 So hyun Kim Modlin-Jackson ENC1101 26 January 2017 The impact of the teaching methods of developing countries. There are several strategies for improving poor countries such as providing health care, job opportunities, and education. All those are important for becoming better countries, but the main method for positively changing developing countries is education such as increasing incomes or high human resources. This is because students are fundamental resources for all countries. Without the proper education system for students, it will cause serious problems. For instance, people will trust government without any thoughts and these countries will not be able to survive in the competition of globalization because a lack of education makes people poor. Also, it will make bigger gaps between developing countries and developed countries. Due to the importance of the academic learning, I decided to focus on the relation between the education program and the academic benefits of students who live in developing countries. I want to define academic achievement as students can have higher knowledge and get upper level abilities of studying such as getting better scores at the tests. Furthermore, I want to know how the academic benefits can lead the poor countries to become better countries. There are a lot of people who cannot get the chance to study even they really want it and some governments of developing countries do not seriously consider the problems. My research question for the semester is: how do teaching methods influence on the academic achievement in developing countries? Kim2 Ganimian, Alejandro J., Richard J. Murnane. Improving Education In Developing Countries: Lessons From Rigorous Impact  Review Of Educational Research, Vol. 86, Sept 2016, pp.719. Academic OneFile. Accessed 28 January. In this research paper, the researchers collected the result of evaluation of the academic learning strategies in countries which are low and middle revenue countries. They tried 4 strategies for improving educational results. Then, they made separated groups based on the 4 methods. The first way is, for increasing the number of students who attend school, decreasing the money which the students have to spend for schools (Ganimian and Richard Abstract). The second way is an academic achievement of students and changing the action by explaining proper parenting, the economic benefits of schooling (Ganimian and Richard Abstract). The third way of improving the achievement of students is providing a better resource for changing children typical experience at school (Ganimian and Richard Abstract). Lastly, giving incentives to students and teachers increase their efforts and achievements. However, unskilled teachers should learn a minimum level of instruction (Ganimian and Richard 1). Ganimian, Alejandro J is an Education Post-Doctoral Fellow at J-PAL South Asia in New Delhi. Richard Murnane is an economist and he got his Ph.D. at Yale university. He wrote a lot of books and peer reviewed articles. For example, in U.S, what skills are required for middle-class people and the quality of a teacher. It shows us that he helped people to easily understand the interaction between economy and education and education policy. Both of authors are having professional activities at educational fields and it means that this paper includes the proper number of subjects and a various way for improving the academic achievement. Kim3 Azigwe, J.B., et al. The Impact Of Effective Teaching Characteristics In Promoting Student Achievement In  International Journal Of Educational Development, vol.51, Nov. 2016, pp. 51-61. ScienceDirect. doi:10.1016/j.ijedudev.2016.07.004 In this experiment, researchers conducted a longitudinal study about the link between teaching and achievement. Autor says that teachers and schools are more important for developing countries than developed countries (Azigwe, J.B., et al. Abstract). So, they focused on how actions can affect the academic outcomes of students. They selected some primary schools for the sample and asked the students to take the mathematic test (Azigwe, J.B., et al. Abstract). Gathering these data is for suggesting the importance of improving the quality of education system. Also, this research emphasizes the importance of consideration (Azigwe, J.B., et al. 1). J.B. Azigwe is a department of Marketing of Bolgatanga Polytechnic. L. Kyriakides and A. Panayiotou are the departments of Education of the University of Cyprus. B.P.M. Creemers is faculty of Behavioural and Social Sciences and Department of Pedagogy & Educational Science of the University of Groningen. Especially, L. Kyriakides wrote numerous peer reviewed papers which are about the impacts of education and he worked with B.P.M. Creemers at the other papers. Most authors of this paper worked on the educational subject. This paper has clearly organized the steps of the experiment and it shows how the developing countries can improve their education system for their students. roles are important for this research and it notifies the importance of the education to Kim4 Larson, Richard C.1, and M. Elizabeth Murray. Open Educational Resources For Blended Learning In High Schools: Overcoming Impediments In Developing  Journal Of Asynchronous Learning Networks, vol.12, Feb. 2008, pp.85-103. Education Source. Accessed 2 Feburary. In this research, the researchers introduced OERs which is opening educational resource. This is because modern technologies such as computers are opportunities for people to learn without the limitation of place wherever they live (Larson, Murray Abstract). Especially OERs can be useful for developing countries and it will make technologies and abilities of teachers increase. These OERs cannot only be used by high technologies such as the internet but also be used by lower technology platform. The authors give the overview of Blossoms which is Learning Open Source Science or Math Studies (Larson, Elizabeth 1). This program is for developing countries and all educators volunteer for making free blended learning math and science video modules. It will help students to have more interests in math and science and skills of critical thinking. Dr. Larson is a professor of MIT Mitsui in the department of Civil and Environmental engineering and engineering system. Most of his papers are based on research service industries and technology-enabled education. Dr. Murray has a in Social welfare administration at Boston university. He also wrote another research paper Learning as a Tool for Poverty Reduction: A Focus on Two Countries, China and with Dr. Larson. They are suggesting the way of improving the quality of education and it is appropriate for my paper. This is because I can get information about how the Blossom program can affect the students and it can be a chance for students to have more knowledge. After passing times, this program will help to decrease the gaps between developing countries Kim5 and developed countries. Moussa, Nabil, and Sandra Moussa. Quality Assurance Of E-Learning In Developing  Nonlinear Analysis, vol.71, no.12, Dec. 2009, pp. 32-34 doi:10.1016/j.na.2008.10.003 In this article, the authors explain the tension between e-learning and negative component of this network. At the first, the paper states the current system of e-learning in developing countries (Moussa and Sandra Abstract). At this chapter, the authors explain General, sociological, and political aspects of e-learning (Moussa and Sandra 1). Secondly, it explains the problems of this current system of e-learning especially about Establishing e- learning. Lastly, it suggests the importance of the e-learning system in developing countries and the recommendations for developing education system (Moussa and Sandra 1). Moussa Nabil is the Department of Mathematical Sciences at Ahlia University in Bahrain. She wrote various peer-reviewed research papers about the connection between education and developing countries. Sandra has a diploma Soziologie in Geschaeftsfrau. This paper is not only arguing the importance of e-learning system in developing countries, but also explains the problems of the current electronic education system and suggesting the solutions of the problems. I also agree with this perspective because, in the developing countries, there are the lower level of technologies and insufficient equipment for e-learning system than other developed countries. We should suggest the different way of achieving the e-education system for their students. So, I think this article can help my paper to have the more various perspective of teaching methods.