Islam 1 Islam Richard Gasper ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Importance of Food Waste Prevention The prevention of food waste can lead to a myriad of positive effects such as alleviating hunger and saving resources which are represented through the selected images. The stakeholder of this issue, ReFED, was in early 2014 to create a Roadmap to Reduce U.S. Food (Vared). It was the first national economic study and action plan created by a multi stakeholder group. The organization is working to find a better solution for food waste by seeking to new philanthropic and investment capital, along with technology, business and policy innovation, to achieve this The intended audience of this website are State and Local governments, entrepreneurs, farmers, restaurants, and consumers. In addition to the two effects mentioned earlier, ReFed has also claimed that food waste prevention can jobs, conserve water, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions- all while stimulating a new multi-billion dollar market (Vared). In order to successfully relay the message about food waste prevention to the viewers, the images creates appeals to ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. To begin with, there are large numbers of people in this world that are dying from starvation. This makes food waste prevention that much more important. The primary visual message the stakeholder is communicating through the use of the first image is that restaurants can put their extra food to good use. Instead of throwing away the food, it would be more useful if the leftovers were donated to soup kitchens or homeless shelters. There are numerous Islam 2 restaurants that waste perfectly good food that could have been used for a better cause. Some restaurant companies usually try to make excuses because they that be sued if someone who eats it (their food) gets (Myers). However, this excuse is invalid thanks to the Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act. This Act was passed in 1996 that states that are protected from civil and criminal liability should the product donated in good faith later cause harm to the recipient except for cases of gross negligence or intentional (Myers). In addition, there are many uses of rhetorical appeals in this image. The seriousness of this issue is represented by the expression in the photograph. His serious demeanor creates a sense of duty and urgency. His expression can be interpreted that he is in a rush to deliver the food, creating an appeal to kairos. An appeal to ethos can be found by observing his clothes and body language. It can be assumed that the man is the head chef and is giving orders to the workers which is referencing a symbol that represents authority. The whole concept of this image creates an appeal to pathos. It targets the mainly other restaurants and the public in general, emotional side. The idea of donating food makes the viewers overcome with joy since the extra ingredients are used for a good cause. Lastly, an appeal to logos is noticeable by the clipboard that the man is holding. It seems like there important information on the paper that the chef is referring to in order to complete his tasks. All of these rhetorical appeals work together to emphasize the meaning in this picture. In correspondence with the first image, the second image highlights the importance of in the ability of retail inventory management systems to track an average remaining shelf-time and inform efforts to reduce days on (Vared). Through this Islam 3 photograph, the visual message the stakeholder is signifying is that grocery stores should keep a close record of their ingredients. This way, they can prevent the food from being wasted. Similar to the restaurants throwing out their food, some grocery stores forget to keep tabs on their ingredients. The owners overstock their products, believing that are more likely to buy produce if from a fully stocked (Jacobs). In doing so, the produce on the bottom of the stock usually end up getting damaged, resulting in being tossed out. In order to get its point across, the photograph establishes great deal of focus on the ingredients that are green while blurring out the other colors. The color green is used in this picture to represent the idea of and In a way, it is inferring that the grocery stores should keep their food in a healthy condition in order to prevent any contamination. In accordance with the first photograph, the appeal to ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos strengthen the significance of this image. The old man can be seen as a symbol of credibility and authority, appealing to ethos. Due to the fact that he is wearing a badge, it can be interpreted that he is an expert on the subject at hand. Along with the first photograph, it seems the use of a clipboard is repetitive in representing an appeal to logos. The clipboard illustrates the idea of logically keeping track of the shelf time. An appeal to pathos is noticeable in the expression on the face. Since the man is smiling, it allows the viewers to feel happy about the progress of the issue. This feeling is further heightened by the use of bright colors which gives the spectator a warm feeling. At first look, it may seem like kairos is not present in the picture. However, by contrasting the color green (used to represent and with the elderly man, the photograph creates an Islam 4 appeal to kairos. This contrast represents a sense of urgency because it is inferring that the food can be fresh one day but can age in a short amount of time if not well taken care of. In conclusion, the prevention of food waste is a serious matter that should be avoided as much as possible. ReFED attempts to reach out to the public with the use of the pictures mentioned earlier. With the use of different rhetorical appeals and strategies, the effectiveness of the message becomes more apparent. (Word Count: 1008) Islam 5 Work Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. 01: Rhetorical Appeals . Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. 07: Visual Rhetoric . Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Jacobs, Harrison. Why Grocery Stores Like Trader Throw Out So Much Perfectly Good  Business Insider. <http://www.businessinsider.com/why-grocery-stores-throw-out-so-much-food-2014-10. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Myers, Dan. What Do Restaurants Do With Leftover  The Daily Meal. <http://www.thedailymeal.com/what-do-restaurants-do-leftover-food/52914>. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Vared, Sara, and Eva Fowler. Food Waste . ReFED . ReFED, 2015. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017