Cat Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 U77444827 Stress is an emotional state the is often related to its negative impacts. It is connected to effects, such as changes in appetite, mental and psychologic fluctuations , anxieties, changes in sleep patterns, and the list continues on. Much research that is encountered studies the impact that stress has on adults, while neglecting to illuminate how it could impact other age groups. Children are also impacted by stress that can result in suicidal thoughts, negative academic performance, and other things. Due to avoidance in the topic I have decided to look into how video games can influence different age groups. One focus is how these video games can influence their mental health. There is a controversial belief that the genre of video games can manipulate the minds of individuals. It is said that the more violence incorporated in the video game, the more likely the individual is to be corrupted and exude negative tendencies and vice versa for positive video games. My research question for the semester is: How does the content in video games influence ones mental health? Gentile, Douglas. video game effects on salivary cortisol, arousal, and aggressive thoughts in Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 70, (2017), p. 39-43. dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jshs.2014.12.004, (Accessed Jan. 29, 2017) In his article video game effects on salivary cortisol, arousal, and aggressive thoughts in Douglas A. Gentile researches the impact that both violent and nonviolent video games have on cardiovascular and cortisol changes among the youth. By measuring the cortisol in the body, you can proportionately determine their level or stress that resulted due to the type of video game being played. First the sample group was collected including sixty-seven males and females and two unmarked with an average age around ten. The next part of the process involved selecting the most violent and least violent video games falling in the E-rated category. This resulting in the games with contrasting amounts of violence being selected for the Xbox console. Throughout the course of the experiment the child participants had their heart rates and arterial pressure measured to be analyzed for the results. The children were assigned a game at random to play with saliva samples being collected before and after each session to measuring changed in salivary cortisol. The results of the experiment showed that the group of children playing violent video games led to more aggressive thoughts being produced and higher cortisol levels compared to those playing the less violent alternative. Douglas A. Gentile is a leading expert studying the impacts that media has on children, adolescents and adults. Dr. Gentile is a developmental psychologist as well as being an associate professor at Iowa state university. His research studies not only the negative impacts, but as well as the positive impacts that media ratings, video games, and media violence has on people. Patrick K. Bender received a PhD at the University of Copenhagen in the areas of media psychology, clinical psychology , and developmental psychology. A large quantity of his research involved emotions and anxiety among children. The final contributor Dr. Craig A. Anderson received a of art in sociology from Butler University as well as a PhD in Psychology from Stanford University. His researched involved the influence that violent content in video games and the associated violence that results of it. Not only do all contributors in the research have but they also extensively study topic that correlate to the fields of video games and its emotional impact. Sun, Haichun, and Yong Gao. Original Article: Impact Of An Active Educational Video Game On Motivation, Science Knowledge, And Physical  Journal Of Sport And Health Science, vol. 5.(2016): p. 239-245. dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jshs.2014.12.004, (Accessed Jan. 29, 2017) In his article of an active educational video game on motivation, science knowledge, and physical Professor Haichun Sun studies how active educational video games, which is referred to as AVGs can affect the level of motivation among elementary school children. The increasing motivation received from eh video games lead to enhancements in learning outcomes. The controlled study included fifty-three elementary school students who were placed in two different conditions. One condition was an experimental condition, where they were given active education video games while the other group was the comparison condition that was based on sedentary educational video games. The results of the experiments showed that students in both groups showed improved performance after the experimentation, then they did before they began the experiment. It also showed that video games cause increases in heart rates and retention rates. This article provides the research paper with a contrasting comparison to violent videogames. By reviewing and including the impact that other genres have on children and adolescents the effects of violent video games will be better portrayed. Professor Sun is an associate professor at the University of South Florida who studies how video games can influence teens on a motivational level. Granic, Isabela, and Adam Lobel. Benefits of Playing Video American Psychologist, vol. 69 (2014): p. 66-78. 10.1037/a0034857, (Accessed Feb. 2, 2017) In her article Benefits of Playing Video Isabella Granic goes again the majority of research by psychologist who conclude that video games lead to negative hazard and instead chooses to look into the positives. Her research is analyzes the cognitive benefits of gaming, which produced positive results. It shows that video games promote cognitive skills, especially with action/shooting games. Test subjects who played shooter video games showed a faster rate of attention allocation, higher spatial resolution in visual processing, and enhanced mental rotation abilities (Granic 3). Video games are able to develop spatial skills in a short amount of time and are able to last for extended periods of time which is beneficial to mental health. The research also includes a conceptual map, which distributed different genres of video games and indicated their impact in different mental categories. This article provides the research with a contrasting viewpoint that focuses on the positive viewpoints that relate to video games. By incorporating this viewpoint, the research paper will seem less biased and more analytical. Isabela Granic is a professor at the behavioral science institute at Radboud University and the chair of the developmental psychology program. She studies aggression and anxiety in children and adolescents as well as the mental health benefits of gaming. Hutton, Elizabeth, and S. Shyam Sundar. Video Games Enhance Creativity? Effects of Emotion Generated by Dance Dance Creativity Research Journal, vol. 22 (2010): p. 294-303. 10.1080/10400419.2010.503540, (Accessed Feb. 2, 2017) Elizabeth Hutton researches the connection between video games and creativity in her article Can Video Games Enhance Creativity? Effects Generated by Dance Dance The article begins by stating the grounds for the link, which is that a significant factor in emotion is the intensity of arousal and that arousal is what activates processing capacity. The results of the experiment showed that levels of creativity were the highest under low arousal conditions and high arousal conditions, however with medium arousal the level of creativity did not change significantly. From the research the conclusion was reached that those who are happy and those who are sad after playing videogames tend to be more creative than those expressing relaxation or anger ( Hutton 8). What this article contributes to the paper is information on another impact that video games can have on mental well-being. This article provides insight on creativity and the role that video games could possibly have in serving as catalysts of creativity. Both Elizabeth Hutton and S. Shyam Sudar are in charge of the Media Effects Research Laboratory at Penn State University and have graduate degrees in related fields. O. Mitrofan, and M. Paul. aggression in children with behavioral and emotional difficulties associated with television viewing and video game playing? A systematic Child: Care, Health & Development, vol. 35 (2009): p. 5-15. 10.1111/j.1365- 2214.2008.00912.x, (Accessed Feb 3, 2017) In their article aggression in children with behavioral and emotional difficulties associated with television viewing and video game playing? A systematic O. Mitrofan and M. Paul collaborate to investigate whether or not videogames could attest to the violence portrayed in children and young adults. The experiment included a vast age group ranging from the age of six to the age of eighteen. Primary school children with disciplinary and emotion problems were linked to larger amounts of exposure to violent video games. The study viewed television as a factor however it was refuted when it was observed that the amount of exposure between those who exuded negative behavior and those who did not was negligible. The factor that was different between the groups was the violent exposure experienced in videogames. By eliminating the claim that television is the major contributor to violence, this article gives substantial support to the study of cortisol levels. Providing additional information on a prior source strengthens the foundation and the support of the paper making it more well-structured. Baranowski, Tom And Special Article: Playing For Real. Video Games And Stories For Health-Related Behavior  American Journal of Preventive Medicine, vol. 34 (2010): p. 74-82. 3474-82.e10. ( Accessed Feb. 3, 2017) Tom Baranowski in his article for Real: Video Games and Stories for Health-Related Behavior studies many categories impacted by videogames. In his article he studies different genres of video games and measure the different levels of impact they have on children. He measures how emotion received by videogames are strongly linked to retention. Genres such as fantasy and story games showed an increase in creativity and brain activity among children. Tom Baranowski received a PhD from the University of Kansas in Psychology and is the president of the International Society of Behavioral Nutrition & Physical Activity, making him a credible author to use when studying mental health. The article provides different contributions that video games have on mental health, mainly focusing on the positive aspects. By including a balance of positive and negative information to the paper both sides can be thoroughly and adequately examined before reaching a conclusive position.