Student 1 Student Dr. Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 712 29 January 2017 Wind Energy: Generating the Power Since the industrial revolution, American companies, along with everyday households, have consumed an outrageous amount of power. This power comes from mostly fossil fuels to this day, and provides everyone with the question of will we run of these sources. While many consider using solar energy to power their homes as an alternative to fossil fuels, wind energy is an underutilized source of power for this nation. The Wind Energy Foundation focuses on working towards educating the public to allow funding and creation to be incorporated for this underutilized industry (Wind Energy Foundation). Through their use of different rhetorical strategies, the website is able to convey the importance of wind energy. A foundation who promotes the betterment of the environment should be focused on inspiring individuals to continue their mission, and that is precisely what the Wind Energy Foundation accomplishes. The homepage of the foundation captivates the individual with beautiful images and allows the reader to stay intrigued in interested in wind energy with its astounding facts: There have been megawatts of installed wind but energy counts for less than 3 percent of all federal energy (Wind Energy Foundation). Reading these facts promotes the interest of individuals, and drives them to promoting the primary purpose of communicating the importance and reliability of wind energy. Through this, the organization will, not only, create new educators and encourage others to support renewable energy in its importance to improve the economy and the Student 2 environment, but will also receive funding and support to improve the amount of wind energy being utilized. Another important factor presented in the website is the young perspective presented in their foundation. The board members the youngest crowd, but their wide array of knowledge allowed the foundation to begin relatively recently (2010), and partner with massive organizations, such as the National Renewable Energy Laboratory and the U.S. Department of Energy (Wind Energy Foundation). This overwhelming influence has allowed the company to captivate the targeted audience of and other major company decision makers, the media, and many U.S. citizens who are concerned with the environment. This widespread base has allowed the Wind Energy Foundation to communicate the importance of their mission, and receive an influx of support. The home page of the website entices each visitor with scenic views and inspiring messages. The scroll of four images immediately allowed me to understand that there was no possibility of wind turbines deterring a view, only amplifying one. Two of these images specifically caught my eye, showing the importance and the impact of the company on wind energy. The first is captioned Renewable implying that this organization is focused on gaining the attention and support of all Americans. The image depicts a large horizon of windmills during early morning, contrasting the darker portion of the image with its white text. Some of the visual cues within the image include the windmills being placed within the center of the light background to showcase that the renewable energy sources are the main focus of the company, ensure that we all are aware of the power they hold. The white text contributes to this message by showing the purity of the company, and the purity of this power source. Along with the strength and brightness showcased by the background, the text allows the Student 3 foundation to acknowledge that instead of working towards the betterment of a specific group, they are working on the betterment of an entire nation. apparent that the Wind Energy Foundation uses outstanding visuals to inspire their message, but even more daunting is the rhetoric incorporated (Hoffman et al. 364-374). The foundation shows within the same image that many are drawn to their own desire to improve the world. That use of logos factors into our pathological feelings drawn out by the bright colors at sunrise. They instill a feeling of power and the potential to create a more sustainable world through wind energy. Not only does this sunset show the potential of this energy, but it allows us to see that wind energy is ahead of its time, which calls attention to both corporations and progressive movements. The Wind Energy Foundation shows us that not only are we empowering houses, we are empowering and highlighting resource potential for a better future. The second impactful image on the homepage of the Wind Energy Foundation reiterates the ideals of the mission, but through a different light. Once again, we are view a large horizon with windmills, but this view is seen at sunset. At first glance, the audience notices the bright background, showing them that both the beginning (sunrise) and the end (sunset) are positive. The image also displays a wide range of colors, showing the diverse uses of the wind energy produced in those windmills. In addition, it promotes a diverse audience, and the diversity of those supporting the mission. The text is, once again, white, yet the purity of this message the main focus of this image. The text is centered but not bold, showing that the opinions of the board do not overpower the opinions of the supports, promoting that the importance of wind energy would not be as widespread without the audience. No one color is outshining the others in this image, Student 4 reiterating the diversity of this organization, but overall, the whole image and text communicates that there is a widespread, diverse group of individuals passionate about this organization. In addition to the visual cues provided within the second image, it incorporates the same complexity of rhetoric that the first image does. There is an ethological appeal to support this company by its association with the United States transitioning as a whole to a homegrown source of which also instills logos in the need to educate the country (Wind Energy Foundation). The pathos within the image is shown through the bright colors, enabling the audience to feel a sense of pride for the nation and the organization. Possibly the most important rhetoric in this image is the karios, which is presented in the timeliness of the sunset. It shows us that at the end of each day, the foundation will accomplish their goals of spreading the knowledge and importance of wind energy. The Wind Energy Foundation immediately presents itself as a strong stakeholder for wind energy through its messages of empowerment and education. By incorporating the two images discussed, the website is able to explain the wind energy community is a diverse one, committed to bringing a more reliable energy source, as promoted. The young idles of the foundation captivates a wide audience, and combining these factors will contribute to the success (Word Count: 1128). Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (Really) Matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Wind Energy Foundation. Wind Energy Foundation, 2017, http://windenergyfoundation.org/ . Accessed 22 Jan. 2017.