Student 1 Student Professor Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Minimum Wages Should Increase But Only To A Certain Extent The Fight for $15 movement started back in 2012 when just over a hundred fast food restaurant workers in New York City started a strike demanding from their employers, a minimum wage of $15 an hour and union rights (About Us). Their main website; fightfor15.org has been set up to share information on the movement. The movement has now reached many cities in the United States and has even grown across 60 countries on 6 different continents (Why We Strike). The movement strives to inform the public about the reasons for raising the minimum wage, in order to help those workers currently earning minimum wage across multiple cities in the United States and around the world. It also provides the public with information on minimum wages in their respective states, as well as publishes articles on the efforts of the millions of minimum earning wage workers around the country; such as strikes taking place across the country. The also publish articles on policy changes and research conducted that highlight relevant information pertaining to the cause. This allows them to keep the public informed on the issue and what is going on around them and the larger worldwide community. They also provide useful information for those who are ready to take steps to join the movement. The first image identified (Figure 1) appears on one of the blog posts on the movements main website (Pope Francis Speaks Out on Income Inequality). The image is very effective in many ways incorporating various elements of visual rhetoric for example; arrangement, topography and color (Pack). Firstly, one can assume that the target audience is people who are Student 2 religious, because the image features the head of the Catholic Church; Pope Francis. Using both the image of the Pope as well as highlighting a quote spoken by the Pope, aligns with the goals of the movement which is reaching and informing new people and getting them involved with the movement in order to effect change. The color scheme of the image is also very effective, the image is primarily black and white and the key elements which the group is trying to highlight are colored in bright yellow and stand out. The image contains text which is in a standard font that is straight forward and to the point and does not detract away from the seriousness of the cause. Scale-wise, the photo of the Pope extends from the top to the bottom of the image, highlighting his importance in the purpose, however the quoted text is central in the image and is not overpowered by the larger image of the Pope. The image also displays various elements of rhetoric appeals (Allyson Hoffman). The use of the image of the Pope is an example of Ethos, as by associating the views with that of the cause, it lends the credibility of the Pope to the cause of the movement. Many would view the Head of the Catholic Church as a symbol of high authority and a very credible resource. It also exhibits elements of Pathos, as the quotation is the root of social can invoke feelings in the viewers that make them asses the morality of the issues which the cause is targeting. The combination of the quote and the image of the Pope both act together to get the viewers to think empathetically about the cause and is not overpowering in its effect, the image and the text is simplistic and adds just enough elements onf Pathos to get the point across to the viewers. The second image identified (Figure 2) appears on another of the blog posts on the main website page (73% of NYC Voters Agree). The image also incorporates various elements of visual rhetoric for example; arrangement, topography and color (Pack). The image is primarily text and has no photo; the text has been arranged so that it stands out and gets Student 3 the point across to the viewers. The background of the image is a bright blue, while the text is primarily bright yellow. The font varies in size, the important statistics is the most important text on the image and it is in the largest font, this will draw the attention directly to the important number first. This also helps highlight the purpose of the image which informs viewers of the importance of the cause, showing that it is gaining favorability among others. The combination of both the scale of the font, the background color of the image and the contrasting color of the text all tie in cohesively and also make the image very readable, which is yet another element of visual rhetoric. The image also displays various elements of rhetoric appeals (Allyson Hoffman). The use of the statistics is an example of Logos, the use of statistics, lends credibility to the cause. Using this statistics and showing the huge number of growing support for the cause also highlights the importance of the cause and why others need to be more aware. It also employs use of Kairos, there is a time element to this image, as the last text states Time For $15 in it does not only suggest that the cause is working toward change happening soon, but also it can be interpreted that with this particular image, and the wording of the text that they are also employing Kairos, as a mean to incite the targeted audience to act in a timely manner so that the goals of the movement can be reached. The website comprises of many blogs with associated images to help promote their cause. The two selected images are just a few of many which employ both visual and rhetorical strategies. Fight for $15 continues to work to build and execute their initiative of raising the minimum wage for all across multiple cities in multiple countries, starting with the United States. More and more minimum wage paid workers continue to join the cause and it is Student 4 certainly gaining momentum with government officials and policy makers because of movements like the Fight for $15. (WC: 1028) Student 5 http://fightfor15.org/pope-francis-speaks-out-on-income-inequality/ Figure 1 http://fightfor15.org/73-of-nyc-voters-agree-its-time-for-15-in-ny/ Figure 2 Student 6 Works Cited 73% of NYC Voters  6 Aug. 2015. 25 Jan. 2017 <Fightfor15.org>. About Us. 13 April 2016. 25 January 2017 <Fightfor15.org>. Allyson Hoffman, Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters. University of South Florida, 2016. Pack, Jenna. Breaking Down an  n.d. Writing Commons. Creative Commons. 25 Jan. 2017. Pope Francis Speaks Out on Income  23 Sep. 2015. 25 Jan. 2017 <http://fightfor15.org/pope-francis-speaks-out-on-income-inequality/>. Why We Strike. 25 Aug. 2016. 25 January 2017 <Fightfor15.org>.