Student 1 Student Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 22 January 2017 Depression Treatment Depression is a serious mental disorder that affects millions of people worldwide regardless of race, sex, or age. However, due to the stigma that surrounds this illness many people do not seek out treatment even though there are now quite a few treatment options that have been proven to Beyondblue is an Australian-based company formed in 2000 that works to fight the stigma associated with mental health, and offers various treatment options for the countless people that are forced to struggle with this illness in their everyday lives. By implementing numerous visual cues throughout their website and using a variety of rhetorical strategies, Beyondblue is able to successfully present their treatment options for depression in order to help alleviate its symptoms and help people live a normal, healthy life. One of the first course of actions that Beyondblue suggests victims of depression should take is psychological treatment, such as speaking to a therapist and getting professional help. Beyondblue formats this treatment plan by placing a picture of a patient and its therapist at the top, and list its many forms of psychological treatment right below it. The picture positioned at the top of the webpage helps to illustrate the benefits of talking with a therapist. The picture includes a man, presumably the patient, and a woman, the doctor, both seated in an office-like setting in professional attire. Their choice of clothing and the background setting assist in establishing credentials and making Beyondblue appear as a legitimate company that is confident Student 2 in what they are proposing. This gives the intended audience, Australians with depression, a certain amount of trust in the stakeholder. The visual cue also presents a look of engagement upon the primary face in order to demonstrate that doctors involved in psychological treatment of mental disorders genuinely care about their patients and what they have to say. Talking to a therapist that actively engages in these sessions can help change and improve so that patients are better equipped to deal with the copious amounts of stress they feel in their daily lives (Beyondblue). This particular image also takes into consideration composition and color to help convey its intended message. The visual is arranged in a manner that makes the patient the primary focus and subtly blurs out the rest. This style of composition helps communicate and emphasize to the audience that the patient is the top priority. This helps the audience feel a sense of importance and urges them to take the steps to talk to a therapist. In the photo the main colors are black and purple. While the back is there to merely serve as a neutral color, the purple helps the viewers feel peaceful, at ease, and helps them on the present just like how one would feel at an actual therapeutic session (Beyondblue). The image is also helpful in letting the audience know that psychological treatment is now readily available for this serious mental condition. All of the elements incorporated in the image are beneficial in helping Beyondblue their (Hoffman et al. 17). This visual successfully encourages those struggling with depression to seek help and psychological treatment to cope with their illness. Medical treatment, in terms of taking antidepressants, is another effective way for those living with depression to alleviate their symptoms. Beyondblue presents this option by adding an image of a patient and a medical doctor in an office surrounded by medical equipment onto their Student 3 website. This helps convey the message that medical treatment is a reasonable route to take, and that there is no shame in taking medicine to deal with depression. The arrangement of the photo and the strong use of the color blue are important factors that Beyondblue has applied in the image. The picture is arranged so that the audience is able to easily notice the smiling patient and doctor and the friendly environment the photo is set in. This plays at the emotions and allows them to feel safe about consulting a doctor regarding medical treatment and invalidates any about that people typically associate with the medication (Beyondblue). The image also implements extensive amounts of the color blue. This is done purposefully as blue is a color that is commonly associated with depression, making the picture more relatable to its intended audience. Beyondblue creates a dependable foundation to help those with depression, especially those with to severe that have not found success with psychological forms of treatment (Beyondblue). These credentials are yet again established in the picture by placing a clearly identifiable doctor in a room filled with medical equipment. This ensures the audience that doctors and Beyondblue are both trustworthy sources in regard to depression treatment plans. There is also a subtle urgency presented in the image of the patient and doctor. By choosing a office as the background for the photo, Beyondblue is attempting to communicate to the audience that there is currently medical options available for treating depression. It is important to act fast when seeking out medical assistance, particularly those experiencing more extreme forms of depression because medicine such as and even may be needed for these severe cases (Beyondblue). This particular image effectively conveys the pros of consulting a doctor about receiving medical help for depression and erasing the stigma associated with it. Student 4 Beyondblue is an Australian based company that has successfully grown to be the national leader on mental health in Australia by doing extensive research to further their knowledge on the subject of mental health. This success allows the company to provide the people of Australia with innumerable treatments for depression that can be easily accessed. Their website wisely uses various strategies, such as effective visual cues and rhetorical strategies to present treatment plans for depression that have been proven to work. These options primarily focus on different forms of psychological and medical treatment to aid in diminishing the symptoms of depression. WC: 1014 Student 5 Works cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds.Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu,2016. E-text. Types of treatment available for depression. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Student 6