1 Student Student Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 27 January 2017 We Can Do It As one of the fastest growing industries in the world, technology has made an outstanding impact on the people who live in it. made our lives more entertaining and substantially easier, however, men are currently outnumbering women in this industry, which is kind of upsetting seeing as I am a female student majoring in computer science. Despite this setback for women, an organization was developed to help women in tech succeed. Women Who Code is a non-profit organization that provides programs, career paths, and job opportunities for women and sets a global community to support them wherever they live. As mentioned in this website, the purpose of this organization is to women to excel in technology (WWC). Women Who Code demonstrates this purpose through visual and rhetorical strategies in their website and especially, in the images they have posted on there as well. These images further persuades the purpose to anyone who views this website. The first image chosen was a pie chart located on the home page of the website. The message WWC is trying to communicate through this image is that there are a variety of women in certain positions that are involved in this organization. It initially allows the reader to believe that women are capable to handle these highly advanced positions and that Women Who Code initiates women who work in diverse positions. To convey the intended message, visual cues are used within the pie chart image. The visual cues that were used was the 2 Student actual pie chart itself, which presented the amount of women that worked as each position and the amount of positions that are involved in Women Who Code. These cues demonstrate that a wide-range of positions are accepted into this organization and that you can become a part of WWC even if you are a beginner learning to code or you are a thriving engineer. The colors of the pie chart can definitely catch the attention of someone looking at this website, not only that, but the fact that women who are still learning to code and engineers have the most people. By using the bright and pretty colors for the pie chart, it adds a welcoming feel to it and makes the observer of the pie chart more comfortable. The text in the image labels the positions that are currently apart of WWC and allow the observer to easily read the pie chart. Along with the visual strategies used to persuade the audience of this purpose, rhetorical strategies are used to fully break down the meaning of these images. In the image of the pie chart, logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos demonstrate the different meanings that can be involved in this images. appeals to so it is present in this image through the pie chart. (Lane, Lee, Mckee, McIntyre, and Pantelides 23). Since the pie chart represents the women there as a whole, it is split to show the amount of women that work as that position. appeals to the which in this case, is the organization as a whole. The image portrays ethos because it was provided by the Women Who Code organization, which makes their credibility and authority present. (Lane, Lee, Mckee, McIntyre, and Pantelides 20). appeals to so even though this image depicts a pie chart, it still contains emotional aspects. (Lane, Lee, Mckee, McIntyre, and Pantelides 22). Pathos is used in this image by portraying how many women are engaged in this organization. When other women interested in this particular industry see this image, feel relatively connected and their emotions will be enabled because of their passion for this field. Kairos appeals to the right time to express 3 Student persuasiveness and since the goal is to women to excel in technology the types of different positions held by women in this organization are present. The last image chosen is located on the home page and it depicts women working in their everyday tech careers. The message this organization is communicating through this image is that women are definitely able to able to engage themselves in tech careers. Women acquire the abilities to establish themselves into a challenging industry that is mainly comprised of men. The visual cues that are used in this image to convey that intended message are the computers and the women. These key components represent how women are able to interact with technology and cooperate with each other and since in their everyday work setting, other women can surely relate to this picture. Although this image contain any text, the components of the picture are enough to give it a powerful meaning. Like the previous image, this image also uses all of the rhetorical strategies like ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. Since is the appeal to it is used in this image to demonstrate that women are capable of working with technology and thriving in the tech industry through the women and the computers. (Lane, Lee, Mckee, McIntyre, and Pantelides 23). Ethos is represented in this image to show how much authority women are capable of having in a field that is predominately men. Plenty of women are in higher positions at top-notch companies (Yahoo, Women Who Code, etc.) and are able to produce outstanding ideas that make their company thrive. When other women see this image, their emotions will be enabled because they themselves as women see other women thriving in this rising industry, thus introducing the rhetorical strategy of pathos. The goal of this image is to encourage women to thrive and seeing women engaging in something passionate about definitely conveys kairos. 4 Student Overall, these two images definitely reveal rhetorical and visual strategies that persuade the audience that they do indeed women to excel in technology (WWC). The first image depicted a pie chart showing the amount of women in each tech position and it exhibited visual cues, ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos that allowed the audience to fully understand the meaning of it. The second image depicted women working in their everyday tech careers and exhibited everything the first image did, while also being quite relatable. When inspired women look on the website and see these images, they will feel empowered to prosper and succeed in whatever tech career they are pursuing. (WC: 1064). 5 Student Works Cited Emily Lane, Kendra Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantellides. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. Print. Julie Gerdes, Sarah Beth Hopton, and Joshua M. Rea. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 331-338. Print. womenwhocode.com. Women Who Code, 2016. Web. 20 Jan. 2017.