Tran 1 Michelle Tran Professor Alison ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Fighting for Global Health UN reports that 805 million people are hungry (2014) and the vast in developing countries. Globally, as a result of chronic undernutrition, one in four children under the age of five has stunted growth (2011), which impairs development and future (US Food Aid and Security). Natural disasters, wars, and civil conflicts can cause a deficiency in food supply in many countries. According to Freedom From Hunger, hunger is a persistent and insidious condition that can affect generations of people in a geographic The most crucial yet basic needs of life should be easily accessible to every man, woman, and child. The accommodation of World Food Programme and the USAID, two well-known food assistance programme who both have a common goal of annihilating world hunger, help developing countries acquire the fundamental necessities, and improving global health. Although both organizations have a common goal, they have different principles and strategies to achieve the common goal. If both humanitarian agency, World Food Programme and USAID, were to collaborate together they would have the ability to receive more donations and investments, be able to provide for countries on a larger scale, and ensure food security. The World Food vision world in which every man, woman and child has access at all times to the food needed for an active and healthy life. Without food, there can Tran 2 be no sustainable peace, no democracy and no The World Food Programme has revised their of food aid to food in order to provide for the long-term need. Food aid is the act of immediately providing food where it is needed, but the solution interferes with the local markets. Therefore, food assistance provides (for WFP) involves physical banknotes, vouchers, or electronic funds being given to beneficiaries to spend In developing countries, HIV and Tuberculosis is very prevalent and causes affected people to more calories and nutrients in their Food Programme), but causes a lower appetite. The World Food response is to provide food and nutrient support while working with UNAIDS. Similarly to World Food Programme in adopting the food the USAID is largest provider of international food cash provider (USAID From the American People). In emergency situations where food aiding cannot arrive in time, the USAID will provide cash assistance in order to purchase from local vendors. The mission statement is to extreme poverty and promote the development of The focus of USAID does not stop there, their vision is to promote and provide education, gender equality, economic growth and trade, and food security. They work on a bigger scale of improving global health. Many developing issue arise within their own government, USAID ventures on working to prevent active conflicts by working with the military to create stability. The USAID works together with U.S. governments and donors to ensure quality access to education to create a pathway to economic growth and health. Global poverty and development is the overall focus of the World Food Programme and USAID. The World programme attempts to achieve their goal through educating the people on Tran 3 ways to sustain self support systems in agricultural needs and supplying food assistance and aid. The WFP contributes to community infrastructure, natural resource development, and restoration of agriculture. While, the USAID directly link with other government agencies to allocate agriculture and food security, education, gender equality. The USAID the opportunities impoverished households need to raise their living standards, provides countries with the resources to expand access to basic services, important of citizens to chart their own prosperous individuals to be able to support themselves in the long-term. If both humanitarian agencies were to work together and collaborate on their methods, it would fulfill the vision of both agencies on expanding their techniques. A compromise could be collaborating on a project where both agencies can potentially gain more donations and investors to fund their vision. Over the years, the USAID has collaborated with many U.S. government agencies such as the military in to stabilize countries and build responsive local (USAID). They would work on the same issues as the military, but using different tools. The WFP has also collaborated with over one thousand Non-government organizations (NGOs) varying from small groups to large international agencies. As WFP states, this collaboration, our efforts to bring much-needed assistance to more than 80 million people in 80 countries would be jeopardized. Without the vocal support of these organizations, our efforts to put Zero Hunger at the top of the international agenda would be far less Working with NGOs allowed access to areas unreachable for WFP and expanded on technical knowledge. The NGOs collaboration provided understanding of the community and how it is worked. Therefore, a collaboration with a large government agency such as USAID would be possible. Tran 4 Both organizations have already adopted the same source of helping developing countries with cash based assistance, forming other projects and programs together would be in favor of both the agencies and the people in need. The World Food Program and USAID have many donors and combining them would be in favor of both humanitarian agencies for their projects to be achieved. The two agencies are very large and have connections, so launching a project together would only be beneficial. The act of partnering together could present more resources and opportunities to the World Food Programme and USAID. The WSP can reach than 80 million people with food assistance in 82 countries each year. 11,367 people work for the organization, most of them in remote areas, directly serving the hungry but can reach out to more with the help of the USAID. With the United States being the largest food donor to Syria, the collaboration between the World Food Programme and USAID is possible (USAID From the American People). WFP and USAID can launch a project where both agencies can focus on the security of Food assistance, which overall promotes global health. Both potential partners can contribute their fundings, share research connections, attract investors, and raise donations. The partnership would advance the aid in helping developing countries achieve food security. Tran 5 Work Cited World Food  Plan WFP United Nations World Food Programme - Fighting Hunger Worldwide . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Food  and Food Security U.S. Agency for International Development . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Emergency Food Security  Aid Emergency Food Security Program . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Under-Five  DATA . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.