Mariana Castaneda ENC 1102 Professor Ryan 29 January 2017 Compromise on the right to choose There is almost no topic more heavily debated than the issue of a right to terminate a pregnancy. The 1973 Roe v Wade decision to legalize abortion on a federal level brought about a massive wave of controversy that is still heavily prominent in society today. The center of the argument, as viewed by the opposing sides, has been a matter of agency over own body and the right to life. The issue of abortion is habitually viewed by the general public as diverse and binary, with both sides holding extreme opinions, leaving little room for compromise; however, Planned Parenthood and Get Your Care org., building from a shared commitment to providing individuals with information and services contributing to sexual and reproductive health, as well as sexual and relational education for individuals of all ages, can completely alter their landscape by taking on a commitment to decrease the number of abortions by improving contraceptive education and use. Get Your Care Organization was formed by pro-life and pro-women movements in America, and according to the mission statement found on their site their goal is to provide women with information about the numerous health care resources available to them. On their site, they refer women to many other organizations, such as Claris Health Org., an organization that provides women with pregnancy and STD testing, sexual health counseling, and relational well-being education. These are pro-life organizations, so although they provide services such as post- abortion counseling, they do not refer women to abortion services or clinics. Pro-choice advocates argue for a rights to agency over her own body, while pro-life advocates believe that freedom should be limited when it places another individual in way [Brandhorst, The mission statement published by Planned Parenthood makes clear their belief in individual rights to his or her fertility, regardless of the income, marital status, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, national origin, or The statement also mentions voluntary self-determination and the right to privacy. With these values in mind, the organization strives to give reproductive and complimentary health care Once again, they stress the preservation of the privacy. In addition to this, Planned Parenthood advocates public policy, provide programs to educate, and promote research and technological advancement in reproductive health care. The values held by Planned Parenthood come down to six values core to Americans: agency, health, education, unity, and [Brandhorst, They use in order to reinforce their validity in the community. The value of agency in particular is paramount to the argument of giving the individual the freedom to make decisions independently of others. In the eyes of Planned Parenthood, agency lies with the woman. They believe in the rights of women to make their own choices in regards to their reproductive health. Planned Parenthood demonstrates their commitment to the value of health by placing much emphasis on the health services that they provide as well as the need for these services. As most individuals analyze the issue of legalized abortion, they typically assume that organizations holding opposing views are violently against each other, giving no room for one to take a step towards the other. However, when looking through the mission statements of the two organizations, and the services provided by them, it is clear that although they hold conflicting opinions on the issue, they are in reality not too far apart in their overall purpose and goals. Planned Parenthood and Get Your Care org. hold similar objectives, including a commitment to providing individuals with information on sexual and reproductive health, providing pregnancy and STD testing, health screenings for women, pregnancy and abortion counseling, and relational well-being education for men and women of all ages. Both Planned Parenthood and Get Your Care org. dedicate themselves to increasing the number of resources available to the public, in hopes of drastically decreasing the number of women affected by otherwise preventable diseases such as various types of cancer, STDs, and various adverse health effects from pregnancy. With this goal in mind, both stake holders either provide women with these services, or refer them to places that will provide them. After analyzing the core values and beliefs of the two organizations, the most viable compromise Planned Parenthood and Get Your Care org. could make, would be that in Get your hopes to lower the number of abortions, Planned Parenthood would only refer and perform abortions during the first trimester of pregnancy, instead of throughout the pregnancy, as they do so currently, and only in extremely valid cases, such as a pregnancy that presents a physical threat to the woman herself late in pregnancy, which is an an exception typically unproblematic, as many opponents of choice agree that abortion should be allowed if the woman faces a substantial threat by continuing the pregnancy. Other valid reasons include a pregnancy where the mother has any disease that could be passed on to the child, if the pregnancy is the result of rape, or if medical screenings show any type of sickness or defects in the embryo, such as an anencephalic fetus, who is never viable. In turn, Get Your Care org. would no longer push to defund Planned Parenthood, and in hopes of preventing deaths from either health issues or even illegal abortions, they would refer these women to Planned Parenthood so that they can receive the care necessary for their well-being. The compromise proposed is supported as viable from various standpoints. is clear that pro-choice groups should, and do, find working for early abortions important, not only because many persons find them morally less problematic than later ones, but also because it is better for the health and state of mind to terminate an unwanted pregnancy as soon as [Nancy K. the United States, of the 0.9 percent of abortions performed after week twenty, 99 percent are performed by the twenty-fourth week, most of which are performed for fetal [Nancy K. It is most definitely a time for both pro-choice and pro-life groups to begin to work in conjunction to make abortions in the United States as safe, early, and rare as possible. By compromising and working together, the organizations would also work to decrease the number of abortions by improving contraceptive education and use. Additional time, money, and effort would go into making contraception and techniques acceptable and available to everyone. By doing so, it would help to ensure that those abortions that do occur are performed as early in pregnancy as possible. It is highly unlikely, maybe impossible, that the debate on abortion will ever end. The topic has been highly contested long before the decision made in the Roe v Wade case and will likely always continue. While the issues of pro life or pro choice might never come to a conclusion, it is entirely possible for both sides to come to the compromise proposed above. If both sides work hard to limit the public need for abortion through the improvement of contraceptive education and use then it can become less of a divisive issue.