Crockett 1 Darrell Crockett Adjunct Professor Robert Ryan Composition II 30 January 2017 Intermediate Draft America has had a history of domestic conflicts dealing with fossil fuel access and usage. After the British Petroleum (BP) oil spill in the Gulf Coast in 2010, which, per the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History, was the worst oil spill in United history, our country has made great efforts to find efficient, alternative forms of energy. Recently, one major conflict to hit the news involved the Dakota Access pipeline (DAPL), an oil pipeline that travels through North Dakota to Illinois. Through analysis of the effects this pipeline would have on Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. and the Standing Rock Sioux tribe, the two stakeholders involved, common ground between the two will be found in which a feasible proposal can be offered. Sunoco Logistics is a company that deals with crude oil, natural gas, and refined products. As a stakeholder in the Dakota Access pipeline, Sunoco Logistics wishes to bring in revenue which could be circulated back into the economy. According to their website, they have a strong people and customer satisfaction focus, but are based on excellence and innovation. They are willing to please, however, as efficiently as possible. Construction for the DAPL was halted three times in order to find the best possible route that would not harm privately owned land. Even though Sunoco is losing money with this delay, their value on innovation holds firm as they work with engineers and different litigations that will lead to safe construction of the Crockett 2 pipeline. Primarily, the problem Sunoco is having is that there are not many possible routes that will be 100% safe for the environment and privately owned land. Although no process is truly 100% safe and efficient, Sunoco has quite a few thousand pipelines in which they operate and successfully execute. So, the main issue here is the privately-owned land; more specifically, the Standing Rock Sioux tribal land. Native Americans have been fighting for their land since the Europeans settled in the Americas, and not much has changed. Several tribes have been reduced to just small reservations, and even some of the reservations have been tampered with in the past by the United government. That may not be the case in the DAPL conflict, but it is a possibility if something goes amiss with the construction of the pipeline. If so, the Standing Rock tribe will suffer. Standing Rock has its own council set aside for the benefits of just their people as a result of being their own reservation; however, they are linked to the United federal government in a few ways. Their key concerns involve only the members of the reservation, so they have no investment in the pipeline itself. But, according to article published on Global Research, written by author Makia Freeman, an editor of the independent news site The Freedom Articles, the pipeline passes a point that comes 500 feet within Standing reservation. As stated above, any size oil spill will have an effect on the reservation. Being, for the most part, independent from the United States, Standing Rock wants no part of the pipeline or its revenue, and since April 2016, Standing Rock and sympathizers have protested the construction of the pipeline. Ultimately, this led to the halt of the pipeline until another route was found. But because newly- inaugurated President Donald Trump signed an executive order to continue with the construction Crockett 3 of the pipeline, Standing Rock will be back to protesting to keep Sunoco from continuing with pipeline next to their land (Aisch and Lai, New York Times). Because Sunoco has a history of oil spills from other pipelines, the Standing Rock people are growing increasingly concerned. According to the Oil Spill Intelligence Report, one of the more recent oils spill leaked 800 barrels of crude oil on September 10, 2016. Then, a month later, another pipeline leaked 1,300 barrels of gasoline into a tributary (Oil Spill Intelligence Report, Vol. 39, No. 22). Although these mistakes can lead to more efficient and safer pipelines, there needs to be some consistency of durable pipelines; therefore, Standing Rock wishes that the pipeline was not near their land or drinking water, and Sunoco wishes to find a route that is safer, but still efficient. Because Sunoco and Standing Rock, as stakeholders in the matter, both want a route that will not affect any people in surrounding environment, there needs to be a compromise in which executive officials from both parties need to agree upon. There are only a few compromises that are doable by both parties; however, the most feasible one involves Sunoco rerouting their pipeline yet again, but this time, not from the preexisting route they have set up. Sunoco will have to do the following in order to appease Standing Rock: a) Build facilities going the opposite direction of the starting point of the first facility to receive the oil. b) Lay pipeline between these facilities that will lead to the same destination. This will cost a lot of money; however, it will create an even larger amount of jobs than the original project. From this, Sunoco will also be paying less for the pipeline as it will decrease the amount needed to be lain than the original pipeline, thus leading to an increased amount of profit from the oil accessed. Crockett 4 To aid Sunoco in laying pipe elsewhere, the Standing Rock tribe must be able to contribute to the laying of the pipe in these ways: a) Use a portion of their donations that, instead of going toward their own community, will be put toward the building of new facilities and new pipe following the direction of said facilities. b) As the pipeline must cross a body of water that might affect their drinking water, the tribe needs to pay to build the appropriate reinforcements that will protect their water supply from possible contamination if the new pipeline were to leak. Even though the Standing Rock tribe will be giving up some revenue that they could put toward their own community, in turn, they will be safe from their entire land being in way if the pipeline were to leak just five hundred feet from the reservation, and they would not have to diminish or move their reservation. Granted that President Trump signed executive order to continue with the construction of the pipeline as it is, it will be a tough battle, where tribe members must stand up for their land along with their sympathizers. With their win in November 2016, it is very possible that another protest will lead to the Army Corps of Engineers halting the construction again; however, the tribal council must be able to offer some form of assistance to Sunoco for their delay. It is only fair, but it is the only other option they would have besides having the pipeline be built right next to the reservation and receive compensation for the inconvenience it causes for their tribe. As a company steadily losing money from a delay such as this one, their executive officers must be willing to look for a feasible agreement between them and the Standing Rock tribe before it becomes a drawn-out debacle. Although this seems to be reasonable, the Standing Rock tribe might not be willing to negotiate. Since we are a primarily capitalistic country, Sunoco must do Crockett 5 what they need to do to bring in revenue/profits. The only thing missing from this conflict is a voice of reason that will be patient in dealing with Standing Rock and Sunoco long enough to realize the compromises that can solve this problem. Maybe then, and only then, will Standing Rock and Sunoco, both, get what they want out of this.