DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 1 Incidence of Drug Abuse and Non-Stimulant Treatment in ADHD Grace Lougheed University of South Florida DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 2 Attention Deficit Disorder, previously known as Hyperkinetic Reaction of Childhood until 1980, affects more than 3 million people in the United States each year. ADD is three times more likely in boys than girls, and is the most commonly studied and diagnosed mental disorder in children and adolescents, although some still doubt the disorder even exists considering that the exact cause is unknown. The symptoms of ADD on average begin around age six and are characterized by problems paying attention, excessive activity, or difficulty controlling inappropriate behavior. There is no known treatment for ADD, but management options include counseling, lifestyle changes and medications. Stimulant medication is of the most commonly prescribed by physicians due to ability to improve persistence and task performance. One of the most controversial issues of stimulant medication is whether or not the widespread use to treat children with attention deficit disorder increases the risk of substance abuse in adulthood. Studies show that children and adolescents with ADD or ADHD are more likely to misuse alcohol, tobacco, and other illicit substances compared to children without the disorder. So the question is, is there less of a chance for someone with ADD to become a substance abuser if they take stimulant medication when young? References Knopf, A. (2016). Earlier initiation, longer duration of ADHD stimulants reduces risk of substance use in adolescence. Brown University Child & Adolescent Behavior Letter, 32(7), 3-4. doi:10.1002/cbl.30138 In the article, researchers used a survey of high school seniors with ADHD from 2004-2014 to test whether the age of treatment onset, duration, and type of medication affected substance use. 3,539 of the students were prescribed stimulant medications, and the other 1,332 students were prescribed only non-stimulant medications. The prescription stimulant medication therapy was measured by asking respondents if they had ever taken a prescription stimulant DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 3 medication under a supervision for ADHD. Non-stimulant medication therapy was measured by asking respondents if they had ever taken a non-stimulant prescription medication under supervision. The study concluded that delays in treatment, shortened treatment, and the use of non-stimulant medications all resulted in an increase of substance abuse in adolescence. While it is known that ADHD itself puts children at an increased risk for substance abuse, over the past few decades prescription stimulant use for ADHD has increased significantly in the United States. It is an ongoing examination of whether medication to treat Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder are linked to substance misuse during adolescence. This study was led by Timothy Wilens, M.D., of Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard University, who has conducted research into the link between ADHD, substance abuse, and ADHD medications for years showing consistently that it is untreated ADHD that leads to substance use, not the stimulant medications when used properly. Nora D. Volkow, M. a., & James M. Swanson, P. a. (2008). Does Childhood Treatment of ADHD With Stimulant Medication Affect Substance Abuse in Adulthood?. American Journal Of Psychiatry: Official Journal Of The American Psychiatric Association, (5), 553. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2008.08020237 In this article Volkow and Swanson discuss the controversial topic of whether or not the use of stimulant medications to treat children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder increases the risk of substance abuse in adulthood. They claim that part of the concern is that DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 4 stimulant medications share with drug abuse the ability to increase dopamine concentration. The doctors also give information on clinical evidence from observational studies on this topic. Human epidemiological studies have shown that the earlier an individual is exposed to substances with abuse potential, the greater the risk of drug abuse and dependence there is in adulthood. On the other hand, the opposite perspective has also been proposed. Stimulant treatment in children with ADHD may reduce the risk of later substance abuse. They evaluated studies on both sides of the argument and found that there still a good enough understanding of the natural history of the disorder or time. Nora Volkow, M.D., and James Swanson, Ph.D., have both won multiple awards for their research and conducted their own studies and have done countless articles on this questionable issue therefore they are more than qualified to inform others who are interested in this topic as well. Wilson, J. J. (2007). ADHD and Substance Use Disorders: Developmental Aspects and the Impact of Stimulant Treatment. American Journal On Addictions, 165-13. doi: 10.1080/10550490601082734 This article mentions that some investigators have questioned whether stimulant treatment itself could promote substance abuse, while others have argued that such treatment reduces substance abuse. Jeffrey Wilson conducted a longitudinal study of 147 young adults with ADHD followed since childhood in which patients with adolescent and adult ADHD predicted higher drug-related activities compared to the control group. The relationship between ADHD and substance use disorders (SUD) appears to be primarily mediated by conduct disorder. It is possible that attention deficit or behavioral impulsivity could interfere with an DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 5 determination of the long-term consequences of drug use; hence, long-term consequences may be ignored in favor of immediate satisfaction. Adolescents and adults with SUD often demonstrate symptoms of inattention, impulsivity, and hyperactivity. These core symptoms of ADHD may contribute to the development of substance use disorders. ADHD predicts an earlier age of substance abuse onset, and a more rapid transition from use to abuse and dependence correlates with a longer duration of substance use disorder. SUD is most often present first during adolescence and young adulthood. Although ADHD alone increases the risk of developing SUD, this risk is substantially enhanced when conduct disorder is also present. The author of this article, Jeffrey Wilson, has an M.D. from Columbia University and works at the New York State Psychiatric Institute. Zheng, C., Lichtenstein, P., Halldner, L., B., Serlachius, E., Fazel, S., & ... Larsson, H. (2014). Stimulant ADHD medication and risk for substance abuse. Journal Of Child Psychology & Psychiatry, 55(8), 878-885. doi:10.1111/jcpp.12164 In this discussion these doctors talk about how there are persistent concerns of long-term effects of stimulant ADHD medication on the development of substance abuse. They conducted a study of individuals born between 1960 and 1998 who were diagnosed with ADHD, 26,249 of which were men and 12,504 of which were women. They investigated the association between stimulant medication in 2006 and substance abuse during 2009 which concluded results that the ADHD stimulant medication was not associated with increased rate of substance abuse. In fact it was %31 lower in 2009 than 2006. They also discovered that the longer the duration of time on the medication, the lower the rate of substance abuse. DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 6 Stimulant medications are the most commonly used pharmacological treatments for ADHD. One reason for the persistent concern for substance abuse derives from the fact that stimulant medications increase dopamine concentration in the brain. They concluded that the decision to prescribe stimulant ADHD treatment should, as in all clinical practice, take into account individual facts and potential effects. All of the 8 well known, qualified doctors that took part in this discussion have medical degrees from places all over the globe and have joined together on this study to be able to inform more people about the issue of stimulant medication and its effect on substance abuse.