Alexa Groat Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 28 January 2017 The Workplace and Tattoo Discrimination The American society is one that takes stereotypes, often times in a wrong and inconvenient way. We see this in many cases, race cases, class cases, and in this case, body art. The body art and workplace discrimination is an issue that may not be widely known but is widely affecting many Americans. The stakeholders in this argument are the employers and the potential employees with body art, compromise for this subject is viable but both sides need to work together. The goal of the compromise would be for both sides to see the other side, to come together in one common goal, which would be doing what is best for the company. For many people when deciding whether or not to express their selves permanently on their skin, they worry about future or current jobs, but why does their outside appearance matter? In the conflict regarding tattoos and piercings in the work place, the stakeholders are often at odds. It is common for employers to have their mind made up about potential employees with tattoos or piercings because of what society says. It is common for employers to side with the stereotypes of tattooed individuals. In this society, in the past it has been commonly known that those with tattoos are unprofessional, criminal even, individuals who have no place in the professional work place. They believe that if the tattoo cannot be covered up then that person may not deserve the job. In the past decade or so, body art has become more and more popular, and the young generation is seeing more and more value in the idea of inked skin. It is even a desirable trait to some people. But the tattoos that are trying to enter the workforce have trouble seeing why they being hired and the employers are unable to see past the skin. The employers purpose is to find a qualified and best fit person to fill the job Alexa Groat Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 28 January 2017 they are needed in and the employees purpose is to be qualified and hardworking in the job they are applying for. For both stakeholders to achieve their purposes, society should not have a negative view on those with tattoos and employers should be able to see past the skin of the person, and the employees should have appropriate and inoffensive tattoos and piercings. The Federal law prohibits employers to discriminate based on age, gender, religion, race, and many other characteristics of that sort, but it leaves the discrimination of appearance up to the employer. It is a common issue that employees are not hired or even laid off because of the visible body art that shows in their work uniform. The stereotype is that the image of body art represents unprofessionalism and a bad reputation. For the persons that carry themselves with body art that means a lot to them, it is a form of expression that has no correlation to their qualifications or hard work. There is possible compromise in this case, but it takes the effort of both sides. Therefore, the best compromise would be for the companies and employers to be unbiased and to see past the image of the employee, and for the employees to understand that body art that is inappropriate or offensive must be able to be covered in the workplace. To make this compromise work, the employers would have to do a lot, if not most, of the decision making and opinion making of the potential employees before they physically see the person. This would cause the process of employment to be completely unbiased and prove that looks and appearance truly matter. Although, the professionalism of the person is still very relevant, which would be a reason of why the employer would want to meet with and do interviews. With that being said, the employers could make note of their thoughts of the person based off paper, and then save the interviewing for the last step before making a decision, where they could then make Alexa Groat Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 28 January 2017 notes of their thoughts based in person. If the opinion changes without plausible reason, then it would be known that the opinion was biased toward appearance. And for the possible employees, their part of the compromise would not only be to withstand the stereotypes of those with tattoos by being respectful and professional, but also by keeping all the tattoos that are visible through their work attire appropriate and respectable. For example, employees would understand that have inappropriate tattoos, such as nudity or profanity or violence, visible in the typical work clothes for the job would be reason to not be hired. They would also act the professional part, being respectable, communicating well, and acting like an everyday professional. Both stakeholders would have to compromise a little bit for this to work, but in the end, they are both doing what is best for everyone. The goal of the compromise is to understand one side and to come together in one common goal. This goal is to better the company, for the employer, this takes hiring the best qualified and best fitting for the job, for the employee, this means being hard working, professional, and good at the job. The appearance of both sides should not matter, as long as the goals are being withstood. An example of this compromise sufficiently working, is in the company of American Eagle Outfitters. This is a worldwide clothing store, that continues to beat the odds. This is a company that encourages self-expression and mind hiring a person covered in tattoos as long as they are nothing inappropriate, they hire and promote based on qualifications and hard work. An example of a company that has yet to reach compromise would be Starbucks. An example of an employee not being able to succeed due to a tattoo is the Riggs v. City of Fort Worth case. In this case, Officer Michael Riggs was demoted and denied of promotion because of a tattoo. The officer was told he had to cover up, despite the fact that he Alexa Groat Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 28 January 2017 was working outside in Texas where it is hot and covering up would require long sleeve and long pant uniform. In the case, the court agreed with the Chief that the tattoos were unprofessional and that he should be removed from his prior duties of bike patrol. This discrimination and demotion was not based on his ability but rather his appearance. In this case, The officer Michael Riggs lost his position due to his appearance, and the city of Fort Worth lost a valuable worker from the bike patrol. Both sides are a loss when the compromise could be so easy. Although it is common for employers and employee with ink to be at odds, it have to be. To benefit both sides, the compromise would be as simple as the toe sides learning to understand the wants and needs of one another. While the employer is looking for a professional and hardworking member to add to the team, the employer is looking to work hard and join a team. In order to compromise, the employer would have to accept that the goal of the company is to find the best qualified employees and to judge potential employees based on their qualifications and not their appearance. The employer has to understand that their image does matter to other people and not have visibly inappropriate body art. This compromise is very attainable and is what the people of America need. Alexa Groat Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Work Cited Michael T. Riggs v. City of Fort Worth, Et  Scholar.google.com. N.p., 1 Feb. 2002. Web. 20 Jan. 2017.