Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 8 February 2017 The Analysis of The Anxiety and Depression Association of America Although it is normal to be upset over situations that occur throughout life, there are many people who feel as though they are unable to control this emotion. When life gets tough and one feels they are no longer able to regulator this emotion it is often best to seek professional help. With the proper treatment, this feeling, also known as depression, can be treated successfully. In 1979, the Anxiety and Depression Association of America was founded to prevent, treat, and cure anxiety disorders and depression. This nonprofit organization supports public health, encourages the advancement of scientific knowledge, and links patients with professionals. In addition, this organization provides information to break down the walls and ideas surrounding anxiety related disorders The Anxiety and Depression Association of America has chosen to engage its viewers with vivid images that contain bright colors and strong text. Within their site one can find a plethora of visual images to help viewers understand what the organization is all about. These images range from educational means all the way to those meant to connect with patients on an emotional level. The vast amount of emotional and persuasive appeals efficiently allow this organization to clearly communicate their goals. Upon entering the site, the first image one sees is one that speaks volumes (see fig. 1). Although the image is quite simple, the overall goal of the ADAA is clear and easy to understand. Persuasive techniques used include arrangement, color, and text (Sheffield). Figure 1 Student 2 is arranged so that the left half shows a photograph while the left half correlates text with what is going on. The photograph of a person on top of a mountain with their hand raised, signals success to the viewer. If one does not yet get the feeling of success, the words go on to over anxiety and Figure 1 flows well together because the words do not lay directly on top of the image, but on a new layer to make the text pop. By using different colors and scale the creator to drew the attention to the top text. As the text goes on the words progressively get smaller, possibly to show that it is an explanation of the text above it. Instead of using bold colors, the artist uses a set of soft hues, such as orange and purple, to create a peaceful visual impact. The opening image of the Anxiety and Depression Association of America website is ploy to prove their credibility or ethos. Thinking about all the visual appeals starting with the text, the viewer is immediately drawn to learn more about the organization. In medium size text, the words and appear. These words are used to prove to the viewer that the ADAA can be trusted; to show the viewer that they are acting in the best interest of those affected with anxiety disorders. Upon clicking the button the user is instantly directed to the about page which provides information about their goal, how the site is organized and how to find help. Another rhetorical appeal that is used is the pull on the emotions or pathos of the viewer. It is a fact that we all want to succeed in life and overcome our troubles. As a way of connecting with the viewer, the artist used a person throwing up their hands in a fashion that shows victory. Looking at this image, someone who possibly feel like they are triumphant will want to gain this feeling of success. They will want to feel successful or as they are achieving something great, thus causing them to explore and learn more. Student 3 Another visual from the managing anxiety page of the Anxiety and Depression Association of America site is a beautiful image that has no words only vibrant colors and a strong sense of realism (see fig. 2). In terms of visual literacy, the composition consists of balance, color, and emphasis that draws the observer in (Moxley). Although the green grass background takes up most of the image, it is duller than the hand holding the earth. Each element appears brighter than the next without fading into the background. By putting a glow around the earth, the artist created a strong emphasis about his intent. One can assume that he wants the viewer to feel special, that the in his/her hands. Compositionally, this image is perfectly symmetrical in all aspects possibly to show the balanced life that those affected by depression and other anxiety disorders can achieve. In combination with the design factors of color and symmetry, the visual appeal of figure 2 yanks on emotions. The pathos in this image does a good job with connecting to the audience. The bright and warm colors make the viewer want to capture the same feeling of being able to take over the world. The artist is possibly trying to convey the message that one has the power to make their life great and vibrant. This message aligns perfectly with the goal of the Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Users of the site can visually see that the organization wants to give power back to those who feel they have none. One thing that can be assumed is there is a certain amount of logos in the placement of the image. The simple fact that the image was placed on the managing anxiety page shows a logical correlation. The image is all about regaining that thing that you lost, which goes perfect with managing anxiety. Those who designed that page thought the same thing because the image is strategically placed below a link to a By doing so, the ADAA makes it obvious that their primary goal is to help those who need it find the best help possible. Student 4 By breaking down images found on the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, the user can fully grasp the intentions. In both images, the viewer finds colors that bring on a sense of calm and relaxation. This can be taken to show that the organization is welcoming to all. In figure one, the viewer can see the end game of what the organization hopes to gain from each person who visits the site, whether it be those seeking treatment or those who are just curious. Overall, figure one is about one seeing the goal they want to reach with figure two being that this person has finally grasped the goal and has regained control. After careful review of the site one could see how each image works with the page to create a working dynamic. By doing so, the user can see how each image delivers a sense of understanding and helpfulness from the organization. (Word Count:1134) Student 5 Works Cited About  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. www.adaa.org/about-adaa. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. www.adaa.org. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Managing  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. November 2015, www.adaa.org/living-with-anxiety/managing-anxiety. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017 Moxley, Joe.  Visual  Writing Commons. www.writingcommons.org/visual-literacy. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Sheffield, Jenna Pack.  Breaking Down an  Writing Commons, www.writingcommons.org/breaking-down-an-image. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Fig. 1 Https://www.adaa.org/ Fig. 2 Https://www.adaa.org/living-with-anxiety/managing-anxiety