Standardized Testing in the American School System Standardized testing in The United States of America has always been a point of controversy, with two antipodal sides. Specifically, there are organizations like that of The National Center for Fair & Open Testing and The Education Trust, where one side believes that standardized testing is unjust while the other believes it is a useful tool. In furtherance of a fair and equal opportunity for students, there must be an advancement between these two opposing sides. Education Trust [abbreviated is a national non-profit advocacy organization that promotes high academic achievement for all students at all (EDTrust). main objective is to create the perfect education system in the United States. A system where everyone in the eyes of education is equal and has an identical opportunity to learn. They work towards their goal by advocating for the students who have been (EDTrust). They work alongside educators, students, policymakers, and others to provide maximum assistance towards the education system helping these individuals. Their stand on standardized testing is that are an important tool for gauging the progress of students and (Santelises). While they argue that the current amount of testing is exaggerated and the education system is too focused on the methods of taking the test, they believe that standardized testing is still the best way to a progress (Santelises). Standardized tests a much-needed lens for educators to compare their students with others across community borders and zip (Santelises). Using the information gained through testing allows the instructors to better tailor their education plans to the needs. If a student already is extremely proficient in simple addition and subtraction, however needed help with multiplication, the teacher now knows that the student is fine with addition and subtraction and will not dawdle the student with re-teaching material they already know. The National Center for Fair & Open (abbreviated FairTest) main objective is to the racial, class, gender, and cultural proposed by standardized testing (about FairTest), they want an education system where the academic merit of a student is measured by the achievements and various assessments conducted over time instead of a single assessment. Their mission statement reads National Center for Fair & Open Testing (FairTest) advances quality education and equal opportunity by promoting fair, open, valid and educationally beneficial evaluations of students, teachers and (FairTest mission statement), FairTest believes that standardized testing is unfair and invalid because they give different weight to different aspects of the test based on race, gender, and other factors. FairTest also believes that the public should have access the tests and the test data, to prove the and mission statement). They believe that because the test has so much weight in the academic career, that at minimum the educators should be at least more prepared to teach the material. FairTest simply believes that there are other ways to measure a knowledge on a subject besides a standardized test. While both and goals and methods seem diametrically opposed, there are many overlaps. Both organizations want to create a seemingly perfect education system in The United States, as stated in their mission statements. EDTrust believes that the system should include standardized test, but acknowledges their downfalls and argues that they are the best option to monitor a progress; while FairTest rebuttals with standardized testing should be excluded from modern day education, but acknowledges the usefulness of the tests. The organizations both feel as though the education system is unfair towards certain races, gender, and other diversities. They believe that different college, universities, and organizations weigh different students based on their diversities. In the and eyes students in The United States education system are not equal. Despite these similarities, every proposition to solve the controversy of standardized testing has failed. and have been used to inspire students to enjoy testing (Crowder and Konle). It has also been proposed that there is no solution to the controversy of the testing, Robert Linn, author of century of standardized testing: controversies and pendulum states is safer to predict that the pendulum will continue to swing with the ebb and flow of controversies about the uses of It is clear that both parties are not in unison, however with all the similarities in their goals and actions it is safe to say that both organizations want a similar outcome, a superior and equal education system, for The United States. For both organizations to accomplish their goals of a better American education system, they must work together to petition for a mandate by the federal government to eliminate the census survey before a standardized test. It is paramount that the survey is eliminated for both organizations. It will begin the process of desegregating the test results and give students the equal opportunity to test. In the interest of eliminating the census through petition, FairTest and EDTrust must work together. Both FairTest and EDTrust accomplish their goals of bettering The United States of education system through the petition. FairTest relinquishes the idea that standardized testing should be eliminated completely, but gains their goal of desegregating test results. EDTrust resigns their ideal of a close monitoring on testing results, ensuring the equality of the test that they argue for, however they gain the more balanced testing field for students of all races and diversities that they believe in. To accomplish this compromise FairTest and EDTrust must first go on a public speaking rally, where both sides give their ideals, then promote the petition asking for the desegregation of test results. This leads both FairTest and EDTrust to begin to negotiate further and begin to realize that their ideals and very similar. By the year 2020, both FairTest and EDTrust will gain a larger support group around the nation raising awareness of the shortcoming and advantages of standardized testing. Both websites for the organizations have a specified area for people to donate for the cause, the increased traffic on the sites will automatically fund the program, which already is a low-cost project. Through this proposal of petition EDTrust and FairTest will both benefit. Originally it seemed that the two organizations were on opposing sides, however upon further investigation it seems to be standardized testing is the only aspect of education they cannot come to terms on. While both agree that it be the only measure of achievement, FairTest believes that the system is flawed putting different weights to different aspects of different test based on diversities such as gender and race. Whereas EDTrust believes that those notes of race and gender provide a more intellectual way to focus a learning in a way that benefits the student. The question remains if there are other compromises to be made to standardized testing to improve its accuracy as a measure of academic success. Yet, by desegregating the scores we move one step closer as a society to peace and a more intellectual community. Works Cited Santelises, Sonja Brookins. Much Testing? Or Not Enough Quality The Education Trust, 16 Feb. 2015,. We The Education Trust, The Education Trust, edtrust.org/who-we-are/. About FairTest / FairTest, The National Center for Fair & Open Testing, www.fairtest.org/about. MISSION STATEMENT / FairTest, FairTest, 18 July 2007, www.fairtest.org/mission-statement. Crowder, Zan, and Stephanie Konle. Ya-Ya or, What Pearson Hear: Opt- Out, Standardized Testing, and Student The High School Journal, vol. 98, no. 4, 2015, pp. doi:10.1353/hsj.2015.0013. Linn, Robert L. Century of Standardized Testing: Controversies and Pendulum Educational Assessment, vol. 7, no. 1, 1 Feb. 2001, pp.