Student Kimber Wiggs ENC1101 1/28/2017 P1 Early Draft Pennies have been in the U.S for over two hundred years. Around twenty percent of pennies have gone out of circulation. People are leaving pennies in between their couches or leaving them on the ground. Some people want the penny to be removed and have the nickel become the smallest coin. Other people have stated that that the penny is important and without it companies will be able to manipulate the prices of goods so that items would cost more. As it stands today the penny cost more to make than the face value of it. During the early you were able to buy items with a couple of pennies, today a penny buy anyone much of anything. Now that it is costing so much to make pennies due to inflation zinc supplies are fighting to keep the penny alive. Other countries such as Canada have recently removed their one cent coin. This is leaving people to decide which side of the coin they are on. Should the penny stay in circulation in the U.S? Chande, Dinu, and Timothy C. G. Fisher. a Penny? Need a Penny?Eliminating the One- Cent Coin from Canadian Public Policy / Analyse De Politiques, vol. 29, no. 4, 2003, pp. Academic Search Premier, web, 01/22/2017 This source is about the one cent coin being removed from Canada. It describes that the cost of producing their one cent coin was greater than the revenue that coin would generate leading to a loss of money for every coin made. It then proceeds to state that the Seigniorage, or the net income generated by governments in the course of printing of coins or paper money, for the U.S coin is about 0.2 cents per penny. This means that the government is making money on every coin they create. The paper also analyzes the effects of rounding to the closest five cents if the penny is removed. All non cash transactions would still be priced to the penny but cash transactions will be rounded depending on the ending number of the purchase. A researcher named Lombra had concluded that rounding would lead to an increase in price level to the U.S before sales tax. This source shows that the penny should stay in circulation. research showed that the price level would slightly increase without it. They also explained that the U.S government is still making on average .2 cents profit on every penny so they losing money. The Tables in the paper showed just how much other countries were losing on their coins. This source is credible as it references Lombra who is an important researcher on the value of pennies in the U.S. It was also published in 2003 which makes this piece relevant to the topic as it only started to become a problem in the Sanburn, Josh, For Time, vol. 181, no. 4, 2013, pp 36-40, Academic Search Premier, web, 01/22/2017 In this article Sanburn talks about the Jarden Zinc products, which is the company that supplies the U.S government with zinc in order to make the pennies. He states that in 2006 it cost two cents to make the one cent coin. This is due to inflation slowly rising. The Zinc Company argues that removing the penny could hurt charities that have penny drives. Though organizations like the salvation army state that they hope that if the penny is removed, people will still donate in order to help people in need. A senior economist, Francois Velde, states that it costs ten cents to make a nickel so removing the penny make a difference as the government is still losing money on every nickel they make. He instead wants to remove the nickel as well as the penny in order to round prices to the nearest dime. Sanburn then shows the steps it would take to remove the penny from the U.S. This source connects directly to the research question. It states that from 2006 the penny is costing double its face value to make. The source is leaning more toward removing the penny from circulation. He makes the argument that the increased use of debit, and credit cards make it easier to remove the penny. The Flip side to this issue is that removing the penny would lead to an increased production of nickels. Nickels also cost more to make than the face value of it so the government would still be losing money on each one it makes. This source also refers to Lombra, showing just how important he is to this conversation. The article is very recent, 2013, showing that over time the penny has cost more to make. Sanburn seems to show a little bias towards removing the penny from circulation. Lombra, Raymond E. the Penny from the U. S. Coinage System: An Economic Eastern Economic Journal, vol. 27, no. 4, 2001, pp. , Academic Search Premier, web, 01/22/2017 This journal is about the direct effects on the removal of the penny. Lombra believes that there will be a rounding tax of 600 million per year. He states that it will be disproportionate and will affect the poor far worse than everyone else. He goes on to talk about how removing the penny can have a strong negative effect on firms and businesses. He targets supermarkets and convenient stores that have low profits. All the direct effects of rounding cash transactions could lead them to have to raise the overall prices of items. Lombra did an experiment to test the net effects of rounding as a consumer. His results showed that within 60 to 93% of transactions would be rounded up. The indirect effect of removing the penny would cause an increase to the price level overall. Lombra is very relevant to the talk about the penny. Many other authors use his experiments as evidence on the effects of removing the penny. He has written in other journals talking about the Federal Reserve, and the impact of monetary and fiscal actions. A search through other articles he has written in shows that he is an expert on U.S coinage and is seen as a leader on the talk of the penny. Whaples, Robert. to Eliminate the Penny from the U.S. Coinage System: New Eastern Economic Journal, vol. 33, no. 1, 2007, pp. , Academic Search Premier, web, 01/22/2017 Whaples wrote in this journal to challenge the things that Lombra said about removing the penny. He argues that the experiment Lombra conducted is not accurate because he based it on consumers buying only three items. Whaples states that it is unknown how many items consumers buy from convenience stores but many purchases are over three items. He goes on to say that calculations did not include tax. Whaples collected data from 200,000 transactions and concluded that the total effect of rounding to the nearest nickel would be very small. He then challenges impact on inflation because most tansactions today are non-cash based. Whaples is an economist who has written in journals talking about the inequalities of work to how removing the penny wont effect us as bad as some think. This journal was written in 2007 compared to when Lombra first wrote in his journal in 2001 so it makes sense that Whaples would be able to challenge Lombra on this topic. He uses the same tables that Lombra used in his journal to make his claims on why they were wrong. He was able to challenge one of the leaders in the talk about the penny in a way that I did not see in other sources.