Althea McDavid Professor Robert Ryan ENC 1102 017 27 th January, 2017 The role of consumer-use electronic baby monitoring The first recorded baby monitoring system, the was dated in 1938 when the president of Zenith Radio Corporation became concerned for his safety after the famous Lindbergh baby kidnapping (Greuther, Radio Since then, there have been several versions of the baby monitor being produced. Some monitors are similar to the Radio nurse but others are a lot more innovative, such as blankets and clothing articles that can monitor not only the movements but other physiological data such as heart rate. With these innovative products came medical criticism as to the safety, accuracy and benefits of these items. An editorial by David King in (formerly known as the British Medical Journal) stated that parents used baby monitors as a way to decrease the likelihood of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) but studies have shown that they have no effect. One of the more recent controversies concerning baby monitors deals with the produced by Baby The sock is used when the baby is sleeping and reports various physiological data through a smart phone Representatives of the (formerly known as the Emergency Care Research Institute), among others, have shared their concerns about the product. Owlet Baby Care and the ECRI Institute have opposing views on the product but a compromise where the two organizations conduct collaborative research on the product can help to move the argument in a more positive direction. In a response article to criticism, Owlet Baby Care defends their product, the they believe that their product parents take a proactive approach to their health and The creators are of the opinion that parents have a right to their physiological information and they have provided a platform through which this is possible. The company stresses the efforts put into the creation of the product such as millions of dollars into data collection and to further knowledge of the issues affecting infant They also mention the thousands of parents who purchased and support the product, some of which include medical practitioners such as Physicians and Healthcare providers. Addressing the issue of safety and accuracy, the company has stated that they have conducted several safety tests according to United States Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) requirements and submitted accuracy studies to be reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Lori Sichtermann, in her RT magazine article (RT magazine provides new and research for respiratory care practitioners), asserts the uses and future possibilities of the monitoring device. Speaking with neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) medical practitioners, Sichtermann learnt that they consider current baby monitoring systems similar to monitoring systems used in the NICU. Reading hospital in West Reading, Pa, for example, allows patients to transition to monitoring systems from an outside company such as Owlet Baby Care for those patients who may require additional monitoring outside of discharge. Although the sock is not a medical device, Sichtermann states that it may gain approval to be used as a medical device in the future. These notions on the product support Owlet Baby vision, stated on its website, to the health and wellbeing of infants and their Executive Director of Health Devices at ECRI Institute, David T. Jamison, along with other medical professionals wrote about wearable baby monitoring devices, criticizing lack of publicly available evidence supporting the safety, accuracy, effectiveness, or role of these monitors in the care of well The article argues that instead of actually helping parents, the devices might be causing fear, uncertainty, and self-doubt in Their research showed that many of the products are not FDA approved and although the companies had intentions of making the devices medical, some of them opted not to because of the expense and time involved. This meant that the companies had to advertise that their products should not be used for medical advice, causing the writers to question the actual benefit of the devices. They also found that medical smartphone have been proven in the past to be unreliable, using an example of a blood pressure app which reassured 80% of hypertensive patients that their blood pressure was normal. The article also questioned the clinical appropriateness even in the case of accuracy since the devices are not FDA approved and may result in overdiagnosis. An article by David King, a clinical lecturer in pediatrics, supports these notions. He states that despite the companies claiming that the monitoring systems do not prevent SIDS, the notion of being able to help prevent it is what drives sales as well as marketing strategies which try to assure parents that they will be less anxious and their child will be safe. He adds to the FDA approval argument by questioning the ability of the products to actually do as they say since the products have been modified so that they can be sold unregulated. This means that the company is not required to release data which can support these claims. The ECRI Institute comments on this issue because it states on its website that it that seeking and finding the best ways to improve patient care require The Discipline of  and The Integrity of Currently, the topic at hand seems to be moot. Both organizations are strongly defending their notions and feel they are doing the correct thing by their target group. Therein, however, lies the common ground from which the two can compromise. Both organizations wish to improve the livelihood of infants; the medical institution strives to do it in the pursuit of longevity of life and the private company may do it partially for profit but at the end of the day they both want to ensure that babies stay healthy and parents are properly equipped to fulfill that goal. The suggestion for compromise is this: The ECRI institute and Owlet Baby Care can collaborate to conduct research and tests on the smart sock device. The ECRI Institute should be allowed to publish the results as it sees fit and Owlet Baby Care should be able to mention ECRI Institute as a source for support of its medical uses in the event of positive results. This way the ECRI Institute gains the transparency it seeks in the company and Owlet Baby Care will be able to assure its market of the reliability of its product and increase sales. On the other hand, both organizations will be sacrificing their time and resources to conduct this research. A scholarly paper by Marianne Steino and Einar Rasmussen states the ways in which Public Research Organizations (PROs) and private firms can collaborate effectively and beneficially. The paper states that interorganizational collaborations such as these can result in increases in knowledge and innovation. They assert that PROs and private firms can maintain an effective relationship using various techniques of proximity; geographical, cognitive, organizational and social. These techniques basically involve ways in which the organization can improve proper transfer of information and clear communication. Using these techniques, the ECRI Institute and Owlet Baby Care should be able to carry out this compromise successfully. Baby monitors have been in existence for decades, getting more and more innovative as time goes by. It can be agreed upon that effective and accurate monitoring devices would indeed be beneficial, not only to families but to medical professionals. It is therefore important that the innovators and medical professionals are in agreement as to the proper parameters within which these devices should operate. As long as this happens, there should be no reason for the role of electronic monitoring devices to be questioned. Works Cited Steinmo, Marianne1, marianne.steinmo@uin.no, and Einar1, einar.rasmussen@uin.no Rasmussen. How Firms Collaborate With Public Research Organizations: The Evolution Of Proximity Dimensions In Successful Innovation  Journal Of Business Research 69.3 (2016): 1250-1259. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Sichtermann, Lori. Neonatal monitoring an extra layer of care: patient monitoring technology like pulse oximetry is providing a safety net for newborns and infants in neonatal ICUs, while new advances in home monitoring look to deliver vital signs to smart  RT for Decision Makers in Respiratory Care, Oct. 2013, p. 18+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1& it=r&id=GALE%7CA360207958&sid=googleScholar&asid=93d963efccd69011a114080 b313cf916. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. King, David. Marketing wearable home baby monitors: real peace of  BMJ: British Medical Journal (Online) 349 (2014). Accessed 27 January 2017. Owlet response to opinion article in  24 Jan. 2017 http://www.owletcare.com/blog/owlet-response-to-opinion-article-in-jama/. Accessed 27 January 2017. About ECRI  https://www.ecri.org/about/Pages/default.aspx. Accessed 27 January 2017. Baby Monitors Have Little Proven Benefit for Healthy 24 Jan. 2017. https://www.ecri.org/press/Pages/Consumer-Use-Baby-Monitors-Have-Little- Proven-Benefit-for-Healthy-Infants.aspx. Accessed 27 January 2017. Greuther, Marc. Radio 6 March 2014. https://www.thehenryford.org/explore/blog/noguch radio-nurse. Accessed 27 January 2017.