Sarah Dague Miss. Campbell ENC 1102 27 January 2017 Creating an Agency: Recreating Vaccinations One of the biggest controversial topics today, the debate on immunizations deals with diverse opinions on mandating vaccines and the adverse effects associated with them. Vaccinations are injections in the human body that help produce immunity against very serious diseases. Two major organizations that have different opinions on whether vaccinations should be mandatory or not are the Center for Disease and control, the CDC, and the National Vaccination Information Center, or the NVIC. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention supports vaccinations for all children off the basis that they are the most beneficial and crucial influencing factor on a health. Opposing this view, the National Vaccination Information Center argues that parents should have the right to be able to approve or disapprove vaccinating their child due to the adverse effects possible. Through bringing these two centers together, a compromise can be made that researches and improves the vaccination schedule which then creates a pathway for both organizations to benefit health in the best possible way. Founded in 1946, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention advocates mandatory vaccinations to ensure health and safety for children. The CDC website indicates the main reason for their support of vaccinations: is one of the best ways parents can protect infants, children and teens from 16 potentially harmful diseases. Vaccine-preventable diseases can be very (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). Because vaccines prevent people from encountering very dangerous diseases, vaccinations play a big role in preserving good health for children. Regarding their views on immunizations, this organization conducts research about vaccines and the potential effects they have. Many vaccines have had adverse effects, but the CDC avoids this fact because very rare to encounter. Therefore, it is said that the vaccinations protect children from disease more than hurt them. Most states follow the Center for Disease Control and Prevention vaccination schedule, that consists of 14 vaccines, making them mandatory for parents to provide for their children. The mandating of vaccinations is not a federal law, but states require it to assure that parents get them for their children. Aside from this, many public schools require immunizations for children to attend because of the information the CDC releases about vaccines. Parents and organizations like the CDC support vaccines because they protect health and create a safe environment from life-threatening illnesses. Geoboo Song, analysist of the vaccination policy, says that the CDC and other pro-vaccination advocates believe the positives of vaccines come before the negative opinions or concerns associated with vaccinations: benefits of freedom from infectious diseases, both at the individual and societal level, far outweigh the costs of restricted parental choice or the physical risks posed by (Song). Song is saying that when looking at the bigger picture, the fact that vaccinations prevent disease has more importance than having the choice of not allowing vaccines or the fear of vaccine-related injuries. Because of the strong opinion that vaccinations must be mandatory for children from the CDC, a compromise must be made to create a balance between the conflicting views. Participating in the anti-vaccination movement starting in 1982, the National Vaccination Information Center was created by upset parents that push resistance against mandatory vaccines because of the need for a choice when dealing with vaccine-related injuries and disease. On the NVIC website, this organization claims: NVIC is dedicated to the prevention of vaccine injuries and deaths through public education and to defending the informed consent (Diseases and Vaccines - National Vaccine Information Center). The NVIC believes that it is crucial for parents to have a say in the health of their child when presented with the idea of immunization due to vaccine-related consequences. Many doctors ask permission or allow consent about vaccinations because of the need for them, which upsets parents nationally. This organization pushes for the awareness of disease and injuries that occur after receiving vaccinations and creates educational strategies to inform. Also, the NVIC and other advocates defend their beliefs by saying that besides a vaccine, creating immunity naturally is the most effective and safest way to prevent disease. Although states that have mandatory vaccinations at birth allow exemptions, many schools are still allowed to require them before a child attends. Barbara Fisher, advocate for this choice, claims in an article: have people who feel that they are oppressed, that they are losing their ability to protect their (Heyworth). Fisher is saying that parents who feel the need to immunize their kids have specific reasons for doing so, and some believe it is causing harm to their children which is overlooked when making vaccinations mandatory. The NVIC tries to educate parents about the risks associated with vaccinations so that they have the knowledge they need when deciding if vaccinations are right for their child. An agreement needs to be implemented to build a solution for the vaccination controversy that makes these proponents understand the other side. Although both organizations contain opposing views on vaccinations, they seem to share a concern for the future health of children when examining the outcome of vaccines. As seen, the CDC believes in vaccinations to protect any child from harmful disease that they could encounter throughout their lifetime while the NVIC wants parents to be weary of the possible effects vaccines could have on their children so that they do not develop a life-threatening disease from them. Both centers have yet to work with each other over the topic, but the NVIC discusses much of the wrong doings on their website. Although it seems that they only have opposite opinions, both stakeholders find common ground by being concerned for the health of children and having a preventive health program to do so. Because each organization supports health and the prevention of diseases, a compromise can be created to join these two communities of people together in coming up with a solution that looks after these issues. Both the CDC and the NVIC can cofound an agency that opens a program allowing patients to report on complications and concerns regarding vaccinations. This information would be vital because they could use the incoming information to improve current vaccinations and create a more spaced out vaccination schedule. Since researchers can assess vaccine concerns and problems, a new schedule can be created that recommends more spaced out immunizations, requiring the most important first and leaving the rest as an option. The board for this agency will consist of an equal number of representatives from both organizations that will work together in hiring professionals and carrying out this plan. Funding will be equally split to ensure a balanced part in this agency. Funds will go to the research and campaigning of the new ideas this agency will create. Allowing parents to openly express their reasoning behind opinions of vaccinations will get this agency through research to create better vaccines for every child. A specialized physician, Dr. Spears, says during an interview: of adverse events following vaccination can help identify rare or unexpected com- plications of immunizations and aid in characterizing potential vaccine safety (Baker). Since many people are in fear of vaccine-related complications, having the ability to have their opinions heard to improve vaccinations will create a better opinion on them. Ultimately, the CDC will compromise by revising their strict mandatory schedule the states follow that leaves people in fear of giving children that many shots so fast while the NVIC will compromise by giving children some vaccines for protection while allowing freedom for others. The pros and cons of vaccinations can be seen throughout the many opinions associated with the vaccines. Many organizations want to take a stance on the issue at hand based off their opinion to get children the right health they deserve. Through compromise, the CDC and the NVIC can take their opposing opinions of vaccinations and create a program that allows both sides to be heard and utilized resulting in proper health and protection from disease. Works Cited Baker, Meghan A., et al. Advanced Clinical Decision Support for Vaccine Adverse Event Detection and  Clinical Infectious Diseases61.6 (2015): 864-870. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 22 Nov. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Diseases and Vaccines - National Vaccine Information  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Heyworth, Kelley King. Vaccines: The Reality Behind the  Parents. Parents, 15 July 2015. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Song, Geoboo, Carol L. Silva, and Hank C. Jenkins-Smith. Cultural Worldview and Preference For Childhood Vaccination  Policy Studies Journal 42.4 (2014): 528-554. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.