Smoak 1 Conner Smoak Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 1 February 2017 Public School vs. Homeschool Right now, they are roughly 49,591 students attending the University of South Florida. Maybe not sitting in a class right this second, but there are that many students enrolled in some type of class, seeking some type of degree, to get them some type of career in the future. Now think about where they came from. Different races, all different ethnic backgrounds, different countries, different regions of the United States, different religions, all different understandings of the world, and what some tend to take for granted: different educations. has been a long and hard battle fought between teachers, students, school board members, and communities, with no real compromise. If Citizens for Public Schools Allied Organizations and organizations like The National Academy for Child Development could come to a compromise to ensure the best education for all students, then more students would receive the proper education fit to their own needs. Option #1 Public School Education. The definition of as stated by Dictionary.com and commonly understood as in the United States, is school that is maintained at public expense for the education of the children of a community or district and that constitutes a part of a system of free public education commonly including primary and secondary Simply put, it is a school supported by public funds. Citizens for Public Schools (CPS) Allied Organizations believes that this type of schooling and education is the best option for students receiving instruction. Citizens for Public Schools stands on the belief that schools are meant to Smoak 2 educate a student as whole. By saying this, they wish to put less focus on that are used as the only reason to prepare students, and turn to assessments that will be able to measure the skills that are exhibited predominately in this time period (CPS). Citizens for Public Schools has goals that are centered around the success and equality of education including: to funding to ensure high quality public schools for all and to every student a well-rounded public education that meets the needs of the whole This organization is concerned with the well-being of all students and their success in instruction, and continuing the use and further advancements in public schooling is a necessary part of solving current problems in education. Option #2 Homeschool Education. The definition of is to educate child at home rather than sending them to a school. Even more simply put, it is going to school while staying at home. There are many organizations that support the implementation of homeschooling over public schooling. Two of these organizations are known as: The Adventist Home Educator and The National Academy for Child Development. The Adventist Home Educator is a ministry dedicated to sharing encouragement, and to families who are striving to educate their children from home in order to live out their faith and grow closer to and more like Jesus (About AHE). The Adventist Home Educator makes it as easy as possible to start up homeschooling for people who believe that public schooling is too worldly and is destructive when trying to live in the way of the Lord. For this organization, the importance of education is second to religion, but is still a necessity when it comes to success in the futures of the students. Another organization that believes homeschooling can be the best option for education is The National Academy for Child Development. This is a professional serviced focused on evolving and providing home programs that are specialized to each Smoak 3 individual client. They are determined to the development and function of children and (NACD). They believe that not everyone can learn in a public school and public school instruction is too baseline to fit every needs. For both of these organizations, it is imperative that students receive their education at home. Should students be educated at home? Or at school? If in schools, then should they be in public schools? Or in private schools? Still, these questions have yet to be answered, there are so many research studies out there that people have access to that focus on what people want to hear. One study states that students should be in school to aid them in matters of socialization, meaning that students who are in public schools are given more opportunities to create deep bonds with other students and this is even more prevalent when the student participates in extracurricular activities (Pearson). These kinds of bonds are what students take into the rest of their lives so, of course this would persuade parents to send their children to be educated in public schools. Another study says that homeschooled students have higher levels of performance than educated students on standardized academic achievement (Dumas 73). that a child could be more successful if they were educated from home is definitely something that would sway a decision on how to educate that child. There will always be more research taken, more studies completed, and more opinions to be made, but the best plan, moving forward, is to come to a compromise on the matter. When it comes to education, there only two options as presented prior. The mixture of options when it comes to education are well almost limitless, students do have to become educated no matter what. It is the law. So, with that in mind, a plan that will make everyone a little happier than previously understood is needed to do this. Something that has been prevalent in technology age is online schooling. When using online schooling, Smoak 4 a student will typically have different teachers for each subject that they take a class in and do all of their work online by submitting assignments, taking part in discussion-based analysis, and completing exams and projects (Clemens). With this, students are able to receive curriculum from teachers in the school system, but they are able to do this at home. This program allows students to take classes at school as well as classes online, they would have the opportunities to make friends in classes at school and participate in extracurricular activities around the school, but focus on their main classwork at home and at a pace in a way that suites their learning style. This would not only benefit the education and social life, it would also benefit the parents that would have more of an opportunity to provide for their families rather than having the stress of school being at home (Barwegen). Some people may ask what the big deal is, just send the students wherever you want to. For some it as simple as picking a certain way to educate their kids. There are cost issues and time issues that allow for some people to provide proper education to students. If students are unable to receive a proper education, then they will have a harder time finding a proper career or even a jo when they get older. They are the future of the world and it is in the best interest of everyone that they are properly educated and socialized so that they can take us further into the forthcoming era. Smoak 5 Works Cited About  Citizens for Public Schools. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. About  The Adventist Home Educator. 01 Mar. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Barwegen, Laura Mezzano, et al. Academic Achievement Of Homeschool And Public School Students And Student Perception Of Parent Involvement.  School Community Journal 14.1 (2004): 39-58. Education Source. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Clemens, Debra Jane. Homeschool perspective on virtual public  Homeschool perspective on virtual public schools - Learning & Technology Library (LearnTechLib). Gonzaga University, 30 Nov. 2001. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Dumas, Tanya K., Sean Gates, and Deborah R. Schwarzer. Evidence for Homeschooling: Constitutional Analysis in Light of Social Science  Widener Law Review 16.63 (2010): 63-87. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Pearson, Amy. How School Impacts a  Our Everyday Life. Global Post. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Who We  NACD International The National Association for Child Development. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.