Project 1: Finding Common Ground Climate change has had a significant impact on the natural world in the past decade. The majority of climate change has been caused by greenhouse gases and excess amounts of CO2 emissions released from consuming fossil fuels and not being environmentally conscious. These factors have caused a decline in the worldwide coral reef population. With this decline, it causes many other aspects of the ocean to be affected as well. While being caused by mainly human acts, there are some natural aspects to greenhouse gas emissions as well to take into consideration. The two stakeholders are the NOAA Coral Reef Conservation Program and the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. The one stakeholder organization focuses on problems with coral reefs involving climate change, land-based sources of pollution, and unsustainable fishing practices. The second organization deals with minimal impact tourism on the Great Barrier Reef. In order to come to a compromise, both stakeholders can share their information with each other to help understand where each side comes from and then discuss an agreement that could reduce tourism impacts. The NOAA Coral Reef Conservation Program aims to protect and restore coral reefs worldwide. This organization mainly focuses on climate change, land-based sources of pollution, and unsustainable fishing practices as they affect coral reefs. The NOAA has several categories of goals to accomplish which involve their three main focuses that affect coral reefs. Global warming has major impacts on land but in the water as well. In the article, Acid Elizabeth Kolbert took information from several different locations, one of which included part of the Great Barrier Reef. The ocean is the largest carbon sink, meaning it absorbs carbon dioxide out of the air. When the greenhouse effect is taking place, the ocean absorbs more carbon dioxide than normal levels. normal to have low levels of carbon in the ocean but when too much is absorbed, it can have immense negative effects on the living things (Kolbert). It can cause organisms to move away from their habitats and even weaken their physical conditions. Too much carbon dioxide in the water makes it difficult for the shells of organisms to maintain their hardness. The greenhouse effect also causes the overall temperature of the ocean to rise which leads to coral bleaching. Although there are ways of natural emission of carbon dioxide, the amount that people produce every day compare to that. Kolbert wrote, the long history of life on Earth, atmospheric carbon dioxide levels have been higher than they are today. But only very they risen as quickly as right With all of technology and means of making the lives of people easier, it puts more strain on other lives. Over the course of thousands of years that been around, coral reefs are being destroyed quicker than they can replenish themselves. Coral reefs are the backbone of marine ecosystems, so if those are destroyed, it makes it that much harder to keep everything else in check. People are a huge factor in the causes of global warming and affect much more than what many people believe. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority put specific policies in place to maintain the life and structure of the reef. Some of the policies set limits ensure the environmental, social and cultural of the reef itself. CO2 emissions are not the only human factor that has a huge impact on coral reefs. In an article about reefs in Mexico, Michael A. Gil wrote how tourism growth causes a decline in coral reef populations. A point in the article mentions how in an area where snorkeling was permitted, the coral cover decreased by almost 80% in three years. This also caused a decline in the local fish populations which then links to the overall health of the reef. Gil wrote that a certain part of the reef where snorkelers like to go due to the sea turtle population has specific measures built to accommodate more tourists to come visit such as moorings, road access, and in close proximity of local amenities. In order to help protect the reef, the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority created rules that must be followed or will otherwise result in some sort of punishment. One of the policies requires written permission in order for certain activities to take part. A study took place that showed that over a certain period of time, the amount of snorkelers continued to increase. The study also showed that areas where more tourists snorkeled, there was in fact less coral cover. If there were no policies put in place at all, the damage to the reefs would be much more significant. Tourism may not cause the same effects as greenhouse gas emissions, however the impacts are still consequential. Since the NOAA Coral Reef Conservation Program aims to protect and conserve coral reefs, they would most likely not agree with tourism at all as it does not have a positive impact on the overall health of coral reefs. As for a compromise, creating policies as the one stakeholder has to limit tourism is one of the more achievable goals. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority had the right idea putting policies in place to restrict what can and be done while snorkeling. Another compromise could be to completely ban snorkeling, which would be much more difficult to do. This would allow the reefs to recover from some human impact even though there would still be the pollution factor affecting it but if there were no more tourists, then there would be no more need for a marine park authority except to maybe manage other human impacts. Tourists can become careless and even with policies can do something that does the opposite of protecting the reef. Due to the increased levels of tourists, which continues to increase, there had to be something put in place to help protect the reefs. Since completely banning snorkeling would be very difficult and people would not be happy about it, the park authority could put even more and stricter policies into place. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority would have to crack down on people much more and the reefs would still have tourists using them as leisure activities, but at least it would be significantly less people involved. Since tourism and recreation is a very large part of the economy, completely taking away access to the reefs would have a great impact. Robin Kundis Craig wrote an article describing some of the policies that have to do with people and coral reefs. It describes marine reserves in which some have restricted access to the reefs while others have non extractive uses available. There are also protected areas in place worldwide to help reduce tourism and overfishing. So overall, the stakeholders can work together to set up policies that help reduce coral destruction. Damage to coral reefs can be caused by many things, but human caused factors have some of the greatest impacts. Whether its pollution or tourism, there needs to be certain limits set to what can and cannot be done. Both stakeholders have their goals that they aim to accomplish and human interaction comes with that. The NOAA Coral Reef Conservation Program and the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority are both stakeholders that care about coral reef conservation so it is important for them to both achieve their goals.