Zak Staton January 28 th , 2017 Professor Ryan ENC1102 Abortion Abortion is one of the most controversial issues in America. The issue on pro-life versus pro-choice ranges all the way from your living room debates to sometimes ultimately deciding who gets put into to office of the white house. There are two sides to any abortion debate. Side one is pro-choice, meaning that they believe the choice to decide whether she wants to keep the baby or have an abortion. Side two is pro- life. Typically affiliated with religion, they believe that abortion is murder. A looming issue on abortion is should it be legal or is it essentially murder? The National Abortion Federation (NAF) a pro-choice organization believes the time life starts is a grey area and that abortion is completely acceptable within a certain time line. Heartbeat International is a pro-life organization that believes life begins during conception and any aborted baby is murder. Though the issue seems completely binary, by finding common ground between these two organizations there is a compromise to be made between the NAF and Heartbeat International on whether or not abortion should be illegal. To begin the NAF firmly believes in abortion. There whole mission according to their website at prochoice.org is to ensure safe, legal and affordable abortion care. The NAF believes that every woman has the ability to make informed decisions about her reproductive health. On the home page of prochoiceamerica.org, they back up the NAF claiming that pro choice means protecting access to safe legal abortion. It also means working on ways to help reduce the need for abortion, like improving access to birth control. And it means supporting women who choose to carry their pregnancies to The question with pro-life supporters still remains, when does life actually begin? And is abortion considered murder? On the contrary, Heartbeat International is a pro-life organization, which strongly believes that abortion is murder, no matter the circumstance. The mission of Heartbeat International can be found on their mission page at heartbeatinternational.org. Their mission states that they want to make abortion unwanted and unthinkable for future generations. How they plan on doing that is reaching out to those seeking to have abortions and talk to them. Essentially like a crisis hotline. They plan to open pregnancy centers in cities where abortion clinics are the only option for women. In her book and abortion politics: Choice, rights, and reproductive freedom Lisa Smith explains that the issue with pro-choice is that pro-choice believes women are losing their right to their body. She goes on to claim that the choice just the but also the fetuses and the (Smith). The same question applies to those who are pro-life supporters. When does life actually begin? If a woman receives an abortion within the first month of conception is it really murder? Although, these two organizations have conflicting views there is common ground between them. Where is this common ground though? Many people that are involved in this argument say that the topic is completely binary. You either support abortion or you Abortion is either murder or it It seems impossible that two groups so diverse could have anything in common. If we look at both these organizations closely we can find a common factor between both of them. The pro-choice group NAF says that the choice of what she wants to do with her body. Essentially the NAF is looking out for best for the mother, and what will ultimately give her the best life in the long run. Like wise the pro-life organization Heartbeats International believes abortion is murder because they are looking out for best for the life. You see both these organizations seem to have a pro-life mission. The mission is just for two separate being. The NAF is looking out for the while the Heartbeats International is looking out for the baby. Looking at the situation this way will help each group take a step in the right direction towards a compromise on abortion. So, after all sides of both stakeholders have been laid out on the table what compromise is there? Is there a compromise to made here? My compromise to the organizations of the National Abortion Federation and Heartbeats International is this. Abortion is made completely illegal, except for victims of rape or incest. Also, a doctor can make acceptations if he or she thinks the life is in danger. However, a formula will be created that will take into account the average amount of money it takes to raise a child, the average number of abortions per year and the number of pro-life tax paying citizens. The formula will take the average amount of money it takes to raise a kid then divide that by the number of average annual abortions and then divide that number by the number of pro-life tax paying citizens. This compromise promises wins for both organizations. On the pro-choice side, while they are ultimately losing choice to their bodies they are gaining the finances they will need to raise the baby they are about to have, which is one of the main reasons women receive abortions, while still being able to receive abortions for life-threatening circumstances or a circumstance where a woman was victimized. On the pro-life side while all abortions is still not illegal they have won by eliminated all non-essential abortions. An article by Jay Johansen on preganatpause.org explains how making abortion legal in only a few can be a win for everyone. Her compromise is abortion legal only in a few extreme cases, like rape, and incest, and maybe very early She claims that neither side is going to be completely happy because the pro-life side believes that no baby should ever be murder, and the pro-choice side believes that a women has the right to her body no matter what (Johansen). The fact of the matter is that in a compromise no one is going to be completely happy. Each side will have to give a little and each side will gain a little. In order for this compromise to be a success it will take time. The first step is getting someone into office that is willing to work with the proposed compromise. Without leadership and power I do not believe this proposed comprise will work. In order for the formula I proposed to be a success these organizations will need to do countless amounts of research to figure out just what numbers to crunch. Overall, the biggest step is getting someone in office that is willing to run with this idea, because taxes will need to be raised and laws will need to be passed. So, this may not be the most cost effective solution because a campaign cheap, but it is for sure a solution that will bring both sides together on the abortion issue. My compromise solve the abortion the crisis between these two stakeholders, but it is a way that both organizations can a step towards each other and say hey we can work together to find a compromise. There will be people unhappy with this compromise, but the nature of a compromise. No one or no side is going to be entirely happy because they had to give something up. the difference between a compromise and a victory. If both organizations listen to this compromise and work together to get it done the issue on abortion can be a much less hostile conversation than it is today.