Anh Nguyen Robert Ryan ENC1102.059S17 28 January 2017 Concussion in National Football League Everyone knows that football is the most popular sport in the United States and Sunday would never be the same without football. Football is a heavy physical contact sport that athletes often aim for their body to put them away and get closer to the end zone. Therefore, it is a sport that players are likely to be injured. Among all the injuries that a player can receive from playing football, concussion is one of the worst. A concussion is caused by a strong impact to the head or the body, within milliseconds, the brain crashes against the skull causing damage to the brain cells (McCory, 1-12). This controversial issue in football has been going on for years and there is even a fight between Doctor Bennet Omalu and the NFL (National Football League) team owners like Jerry Jones, Cowboys owner. The event has inspired the film producer to make a movie about it. It is impossible for football to be a perfectly safe sport, however with updated, improved safety equipment, along with applying new rules and regulations, the overall chances of players getting a long-term brain damage and concussions can be reduce. Although the Jerry Jones and Doctor Omalu have different goals, they both share one main objective: the league is entertaining, competitive and the players can spread the love of football to more generations. With that shared objective, how can they find a compromise that will satisfy both sides? Doctor Bennet Omalu, from Anambra state, is the pathologist who discovered chronic traumatic encephalopathy in professional football players set out to attack favorite sport. He even know much about the (Steiger, 8). He is a certified physician executive in medical management. Omalu has been working on the chronic traumatic encephalopathy (or known as CTE) over the last 14 years and his action is the inspiration for the movie Concussion, starring actor Will Smith as Doctor Omalu. CTE is neurodegenerative disease in the brains of football players caused by repeated brain trauma over time and causes depression, dementia, and other behavioral (Steiger, 9). Since he is a native Nigerian, he did not have much experiences with football. It all started one morning in 2002, he saw the breaking news about the dolorous death of Mike Webster, former center of the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Kansas City Chiefs. Later, he made a huge discovery after performing an autopsy on the former pro football player. Mike was not the only one Omalu examined, other football players, including Dave Duerson and Andre Waters were performed on as well. He then confirmed that head trauma from the sport causes a brain condition that leads to memory loss, impaired judgement, impulse control problems, aggression, depression, and eventually progressive (Steiger, 9). American football received a lot of concerns about their safety due to discovery. Throughout many years, the NFL tried its best to deny and hide his published document about the connection between football and brain trauma, and furthermore, they accused him of deception. Like one said is hard to please so it is natural to have many opinions that are against with Doctor discovery. Jerry Jones, owner of the Dallas Cowboys, is disagree with the conclusion on the connection between American football with concussion. big part of this is prevention. But the other part of it is to basically understand that we do not know or have any idea that there is a consequence as to any type of head injury in the Jerry told the Washington Post (Gardner, 2016). thinks it is absurd to believe a definite link between football and (Miller, 2016). He stated that there is no conclusion to prove there is a relationship with the current knowledge, background and scientifically. no data that in any way creates a  Jones continued. no way that you could have made a comment that there is an association and some type of assertion. In most things, you have to back it up by studies. And in this particular case, we all know how medicine is. Medicine is evolving. I grew up being told that aspirin was not good. told that one a day is good for you. saying that changed over the years as had more research and  There are other owners like Jim Irsay who also share the same thought with Jerry. Irsay is the owner of the Indianapolis Colts, and in an interview with Sports Business Journal, he compared taking aspirin with the risk of playing football: I believe this: that the game has always been a  Look at it. You take an aspirin, I take an aspirin, it might give you extreme side effects of illness and your body may reject it, where I would be fine. So there is so much we  He believed that players are aware of the risks when they get on the football field as he lessened the link between suicidal or violent behavior and football-related brain damage. Cardinals coach Bruce Arians thought that parents who will not let their kids play football are fools as he said: There are more concussions in girls soccer than in football at that age, but no one says we gotta stop playing  (Gardner, 2016). These individuals said what they believe is the nature and it is part of football in which they do not want it change. Its characteristics are what make football itself so famous. Doctor background is his disadvantage but it is also his advantage since it has aided him to have the gut to discover the CTE in American football players. If I had grown up in this country, maybe I would have been awed by the body of Mike Webster, that I would have not even touched it. I would have revered it: is the great Mike Webster, let him  Jerry Jones is different from Omalu because he is a football team owner, the team is his investment and his source of income. He wants to keep the nature of competitive and physical contact sport. Nonetheless, it is not impossible to come up with a compromise that will satisfy the two sides. In 2009, the league acknowledged the problem and implemented the concussion management guidelines, include neuropsychological testing on all NFL players to help determine when a player could return to play after a head (Steiger, 100). The new protocols make sure all the players with concussion with be treated carefully, properly diagnosed to decide whether he can come back to the game. Players should be educated carefully about concussion and how to treat their body when they get one. With that in mind, players will try to not to aim for and it is not easy as it sounds. Team owner like Jerry Jones can introduce a rule like there should be ejection when one player is aiming for another one head. This method will scare the players and add more disciplinary to the league as there are rarely any ejections. If the compromise works, the league will be a safer play field that parents with concerns about safety, now can be less worried and send their children to the league. Work References Steiger, Bill. Meet Bennet Omalu, Md: The Physician Leader Whose Research Inspired The Movie  Physician Leadership Journal 3.2 (2016): 8-10. Business Source Premier. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Gardner, Sam. What NFL owners have said about  Concussion in NFL (2016): 12-15. FOX Sports, 29 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Maske, Mark. NFL, NFLPA to Investigate Lack of Concussion Testing of Cam Newton during Opening Game (Posted 2016-09-11  The Washington Post Sep 11 2016 ProQuest. 30 Jan. 2017 . Ogundipe, Sola. How Nigerian doctor, Bennet Omalu, changed American  Vanguard News: 20-24. Agency Reports, 02 Sept. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gregory, Sean. New Book, And PBS Documentary, Details Concussion  Time.Com (2013): 1. Business Source Premier. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.