Shanise Emanuel ENC 1102 De Carion 1/29/17 Freedom of speech exists in many forms today; one of the main forms is protesting. Different organizations go out and deliver their message so that the general public can become informed. However, there are also a lot of disagreements that come along with protesting because of opposing sides. For example, Reasonable Faith is a Christian organization that believes that they should be able to provide a Christian message, challenge unbelievers, and to train other Christians to defend Christianity. The LGBT Initiative is an organization that wants to push the LGBT community towards leading a healthier future. Both want to achieve their goals in a positive way but they do not agree on the same things. Conflicts between these two groups occur often during protests. The LGBT Initiative and Reasonable Faith have very different beliefs based on religion and love, however there is a way for the two organizations to agree on the concepts of religion and love. Reasonable Faith was created by William Lane Craig, a professor of philosophy, who devoted his life to God at the age of sixteen. His work has consisted of articles that circulate around the Bible and God. In the religion of Christianity, it is strongly believed that homosexuality, or any sexuality that is not heterosexual, is morally wrong and is a sin. The LGBT Initiative is for people of any sexuality, and they try to help the LGBT community by raising money for higher education and healthcare. This organization does not discriminate, and provides a loving, accepting environment. The problem as to why these two organizations do not agree is because one side believes there can not be a compromise between God and homosexuality. Christian organizations seem to be very conservative and stand very strongly with their beliefs. Since they think this way it put a strain on the LGBT community. The LGBT community wants to exist in peace and believes that we should all be equal. There are a few possible solutions to this issue such as keeping away from each other, agreeing to disagree, or they could have a mediator when they start to disagree and become irate. These solutions can be utilized in a peaceful respectable manner. Although the two organizations have opposing ideas and opinions, there is an outcome that can benefit both sides. Whether it is not being able to agree at all or meeting in the middle, they can be entitled to what they believe. i Works Cited Craig, William Lane. Reasonable Faith with William Lane Craig . n.d. Initiative, The LGBT. The LGBT Initiative . 2016.