Avery Hoag English II January 30, 2016 Florida Dog Breeding Regulations When walking into a local pet shop, customers do not usually consider where the puppies are actually coming from. While some of the shops sell rescue dogs, other places such as About receive their dogs from breeders. In this way, the company is supporting puppy mills in Florida by purchasing dogs from them. In contrast to this support, there are many other organizations such as Mill that work to rescue dogs from puppy mills that can no longer take care of them. Both of these examples, although they seem to be very different, have the responsibility to take care of the dogs they have. It is in their best interest to keep the dogs healthy and happy in order to get them adopted. A possible solution for these opposing sides would be an agency who creates rules and regulations as well as enforces them and who are dedicated to keeping these breeding places a sustainable environment for the raising of puppies before being adopted. Much like other pet stores, About main goal is to get the puppies they have in their shop adopted and given a home. They receive their puppies from certain breeders who have raised the dogs themselves and know exactly what the dog is and what the dog has been through. Unfortunately though, some of these breeding places can be categorized as puppy mills which is essentially an establishment that breeds puppies but does not treat them humanely (puppymillrecue.com.) Through many of their social media networkings, they have received negative feedback about supporting the industry of breeding but have continued to buy from them anyways in order to keep the status of having purebred dogs. That is where the non-profit organization Mill comes in. They focus on getting a hold of and adopting dogs that are unwanted or unsafe in puppy mills. With this description, it is obvious through their actions that the goals of the two organizations are not alike. Mill is doing what they do in order to give the dogs a safe and loving home and About is selling the dogs to adopters for a profit and not exactly because they care about the cause. Fortunately, these two organizations have some large ideas in common. The overarching similarity is that they both want to sell the dogs they have. About wants to sell these dogs for a profit and Mill wants to give the dogs a safe place to live. Although they are trying to get these dogs adopted for different reasons, they still ultimately want the same thing they just have different ways of doing so. Even though they share this common ground, they still have not been able to come to a compromise. One reason for this could possibly be that it is much easier for About to receive their dogs from breeders and it is comforting for the local Florida company to know who the dogs came from and what breed the dogs are. One of the largest things the company takes pride in is the fact that most of the puppies in their store are pure breeds. Whereas this cannot be guaranteed if the dogs came from a rescue shelter. With this, it can make it even more difficult for a compromise since it is such a specific and difficult goal for each of the dogs to be a pure breed. Lastly, About only buys puppies from the breeders which does not account for all the dogs the breeder has. Mill focuses on any dogs that are no longer wanted or selling in the mills and sends them to loving homes. The two organizations are focused on getting different types of dogs and so they have not exactly crossed paths and been able to reach a compromise to make the situation work for the both of them. On the other hand, if the two influential companies were to reach a compromise, it could be very beneficial to many. There are not any regulations in Florida about the puppy mill and breeding industry other than the classic animal abuse laws (puppymillrescue.com.) If an agency was created for Florida to regulate and watch over breeders to make it safer for the dogs to live, both agencies would be leveled. With this compromise, the Mill can continue rescuing dogs that have outgrown the breeding place while knowing the dogs that are in their are safe and About will still receive the specific dogs that they want without getting negative feedback about supporting a bad cause. In order for this idea to work, a board would have to be put together of qualified people to run the agency. Also, a large team of people would have to be developed in order to run the place and be able to physically check up on the breeders to make sure that the dogs are taken care of properly. Works Cited All About  About Puppies . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Appiah, Kwame Anthony. Is It O.K. to Get a Dog From a Breeder, Not a  New York Times Magazine 2016: 28. Resource Center . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. One dog at a  . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Solotaroff, Paul. The Dog  Stone 1278/1279 (2017): 42-56. Search Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. WHITCOMB, RACHAEL. Wisconsin Puppy-Mill Laws Spur Unintended  DVM: The Newsmagazine Of Veterinary Medicine 42.7 (2011): 46. Search Alumni Edition . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.