Professor Roth ENC 1101 1/25/17 Prison: Punish or Perfect? Today we face a crisis not many people are talking about. Over 67% of criminals reoffend after they are released back into society. If significantly more than half of the criminals getting convicted and sentenced to prisons are just ending right back up in there after they are released, the system must be broken. This is strictly an American problem, which is what makes me believe that the issue is the way our prison system runs. In Norway, the recidivism rate is jaw dropping. At just 20% it holds the title of having the lowest recidivism rate in the country. This is because the Norwegian government was completely aware that most of the crimes being committed were being committed by the same people repeatedly, and they decided to take action. The government of Norway decided it would be more successful to focus on rehabilitation of the prisoners as opposed to being a merely punitive institution, and a change the United States made years ago. This raises the question, why are we still making the same mistakes? Annotated Bibliography Langelid, Torfinn. Journal of Correctional  Ways of Building Bridges With the Community: Prison Education in Norway 7 (1996): 119-24. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This journal discusses the previous issues with the Norwegian prison system. Their system was previously almost identical to ours. A huge emphasis on punishment, and almost none on reform. It also focuses on the positive impact when Norway made the switch to reformative prisons. The statistics about recidivism rates after making the change to a less punitive prison system are truly staggering. Just another reason America needs to change as well. Reed, Austin, and Caleb Smith. The life and the adventures of a haunted convict. New York: Random House, 2016. Print. This book details the experience of an African American man in prison. The story begins in his childhood when he gets locked up inside The House of Refuge, first juvenile detention center. It then goes into his adulthood and about the many ways he was tortured in prison as an adult. Austin prison experience took place in the 1840s-60s. Even then the American prison system was flawed and in desperate need of reformation. Prisoners were whipped, beaten, and then thrown in solitary confinement. At some points our Author was chained up and whipped to the point of blacking out. The issue is, after been through all this not afraid to go back. Which just raises one question, if it work, why are we still doing it?