Aloraier 1 Nawaf Fahad T. Aloraier Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.910S17 Composition II 30 January, 2017 The Second Amendment and Gun Control Can Co-Exist Do we still need to follow a 226-year-old book? A question that many oppose to but maybe necessary to ask. Since the U.S. is the highest owning gun population in the entire world, being killed from a terrorist attack is less to happen to unlike being killed by a gun on American soil according to CNN. Guns were an ordinary thing to own in the past for a verity of reasons, such as, hunting, protection, and for wars, but since then it took a deep drop in a negative way by becoming an object of eliminating anyone who opposes you. It is true that every country needs one (a constitution), but the constitution need an upgrade version of itself, or a bit of modification on it considering the events that are happening in this era? Gun issue, a problem that the U.S. still cannot solve without making all parties satisfied. The NRA an organization that is strongly defending the second amendment and with guns in the United States. The Brady Campaign, unlike the NRA, wants to change a little in the selling of guns, by putting rules and laws to buying one. The constitution of the United States grants the right to own a handgun to every civilian but with the conflict of gun control by not registering them or people will not be having the opportunity to benefit from their rights is in the way. Regardless of both groups wanting what is best for the people which is ending violence. Not every citizen should be granted a weapon such as, the mentally ill, criminals, and foreigners, which could easily lead to killing another soul! A weapon should be registered, and only be granted for the right purposes with a full background check on the buyer so they can be controlled. Aloraier 2 The mission statement is To protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, especially with reference to the inalienable right of the individual American citizen guaranteed by such Constitution to acquire, possess, collect, exhibit, transport, carry, transfer ownership of, and enjoy the right to use  The statement really shows what the group stands on and on what they believe. A supporting article by Marc Cooper tells that since people had the advantage of easily owning a weapon the death rate has fallen by a 4.7% either being a homicide or a suicide since the according to the study shown (15.) From the statement, we acknowledge that the regulations and laws on guns are going to be negative, and will not let the citizen of this country have the chance to explore and gain from what the founding fathers have set for him/her. We could also understand that an act on the constitution will be considered an act of war since the NRA has stated that they will defend and protect it from whatever comes upon it from such regulations. study shows us that more guns will equal less death by weapons since everyone will have the gains the perk of defending themselves by the ones they have. The average rate provided from the 4.7% decline in 26 years (1990-2016) is a strong wall that should not be underestimated. Moving on from these two opinions that guns are good and not evil to the other idea of them. The Brady Campaign mission is to create a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by  This group hopes to decrease the death caused by guns in any proper way. Kristin Goss writes in her article that United States has far more gun violence, including mass shootings, than do other advanced industrial Australia, Canada, and United responded to mass shootings by dramatically strengthening their already strong gun laws, the United States has moved incrementally, if at Being safer in the U.S. will mostly happen if guns were to be monitored and registered so that death rates from it could fall from the reading the mission statement. Kristin mentioned that the laws of the countries comparing the United States with helped from leading people to getting Aloraier 3 hurt or losing a loved by guns. These laws will extremely help to end the violence done by guns and will pave the way for a safer country since it is moving in slowly. The comparison also shows that the other countries are advanced and are in the first world as the U.S. is, we can realize that this a fair compression for this country. Both of these statements agree on setting laws that will help to erase the gun assaults. Nonetheless, of both disagreements, there will be common interests. The major interest between the NRA and Campaign is the safety of the people. Both groups would like to end the violence and misuse of guns and to lower the causality rate to the lowest as they can. They all want everyone to live to their possibilities, potentials, and dreams without being taken away from them by their death or the death of a loved one which could affect them. Another thing is that both organizations want the people to enjoy their full rights without being taken away. Finally, guns in the hands of the mentally is not alright and it is agreed on by the two parties. As for a compromise for the groups, here are some solutions that could be taken under consideration. Mandatory educational courses are to be held at the expenses of the buyer teaching them the right way of handling the responsibilities of handling a gun. The mentally ill, criminals, and foreigners are not to be granted a weapon of any sort except if it was under supervision or desperately need if under a threat. Automatic machine guns are to be under the supervision since they only cause harm and no good comes out of them. Weapons need to be registered, and the closest department of police is to be notified when owning or purchasing a weapon. From these solutions, both stakeholders will manage and co-exist. Negations will be held under the supervision of a jury expert in guns, two members from both democratic and republican parties will be present, then each group will be sending two members representing them. The expenses will be taken out of the budgets, the time of meetings will be held twice a month, and every time in the head-quarters of each group. Aloraier 4 In all, since the NRA believes are to let every citizen enjoy what has been set for them by the founding fathers, campaign also believes that but with some restrictions. The second amendment can be side-to-side with the gun control idea without harming the integrity of the constitution. But the issue is the NRA will not let the Brady group change or add laws that prohibit the full usage of the second amendment. Both parties have a common interest which is the safety of the people of this country. Finally, for the compromise, both groups agree upon regestrarting the weapons and to educate people on how to use it in a proper way without losing their temper. Aloraier 5 Citations - The Brady Campaign. http://www.bradycampaign.org/about-brady.n d, web. Accessed 29 January 2017. - Cooper, Marc. Control Is a The American Conservative. March-April, 2016, Vol. 15 Issue 2, p12, 9 p. - Chilson, Morgan. Association for Gun Rights vs. NRA: How Do They Newsmax. http://www.newsmax.com/FastFeatures/national-association-for- gun-rights-nra-differ/2014/10/12/id/600067/ . n.d, web. Accessed 29 January 2017. - Goss, Kristin A. the Odds on Gun Regulation: The Passage of Bipartisan Mental Health Laws Across the American Journal of Orthopsychiatry, Vol 85(3), May, 2015. Gun Violence. pp. 203-210.