Alexis Wallace Instructor: Sarah Roth Composition I February 5, 2017 Project 1 Research Question: Why is it beneficial to promote and educate people about the arts within various cultures? Introduction: Art is a shared passion worldwide. It is one of the things that keeps us connected and works within various fields of communication. We can see art, we can create it, and we can learn from it. Unfortunately, some cultures are disregarding the importance of the arts by limiting it within their education system. For example, an article written about five years ago stated that to new findings the first government survey in a decade that tracks the availability of arts in schools fewer elementary schools are offering visual arts, dance and drama classes than during a decade (Walker, 2012). The debate on whether art is needed or not, revolves mainly around opinion. There are some who believe that there is not enough evidence to support the idea that art contributes to learning in other academic criteria, and that it is not as important as other subjects. While others, such as people with high education in the fine arts and those who participate in and experience art, have a fair argument as to why it is important that art education exists. There are certain cultures that promote the arts more than others, and see firsthand just how beneficial they can be. In this paper I will discover why it is beneficial to promote and educate people about the arts within various cultures. Alexis Wallace Instructor: Sarah Roth Composition I February 5, 2017 Potential Sources: Anderson, E. (2016). Learning from an artistically crafted moment: Valuing aesthetic experience in the student drama education. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 17(1). Retrieved from http://www.ijea.org/v17n1/.Jnn This article provides well researched information and personal perspective on aesthetic learning and its place in education. The author is a drama teacher and is well educated in the arts. She discusses her personal experiences with art and provides evidence that supports the value of the arts. This article is relevant to my topic because it gives insight on the effects of arts on people. Its main focus is in the theater department, but it is still a strong support for the arts as a whole. This is a good source because I found it on a reliable website and it provides the names of several editors that reviewed it. Scott Goble, J. (2015). Music or Musics? An Important Matter at Hand. Action, Criticism & Theory For Music Education, 14(3), 27-42. In this article Scott Goble explores the many benefits of music education, and even refers to it as the of He also makes connections between the art of music and philosophy. One of the most important aspects of this article is the fact that the author relates everything to modern situations and concerns. This gives it good timeliness qualities that greatly help his argument. Alexis Wallace Instructor: Sarah Roth Composition I February 5, 2017 This article is relevant to my topic because music is a very popular form of art. Since it is enjoyed by most it will provide common ground with the audience. He has strong arguments supporting the benefits of music education. It is a reliable source because I found it on the USF library search system. Resources: Walker, T. (2012). The good and bad news about arts education in U.S. schools. News and Features from the National Education Association. Retrieved from http://neatoday.org/2012/04/05/the-good-and-bad-news-about-arts-education-in-u-s- schools-2/