Pike 1 Danyelle Pike Mariama M. Changamire 1102 2 February 2017 Genetically Modified Organisms: To Label or Not to Label Genetically Modified Organisms and the issue of transparency through labelling and consumer safety has been a controversial issue for years now. The two major arguments in regards to this particular issue are, the dangers associated with the adverse exposure of GMOs and the fact that consumers should know when they are consuming products that contain GMOs. The opposing argument is that due to the advancement in technology used in GMOs are now much safer, additionally companies who use them are legally not required to label their goods due to US Food and Drug Administration. Monsanto and the Center for Food and Safety are two organizations who are both concerned with the health and safety of consumers, their mission statements are very similar. However, Monsanto is for the use of GMOs for their claimed benefits and CFS is against it to an extent, they believe that if GMOs are used the products should be clearly labelled. According to CFS, almost twenty years has passed since they decided that Genetically engineered foods are not substantially different from other foods and thus, need no differentiation. The FDA issued a policy statement in 1992 that limited what it considered to only changes in food that could be noted by taste, smell or other senses (Center for Food Safety). The CFS has filed a formal Legal Petition to FDA to Require Labelling of Genetically Engineered Foods, if Monsanto were to sign this petition it would bridge the gap between organizations that are for and against the use of GMOs, being that they both share common goals they would both be able to come to an agreement if the labelling Act was enacted. Pike 2 Foods derived from Genetically Modified Organisms are referred to as GM Foods. The genetic modification done to the organisms causes the genome to be altered to achieve different results based on the goal of the scientist or the farmer. GMOs can be pesticide resistant, whether resistant, they can also make soy beans have a higher fatty acid content thus allowing them to have a higher oil content allowing them to be more suitable for frying. (Food Standards Australia New Zealand) The opposing views of Genetic Modification are based around the stated pros and cons of the technology. According to USDA research state that Genetically modified foods have benefits such as herbicide tolerance, which allow for the use of specific herbicides that would have previously destroyed the crops prior to the technology. Crop harvest has increased significantly due to the implementation on Genetic engineering, on USDA survey data, HT soybeans went from 17 percent of U.S. soybean acreage in 1997 to 68 percent in 2001 and 94 percent in 2014, 2015, and The adoption of HT corn, which had been slower in previous years, has accelerated, reaching 89 percent of U.S. corn acreage in 2014, 2015, and (United States Department of Agriculture Economic Research Service). Produce can be engineered to be more vitamin rich, according to the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United States, scientists have engineered certain crops to produce necessary proteins, vaccines and other medicinal properties in a process called (Mendel). Contrastingly, the negative connotations are associated with the following disadvantages of Genetic Modification. Antibiotic resistant foods have been one of the main problems that anti- GMO groups. The antibiotic resistant properties mean that the germs that can populate the organisms are hard to kill, thus making antibiotics somewhat ineffective when trying to fight an illness (Centers fo Disease Control and Prevention ). There are many people who are allergic to Pike 3 Genetically engineered foods, according to the National Center for Health Statistics, during the period of 1997- 1999, food related allergies in children under the age of eighteen increased from 3.4% to 5.1% during 2009-2011 (Centers fo Disease Control and Prevention ). Though they claimed that it may not have necessarily been all attributed to GMOs it is said to have been a contributing factor. With the increase in climate changes Genetically Modified foods have been crucial for the sustainability of some impoverished nations as they increase crop harvest. Additionally, in regards to the safety of the technology, the American Association for the Advancement of Science has released proven research that GM crops are primarily safe (AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENC). The Center for Food mission is centered around environmental advocacy and protecting human health. They promote organic production of agricultural goods, and aim to educate the consumer about organic foods and products. Their stance on GMO is that the consumer should be completely informed on what they are consuming and where it came from. They believe that the consumers have rights to transparency. They believe that the United States should follow the progressiveness of other nations such as, the European Union, China, Russia, Australia, who are among the fifteen nations who have laws set in place requiring the labelling of GE foods (Center for Food Safety). Monsanto, core values and beliefs are centered around their code of they believe that they are supporting the by providing forums that educate farmers about the GM seeds that they provide as well as they advocate for agricultural sustainability (Monsanto). The Organization places heavy emphasis on respecting every aspect of human rights. They aim to invest heavily into their research so that optimal agricultural sustainability and safety possible for the producer and the consumer. Pike 4 The problem lies with the fact that the FDA does not require GMO industries to explicitly label their products. Although there is an act in place that requires the FDA to prevent the misleading of consumers in regards to what is in consumer goods, the FDA issued a policy statement in 1992 that limited what is considered as to only changes in food that could be detected through the senses, that is, smell, taste, etc., and since GE foods cannot technically be detected by the naked eye, they are considered as a substantial equivalent to other ingredients which is why no labelling is required. To this day the FDA has not changed their policies, labelling is still a voluntary act (Center for Food Safety). The proposed solution that will possibly allow these stakeholders to reach a common ground has technically already started. The Center for Food Safety along with other organizations has formally filed a Petition to FDA to Require Labelling of Genetically Engineered which has the following demands, such as the issuance of new regulations requiring labelling of all GE foods, issue a new policy redefining a on the grounds that unlabeled GE foods are misleading, consumers have a judicially recognized Right to Know (Center for Food Safety). If Monsanto were to publicly sign the petition and show their support, being that they are one of the largest suppliers of GE seeds, it would bridge the gap between the two stakeholders. The common ground would be achieved because both parties would not have to compromise their values to reach an agreed solution. No industry would be adversely affected, the organic industry would still strive and the GMO industry would still strive when the petition is signed. The solution is not outlandish and is reasonable enough for both parties to come to mutually beneficial agreement. Pike 5 Works Cited AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENC. Statement by the AAAS Board of Directors On Labeling of Genetically Modifed  20 October 2013. AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF . 20 Janaury 2017. Caswell, Julie A. Labeling Policy For GMOs: To Each His  The Journal of Agrobiotechnology Management & Economics 3 (1998). Center for Food Safety. CFS Legal Petition to Label GE Foods . n.d. 20 January 2017. <http://www.centerforfoodsafety.org/issues/976/ge-food-labeling/the-cfs-legal-petition- to-label-genetically-engineered-foods>. Centers fo Disease Control and Prevention . Antibiotic REsistance Threats in the United States  Centers fo Disease Control and Prevention 2013. Food Standards Australia New Zealand. General information about GM foods  Food Standards Australia New Zealand March 2016. McEnvoy, Miles. Organic 101: What the USDA Organic Label Means  United States Department of Agriculture 22 March 2012. Pike 6 Mendel, Ken. GMO Food Pros and  NewsMax 11 June 2015. Monsanto. Our Commitments . 2015. <http://www.monsanto.com/whoweare/pages/human- rights.aspx>. United States Department of Agriculture Economic Research Service. Recent Trends in GE Adoption  2016.