Jonah Devoy Out of our global population, half are comprised of women. In the entity of politics however, less than twenty percent serve in the United States Congress, Senate, and house of representatives. Woman play an important role in our society that most Americans fail to see. For centuries, the role of the female has been to marry a man, and be a stay home mom that takes care of the kids and household chores. However, this is not the case for many. They have contributed to being the driving force of our economy and society, allowing for a safe and productive country. Even so, they are still looked down upon by many men. The number of people who think they have a say over what woman should do with their lives and bodies are astonishing. According to CNN, up to fifty-eight Americans oppose abortion, and forty percent want to see planned parenthood defunded. The problem with this is the amount of good planned parenthood does for women. Those who want it to be defunded tend to speak out of ignorance and understand the purpose of planned parenthood. Its purpose is not to just serve women a safe way to go through with abortions, planned parenthood also provides health care, and they educate women on how to live healthy lives. Now I ask the million-dollar question, should planned parenthood continue to be funded? For adolescent girls worldwide, unsafe and complications during pregnancy is the leading cause of death. Nearly 70,000 deaths occur annually for these poor girls in undeveloped countries. According to the World Health Organization, 47,000 adolescent teens pass each year from unsafe abortion practices. a total of 117,000 easily preventable deaths each year. To put into perspective, the city of Cape Coral, Florida has a population of roughly 100,000. So, in terms, if the population was full of adolescent girls, every single person would be dead, and then another 17,000, which is the size of a small town. These unsafe pregnancies and abortions are caused by either ignorance with religious practices, or the unavailable funding to proceed with safe practices, which mainly take place in underdeveloped countries. However, Planned Parenthood has been on a mission for forty years to provide safe contraceptives for women and provide care for women in situations where they need help or treatment in childbirth or abortions. So now we ask the question, should Planned Parenthood be defunded? Should the 725,00 women in undeveloped countries each year who Planned Parenthood helps each year not receive help and risk their lives with unsafe practices? For the uneducated or ignorant, how can you argue against the facts? Weighing out the cost and benefits of Planned Parenthood, it obvious that funding should be continued. far as Planned Parenthood is concerned, pro-life. totally against abortion, having to do with Planned Parenthood. But millions and millions of women -- cervical cancer, breast cancer -- are helped by Planned Parenthood. So, you can say whatever you want, but they have millions of women going through Planned Parenthood that are helped greatly. And I fund it. I would defund it because of the abortion factor, which they say is 3 percent. I know what percentage it is. They say 3%. But I would defund it, because pro-life. But millions of women are helped by Planned N.p., n.d. Web. Women in U.S. Congress  Women in U.S. Congress. N.p., 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Benson, Guy. Percent of Americans Oppose Abortion in All or Most  Townhall. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cecile Richards Says Far More Americans Support Planned Parenthood than  @politifact. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Planned, Parenthood. Sexual Health Topics - Planned  Sexual Health Topics - Planned Parenthood. N.p., 07 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Planned Parenthood  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 20 June 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.