Winn 1 John Winn Professor Mariama Changamire Compostion 2 1 February 2016 Gun Control: The Shots Heard Around the World For decades gun control has been the main subject of many debates and discussions. It has only become more and more convoluted as time goes by. The two largest stakeholder organizations in this storied debate are the Democratic Party and Republican Party. The Republican Party of the United States is aiming to create more relaxed gun laws and public hunting grounds. The Democratic Party of the United States is aiming to tighten gun laws in general and in some cases enforce certain restrictions on firearms. These platforms are both undeniably different, that being said both parties are hoping to bring down the number of gun related injuries and fatalities as well as educate people on proper firearm safety. Using their mutual interests it is possible to create a compromise that both of the stakeholder organizations can be happy with. The Democratic Party of the United States is one of two major political parties that make up the United States government. The Democratic Party is known for its progressive candidates and platform. The Democratic Party of the United States is known for favoring a larger federal government and smaller state and local governments. They are also keen on integrating things like healthcare and Planned Parenthood into the government itself. When it comes to gun control Democrats tend to want tighter gun laws (Ontheissues.org). They want to put in regulations and background checks to be able to obtain any firearm and require registration to be able to Winn 2 purchase and store ammunition. They also are adamant in keeping firearms defined as assault rifles banned and closing a loophole in the law that allows for people who be able to normally buy guns to do so at gun shows. They also want stronger enforcement of firearm laws in general as they are there to help reduce gun violence (Ontheissues.org). The Democratic Party of the United States also wishes to educate people about firearms and how to operate them safely so that they do not cause any undue harm. The Republican Party of the United States is the other major political party that makes up the majority of the United States. This party is far more conservative in comparison to the Democratic Party of the United States. They typically want a less powerful federal government and a more powerful state and local government. This party is against having too many programs run by the government, such as healthcare or welfare programs. Republicans typically are not in favor of gun control, and want more relaxed laws for owners of guns and potential gun owners (Ontheissues.org). The Republican Party of the United States want ammo to be obtained and stored without the need for any form of registration. They also want to open up more public hunting grounds to help protect the tradition of hunting in the United States, and they want to use the hunting grounds to help teach people about proper firearm safety (Ontheissues.org). They believe the licensing of guns is an invasion of privacy and a violation of the second amendment of the United States Constitution. The Republican Party of the United States is concerned with educating people on gun safety and hunting safety (Ontheissues.org). Despite the fact that these two stakeholder organizations have very different ideals and platforms there can be a few places where they can compromise to meet the needs of the other stakeholder organizations. Both stakeholder organizations would have to give up parts of what they want as a result. In this compromise the Republican Party of the United States would lose Winn 3 out on not requiring a license to buy and store ammo in order to gain more space for public hunting grounds. The Democratic Party of the United States would have to loosen up on restrictions on the firearms like magazine capacity and mandatory child safety locks and get to reinstate the ban on assault rifles and the close the loophole that would allow people to purchase firearms at gun shows even if they supposed to. Both parties have a vested interest in educating people on firearm safety (Ontheissues.org). This can be accomplished by allowing retired military personnel or certified instructors to teach at local gun ranges and firearm stores. This has the potential to create new jobs as well as educate people. This along with the other compromises will allow both parties to reach an agreement and a compromise. This compromise is the most optimal one because it benefits both stakeholder organizations without disregarding the needs of another stakeholder organization. Each stakeholder organization has a general goal that they want to pursue. The Democratic Party of the United States wants tighter gun laws and restrictions to increase the safety of the citizens in the United States. The Republican Party wants to protect traditions and heritage by defending the second amendment of the Constitution of the United States and go hunting. The sacrifices these stakeholder organizations make allow the other to achieve their goal in some part. If the Democratic Party of the United States lifts magazine capacity restrictions and the mandatory installment of child safety locks and allows for the zoning of new public hunting grounds, the Republican Party is achieving part of their goals to preserve tradition and defend the Constitution of the United States. If the Republican Party of the United States allows for the ban on assault rifles to be renewed and close the loophole that allows for people to illegally obtain guns at gun shows, the Democratic Party of the United States can accomplish their goal to help keep people safe and keep guns from getting into the wrong hands. The introduction of gun Winn 4 safety courses would satisfy the desire of both stakeholder organizations to keep people safe when they use firearms. This compromise allows for both stakeholder organizations to achieve their goals without barring the other stakeholder organizations from doing the same. Gun control is a topic that is dividing the nation, but a compromise is totally achievable if both stakeholder organizations are willing to sacrifice some things in order to find a common ground. Republicans will need to allow for some restrictions on ammo storage and Democrats will need to let go of magazine capacity restrictions and mandatory safety locks. Republicans will get larger public hunting grounds and Democrats will ban assault rifles and the illegal purchase of weapons at gun shows. This compromise will potentially please both sides and allow the people of the United States to move forward onto other topics to debate on. Word Count: 1205 Winn 5 Works Cited Party on Gun Republican Party on Gun Control, Republican Party, 2012, Party on Gun Democratic Party on Gun Control, Democratic Party, 2012,