Eric Rodriguez ENC1102 Professor Campbell January 30, 2017 Controversy at the Rock The presidency of Donald Trump has ushered in change with the signature of several executive orders on The executive order lifted a hold on a large project to move oil from Bakken oil reserve to source). Protests erupted in Standing Rock, ND, The Sioux of Standing Rock and the Energy Transfer Partners are in discord over the implementation of the Dakota Access Pipeline ( DAPL). Both parties are backed by secondary stakeholders, Environmental Activist group and the U.S. Government, respectively. The Sioux of standing rock are one of many indigenous Nations that have gathered to pursue a sustainable Eco-Friendly lifestyle is 100% off-the-grid in the Oceti- Sakowin camp. The Sioux of standing rock have a long history that is shared among other natives. Their ancestors were forced onto reservations by the United states government and since have worked to maintain their identity and cultural practices. This above all includes their religious and spiritual connection to the environment and view the environment as god itself. As described on their website their spiritual and religious beliefs hold the environment as sacred and everything has a spirit. Their main concern is for the pollution of their water source. The reservation is located downstream from lake ohae. The threat would begin as the digging begins on the surrounding lands. The vibration and noise pollution would drive animals out of their habitats and damage the serenity of the area. The Energy Transfer Partners is Fourtune-500 petroleum and natural gas Their main objective is to provide the public with oil. This company is controlled by investors, Sunoco holds 40% equity in this company. The pipeline would be beneficial to everyone when we consider that its creation will bolster the econmy by getting more oil to the market thus increasing revenue from taxes. Another point of ETP is to provide jobs. The enemployment rate has gone down over recent years, but there still is a need for improvement. Lobbyists and lawmakers have fought to gain the permits to get this project going. These two organizations have worked together to attempt an environmentally sound way to implement this underground pipeline. ETP claims that the involvement of Environmental groups has. The governing process council of the Sioux of standing rock has been kept informed and involved in the decision making as per (insert source here) I propose that the access Pipeline be diverted through an area that has already been disturbed to prevent further unrest from the native American and environmental community. Examples of disturbed lands are areas of natural disasters, abandoned surface mining quarries, and ghost towns. The concession on the side of the ETP would be the setback in time to redirect the pipeline. This would be of the least threat to people and the environment since there is a low population and/or low ecological prescence. Works Cited Access Pipeline Dakota Access Pipeline Facts, daplpipelinefacts.com/ U.S. Department of the Interior, www.doi.gov/. EnergyTransfer.com - Home Page, Energy Transfer Partners, www.energytransfer.com/. Miller, G. Tyler, and Scott Spoolman. Living in the Environment, AP Edition. 16th ed. Belmont, C.A.: Brooks/Cole, Cengage Learning, 2012. Print. Standing Rock, 2017, standingrock.org/.