Bailey Perez Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 30 January 2017 Sexual Abuse in Sports According to a study done by the American Medical Association, one in four girls and one in eight boys is sexually molested before they reach the age of eighteen (National Council of Youth Sports). Unfortunately, many predators turn to coaching a sport to find their victims since there is one on one time with the child. Children that are victims of this sexual abuse in sports have usually already formed a bond with the predator and the parents build trust with the situation and the coach. This makes it more difficult for the child to seek help. Sexual abuse in sports is an issue that has been receiving a lot of media coverage recently which is causing more and more people to question just what is being done to combat the issue. While there are many policies already in place, some have argued that there are not enough regulations to keep the participants safe. Many sports organizations require coaches to go through a background check and/ or fingerprinting to know of any past or present legal allegations against the coach. While this is in place to help hire trustworthy coaches, not all predators have a legal history (Lanning). This complicates the hiring of new coaches, often basing a lot of hiring opportunities solely off trust and hope. The National Council of Youth Sports is an organization that the youth sports industry in promoting the value of participation through advocacy and (National Council of Youth Sports). The National Council of Youth Sports (NCYP) advocates for the implementation of more policies/ trainings for the coaches; however, many coaches find it unfair to be limited on how they can teach. In order to diminish the amount of sexual abuse in sports while giving the coach freedom to teach, the coaches should have to take a course on safety (mental and physical) and one on one time should be limited but the coach still be able to teach the athlete in a way that works for the athlete and the instructor. The process of being selected by an offender is called grooming, which involves four stages. These stages are: targeting the potential victim, building trust and friendship, developing isolation and control, and the initiation of the abuse itself (Olympic.org). It can be very difficult to identify the first couple of steps of the grooming process because a coach needs to develop bonds with the athlete for trust and learning purposes. In gymnastics, for example, an athlete is essentially putting his or life in the hands. Very few gymnasts will immediately trust someone to spot them or properly teach them a skill. A bond must be formed for that trust to exist; unfortunately, some predators take advantage of this and initiate the abuse (NCYS). If an offender is never able to reach the stage of isolation, many athletes would never become victims. So, by supervising the athlete and coach during practice and outside of practice, the coach is able to adequately teach the skill while still maintaining an appropriate relationship. The USA Gymnastics Code of Ethical Conduct section II, parts H and I, states that It is inconsistent with the obligation [of the to: 1. Solicit or engage in sexual relations with any minor. 2. Engage in any behavior that utilizes the influence of a professional position as a coach, judge, official, or administrator to encourage sexual relations with an athlete or participant. 3. Engage in sexual harassment by making unwelcome advances, requests for sexual favors or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature where such conduct creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment. When gymnastics coaches enter the field of coaching, they are obligated to sign the code of ethical conduct, a legally binding agreement to not involve themselves sexually with their athletes. By reminding them of this agreement and taking action when this agreement is broken, the rate of sexual abuse has the potential to be decreased. By educating the parents and athletes as well on the different forms of sexual abuse, the occurrence of misconduct could be drastically diminished. A misconception surrounding sexual abuse in sports is that an athlete leaves the sport or the coach once they experience sexual abuse. However, most of the time, the athlete is meaning they feel obligated to remain because of the manipulation and in some cases, the athlete may not even know they are the victim. In sports that involve touching, an offender may convince the athlete that it is completely normal. The information presented should also include what they should expect in from the coach during instruction and why it is done the way it is. Some spotting (aid in performing a skill) in gymnastics may require the coach to touch a spot that could make the athlete uncomfortable. If the athlete is informed of why the coach must hold his or her hand in that area, it would help distinguish sexual advances from proper spotting. By educating those involved of what is expected while allowing the instructors of sports to teach in a manner that is effective, sexual abuse in sports can be decreased. There are many misconceptions surrounding sexual abuse in sports, often blaming the athletes. A common misconception is that athletes can get themselves out of a situation that involves sexual abuse; however, an offender has a way of isolating his or her victim and often leaves them trapped in the relationship. Sports organizations can help combat this by limiting the isolating situations that leads to the initiation of sexual scenarios and giving the parents and athletes access to information about expectations and help if something goes wrong. Sexual abuse is a rapidly growing issue, but together sports organizations and the sports officials with the participation of the athletes and parents can help drastically decrease the rate of abuse in sports. Works Cited Brackenridge, Celia. Myths About Abuse in  International Olympic Committee. Olympic Games, n.d. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Harassment and Abuse in  International Olympic Committee. Olympic Games, 09 Jan. 2017. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Lanning, Kenneth V. Child Molesters: A Behavioral Analysis. Alexandria, VA: National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, 2001. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. NCYS  National Council of Youth Sports (NCYS). N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Jan. 2017.