Jordan Freed Professor Roth ENC 1101 29 January 2017 intermediate draft Child abuse is defined as the maltreatment or sexual molestation of a Obesity is defined as BMI at or above the 85 th percentile and below the 95 th percentile for children and teens of the same age and Obesity in America is not a new concept, especially when referring to childhood obesity. Because of this, the topic of overweight children has become a controversial one. Many individuals prefer not to talk on this subject, allowing themselves to ignore the numerous health issues at hand. By 2034, 95% of the population will be obese. In order to get ahead of this predetermined statistic, it is of up most importance to begin introducing the concept of nutrition to children as young as elementary school. By doing so, it will not only make children and hopefully parents aware of the adverse causes of poor nutrition, but the long term effects as well. Does letting your child become obese fall under the category of child abuse? Source 1 (Ogden, PhD Cynthia L. Prevalence of Obesity in the United States,  Prevalence of Obesity in the United States, 2011-2012 Obesity JAMA The JAMA Network. N.p., 26 Feb. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017). This source discusses the prevalence of childhood and adult obesity in the United States from 2003-2012. It provides the most recent estimates of childhood obesity, analyzes trends in childhood obesity, and provides detailed obesity trend analyses among adults. This relates to the research question because it is important to know the statistics of childhood obesity before doing research on the social issues of the topic. Source 2 (Jeffreys, Branwen. Health Child obesity form of  BBC News. BBC, 14 June 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.) This source discusses childhood obesity being a form of neglect. It also provides concerns on this topic as well as diet advice. This source relates to the research question because it is providing an answer as to why obesity can be classified as child abuse. Source 3 (Yam, Philip. Should Morbid Childhood Obesity Be Considered Child  Scientific American Blog Network. N.p., 06 Aug. 2013. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.) This source discusses why defining childhood obesity would be unfair due to the cost of healthy food as well as the high marketing of unhealthy foods. Source 4 (Varness, Todd, David B. Allen, Aaron L. Carrel, and Norman Fost. Childhood Obesity and Medical  Pediatrics. U.S. National Library of Medicine, Jan. 2009. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.) This source discusses the removal of a child from the home if there is 1) a high likelihood that serious imminent harm will occur; 2) a reasonable likelihood that coercive state intervention will result in effective treatment; and 3) the absence of alternative options for addressing the problem.