Jamal Robinson Robert Ryan ENC 1102 January 28, 2017 Gun Control Guns are extremely powerful weapons. On many occasions, they have caused havoc, destruction, harm and sometimes even death. On the other hand, guns can be used to defend and protect or to threaten and kill others. In whatever point of view, you would like to look at it, guns are tools, that have long-lasting affects not only physically but socially. The controversial issue of gun control has become a worldwide sensation among Americans. It is important to pay attention to the direction of where gun control laws are headed. The directions they take will not only affect our nation and society but our future as well as we all move to communities and begin to raise families. There are two organizations who differ on the directions of gun control, you have National Rifle Association of America (stakeholder A) and Coalition to Stop Gun Violence (stakeholder B). Coalition to Stop Gun Violence are those who want guns banned because they think not only will it stop mass shootings of innocent people but also put an end to other firearm related death in local communities around the US. The problem with this is that you cannot take away guns from law-abiding citizens who would like to exercise their rights to bear arms. On the opposing side, you have National Rifle Association of America drives the message that the Second Amendment gives them the right to have the firearms and they should be able to have any kind of weapon of defense, anything other than that will be going against their human rights. The problem that lies here is Americans feel that guns are being put in the hands of people who can become very dangerous people. The mission statement of the National Rifle Association (NRA) is and foster the Second Amendment rights of all law-abiding Americans. These activities are designed to promote firearms and hunting safety, to enhance marksmanship skills of those participating in the shooting sports, and to educate the general public about firearms in their historic, technological and artistic Basically, stating that they want to be able to bear arms and those who do so also have an opportunity to enhance their gun skills and receive more information about guns so that they will be no harm to the owner or others around. They feel as though it is better to have a gun even when you may not need it instead of not having gun when you may need to use it. The mission statement for Coalition to Stop Gun Violence is seek to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy Of course, both sides are aware of the various incidents that have taken place over the course of ten years that have dealt with firearms and the mass killing of people. Without a doubt, they both agree that these things should not be happening and wish to stop these things from happening in the future, but they must work together to fix the problem. Within these two organizations mission statements lies the common ground that can be used to work towards a compromise between the two on this very touchy subject. These groups indicated what I feel is having the interest of the public in mind, the National Rifle Association wants to educate the general public about firearms hopefully this will help decrease accidents with guns, or even decrease the amount if people who know nothing about a gun. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence is all about making sure that people of the community are feeling safe about gun violence and goes the extra mile to ensure this by using research etc. With these two groups taking a step towards educating the public on firearms I think that they can come together and solidify a compromise where the public wins and so does their organizations. When you consider the groups being able to make a compromise most people will picture this as impossible. National Rifle Association wants to keep their guns and will not let that right be taken away from them, while Coalition to Stop Gun Violence would like the uses of guns to be taken away from the public due to the increased amount of gun violence and deaths dealing with firearms. The question of whether or not we can make guns illegal as a whole is a very difficult point to make but there is a middle point where these two can agree. Maybe we can change the laws pertaining to getting a handgun could be changed to more a strict standard than what is put into place now. The compromise being offered would be that you keep the current laws on rifles, shotguns, and handguns, but we want to increase the control on assault weapons that are mainly used to kill a large scale of people. We also want to increase the waiting time, in some states waiting periods are none existence you can walk in and walk out with a purchased gun in the same day, we would at least like it to be two to three weeks waiting period so that we can ensure that the background checks are done correctly and that person is checked beyond the eyesight. Adding to the background check would be a mental illness screening where your mental capacity is tested to make sure that you are not a danger to yourself and ultimately others. These tests will be more in depth in certain places than others, mostly on the state level. Some states are more prone to selling assault weapons due to the abundant amount of hunting done in those areas. Without a doubt, we should increase law enforcement of the gun laws that are already in place to make sure that guns are carried into every place, there is no reason for you to have a gun in public areas such as hospitals, movie theater, clubs etc. Hopefully these things will reduce the availability of guns and make it difficult to gain asses to own them. NRA would have to of course conduct these wait times when giving classes and handling weapons under their watch which might make them lose some customers but as a whole it will help decrease the amount if gun violence in the long run. Many Americans may see this progress and not even mention taking away the second amendment. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence will ultimately lose the fight if taking away of firearms as a whole but will win when deaths involving a firearm is decreased.