Patel 1 Krishna Patel 1/26/17 Professor Ryan ENC 1102 Finding Common Ground With a wide variety of entertainment expanding throughout the industry, society is being influenced by what it is seeing, either negatively or positively. Specifically in the magazine media industry, the audience seems to believe everything published, further allowing it to impact their lives. For example, a headline may say 30 pounds in just 3 associated with a thin-figured celebrity in order to do its job and grab the attention. Such advertisements may cause the readers to change their lifestyle or even question their body image in response to the message. Professional magazine industries such as Vogue, a magazine that strives to inspire through fashion, and World, a magazine that strives to inspire through health and fitness, are negatively affecting perspectives on body image through the use of biased female figures. With World choosing the muscular female figure and Vogue presenting thin, underweight females, women are starting to believe that these are the true body expectations, causing them to contradict the goals of these magazines and deteriorate their bodies. In order to solve this issue, World and Vogue could introduce female bodies of all shapes and sizes to portray the true meaning of health and beauty. World is a worldwide magazine designed to convey the message of living a healthy lifestyle through sports, fitness, and nutrition. According to the World website, Patel 2 their mission as a magazine is inform, advise and motivate runners of all ages and help runners achieve their personal health, fitness and performance goals, and to inspire them with vivid, memorable In order to achieve this goal, they are utilizing celebrities who run across the nation to inspire the readers and to motivate them to do that same. In the article, differential depiction of female athlete in judged and non-judged sport authors Rebecca Ginsberg and James Gray discuss the effects of body satisfaction on women from the cover of the magazine (Ginsberg and Gray). For example, the use of images of muscular women on the magazine may enhance the perception of a fit body, further leading them to investigate the steps to a better body just as the cover depicts. For example, World incorporates celebrity marathon runners in order to grab the attention as nowadays, society mostly looks up to what celebrities are doing. Motivation to exercise is slowly decreasing, causing media to publish something the audience is interested in but also associated with the purpose of the issue, such as exercising, and this is done by representing their magazine with a muscular female celebrity on the cover. Vogue, on the other hand, focuses solely on fashion and looks. Majority of the female population that reads magazines specifically read Vogue not only because of its widely known fashion sense but also because of its influence on women. According to the Vogue website, the popular magazine lives by the mission statement, foundation of leadership and authority is the unique role as a cultural barometer for a global Vogue is known for its diverse trends as it is embedded outside of the United States as well, such as India, United Kingdom, Australia, and many other countries throughout the globe. This is where the Patel 3 cultural context of its goal comes into play. Kim Sung Bok in her article, Fashion discusses the inspirational message behind fashion, such as it being an influential source (Sung Bok). It could either influence women or harm women, however, in this case, it is to make women of all ages feel great about themselves by finding a sense of fashion in whatever it is they are wearing. This is done by utilizing females with narrow hips and an hourglass figure on the cover and all throughout the magazine. Body dissatisfaction is very common among females in society, especially among those who are exposed to any type of media, including magazines. With World advertising solely muscular women and Vogue advertising thin figures, the body exceptions are adapting to those that they see. In the article, image and body shape ideals in magazines: exposure, awareness, and authors Dale Cusmano and Kevin Thompson discover the connection between body image and exposure to media concerning it (Cusmano and Thompson). Such consistency of the use of body images in magazines is causing women to think lowly of themselves, further leading to eating disorders and depression. World magazine and Vogue, both strive to inspire the audience by either fitness or fashion, however, they are focusing too hard on only one goal and ignoring the negative effects their actions may have. In order to solve this issue, they must put an end to the stereotypical images and incorporate a variety of body shapes into their magazines. This way, the audience will be able to relate more closely to these images and feel better about that fact that they too, can be beautiful like the models in the magazine industry. Patel 4 As new generations approach, body image expectations and mindsets of the society will continue to vary depending on the trend. In order to achieve the goal of breaking differences between body size and representations, females of all shapes and sizes can be introduced in popular magazines such as World and Vogue. World can still present a plus- sized woman as a healthy figure and Vogue can portray an overweight woman a a runway model and make her look presentable at the same time. Representation of the plus-size community is being shown with its own clothing line in a variety of different department stores today, gradually spreading through other industries as well.