Michael Wilson Intermediate Draft The Mars Society and The Moon Society The Moon Society and the Mars Society are both dedicated to extended space exploration and reaching the eventual goal of establishing human civilization on a celestial body. Both of these organizations believe that the colonization of a non-Earth body is vital to the extended survival of humankind. Both endeavors- establishing colonies on The Moon and Mars- would require extensive amounts of work and human perseverance in order to accomplish. Astronomers and Engineers have been able to land the rover on Mars, and it has made many studies which help with our understanding of geological and geophysical characteristics. Because of the curiosity rover, humans have a much deeper and better understanding of the red planet and have made great strides towards learning all there is to know about it. Humans already know a great deal about the moon, however, and already have a history spanning decades of flying humans to the celestial body and collecting rocks from it. The Mars Society and the Moon Society are dedicated to making the human race survive in the long-term race against extinction and both of their motives and visions should be taken seriously. If the Mars Society and the Moon Society collaborated in their efforts to make humans colonize a celestial body, the human race would accomplish this goal in much less time, and both organizations can accomplish their respective goals in less time than if they were acting independently. The visions for both organizations are challenging, but possible with the alliance of both societies. Dr. Robert Zubrin, who is responsible for establishing the Mars Society, states in his paper (The Economic Viability of Mars Colonization) of all bodies in the solar system other than Earth, Mars is unique in that it has the resources required to support a population of sufficient size to create locally a new branch of human With establishing the Mars Society, the organization hopes to the exploration and settlement of the red (Marssociety.com), and it hopes to accomplish through three means: public outreach, worldwide support for government-funded Mars research and exploration, and private-enterprise Mars exploration and settlement. The Mars Society is responsible for several outreach competitions which is intended to spark interest in the public to travel and colonize the Red Planet. The Mars Society has established the Challenge which is includes many university-level competitions, including the Rover which consists of students trying to overcome the challenge of designing and building next generation of Mars rovers that will one day work alongside human explorers in the (urc.marssociety.org), and high school-level competitions which includes the Mars Rover Exploration Challenge In addition to these competitions, The Mars Society holds an annual convention, which brings together scientists, engineers, policymakers, government officials, entrepreneurs, and journalists to discuss the significance of the latest could open the way to the human exploration and settlement of the Red The Mars Society hopes that through extended public outreach programs, and by having the attention of not only the public, but government officials and policy makers, they can generate more government-funding, which is essential for the reaching of their vision. One competition in particular, in which students around the world will the Gemini Mars mission, creating a plan for a two-person that could be placed on the desk of the President and be completed by his first or second The Mars Society also decided to hold their national convention specifically in Washington D.C. in late September of 2016, it right in the heart of the during election Even with all of their efforts to gain government- funding, however, the organization has also tried to not become too dependent on the state, as it also accepts donations and is in collaboration other U.S. space advocacy (The Mars Society). The Moon Society, which was founded by Gregory R. Bennett in 2000, to inspire and involve people all over the world in the continued study and exploration of the Moon with the goal of accelerating the day when there will be civilian settlement on the (Moon Society). The Moon Society does not consider themselves to be builders, or purchasers of but rather their purpose both to help remove obstacles and to help lay In order for the Moon society to lay these foundations, they have set many, many objectives, including, but not limited to: the promotion of interest in the exploration, research, development, and habitation of the moon; the stimulation of advancement and development of applications of space and related technologies and encouragement of entrepreneurial development thereof; and informing the public at large on matters related to the moon. The Moon way of promoting interest in developing civilization on the moon is through planning annual membership meetings, releasing several books and videos on the subject of their vision, and including members from several and from all walks of (The Moon Society). Informing the public on their goal is important, so the Moon Society provides many publications for their members on the subject, as well as the general public. The stimulation of technologies is only going to be advanced through extended research and projects, and that is exactly what the Moon Society has been conducting. Several of their advances projects include activities related to Analog which has the purpose of conducting lunar outpost simulation exercises. Both of these organizations have a similar goal: establish human settlement on a celestial The long-term solution for the human race surviving is to establish settlement on a non-Earth body. Astronomer Royal, Sir Martin Rees humanity 50-50 odds if surviving the 21 st (Riley Online Library). The challenge of getting humans to a celestial body is challenging, and the only way for both organizations to reach their respective goals as soon as possible, is to collaborate. Both organization must come to a compromise and work side-by-side to advance their research together. This compromise has not quite come to be yet because both organizations seem to have different visions. The Mars Society has worked with other organizations to get to the red planet, while the Moon Society is focused on colonizing the moon. The Mars Society and the Moon Society have been collaborating with many organizations, and only collaborating with each other on a few occasions. (The Moon Society). There have been many other studies done that have tested rovers that can be used on both Mars and the Moon, so testing is already being done to further both endeavors. (Hoppenbrouwers, Tom, and Diego Urbinamm, gsp.esa.int). These few collaborations have ended in successes and proven to be fruitful in the goal towards colonizing a celestial body. (The Moon Society Projects). Collaborations like this have occurred in the past, as is the case between NASA and the Soviet Union during the Cold War. (NASA) Despite the heated space competition between the United States and the U.S.S.R., both countries agreed to become partners in space exploration, and were able to accomplish something that would not have been possible without the collaboration of both organizations. The collaboration led to the Test Project Docking mission of which developed rendezvous and docking systems which are still in use today. Without the collaboration of these two superpowers, we may not be as advanced in knowledge of space stations as we are today. NASA and the Soviets working together were able to produce docking systems in space much faster and much more efficiently than if they had done so independently. Therefore, with the success of the collaboration of the Soviets and NASA during the Cold War, it is possible for two space organizations to work together to achieve a common goal faster and more efficiently than if they had not collaborated. The Mars Society and the Moon Society collaborating would only more efficiently help both organizations to reach their goals. Combining the two organizations would lead to more research and time spent on projects such as the aforementioned rover compatible with both Mars and the Moon and more collaborations like the Analog Although both visions identical, both societies would greatly benefit from continued, stronger collaboration. They would be able to help each other with their respective visons, and accelerate the conclusion of their own. WORKS CITED Moon Society: Moon Society Affiliates with National Space  Moon Society: Moon Society Affiliates with National Space Society. Moon Society, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Moon Society  Moon Society Projects The Moon Society. Moon Society, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.moonsociety.org/projects.index#analog>. The Mars  The Mars Society Mars Society Announces New Initiatives Following Steering Committee Meeting Comments. Mars Society, 8 Dec. 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.marssociety.org/mars-society-announces-new-initiatives-following-steering-committee- meeting/>. The Mars  The Mars Society Conventions. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.marssociety.org/conventions/>. University Rover  University Rover Challenge. The Mars Society, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://urc.marssociety.org/>. About  The Mars Society UK. N.p., 30 June 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <https://marssoc.uk/ukurc/about-ukurc/>. explores the base of Aeolis Mons, Gale crater, Mars: Recent Geological and Geochemical Mission N.p., 17-22 April, 2016, Web. 01 Feb. 2007. <http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2016EGUGA..1813884G> Hoppenbrouwers, Tom, and Diego Urbina. ANALOGUES FOR PREPARING ROBOTIC AND HUMAN EXPLORATION ON THE  N.p., 18 Feb. 2016. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. <https://gsp.esa.int/documents/10192/46710/C4000111890ExS.pdf/0ccf9135-b06c-4bdd-b093- 793456913817>. Moon Society  Moon Society Projects The Moon Society. Moon Society, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://moonsociety.org/projects.index>. Dunbar, Brian, and John Logsdon. United States-Soviet Space Cooperation during the Cold  NASA. NASA, 19 May 2008. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Reducing the Risk of Human  Matheny - 2007 - Risk Analysis - Wiley Online Library. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1539-6924.2007.00960.x/full>.