Emma German Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 30 January 2017 Euthanasia in America: Death By Choice Suicide is an act everyone tries to prevent. It is an act that is, and has been for years, looked down upon by society. Most people have been told since they were young that ending your life is not the way to solve issues. However, it is just as important to consider the feelings and thoughts of patients suffering from terminal injuries and sicknesses. One organization that takes this into account is Death with Dignity. This organization, established in 1993, believes that qualified terminally ill people should be allowed to have the choice to end their suffering (cite). On the contrary, True Dignity, a disability rights activist group, believes that euthanasia be legal (cite). Death with Dignity and True Dignity, as different as their views are, both want what is best for suffering patients, and that is why a compromise that can be addressed is to sedate near- death patients so they can live their last moments of life in peace, and to provide lighter sentences to those who have helped a terminally ill person end their life. Death With mission statement is to information, education, research and support for the preservation, implementation and promotion of the Oregon Death with Dignity law as a stimulus to nationwide improvements in end-of-life care and as a final option for dying True dignity believes that is never death with dignity, and assisted suicide legislation threatens true patient choices at the end of One thing that True Dignity and Death With Dignity have in common is their desire to provide peaceful options for those suffering from terminal illnesses. In fact, True Dignity believes that patients should have the choice not to go through with treatments, but they are still against physician-assisted suicide. When two stakeholders, such as Death With Dignity and True Dignity have as opposing views as they do, it is often difficult to reach a compromise, whether it satisfies both parties, or neither. However, it has been done before. On February 12, 2016, the French parliament adopted a legislation that provided a new peaceful decision for terminally ill patients, without killing them. Depending on the illness and the seriousness of the illness, people in France now have the choice to be put in a sedate state before their closely timed death. The United States should adopt this idea from France because although it satisfy the terms and goals of Death With Dignity and True Dignity, it is a reasonable compromise that allows people suffering from terminal illnesses to end their life peacefully, without using methods that speed up the process of dying. The funding for these methods would come from patients and supporters of the patient wanting to go through the sedation process. Instead of using their money to provide hospice care and expensive treatments that are often painful, just for a few more weeks to years of life, the money would go towards the sedation process, and would be a cheaper option regardless. Works Cited About  Death With Dignity. Death With Dignity, 2002. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Aubry, R. General Review: End-Of-Life, Euthanasia, And Assisted Suicide: An Update On The Situation In  Revue Neurologique 172.(2016): 719-724. ScienceDirect. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Citizens Against Assisted  True Dignity. True Dignity, Jan. 2011. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Lamers, Carolien P. T., and Rebecca R. Williams. Older Discourses About Euthanasia And Assisted Suicide: A Foucauldian  Gerontologist 56.6 (2016): 1072-1081. AgeLine. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.