Whitcomb 1 Nathan Whitcomb Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 1/29/17 To Sweeten or Not To Sweeten? Throughout recent history, sweeteners such as sugar and high-fructose corn syrup have been used to sweeten the food and drinks we consume daily. Not only do they sweeten the food and drinks we consume, but they also provide added benefits such as added texture, enhanced preservation, and moisture retention (Corn Refiners Association). However, within the past couple decades there has been an endemic taking place. Not only have obesity rates continued to rise, but severe obesity has increased at a higher rate than regular obesity (R Sturm 492). Despite widespread efforts from such organizations and even First Lady Michelle Obama, obesity rates continue to rise (Ogden, Carroll, Fryar, and Flegal, 2015). Stakeholders against sweeteners such as Dr. Robert Lustig, advocate that sugar must be controlled similar to the likes of alcohol due to its effects on the human body. While sweetener organizations appear to have little in common with anti-sweetener individuals, increasing obesity rates mean that it is more necessary than ever for both sides to make a compromise for the greater health. The Corn Refiners Association originated in 1844 as the Wm. Colgate & Company wheat starch plant, which was the dedicated corn starch plant in the (Corn Refiners Association). Going through multiple name changes, the group finally took the name of Corn Refiners Association in 1966. Their mission is to provide education on corn to schools, journalists, agriculture businesses, and the government. The Corn Refiners Association Whitcomb 2 acknowledges that an excessive intake of fructose can be a contributor to obesity and promotes control over the amount of fructose intake in a diet in order to help prevent obesity. One big stakeholder advocating against sugar and even sweeteners in general is Robert Lustig. Robert Lustig is a pediatric endocrinologist who specializes in neuroendocrinology and childhood obesity. He is a big proponent against people describing fructose and sugar as (Lustig 227). Robert Lustig is one of the most vocal stakeholders in the case against the use of excess sweeteners in products. There appear to be several reasons why the two stakeholders have not yet come to a compromise. One big reason would be that the interests of the two stakeholders directly conflict. The Corn Refiners Association represents and advocates for corn farmers and producers all around the United States. While they will help promote a healthy diet, they going to go to the press and state that high-fructose corn syrup is bad for your health because it directly conflicts their goal of promoting corn as much as possible. On the other hand, Robert Lustig is a pediatric endocrinologist who specializes in childhood obesity. As a result of his work, he has probably been exposed to many patients that are worst case scenarios. He has studied the topic up close for many decades, published many articles (over 100), and has even had lectures on the topic go viral on YouTube (Sugar: The Bitter Truth). Another reason that the two have not yet come to a compromise is due to the sheer difference in what the two stakeholders promote. The Corn Refiners Association promotes on their website that a balanced diet, which includes a limited intake of sweeteners such as high- fructose corn syrup, is necessary for a healthy life. On the other hand, Robert Lustig is a big proponent of dramatically controlling sugar intake. In the article toxic truth about he notes that sugar should be treated like alcohol because it toxic effects on Whitcomb 3 the liver similar to those of (Lustig, Schmidt, and Brindis, 28). This includes regulations that are imposed directly by the government that control the marketing of products containing sugar and subsidization. One solution proposed by Lustig et al. is that fructose be removed from the Generally Regarded as Safe list which gives manufacturers free reign on how much of that ingredient they can add in their own products. Successfully having fructose removed from the Generally Regarded as Safe list, their article says, will a powerful signal to the European Food Safety Authority and the rest of the (Lustig et al. 29). Lustig has even noted that sugar is without the Despite their differences, the two stakeholders do share some commonalities. They both are attempting to sway subsidies to their own benefits, and they both want people to be able to enjoy themselves. Robert Lustig wants people to healthy because it is his job to make people healthy. He has a deep understanding of how obesity affects people from a medical standpoint. The Corn Refiners Association on the other hand, wants people to be healthy because if people are not healthy then eventually when the obesity situation comes to a breaking point and increased regulations come against fructose, they will lose a significant amount of subsidies and profit. While the past decade has seen an increase in attempts to curb obesity, they all have fallen short as we continue to see obesity increase (Ogden et al. 1). Thus, in order to fight against obesity new attempts must be stronger and more widespread than ever before. I propose that the Corn Refiners Association and Robert Lustig both come together and advocate for increased governmental regulations with the aim of limiting fructose intake, and possibly researching for alternatives of fructose. While this compromise might not initially please both stakeholders, I believe it is in both of their best interests. If obesity rates begin to fall due to the new regulations, Whitcomb 4 then stricter regulations against fructose will not have to be implemented. In addition, public approval of the Corn Refiners Association and producers of food in general will be likely to rise due to the news of them attempting to improve the level of obesity nationwide. In addition, Robert Lustig will be seen as a big contributor in the lowering of nationwide obesity rates and will move forward with his goal of improving the health of the public. This solution would be similar to solutions that have been attempted in the past but would go to a farther extent. Companies such as Pepsi have experimented with using less sugar in their products and have received good PR for the move, but it appears to have little effect on nationwide obesity rates. Additionally, cities such as New York City have experimented with a which has shown results but not to the extent needed. As the study by Ogden et al. shows, obesity rates continue to rise despite these attempts which is why a better solution is needed. Studies have shown that despite efforts to lower intake of fructose and raise their level of exercise, obesity rates continue to rise. As a result, a compromise is needed of proponents of both sides. The Corn Refiners Association and Robert Lustig, although they both have completely different goals, have the power and ability to push for a change that would greatly affect obesity rates in the United States. If they were to compromise, not only would it show that the health of the population is becoming a serious concern even for stakeholders with completely different interests, but it would also show that action is necessary. Such dramatic action would be likely to not only make for good approval in the public, but it would also inspire people to change how they eat and exercise. Works Cited Whitcomb 5 About High Fructose Corn Syrup. Corn Refiners Association. www.corn.org/products/sweeteners/high-fructose-corn-syrup/. Accessed 1/29/17 Balanced Diet. The Sugar Association. www.sugar.org/sugar-your-diet/balanced-diet/. Accessed 1/29/17 Sturm R. Increases in morbid obesity in the USA: Public health 121(7): 492-496. Published March 30, 2007. Cynthia L. Ogden, Margaret D. Carroll, Cheryl D. Fryar, and Katherine M. Flegal. Prevalence of Obesity Among Adults and Youth: United States, NCHS Data Brief (219):1-8. Published November 2015. Robert H. Lustig, Laura A. Schmidt, Claire D. Brindis, Public health: The toxic truth about sugar. Nature 482: 2 February 2012 Lustig, Robert H. Without the Advances in Nutrition 4.2 (2013): PMC. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.