Biamonte 1 Rachel Biamonte Lisa DuBois ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Education on GMOs through the Non-GMO Project Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) create food in unique and mysterious ways, which can lead to health problems. GMOs being a relatively new field of science has numerous buyers left with minimal knowledge about the subject. It is a job to display to the customer what is the nutritional value and the ingredients inside a product. When products are produced using GMOs the ingredients may be presented on the packaging; however, how the product was made through the GMO process might not be apparent. GMOs are living organisms whose genes are manipulated in a laboratory to produce a certain outcome Since this field of science is so new and goes against the laws of nature, GMOs can produce combinations of viral genes that do not occur in which leads consumers to wonder what is really in their food and if it is good for their health The Non- GMO Project is an organization whose mission is to provide buyers with trusted GMO-free food and teach their consumers about the process of GMOs. Since the Non-GMO Project is a non- profit organization they do not manufacture their own merchandise, but instead they place a verification seal on products they have verified to be GMO-free. Even though the Non-GMO mission is to educate their customers on the processes and effects of GMOs, after the analyses of their images their organization is drawing more attention towards what their seal looks like and where it is located. Biamonte 2 Through the Non-GMO website, the organization educates their consumers about how GMO products can be produced and what the organization is doing to help prevent the sales of GMOs in the United States. Many countries around the world have bans on the production and sales of the United States and Canada are some of the few developed countries in the world that allow the production of GMOs and do not require companies to label their food as being produced with GMOs The Non-GMO Project works alongside other companies, such as the Right to Know, to fight toward the right of consumers to know if their food is produced with GMOs The Non-GMO Project displays to the audience their verification seal and how it is trusted, image A. In image A, the image mainly contains an unfocused background of products on a self with the Non-GMO Project seal on them. Then towards the right hand corner the image comes into clear focus on the seal. This focus grabs the attention and appeals to the audience through ethos. The unfocused part of the image relates to the unknown processes used to make GMOs as opposed to the known nutrition that is present in GMO-free food. This appeal to ethos makes the audience question what they are putting inside their body. TRUSTED placed in the center of the image persuades the audience that they are a reliable company TRUSTED This bolded, and in ALL probably more effective than a silly or playful in the main statement appeals to the audience through logos and displays to the viewer that they can trust their organization to provide their customers with high quality foods (Pack). Likewise, this same bolded statement utilizes pathos describing how proud the organization is to be MOST TRUSTED SEAL for GMO TRUSTED This saying presents to the audience that many people in the U.S. and Canada trust their seal, and so should the viewer. The intended targets of this organization are parents and those concerned Biamonte 3 about their health. The Non-GMO Project is dedicated to their customers and spreads their word and seal through ad images. In image B, the Non-GMO Project displays to the viewer that organization inspects multiple branches of food. Through kairos, the image calls the audience to for the Butterfly at the meat Rather than educating their customers on the effects of GMOs, this image informs the viewer about the appearance of their seal and how the organization extends further than just fresh fruits and pre-packaged foods. Also, the use of bright colors makes viewers gravitate toward their image and take interest in their organization. Even though the font of the writing is small and placed in the corner, it is still impactful after the viewer has taken notice of the seal. The butterfly brings out the aspect of nature. The vivid butterfly represents the natural processes that the Non-GMO Project strives for in their organization. Through ethos, this image makes customers ponder and think about how their poultry is processed and displays to them that they should have the right to know how their chicken was raised. Through this image, the Non-GMO Project raises awareness about where their seal can be found, which in turn also raises awareness about GMOs in everyday produce. Both ads from this organization highlight the appearance of their verification seal on different types of food items. These images spread the word about the impacts the Non-GMO Project has had on the food industry in North America. Likewise, the same images display to the viewer where their seal can be found. Therefore, the described images help the organization achieve its mission by spreading awareness and teaching their customers about the effects of GMOs and the importance of taking an interest in their health. Also, through these ads the customers learn they can trust this organization and know their seal truly verifies what they want their food to contain. Biamonte 4 Ultimately, the Non-GMO Project strives to provide their customers with high quality food and gain their trust through their satisfaction. This non-profit organization enlightens others about the processes of GMOs. For example, 1991 a variety of tomato was engineered with genes from artic flounder to make it the Non-GMO Project wants others to know the uncertainties of GMO food production and know they have the right to know how their food is made Overall both images mainly utilize ethos to appeal to the audience. Image A displays the trust present in the organization, while image B is calling the viewer to search for their logo next time they shop. However, both images overall represent the mission and brings awareness to the subject of GMOs. Biamonte 5 Works Cited Living Non-GMO: The Non-GMO Project, 2017. https://livingnongmo.org/learn/gmo-faq/ . Accessed 20 Jan 2017. Non-GMO: The Non-GMO Living Non-GMO: The Non-GMO Project, 2017. https://livingnongmo.org/ . Accessed 20 Jan 2017. TRUSTED The NonGMO Project, 2016. https://www.nongmoproject.org/ . Accessed 20 Jan 2017. Sheffield, Jenna Pack. Down an Writing Commons. http://writingcommons.org/index.php/open-text/information-literacy/visual- literacy/breaking-down-an-image/399-breaking-down-an-image . Accessed 21 Jan 2017. Biamonte 6 Image A https://www.nongmoproject.org/ Image B https://livingnongmo.org/