Serge Shackleford 01/28/2017 Healthy Living with a Side of Guilty Free? Veganism is a lifestyle in which people abstain from consuming products derived from animals. Vegans do not eat any sort of meat, fish, poultry, cheese, or milk products. Vegans also tend to be adamant about refraining from wearing leather and fur. Not only is veganism a lifestyle, it is also a philosophy in which humans live in harmony with animals and do not use them for commercial purposes. Although many people eat a plant-based diet, some people are passionate to the extreme about veganism, promoting the messages of well-known organizations like PETA. These supporters often cite many benefits from health improvement along with the reduction in carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere to the lessening of cruelty and suffering imposed upon animals. The Vegan Society is another prominent organization which promotes veganism along with the benefits having a vegan lifestyle can bring. However, there are other organizations that are not for a completely vegan lifestyle which organizations like PETA and The Vegan Society proclaim. Major companies in the meat and dairy industry, like the International Dairy Foods Association (IDFA), emphasize the importance of meat and dairy as a means of maintaining a healthy diet. Both sides of the issue--those in complete support of veganism and those who stress the importance of eating meat and dairy products--have the goal in mind of creating healthy people and a healthy environment. Organizations like The Vegan Society and PETA are created with the goal of turning more people vegan and reducing animal suffering the world. mission is to take an oath to save animals, get healthy, and protect the environment by going (Mullins, 2017). Much like PETA, other organizations like The Vegan Society focus on making veganism readily accessible, easy, and Serge Shackleford 01/28/2017 healthy. The aims of these types of organizations involve lobbying the government to create better laws to safeguard animals in meat plants and dairy farms. They hold protests and stunts. PETA ran an ad campaign which displayed famous celebrities in the nude discourage people against donning fur, joining the likes of Dennis Rodman and Paul McCartney as notables who have stripped for the (Fletcher ,2009). The Vegan Society also has promoted its message, although in not so dramatic ways, by broadcasting podcasts which talk about the benefits of a vegan lifestyle. These types of organizations are passionate about turning the world more vegan in order to reduce the suffering of animals while, at the same time, promote the health and well-being of people. From around the world, organizations like PETA and The Vegan Society are against eating meat and dairy and are convinced that society is better off by becoming completely vegan. Besides just plain and simple animal suffering and cruelty, these organizations claim eating meat and dairy products is detrimental to human health. Eating steak for a special occasion might seem great in the moment, but scientist claim that there is a hidden price: a higher mortality rate. New research on the matter more evidence that vegetarians not only live better, but also (Fears, 2016). Veganism has been associated with lower rates of heart disease, diabetes, obesity, and even cancer. Because of the wonderful health benefits being vegan can produce, PETA and The Vegan Society commonly use the health statistics as a convincing point to turning as many people as they can into becoming vegan. Being vegan is not only good for your own personal health, they argue, but for the good of the animals. In order to achieve this main goal, PETA and The Vegan Society work to promote the benefits of veganism while at the same time petitioning society to stop animal cruelty. Serge Shackleford 01/28/2017 Even with the increasing popularity of veganism due to the constant preaching of its supposed health benefits and the cruel environments the meat and dairy industry maintain, not everyone is on board with the vegan movement. In response to veganism and its message, the International Dairy Foods Association (IDFA) has created the Milk Life campaign to promote the benefits of drinking milk. The Milk Life campaign focuses on the high protein drinking milk delivers, especially since the public perception is that a vegan diet is lacking in protein. The IDFA also states that is the number one source of nine essential nutrients in the diets of children including calcium, vitamin D, and potassium, three of the four nutrients the 2015 DGAC found to be under-consumed. Dairy nutrient package can be hard to replace with other (Armstrong, 2015). This emphasis that milk and its benefits are hard to be replaced demonstrates opposition to having a completely dairy-free, vegan society. The main issue with veganism--besides insistence that cows are treated inhumanely on dairy farms--is that dairy products legitimately provide health benefits and not everyone can fit into a vegan diet. In fact, the recommends adults get three cups of dairy a day, including options like fat-free, low-fat milk or calcium-fortified soy Associated Press, 2015). Perhaps not everyone genetically falls into a single type of diet. Numerous research studies suggest that all animal products from a diet increases the risk of certain nutritional deficiencies. Micronutrients of special concern for the vegan include vitamins B-12 and D, calcium, and long-chain (omega-3) fatty (Craig, 2009). The IDFA confidently supports the drinking of milk in order to promote a healthy lifestyle and to improve health. Serge Shackleford 01/28/2017 Although it may seem that groups like PETA and The Vegan Society and opposing groups like the IDFA might not be able to reach any sort of compromise, it might be possible. Both sides of the argument have the goal with increasing the health and well-being of people. Turning everyone into a vegan might not be completely realistic due to certain demands on the diet and the fact that human beings have evolved by eating meat and dairy. Despite the numerous health benefits being vegan can bring, some people are not able to be healthy with a solely vegan diet. PETA and The Vegan Society also are passionate about promoting the well-being of animals. PETA has fought against the IDFA by claiming the companies they represent do not treat their cows very well. On the PETA website, they provide numerous examples of how the dairy industry abuses its cows. In order to compromise the two ideologies, could be employed. These are farms in which animals are treated humanely, given names, and are allowed to roam free-range. Studies have even indicated that cows who have been raised in Happy Farms produce more milk (Scientist Live, 2013). An effective compromise would be to create Happy Farms to ensure that animals are not abused while at the same time assuring those who cannot become entirely vegan are still able to get the nutrition they need. Serge Shackleford 01/28/2017 Works Cited Armstrong, Peggy.  Dairy Industry Reaction to New Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee Report. International Dairy Foods Association , 19 Feb. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Craig, Winston J. Health effects of vegan  Health effects of vegan diets. N.p., 01 May 2009. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Fears, Darryl. The added cost of eating red meat a quicker death, scientists  The Washington Post. WP Company, 2 Aug. 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Fletcher, Dan. Outrageous PETA  Time. Time Inc., 11 Nov. 2009. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Happy cows produce more  Happy cows produce more milk Scientist Live. N.p., 4 Mar. 2013. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Mullins, Alisa. This and Want to Make America  PETA. N.p., 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Press, The Associated. Milk industry fights back against vegan groups,  NOLA.com. N.p., 26 Jan. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.