Student 1 Student Lisa Dubois ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Wounded Veterans for Wounded Warriors Project America fell in horror when calamity hit and scarred thousands of civilians on September 11, 2001. Approximately 3,000 people died, including those who served to protect the wounded. Due to the disaster, many volunteered for the military to honors those lives lost. The 9-11 terrorist attack provoked many retaliations, such as operations Iraqi Freedom, Enduring Freedom, and New Dawn. This brought about the Wounded Warriors Project (WWP), an organization that raises awareness and enlist the aid, helps the injured service members, and provides additional aid and programs to further help those who need it and their families. The organization provides help to 97,743 veterans and 22,042 families. The Wounded Warriors Project grants beneficial aid to veterans and their families, rather than the dissatisfactory help the government provides to the men and women who fight for our country. The two following ads displayed by WWP achieve a sense of support and willpower that veterans with all types of disability hope to acquire. With a growing number of more than 5.5 million disable veterans since 2008, it is evident that the WWP is becoming a necessity (U.S. Veteran Facts and Statistics). Student 2 Initially, the primary message conveyed in the first image is overcoming all obstacles. Within the image it states Severa, the woman shown in the image, struggled in school, traumatized in Iraq, and then took a fall which brought her back to her feet. The enlargement of the 3 words beside her draws attention to the audience. It completely expresses her complete background story. This allows the audience to know where she is coming from and why she is a member of the Wounded Warriors Project. Visual cues reveal a jubilant feeling of her accomplishment from a rock climb. These visual cues indicate a metaphor of facing many challenges and achieving them, reflecting it back to her service in Iraq. The use of earth-tone colors gives a feel of tranquility. The audience can view all four rhetorical appeals within the ad. Providing ranking and when she became a member shows the use of logos because it openly informs the audience of her position. Within the small paragraph on the bottom, it also states after tour, she faced combat stress which is also use of logos. With all the disabilities one can attain from trauma in war, combat stress is the most common response to the mental and emotional exertion veterans acquire after facing tough and dangerous situations. Ethos can be seen through the projects she partook in, such as Project Odyssey and Track. This gives credibility to the organization itself and its usefulness to their members. Evidently, pathos is used prominently within the ad. The large text displayed alongside her clarifies a tough battle she endured yet giving an ambiance of relief and optimism towards the end. This reveals that Severa will always have an organization to receive help from. The use of Kairos in the image is important as it confirms the timely benefit of the Wounded Warriors Project. The organization echoes the Student 3 saying heals all this signifies that no matter the battle wounds, one can always get back on their feet. Furthermore, the second image contains fewer text than the first image; however, it can express the same effect on the audience. The primary message conveyed in the image is the hardships some veterans face after their service from the military, whether it is physical, emotional, or mental. The apparent visual cues shown is the paraplegic man in his wheelchair with a determined face. The elements of design and composition shown work together to create an appeal of determination and optimism. The color choice within the text above creates solemnity in the image; overall, the black background with white text emphasizes the main concept of the image. With very little text within the image, it should be noted that the rhetorical analysis is vital. Displaying the rhetorical appeal logos, the name is stated and the project he was funded by. This informs the audience that there are several projects that WWP offers. As he promotes the Army in his shirt, it exemplifies the use of ethos. Doing so gives credibility to the Army and all the sacrifices he made while serving for them. Pathos is evident as it allows the audience to feel sympathetic for Jason as it clues that he lost his legs in a war. Simultaneously, the text and his bold expression on his face shows that his fight is still not over. This moves over to the appeal of Kairos, which is used in the image to state that his battle continues as he recovers and faces a new life as a paraplegic. Comparatively, both images provide insight into the Wounded Warriors project. The organization offers many sub-projects that can benefit individuals under different circumstances, as seen in each image. Both images also reflect the feeling of determination and optimism that is Student 4 the epitome of the whole worth. I believe the use of Kairos is the most manifested rhetorical appeal in both images. It represents the phases and endurance one will undergo to live a life that changes their disability into strength. Whether the disability they acquire is mental, physical, or emotional, the images provided by the Wounded Warriors Project projects a sense of hope for those seeking for help. In retrospect, the two images provided advertise the Wounded Warriors Project as an organization that will empower and support veterans with any disability they acquire after serving the military. It is important that this organization exists because he provides additional funding for disable veterans. The government gives disable veterans an allowance of $3,000 per month with disability benefits or otherwise they must find a job (Harvey and Conyers). This can be detrimental for those who did not go to college or receive a higher education as not many will employ those who do not at least have an degree. The WPP provides the ability to connect, serve, and empower. This is extremely valuable to not only the veterans, but their families as well. (WC:1016) Student 5 Works Cited Bureau, U.S. Census. U.S. Veteran Facts and  Disabled World. Disabled World, 01 Nov. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. www.disabled-world.com/disability/statistics/veteran- statistics.php Phil Harvey, and Lisa Conyers. From War to Welfare: Disabled Veterans Deserve  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 11 Nov. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. www.latimes.com/opinion/op-ed/la-oe-1111-harvey-conyers-veterans-disability- 20151111-story.html Wounded Warrior  Wounded Warrior Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. www.woundedwarriorproject.org/