Sharif1 Name: Mahir Muhtasim Sharif Instructor: Kristin Gocinski Subject: ENC1101 Composition I I 1/29/2017 The Drinking Age: Should it remain at 21 or be lowered? Nowadays we see almost every people from all society ,staring from young to old drinks alcohol. Some people drink alcohol to avoid feeling bad and t o cope with difficult situation . Some adult teenagers usually party with alcohol . Drinking alcohol can lead to serious health problems such as damage to kidneys,liver and heart . It can also cause cancer and high blood pressure .People who are drunk can a lso cause v iolence and driving in the influence of alcohol risk the chance of car crash.Thats why in some countries limit the drinking age at 21.However, Colleges and Universities often argue that the legal drinking age should be 18 because outlawing alco hol consumption in colleges for those under 21 is making the problem worse. Among these stakeholders there are some conflicts between goals such as university students and the government. Difference between their goals and aims are incompatible but there are still some ways in which their goals can be worked out together to compromise regarding this issue. The 1st stakeholder of drinking are the consumers who are both male and female, starting from teenagers to old men and woman are alcohol drinkers. stak eholders from scientific, medical, and public health organizations have joined MADD to form the Support 21 Coalition. They believe that after drinking aged changed to 21 from 18 death rates significantly fell and it also reduce the risk of car accidents in the streets. Research shows that the alcohol effected teen brain and the way their minds worked as well. Also brain does not fully develop unless that person is above 20 years old. The adolescent brain is a work in progress, marked by significant development in areas of the brain Sharif2 responsible for learning, memory, compl ex thinking, planning, inhibition, and emotional regulation .Drinking will effect these area of the teens brain and these certain areas of the brain will be under developed. Also after the law was published that no drinking under 21 the car crash has decreas ed by 50%. Also under 21 drinking leads to suicidal thoughts and derpression.They also do academically worse. The following article talks about what the alcohol culture is going to be if the drinking age is lowered. The stakeholder here is the local law en forcements and other authorities. It talks about how students would not be binge drinking and most alcohol related casualties would decrease if the drinking age is lowered. This is a positive thing for the stakeholders because they have to deal with less a lcohol related issues. The students under the age of 21 they drink excess amount of alcohol whenever they get the chance to drink to drink because they are not allowed to buy drinks.Binge drinking cause severe Alcohol poisoning to the consumers.This increas e damaging of the body organs at a faster rate .The consumer also gets drunk and wasted so the police and medical emergengy services are called daily. T he intoxicated person have to pay huge amount of money specially when they are taken by the ambulance .I t also severly effects the kidneys and the liver. Also for adults it takes a lot of time for them to get addicted around 5 to 6 years but for the teen they became easily addicted such as with in 5 to 16 months .Moreover,If the 18 year old are allowed to dri nk alcohol then the people who are 15 or 17 they would get the access to drink alcohol from the 18 year olds .Also people who drink alcohol can easily quit drinking alcohol than the ones who are under 21.Also if the 18 years olds can buy alcohol legally th en they would want to buy more alcohol . B etween 1975 and 1998 the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, increasing the minimum drinking age to 21 is credited with having saved 18,220 lives on Sharif3 the highwa ys. Moreover,S tudies have found that it is responsible for a 19% net decrease in fatal crashes involving young drivers, and is currently responsible for saving approximately 1,000 young lives each year However, the longer alcohol is delayed the better it will be for the people.People under the influence of the alcohol are in volved in serious crime related activities . IT also cause of suicide .Alot of students were dropped out because of this . T raffic collisions are just a few of the cos ts associated with alcoholism. Also in the military become who is under 18 and if that per son goes to a diff icult mission then only he or she is allowed to drink otherwise under 21 is not allowed . However,limiting the drinking age to 21 encourges the teens to go to the underground frat parties, where they drink excess amount of drink which pe ople get together to drink in such large concentrations it is inevitable that binge drinking will occur and, potentially other dangerous activity. . People a pproximately 1900 will die from injuries sustained while drunk and 700,000 will be assaulted by a dr unk student. Alcohol is responsible for 100,000 sexual assaults or rapes every year. Lowering the age limit also is good for the economy as the foreigners from other country comes and spend money on drinking which increase the total revenue for the country and also people will be encourage to go to a lot of events and concerts .Also many states in the united sta tes still allows people to drink under 21 such as 29 states including Alaska and Wyoming allow underage consumption to take place on private premise s as long as there is parental consent. 6 of these states (Louisiana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, Oklahoma and South Carolina) allow consumption in private property even without parental consent. 10 states (Connecticut, Kansas, Louisiana, Massachusetts , Mississippi, Nevada, Ohio, Texas Wisconsin and Wyoming) will even permit underage drinkers to consume alcohol on premises where it is offered for sale (i.e. in a restaurant) as long as they have parental consent. 26 States (including Hawaii and Ohio) all ow the consumption of alcohol for religious purposes and 16 (including Arizona and Utah) for the purposes of medical treatment. 4 states (Michigan, Mississippi, Oregon and South Carolina) Sharif4 allow minors to consume alcohol if they are working for the government (ie undercover research) and 11 states including Rhode Island and Vermon t allow underage consumption if needed for educational purposes. A lower minimum drinking age would encourage younger americans i njured or unwell as a result of alcohol related activities to receive t reatment . Also lowering the age limit has nothing to do with car accidents that happens when people is driving the influence of the alcohol because alcohol effect is same both teens and adults. This article talks about both the sides of the argument. It draws examples from countries in Europe where the drinking age is lower than in America and that they have less binge drinking problems compared to that in America. On the other hand, it also talks about how researches have shown than lowering the drinking age can actually increase the number of people drinking o n a regular basis and also will increase the amount of alcohol consumed overall Citations The Drinking Age: Should it remain at 21 or be lowered?. (2008). US NEWS AND WORLD REPORT, 145(6), 10. Walters, Scott T. If the drinking age were lowered, what then ? A view from the year  Journal of American College Health, May - June 2010, p. 579+. Academic OneFile Ford, Danielle J. Marcovitz, Hal: Should the Drinking Age Be  The Horn Book Guide, Fall 2011, p. 414. Academic OneFile August 26, 2008 by v erbeckmoes By Hon. Karen Arnold - Burger , https://4prevention.wordpress.com/2008/08/26/the - top - five - reasons - we - should - keep - the - drinking - age - at - 21/ Dave Anderson - January 27, 2016 , http://www.listland.com/16506 - 2/