Catalano 1 Matthew Catalano Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 January 28, 2017 Should college athletes get paid? For the last century, the National Collegiate Athletic Association has grown into one of the most popular entertainment corporations our country has to offer. The NCAA sponsors more than 460,000 college athletes from approximately 1,121 schools nationwide, as stated on the NCAAs website. Along with that comes a substantial amount of revenue for the NCAA. According to a USA today news article in early 2015, in 2014 the NCAA accumulated nearly 1 billion dollars in revenue. following a 913-million-dollar year in 2013. Many ask where all this money is going and why college athletes seeing any of it, especially the College Athletes Players Association. The CAPA was formulated in 2014 by former college athletes to fight against unjust rules created by the NCAA. One of those rules the NCAA abides by is amateurism. The rules of amateurism are rules that every college athlete must adhere to in order to remain eligible for intercollegiate competition, which includes no salary for participation in athletics. Since college athletes receiving payment is an ongoing issue between these two prestige organizations the only way I see them both meeting halfway is if college athletes were granted a yearly allowance for personal expenses outside of sports. The NCAA strongly believes in amateurism amongst college athletes, which includes no salary for participating in athletics. As stated on the NCAA website, the collegiate model of sports, the young men and women competing on the field or court are students first, athletes They believe that maintaining amateurism in college sports is critical to the academic environment around campus and ensuring that the competitiveness is not ridiculed. This explains why no athletes are getting paid in college sports. Mark Emmert, the president of the NCAA once said, individuals are not professionals. They are representing their universities as part of a university The NCAA just wants to keep the purity of competition alive and well. Catalano 2 As far as Ramogi Huma is concerned, the president and founder of the CAPA, college athletes are getting robbed. Huma is a former college football player from UCLA and has fought for the rights of college athletes for years. Before the CAPA, Huma started the National College Players Association, which is also driven to protect college athletes of their rights. Four years ago, Huma coauthored an article for the NCPA along with Ellen J. Staurowsky, professor of sports management at Drexel University. What Huma and Staurowsky found was that college athletes were getting deprived of money that should be theirs. The article, $6 Billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes Under the Guise of raised a lot of questions about the NCAA and how the money is handled. One major finding was about the fair market value of an average FBS football and basketball player. What they found was average FBS football and basketball player is denied approximately $114,153 and $265,827 of their fair market value, That study was conducted in just one school year form 2011-2012. That lump sum of money anywhere near the average yearly intake of a professional football or basketball player. For both the NCAA and the CAPA, disagreeing on certain topics is inevitable. After all, this salary debate between both corporations has been going on since the late when star Michigan basketball player Chris Webber afford to buy a Big mac at a local McDonalds. Although they disagree on almost everything, they both mean well. Both corporations are in this business for the wellbeing of student athletes. The NCAA simply wants to keep the traditions alive in college sports. They feel the authenticity of the game will become demolished if salary and other amenities come into place. According to the NCAAs rules of amateurism, amateurism is crucial to preserving an academic environment in which acquiring a quality education is the first As for the CAPA, they just want what they think is best for college athletes across the nation. They feel college athletes have been cheated on far too long because of the NCAA, on their website said generated over the last several decades have been spent on excessive salaries and luxury athletic facilities while college athletes are denied basic No matter which side people take, no one can reverse the fact that both corporations are there for the student athletes to help them be successful through school and through life. Catalano 3 The student athletes are what generate the NCAA and the CAPA. The NCAA is constantly known for their contributions with student athlete scholarships. Divisions I and II schools provide more than $2.7 billion in athletics scholarships annually to more than 150,000 as stated on their website. also driven on the educational aspect of student athletes. They feel that an is the most rewarding benefit of the student athlete As for the CAPA, not so far apart. They believe in a well- rounded student athlete just like the NCAA. athletes will still be college students, train year-round while meeting academic requirements, and give all they have for their Looking past all the differentiating ideas and rules, a similarity these two corporations share, the student athlete comes first. So, there is no doubt that a compromise can be made with this ongoing debate over salaries in college sports. A compromise in this situation can only be made if both organizations meet halfway. The way that happens is if college athletes are given a yearly allowance of no more than $2,000. This is a fair amount of money for an average student athlete in a two-semester year. Each semester, a student athlete will receive up to $1,000 for personal expenses outside of sports. That would mean no more than $200 a month in a typical five-month semester. Most people know it but student athletes are not able to acquire a part time job while in college because of sports related events. This includes practice, team meetings, social events, and of course competition. These young men and women cannot seek money through other means, this allowance matters. The NCAA and the CAPA would be giving up a lot with this transition. In terms of sacrifice, the NCAA would have to look past the amateurism rules which ensure that the main priority of student athletes is obtaining an education. However, they be giving away too much money that would distract college athletes, much like anyone would see in a professional athlete. As for the CAPA, they would finally see student athletes receiving a sum of money. However, not exactly the kind of payout they feel college athletes deserve. Considering how much revenue the NCAA makes year after year, this is just a small sum. But, about the athletes and best for them. Nobody wants college athletes to be spoiled, and then see their desire for competition deflated. Any college student, with room and board and a meal plan, should be able to live on two hundred dollars per month. fair. Catalano 4 Since the birth of both the NCAA and CAPA, there has been no rest of argument. These two corporations are on opposing sides in nearly all categories except for one, the student athlete. It goes without saying, the students come first in every situation in college sports. Everyone loves college sports and rooting for their beloved schools, but most realize the time and effort college athletes are putting in to perform on and off the field. A little bite of gratuity would be appropriate. why a yearly allowance is the best way solve this argument. No student athlete be able to pay for lunch at a fast food restaurant, or not be able to enjoy a night out with friends. No matter what sport he or she plays, a yearly allowance is necessary, and fair. Catalano 5 Work Cited Page College Athletes Players Association doing http://www.collegeathletespa.org/why College Athletes Players Association we Ramogi Huma, http://www.collegeathletespa.org/about Berkowitz, Steve. has net assets of $627 million, says USA Today, 20 March 2014, http://www.usatoday.com/story/sports/college/2014/03/20/ncaa-expenses-revenue-money- mark-emmert/6651133/ Berkowitz, Steve. nearly topped 1 billion in revenue in USA Today, 11 March 2015, http://www.usatoday.com/story/sports/college/2015/03/11/ncaa-financial-statement-2014- 1-billion-revenue/70161386/ NCAA is the http://www.ncaa.org/about/resources/media-center/ncaa- 101/what-ncaa NCAA http://www.ncaa.org/amateurism NCAA http://www.ncaa.org/student-athletes/future/scholarships SB Nation Athletes Should Be Paid, And If You Disagree You Are Logically and Morally 15 April 2013, http://www.insidenu.com/2013/4/15/4219052/college- athletes-should-be-paid-and-if-you-disagree-you-are-logically Catalano 6 Scholarly Reviews Huma, Ramogi and Staurowsky, Ellen J. $6 Billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes Under the Guise of NCPA and Drexel University Department of Sport Management Study. News 20 March 2013, Ganim, Sara. college athletes would hurt traditions, NCAA chief Emmert CNN. 19 June 2014, http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/19/us/ncaa-obannon-lawsuit-trial/ Catalano 7