Gilman 1 Abby Gilman Ms. Collins ENC 1102 27 January 2017 PETA vs. Sea World The subject of animal cruelty is a social concern that has been making headlines for a while now. It is a topic that has been discussed by many different people such as educators, activists and politicians. More now so than ever, animals have a huge impact on our society and the roles that they play. Animals are no longer just considered to be household pets but are known to be much more. They take on various roles in our society today. These include but are not limited to: entertainment, service, food and companionship. Service animals are seen daily around our culture and are used to help people with some form of disability or mental handicap. For people that vegetarians, animal meat is a huge source of protein and just a large aspect of our diet and daily lives. Even in our law enforcement, dogs in the k-9 unit play a huge role in assisting police officers, fire fighters and detectives with their jobs. One of the more controversial roles that animals have is their treatment and use within the entertainment industry. The controversy is over what constitutes ethical treatment of these animals and how they are kept. One of the organizations, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), is a non- profit organization that focuses its attention on fighting for animal rights and the mistreatment of animals around the globe. This organization works through many different mediums in order to protect all types of animal cruelty and bring awareness to the severity of the situation. A conflicting organization is a widely known household-name, Sea World. This organization is one of the most known and popularized entertainment marine mammal parks that has several locations across the United States. However, they are known for undercompensating for their Gilman 2 animals and not providing the proper environments for them to live, especially their whale population. Both of these stakeholders want to help animals in some way. Due to the fact that they have a common ground, they are able to come up with some form of compromise between the two. PETA and Sea World need to construct a group of seaside sanctuaries which will create bigger and more natural environments for the animals to live in. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is one of the largest animal rights organization in the world to date. It was founded in 1980 as a non-profit charitable organization and is based in Norfolk, Virginia with associates worldwide. operates under the simple principle that animals are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, or use for entertainment. PETA educates policymakers and the public about animal abuse and promotes kind treatment of n.p). At the very center of this organization is the idea that the right of all beings, whether they be human or nonhuman to be free from harm. PETA incorporates four main focuses of animal cruelty within their organization which are: factory farms, laboratories, clothing trade and the entertainment industry. One of the things that PETA is known for as an animal rights organization is their very hard campaigns they have against companies that condone the abuse of animals. These campaigns and their stands on animal is what makes PETA such a widely known name and what sets them apart from other animal activist groups. They also are known for many other types of movement strategies. works through public education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescue, legislation, special events, celebrity involvement, and protest n.p). Through these techniques they are able to peacefully stand up for their beliefs and for animals, which are unable to fight for themselves. They stand on the fact that animals are not ours to claim and harm in whatever way we see fit. It is not our right to take away another living Gilman 3 organism rights. The organization aspires to continue fighting for animals and attempting to put a stop to animal cruelty. Sea World is one of the most commonly known name when it comes to regarding sea animals and animal amusement parks. This organization is a chain of marine mammal parks, oceanariums, animal theme parks, and rehabilitation centers which have locations all across the United States in places such as Florida, California and Texas. Sea first location opened in San Diego, California in 1964 and was founded by George Millay, Milt Shedd, Ken Norris and David DeMott. Sea mission statement states, apply basic physiological research efforts and state-of-the-art reproductive technologies toward wildlife species management and n.p). Because Sea World has many different aspects they house and cater to a lot of different animals. The main focus for this argument is the debate against Sea animal amusement parks. Within these parks this organization is responsible for taking care of several types of marine wildlife, training them and also using them for entertainment purposes. Thousands of people show up daily to watch dolphins, whales, otters and many more do tons of fantastic tricks and to just look at all the different animals that Sea World houses. While seeing these shows is entertaining for humans, one of the bigger concerns is how these animals are being treated through living in these contained environments and whether these environments are even safe for them to live within. One of Sea main goals is not only to entertain its visitors and put on a good show but is also to protect marine wildlife and help rehabilitate them within their many different locations across the nation. Although this is their main goal, they are often questioned and campaigned against by organizations like PETA on the environments they keep their animals in. focus against Gilman 4 Sea World is on their orca whales, however campaign contributes and mentions more animals that are not be compensated for when it comes to big enough living arrangements. These two organizations ultimately have a similar goal which is they both want best for all animals involved. However, they both do a completely different job utilizing their goals. PETA wants to protect all animals from any form of abuse and wants to fight for all forms of animal rights. Sea World wants to help rehabilitate and take care of animals with specifics to marine life. method of protection is through campaigns against animal cruelty that is going on in the world and bringing awareness to what animal abuse really is. On the other side, Sea World actually takes in marine animals and tries to help them first-hand. Both organizations want to protect animals in some way, shape or form but have two opposite ways of doing it. Because PETA has a very approach with the protection of animals, they highlight the fact that Sea World is not taking proper care of the animals they are trying to protect due to the fact that they are undercompensating for their environmental needs. With that being said there has to be some form of common ground that the two organizations can come to. Furthermore, even though these organizations have different ways of caring for animals, they still have a similar goal which can formulate into a compromise that benefits both stakeholders. Sea World can work with People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) to create more sanctuaries where they can thrive in the enrichment and diversity of the sea while still receiving care, feeding, and veterinary n.p). In seaside sanctuaries, the orca whales, and many other animals can live in large parts of the ocean while still getting care from Sea veterinarian staff. These reservations are much more natural and provide a bigger and safer environment for these animals to live in. They also offer bigger areas where animals can swim and dive in n.p). Gilman 5 This is a comprisable plan because both parties will not only be standing by their mission of protecting animals, but also Sea World will be able to continue training and showing off the many wonders of these animal, just in a safer and bigger environment. Both parties will continue to flourish while withstanding this compromise and will ultimately have more success in their future endeavors. Gilman 6 Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. About Campaign Against  SeaWorld of Hurt. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. Mission  MindComet, Inc. Http://www.mindcomet.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.