Chen 1 Qile Chen Mariama M. Changamire ENC1102. 908S17 2/1/2017 Immigration in the US The American Immigration main aim is to strengthen the country while honoring its immigration history and trying to shape the perspective regarding immigrants and immigration 30). The council focuses on promoting the affluence and cultural diversity of the nation by supporting practical and humane policies for immigration, which show the fundamental values. It works to ensure that the laws associated with immigration are implemented and that they honor the rights of immigrants. Over the years, the council has struggled to inform the lawmakers and the public of the importance of the immigrants in the society. In addition to that, it has also tried to eradicate the myths and misconceptions surrounding issues concerning the process. On the other hand, members of the Federation of American Immigration Reform organization believe that the immigration laws in the country need to be changed to provide better services to the current and future population cohorts. It is a non-profit organization that receives support from at least fifty private organizations. The organization, which has been active for more than 35 years has proposed solutions that would help minimize the adverse effects of the uncontrolled system of immigration on the security, jobs, the education sector, healthcare and the Chen 2 environment. It aims at reducing the level of immigration to manageable levels that will enable the country to manage its growth. Although the two organizations have different views regarding the issue of immigration, their primary goal is to improve the status. While the American Immigration Council believes our Immigrant Past, shaping our Immigrant the government should give more chance to the immigrants and the same social status because they made a great contribution to the United States. The Federation for American Immigration Reform claims that the immigrants should be reduced and that illegal migration into the country should be stopped. For the two groups to compromise, the government should limit the number of immigrants. Encourage legal immigration, provide more favorable policy for legal immigrants (Gordon 5). At the same time, it should improve the management of illegal immigrants to reduce their tax evasion and crime. The American Immigration Council was founded in 1987. The primary cause of its establishment was to promote immigration in the country. The council was supposed to protect the rights of immigrants and their privileges. There are many benefits associated with immigration. Increased production contributes to the improvement of living standards of the citizens (Chiquiar and Hanson, 240). Growth in production is closely linked to innovation as newer products and manufacturing processes are generated. Immigration leads to increase in numbers of creative minds in the society. People move from places where they are less productive to areas where they would be more productive. National welfare has significantly improved thanks to Chen 5 the creation of new products such as the drugs used to reduce cholesterol levels in bodies, automobiles that are more fuel-efficient and better agricultural varieties. The immigrants provide the labor needed for industrialization. Those that are less educated provide the much-needed manual labor while the more skilled work in places that require more skills (Gordon 43). It is evident that an increase in labor supply would reduce the cost of wages. This is because the workers would be competing in an economy that is crowded. Most firms opt for production methods that require more manual labor to reduce the cost of production. In the presence of many people who could provide such cheap labor, many investors are likely to invest. More firms are likely to be created, and those that already exist would increase their establishments. American citizens who are low-skilled are immobile. They move at slower rates to places where there is the demand for low-skilled labor. Therefore, growth in booming areas is reduced. Contrary to that, immigrants tend to be much more mobile and willing to find new jobs (Confessore 3). In the last 50 years, about a quarter of Nobel laureates that are from America were born in foreign countries. Financially, in 2006 twenty-five percent of the high-tech companies were founded by immigrants. These companies generated income and provided employment in the country. It would be wise for the country not to reduce the number of immigrants if the process is costly. The American government has devised ways to attract talented international students. For example, those that are admitted to American universities are given student visas. Chen 4 The Federation of American Immigration Reforms was established in 1979 after some individuals felt the need for reforms in the immigration sector. It aims at reducing the effects of uncontrolled immigration in the country. According to the organization, the levels of immigration are so high that they make the processes such as background checking of immigrants cumbersome. It recently claimed that immigration is dangerous to the country (Reimers, 175). According to the Federation, investigators could not find precise information regarding a terrorist which took part recently in San Bernardino. Dan Stein, who is the president said that some immigrants come from countries where terrorist groups operate, while the government reduced the screening process to two years as opposed to the previous three years. The current United States of president, Donald Trump promised to magnify his plans to limit control immigration. He claimed that countries like France had failed in their fights against infiltration by terrorists. view clearly shows how immigration is associated with adverse effects like terrorism. He had even proposed that Muslim migration into the country be banned. This is because most terrorist groups are associated with the Islam religion. The most noticeable negative effect of immigration is the increase in population, which would put pressure on the available public resources. English is the common language that is used by most of the American citizens. Having more workers who are willing to receive lower payments can make employers more relaxed and reduce their efforts to increase production. Also, American citizens risk losing their jobs to the immigrants who are willing to work for lower payments. This could raise unemployment levels in the Chen 5 country (Winegarden, and Khor, 112). There exists a language barrier between immigrants who have little or no familiarity with the English language. This makes communication hard or impossible. Government spending of the money is increased when more people migrate into the country. The government also spends money when trying to scrutinize the immigrants. The cost of conducting background checks and interviews at a personal level is high. Some immigrants do not pay taxes. They, therefore, become a liability to the country and affect it negatively concerning finance. The main reason these two organizations have not come to a resolution is that AIC advocates for more immigrants while the FAIR organization insists on the reduction of these immigrants. The members of the AIC group believe that immigrants should be honored. It believes the government should allow more people to migrate to the country and that these should be treated equally as other citizens. The Federation for American Immigration Reform thinks that there should be a reduction in the number of immigrants in the country. It claims that illegal immigration should be stopped. Since both groups are concerned with the general development of the country, the organizations should reach a consensus and agree on a few issues. The government should allow for more immigrants but still, limit their number to a sustainable level. Also, it should ensure that all immigration processes are legal, also it should promote legal migration (Hofstetter, 97). The systems used to assess the immigrants should be improved and the screening process period should be Chen 6 increased. The organizations should agree that illegal migrants should be managed to reduce cases of tax evasion and increased crime rates. In conclusion, immigration has both negative and positive effects. In the United States of America, there are two organizations, which have different views on this issue. The American Immigration Council aims at encouraging the government to allow more immigrants into the country. It also tries to minimize the myths that are associated with immigration. The Federation of American Immigration Reform organization insists on the reviewing of the immigration laws to lower the rate of immigration in the country. A consensus between these two agencies would contribute to the general improvement of the country regarding development. Chen 5 Works Cited Confessore, Nicholas. Donald Trump Suggests Expand His Plans to Limit  The New York Times 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Reimers, David M. Unwelcome Strangers: American Identity and the turn against immigration. Columbia University Press, 1998. Csery. American Immigration  (2010). Chiquiar, Daniel, and Gordon H. Hanson. International migration, self-selection, and the distribution of wages: Evidence from Mexico and the United  Journal of Political Economy 113.2 (2005) FAIR Releases New Ad: Mass Immigration Is Too Dangerous for  Bioterrorism Week 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Hanson, Gordon H.1,2. Immigration and Economic  CATO Journal 32.1 (2012): 25-34. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Hofstetter, Richard R. Immigration Reform: Crisis and  BC Third World LJ 5 (1984) Winegarden, Calman R., and Lay Boon Khor. Undocumented immigration and unemployment of US youth and minority workers: Econometric  The Review of Economics and Statistics (1991)