Box 1 Hannah Box Emil Smith Composition 1 - Section 2 2/5/17 Home Education and Academic Success in College Institutionalized education was established to create academic success and prepare students for college, but is it questionable whether formal education is the only way to accomplish this goal. Studies show that home education is increasing in popularity each year. As the definition of education broadens, there has been a push to evaluate which form of education is most effective in terms of preparing for future academic success in college. Institutionalized education is centered on formalized curricula that have the intention of providing the foundation for college learning. On the other hand, home education often lacks the courses that are supposed to aide academic success. This research will question whether children can be home educated and still be academically successful in college. Thomas, Alan, and Harriet Pattison. Informal Home Education: Philosophical Aspirations Put Into  Studies In Philosophy And Education 2 (2013): 141. Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Formal education, even in the primary age group (which is the age group discussed in this study), consists of lesson plans and learning benchmarks for a child to meet. While informal home education lacks these boundaries, Thomas and research and interviews of families who home-educate showed that the home-schooled children still hit the same learning objectives as Box 2 the children in a formal education setting. The home-educated children may not hit the benchmarks in the same way or at the exact same time, but giving the children a chance to be self-motivated in their learning can allow a child to excel past the level that a formal curriculum would allow them to. Informal home education also allows a child to learn relevant life skills, instead of learning non-contextual facts. A disadvantage of home-education is that the parents are sometimes unable to tell if or what their children are learning. The article reveals that it is nearly impossible to quantify learning, and that there are downfalls to both types of education evaluated. The authors conclude that there needs to be a wider range of understanding of what learning is and how it happens. This study will be relevant to this paper because it presents a summary of informal home education and showcases both the positive and negative sides of the different types of education. Harriet Pattison is a PHD student researching home education and literacy at the University of Birmingham and a research associate of the Institute of Education, University of London. Pattison has studied home education professionally with Alan Thomas since 2008, and is a homeschool mother. Alan Thomas is a developmental psychologist who has taught at all levels across Europe. Thomas is a Visiting Fellow at the Institute of Education, University of London and a researcher of home education. Snyder, Marc. An Evaluative Study Of The Academic Achievement Of Homeschooled Students Versus Traditionally Schooled Students Attending A Catholic  Catholic Education: A Journal Of Inquiry And Practice 16.2 (2013): 288-308. ERIC. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 Box 3 This study evaluates the academic success of traditionally educated students versus home educated students at a Catholic university in South Florida. 408 students (137 public-schooled students, 142 Catholic-schooled students, and 129 home-schooled students) were evaluated based on their SAT or ACT scores, college grade-point-average, GPA based on major, and core GPA. The hypothesis was that the home-schooled students would score higher than the traditional students. The home-schooled students on average had the highest scores on all fronts, with the Catholic-schooled students ranking second, and the public-schooled students ranking third. This study presents data that gives an example of a circumstance where home educated students have higher academic achievements on average than both public-schooled and Catholic- schooled students. This particular study is useful because there is a relatively equal sample size of all three types of schooling. It could also be reasonably assumed that students attending a Catholic university share similar values. This allows the type of schooling to be the only main variable in the study. Marc Snyder has his Doctorate of Education from Nova Southeastern University and received the Dr. Charles L. Faires Dissertation of Distinction Award while there in 2011. He is currently the Headmaster of True North Classical Academy. Riley, Gina. Differences In Competence, Autonomy, And Relatedness Between Home Educated And Traditionally Educated Young  International Social Science Review 90.2 (2015): 1-27. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. This study tested the differences in competence, autonomy and relatedness between homeschooled and traditionally schooled students. The researchers tested 100 students aged 18- 25 with high school diplomas on these traits. Out of the 100 students, 58 were homeschooled, 41 were traditionally schooled, and 1 failed to release what type of schooling they received (and Box 4 was thus removed from the results). 32 of the participants were male, 66 were female, and 1 did not reveal their gender. The study used the Basic Psychological Needs Scale to test competence, autonomy, and relatedness. The test found that homeschooled students scored higher than traditionally schooled students when it came to competence (the mental capability to do something successfully): 6.27 versus 5.27 out of 7. Homeschooled students also scored much higher than traditionally schooled students on autonomy (independence): 6.02 versus 4.75. The study found no difference between the two types of students when tested for relatedness (ability to work with others). Gina Riley is an educational psychologist and Clinical Professor of Adolescent Special Education at Hunter College. She has her Ph.D in Psychology from Walden University and this study was her dissertation. She has over fifteen years of experience working with teens in educational settings. This study showcases three other important elements of student success in college - competence, autonomy, and relatedness. Home-educated students did not only score as well as traditionally educated students in these fields, but was found to be stronger in two of these fronts. This data shows that homeschooled children can be considered to have many qualities that allow them to be very successful in college. Cogan, Michael F. Exploring Academic Outcomes Of Homeschooled  Journal Of College Admission 208 (2010): Academic OneFile. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. This study analyzes the academic outcomes of home educated students attending a medium-sized doctoral institution in the midwest and how they relate to the Catholic educated, privately educated, and public educated students attending the institution. This study used the comprehensive data warehouse to collect its data. The homeschooled students scored highest on all pre-college elements such as ACT scores and high school GPA, with Catholic Box 5 schoolers in second, then public and private schoolers respectively. Home educated students also scored slightly above average on first-year gpa, four-year gpa, and graduation rate. Michael Cogan is currently the Strategy and Operations Manager at Huron Consulting Group. He has conducted research as a professor or faculty member at various universities, including the University of St. Thomas and the University of North Dakota. Cogan has his Ph.D in Quantitative Research Methodologies from the University of North Dakota. This study shows that homeschoolers have a high level of academic success in both high school (when it pertains to college acceptance) and in university itself. This data shows that home educated students are academically successful at university and are, in some cases, superior to their peers from different educational backgrounds.