Tuico 1 Legalization of Marijuana Tweed, also known as Canopy Growth Corporation, and The Boston Beer Company provide two very different views on the legalization of marijuana. Marijuana, as many people may already know, is a plant that has been around for thousands of years and its uses remain relatively similar to today. When the subject of marijuana is brought up, most initial thoughts are the stigmas that come with it. For example, it is common to associate stoner teens and unsuccessful people to marijuana. Also, many people fear the negative impacts marijuana has on their health. Contrary to what many people believe, data indicate that in the general population marijuana use is not associated with increased (Washington, DC: National Academy Press, 1999). These two companies are not what most people would think would have opposing views on marijuana. Either way, both Tweed and The Boston Beer Company share the goal of attaining the most profits for their products. With that in mind, if having Tweed and The Boston Beer Company amalgamate, then profits will skyrocket and both parties will be successful. With the support of the company, DNA, it is no wonder why Tweed is having great success in terms of consumer purchases and profits. DNA is the main source of marijuana income. They state that their marijuana, a win in every category of High Times Cannabis cup on their (DNA, 2014). This statement provides high certification from a well established cannabis association. Canopy Growth Corporation, or more commonly know as Tweed, produces and dispenses high quality cannabis that can be used for either medical or recreational purposes. Marijuana laws are different in Canada, which is why such cannabis dispensaries can be legal. This company was established and licensed under the Marijuana for Medical Purposes Regulations, further adding to their rights. Tweed is Tuico 2 also in association with their sister company, Tweed Farms and may consider further expanding. If the legalization of marijuana were to pass, Tweed and all of its sub corporations will attain tremendous profit. This is due to the high demand in teens and patients in need of medical marijuana. With Tweed a wide selection of (Tweed, 2014), the diversity among their customers is very impressive. Also, Tweed is a company known for caring about its clientele, especially those seeking to attain marijuana for medical purposes. These people then use the cannabis as way to treat an array of conditions such as chronic pain, nausea, headaches, eating disorders, (WebMD, 2015). The benefits of marijuana can have on health can sometimes be well worth any negative effects that may come with using it. If the legalization of marijuana were to pass, Tweed will take full advantage in the increase in cannabis demand in order to be the most efficient for both itself and its clients. The Boston Beer Company (BBC) began with a man with a family lager recipe and a vision to provide a new experience in the world of beer. Jim Koch, founder of The Boston Beer Company, wanted to try his hand at the family legacy that was beer brewing. BBC states that their beers are flavored, balanced, and complex, and brewed with quality (The Boston Beer Company, 2016). Beer is one of the most highly consumed beverages in the world, which is no wonder why beer breweries and associations, such as BBC, make such great profits off of their products. The goal is bring great beer to beer lovers (The Boston Beer Company, 2016). One of the biggest contributors to this company, and also a famous brand of beer, Samuel Adams emphasizes quality in the craftsmanship of their beers. Adams has distributed more than $4 million dollars in capital to hundreds of small food and beverage businesses, which in turn helps to create or save thousands of (The Boston Beer Company, 2016). The possibility of marijuana becoming legalized can pose a great threat to brewing companies such as The Boston Beer Company, not only because they might end up losing customers due to Tuico 3 marijuana but also since beer and marijuana are commonly thought of as drug competitors. The Boston Beer Company states that sale and distribution of marijuana could adversely impact the demand for (The Boston Beer Company). The biggest concern with legalized marijuana is its high demand. If more people are buying marijuana, that means less people are purchasing beer resulting in an economic decline withing brewing companies. Rees, a professor at the University of Colorado claimed that consumers will substitute marijuana for alcohol when given the (Fang, 2016). This will result in a shift in the amount of marijuana sold compared to amount of beer sold. industries have already contributed donations to organizations set up to defeat legalization in (Fang, 2016). This exemplifies beer corporations already taking a stand against the legalization of marijuana. Each of the stakeholders present in the situation of legalizing marijuana have unique views when it comes to achieving success in the economy. However, the main conflict that neither Tweed nor The Boston Beer Company have yet to recognize is the missed opportunity of cooperating in order to make the most profit out of their products. Both points of view share few common interests. That is, each company strives to provide quality products to consumers while making sure profits are promising. Since each of the products both companies sell are in high demand, there should be no question in merging the two. Therefore, a compromise to create a product that combines the best of both marijuana and beer comes to the table; the proposition of a marijuana infused beer. The primary reason as to why this plan been implemented is obviously because marijuana fully legal in all states. The legalization of medical marijuana is a first step in the overall compromise between the two stakeholders. Once this has been completed, the next step would be to legalize marijuana, not only for medical purposes, but recreational use as well. Only a few states in the United States have fully legalized marijuana for all forms of uses. Another problem that has halted the production of marijuana infused beer is the lower levels of THC in the beverage itself. During the Tuico 4 process of creating the beverage, the THC potency is lowered which the induced high (Godard, 2016). Now in order for this compromise to happen, brewing companies must come up with a new process of infusing marijuana into beer without distorting the natural potency. This way, consumers and medical patients can feel the benefits of the marijuana while simultaneously enjoying a beer. to Westword, there are over 300 breweries in Colorado, and now that beers have been approved, many of them will likely try to approve CBD-infused beers if (Godard, 2016). This statement reveals how brewery companies such as D&D are continuously experimenting with their beers in order to improve it overall. Of course, since the idea of marijuana infused beer is currently being studied, the possibility of the success of this compromise increased. Even though marijuana and beer are often understood to be drug competitors, the profits that this combination can potentially yield is motivating. The benefits of such a sumptuous product will also increase the individual sales of both marijuana and beer due to such high demand. On top of that, the ingredients necessary in order to create the product will also be highly sought after. This compromise ensures positive outcomes for both stakeholders, should they agree to unite. Tuico 5 Works Cited Janet E. Joy, Stanley J. Watson, Jr., and John A Benson, Jr., Marijuana and Medicine: Assessing the Science  Division of Neuroscience and Behavioral Research, Institute of Medicine (Washington, DC: National Academy Press, 1999), p. 109 Tweed. About  Tweed. 2016. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Medical Marijuana Treatment Uses and How It  WebMD. WebMD, 2015. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Our  The Boston Beer Company Investor Relations Center - About Us. 2016. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Fang, Lee. Industry Bankrolls Fight Against Legal Pot in Battle of the The Intercept, 14 Sept. 2016 Gordard, Julie. Feds Approve Marijuana Infused  MassRoots. 23 Sept. 2016. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. State Marijuana Laws in 2016  Governing Magazine: State and Local Government News for Leaders. 2016. Web. 02 Feb. 2017.