Rob Garrett del Castillo 2/1/17 Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 Genetically Modified Organisms and Organic Foods In modern times browsing the produce section can be a lot of overwhelming information. Through reading packages such as meat or poultry labels such as and tend to appear often. Yet we see a lot of packages that happily boast about GMOs. The question arises: eating GMOs something that should be avoided; is there something wrong with yet there is also the contradictory statement makes organic food and GMOs so much better than food that uses There are two stakeholder organizations both very large and reputable. There is the organization of Monsanto; an organization that directly funds GMO research as well as owning most yield produced in the US today. There is also United states department of agriculture which regulates much of the food we eat today, a major part of it being how genetically modified the food we eat is. Food must be FDA approved and they must meet health These two stakeholders contradict each other entirely; Monsanto sees the FDA as something that holds the future of agriculture back. While FDA sees Monsanto as a profit hungry corporation trying to maximize their profits. Monsanto wants to implement more GMOs in their agriculture and the FDA is regulation how much modification to crops they can do. Through regulation it is clear that they are an organization that supports organic crop growth yet Monsanto argues that there are many inefficiencies to organic crop growth. The solution for these two organizations is that one organization should have complete regulation over quality when the other organization has complete power over quantity or vice versa. The company of Monsanto owns most of agricultural production through patenting. Monsanto proudly and strongly supports GMOs in their crops for many reasons. One of the biggest reasons Monsanto uses GMOs is to increase yield of crops. Increasing yield of crops is very important in many different aspects. If there are more food crops can be cheaper for everyone. One common saying that is spread is that GMOs are highly nutritious and affordable. With the addition of HMO to crops, the quantity and quality of the yield is immensely increased for both. Through genetic modification crops become denser with nutrients, giving a better bang for dollar. The growth of most of these GMO crops are sprayed with strong pesticides that labels the crop as inorganic yet the success rate of growing crops is immensely increased with use of heavy pesticide and GMO mixtures. There is always a large percent chance that crops will become diseased, spread and make the yield unusable for human consumption through regulation of health standards. The spray that Monsanto uses protects these crops from disease. These sprays are also pesticide dense which ward off many organisms that eat through a large percentage of crops. These sprays utilized by Monsanto have been proved to be safe for human consumption; in no way do these sprays compromise the health of humans if these crops are consumed. A lot of crops that the human society like to indulge in would not be so sought after if it were not for GMOs. Crops such as corn would not contain all yellow kernels if humans did not genetically modify the we know today. Another example is the crop bananas; a worldwide delicacy. Bananas naturally contain huge seeds and most bananas harvested today for human consumption are the bananas humans modified to be seedless. The organization Food and Drug Administration has regulated a lot of crops but in a very positive way. The spray Monsanto uses on their crops is horrible to the environment. The use of pesticides kills lots of organisms that do not even pose a single threat to the crops. Also, the strong use of pesticides kills all organisms that do feed on the crop but the potency of the pesticides is so strong that it eliminates certain organisms from the environment entirely. Organisms serve use in their respective environment because they serve as food, or prey for predators in that environment by killing of prey, whether the organisms pose a threat to the crops or not killing off organisms through elimination of their food source and through killing organisms through pesticide taxation disturbs then entire food web of that ecosystem. Organisms are not the only thing hut by spray. The spray contains fertilizer and this fertilizer is terrible for the environment. Fertilizer creates massive runoff which can poison aquafers which can effect the water we drink making it toxic to humans. This runoff also creates erosion and destroys soil, leading to deforestation. The FDA regulates the spray abused by Monsanto so these things do not happen on a catastrophic scale. Through genetic modification there is a high potential to completely kill mutation. Through evolution we have seen mutation as a beneficial factor, sometimes genes will arise which make an organism more fit or beneficial to the ecosystem. Through controlling traits of crops, it is a high possibility we can eliminate recessive traits and mutations completely, and we can lose all the advantages of mutation for that single crop. Genetically engineering food has also proven to be harmful to humans. When Trans fats were first introduced to society it was the craze on all the food shelves, and now we associate trans-fat as one of the most harmful macronutrients a human can intake. Most plants produce toxins that are harmful to humans. GMOs also increase the chance that a crop will produce more toxins, making it harmful for human consumption. In conclusion, Monsanto fights for increased pesticide fertilizer and genetic engineering of crops and these can all be beneficial to society and future research. The Federal Drug Association fights for regulation of pesticide fertilizer and genetic engineering because they have been proven very harmful to ecosystems, including human consumption. The solution to this issue is that both the FDA and Monsanto must agree to have full power over one option: either quality or quantity. If Monsanto chooses quantity, they can manage crop growth all they want but they must cut funding and the use of genetically engineering crops, relinquishing all quality to FDA regulation. If Monsanto chooses quality, they can genetically engineer crops to make them more substantial and have better management of crops but they must reduce fertilization and pesticides. Through this compromise both sides win but with a cost. One common ground that both these stakeholders withhold is that they both are invested in the best interest for society. Monsanto funds genetic engineering food strongly in order to make crops full of nutrients so families that have trouble paying for food have proper nutrition. Genetic engineering also increases crop yield which in turn makes crops cheaper and more affordable for society. The FDA regulates the use of fertilizers and pesticides so our land is preserved so we can keep our forests to combat climate change. It also helps keep our aquafers pure so those in rural areas can drink water free of toxins and ecosystems that depend on the aquifers such as plant and animals can thrive as well. The solution proposed may be favored in one option, yet the process can undergo regulation in order to make the solution Works Cited Dean, Mike. GMO: Harmful  GMO: Harmful Effects. EOH Organization, Aug. 2003. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Hindo, Brian. Monsanto: Winning the Ground  Library. Oxford Academics, 1 Feb. 1946. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Philpott, Tom. Editorial: Testing Genetically Modified  New Scientist 197.2637 (2008): 3. The USDA Just Deregulate All New Genetically Modified Crops. Mother Jones, 8 July 2011. Web. 1 Feb. 2017.