Grant 1 John Grant Prof. Changamire ENC 1102 1 Feb 2017 ENC 1102: Project 1 Intermediate Draft Loss of lunch money is no longer the big worry when it comes to bullying. Bullying has moved from being focused on simply taking one cash to mentally tormenting the child for reasons beyond his or her control. bullies seem to be focusing more on the sexual orientation, skin color, gender identity, and other factors that are beyond that control. Though these have been factors of bullying for a long time they appear to be more prominent than in the past. A great deal of work has been taking place to put a stop to bullying as a whole and to great effect. Many groups have been formed over the years such as PACER National Bullying Prevention Center, STOMP Out Bullying, and PFLAG: Parents, Families, & Friends of Lesbians and Gays to put a stop to bullying. Even though these groups have been rather effective when it comes to putting a stop to bullying, they have a painful flaw: different goals in mind. An analysis of anti-bullying organizations reveals that some of these organizations focus on specific groups of our youth when it comes to ending bullying rather than ending bullying for youth as a whole. The first of these groups would be PFLAG: Parents, Families, & Friends of Lesbians and Gays. PFLAG, as the name suggests, focuses primarily on the Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender and Queer community (LGBTQ). PFLAG strives to educate the nation on the issues that people who are LGBTQ face on a daily basis. Their vision is that of our planet completely Grant 2 celebrating differences and embracing them. They are fighting for a world in which everyone is included and respected regardless of how they identify and express themselves in terms of gender as well as their sexual orientation. PFLAG is acting on this vision by pushing for our communities to change their policies to become more equal to those people who are LGBTQ. The second group is PACER National Bullying Prevention Center. PACER is an organization that strives to inspire, educate, and involve our communities in the ending of bullying in our youth. They are firm believers that bullying should no longer be something that comes with being a child. Their goal is to abolish bullying in our youth as a whole, acknowledging that bullying has serious negative effects on the health, education and safety of our youth. PACER is fighting to put a stop to bullying in our youth by striving to educate our nation on the many ways to fight bullying and help our youth. They provide countless resources for the prevention of bullying from websites primarily focused on a student audience to tools teachers can use in the classroom. PACER pushes not only communities to take action, but individuals as well. Notice any key difference between the two organizations? PFLAG appears to focus on those youth who are LGBTQ while PACER focuses on our youth as a whole. While there are many organizations that have been created to put a stop to bullying, some of these organizations only focus on a specific group that is being bullied. While these groups are effective in what they set out to accomplish, they could be more effective if they were to all work together with the shared goal of abolishing bullying in our youth. Bullying is a problem that affects our youth both in and out of school. It is greatly harmful to the education, health, and safety of our youth. While the majority of bullying appears to take place in our schools, the effects stick with the victims even when they go home. Bullying leaves a scar in the minds of most victims that can lead to Grant 3 depression and other serious mental problems. Physical bullying also can impair the children, sometimes even permanently. So while different organizations are fighting to put a stop to bullying for specific groups of people, they should be acknowledging that bullying needs to be stopped all together regardless of a sexuality, racial background, and skin tone. Both PACER and PFLAG are very strong and effective groups when it comes to fighting to end bullying, but improvements can always be made. PACER is a firm believer that bullying should no longer be considered a of for our youth, all of our youth. PFLAG is a firm believer in the creation of equality for those youth who are LGBTQ, pushing for communities to be educated on the hardships that those youth face. In order for both of these groups to become more efficient in the demolishing of bullying, I propose the compromise of the two organizations working together for the cause. While PFLAG is a strong organization and seemingly only growing stronger, their downfall in the fight on bullying is that they are too specified as to which group to end bullying for. The end goal should be to fight to end bullying for all of our youth. In turn, PACER is incredibly broad when it comes to how it is going to end bullying, which is good and bad. This is good because it focuses on the ending of bulling all together however it may not be as effective when it comes to more specified groups. By working together with PFLAG, PACER would be able to more effectively fight bullying by being better able to help more specified groups take on bullying. Both PACER and PFLAG are strongly against bullying and put up an extremely good fight to end it, but the best possible way for the two groups to truly achieve what they each desire would be to work together. Many times when organizations work together for a cause they are much more effective. By having the two groups work together they would in turn be able to help their specific goals. With the help of PFLAG, PACER would be able to reach out to more Grant 4 specific groups of youth that are effected by bullying, such as the LGBTQ community, and provide more personalized education and help for those youth. Visa versa with the help of PACER and all of its resources, PFLAG would have a better chance at getting their message out to society about fighting bullying that is directed towards the LGBTQ communities. In turn, PFLAG could broaden their focus to help more than just the LGBTQ community and push for equality for all youth regardless of their sexual orientation, heritage, skin tone, and how they identify themselves in terms of gender. While anti-bullying organizations are strong on their own, being too focused on a specific group diverts from the primary goal of abolishing bullying for all of our youth. Bullying is a plague that affects our youth both in and out of school. It can leave both mental and physical scars that can stick with children for the rest of their lives. PACER and PFLAG are two well- known and highly effective anti-bullying organizations but each still has problems that they face. PFLAG is too focused on the LGBTQ community and diverts from what the main goal should be of complete abolishment of bullying in our youth. PACER on the other hand, while they have an immense number of resources and fight for complete destruction of bullying, is too broad and may have trouble helping more specific groups of our youth against bullying. If the two were to work together they would have a much stronger effect on our nation and the demolishment of bullying all together. (W.C. 1247) Grant 5 Works Cited Bartkiewicz, Mark, Kosciw, Joseph G., and Greytak, Emily A. Strategies for Prevention of the Bullying of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender www.TPRonline.org. The Prevention Researcher. September 2012. PACER National Bullying Prevention Center. www.pacer.org/bullying/about. PACER Center, Inc. 2016. PFLAG: Parents, Families, & Friends of Lesbians and Gays. www.pflag.org. PFLAG. 2017.