Shah 1 Akash Shah Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 025 January 29, 2017 Should vaccinations Be Made Mandatory in The United States? Vaccinations have proved to prevent epidemics time after time. Although they have proved to prevent mass epidemic, they also come with caveats. Proponents of vaccinations, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and The Immunization Action Coalition (IAC), believe that vaccinations should be made mandatory to prevent any epidemics in the future. In the past, some parents have refused to vaccinate their children because they were misinformed on the matter. Although they were misled, this had serious repercussions. Due to drops of immunization rates in the late 1980s, a measles epidemic killed 132 people and the over seventy- five percent of the cases were of unimmunized preschool children (Katz and Dawson). To prevent situations that have happed in the past from reoccurring vaccination advocates believe that making them mandatory for all children is the safest measure for the United States population. Although most have proved to be safe, vaccinations are not completely harmless. Opponents of vaccinations, the Vaccine Resistance Movement (VRM) and the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons (AAPS), believe that they do have potential to do harm and that one should be able to choose whether or not they want to vaccinate their children. Although rare among children, the CDC reported that the measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine is capable of causing deafness, long-term seizures, coma, and permeant brain damage. With this still a possibility many parents find it unfair to not be able to choose what they decide is best for their children (MMR (Measles, Mumps, & Rubella) VIS). In addition, Shah 2 opponents also believe that making vaccinations mandatory is a violation of their human rights and that the government has no right to intervene. With these both sides of the vaccination war contrast greatly. The proponents of vaccinations want to make vaccinations mandatory and educate the public on the matter. Meanwhile, the opponents of vaccinations want to make them a choice because mandatory vaccinations are a violation of human rights and because they are potentially harmful to children. A solution to the vaccination war is to make every couple that has a child to take a vaccination course made by the CDC. Then they can decide for themselves whether or they want to vaccinate their child. This way everyone is properly educated on the matter and is capable of deciding whether or not vaccines are safe for their children. In addition, no one is infringing on human rights by being forced to do anything. Vaccinations first appeared in the late eighteenth century; they were discovered by the physician Edward Jenner. He came about them through the observations he made about the local milk maids. He first took into account that they were insusceptible to smallpox out breaks. He was determined to find out how their bodies could subsist while others suffered. After, he pursued this observation and hypothesized that they were immune because of previous exposures. He then tested his hypothesis by injecting a miniscule amount of pus into a human subject. The subject remained uninfected by other exposures to the pathogen, thus proving his postulation to be true (Stern and Markel). Since the manifestation of vaccinations they proved to be safe, until Andrew work was brought to light in the scientific community. Wakefield, a gastroenterologist, conducted a study that showed a correlation between taking the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine and being affected by a syndrome of autism; essentially he was saying the MMR Shah 3 vaccine causes autism. His study was rejected by a group of peer-reviewing experts. Adamant that his findings were valid, he moved to the United States and leaked study to the media who displayed his findings to the public. Before long, parents were convinced that vaccine are unsafe for their children and refused to vaccinate them. Soon, measles outbreaks began as a result of a large portion of children being unvaccinated. As a result of propaganda by the media and vaccines are seen as detrimental or ineffective to health. Subsequently, Wakefield was brought upon the General Medical Council, and barred of his medical license the next year (Knopf). With many parents misinformed on the matter, the US government has questioned whether or not vaccinations should be made mandatory for all children. Organizations like the CDC and IAC believe that all children should be vaccinated. Their goal is to prevent epidemics like the measles epidemic of 1980. They believe that there are too many misinformed parents on the matter so they should not be left to decide what is best for their child. When Wakefield had leaked his work to the media they spread false information on vaccinations. For many parent their primary source of information was some form media that displayed false information. The greatest mistrust is with the MMR vaccine. After another measles outbreak began in 2014, a pew poll was conducted showed that some areas has immunization rates as low as 50 percent. The outbreak was caused by a visitor in California which led to 141 incidents in over seven states including Canada and Mexico (Katz, Dawn). Ergo, the number of unvaccinated people is significantly underestimated. This attests to the argument that parents should not be allowed to choose whether or not they should vaccinate their children. If immunization rates go as low as 50 percent in some areas then that makes some areas of a population highly susceptible to outbreak which lead to epidemics; before you know it the Shah 4 pathogen would have infected half the nation. Clearly, the US government cannot let this happen therefore they must take precautions to protect their people. Although the government want to protect the nation from nationwide epidemics, they should not be able to force parent to vaccinate their children. Opponents of mandatory vaccinations believe that such a policy would impede on their personal rights. The goal of the VRM and AAPS is to ensure that everyone is protected of their right and warned that vaccinations are not completely safe. They believe that if the government can force unwilling citizens to be injected with biological substances, then there is no parameter to which individual rights the government can take away. According to US congressman Ron Paul, he believes that mandated smallpox vaccinations policies, not smallpox vaccinations themselves, should not implemented. single person, including the President of the United States, should ever be given the power to make a medical decision for potentially millions of Americans (Government Vaccines Bad Policy, Bad Medicine Even some members of congress believe that making medical decisions for millions of Americans is invasive of their personal rights, especially when there is potential for harm to health. In addition to impeding one personal rights, vaccinations can also be deleterious to infants and they should be forced to take them at a young age. Many vaccines contain dangerous substances like aluminum, egg protein, antibiotics, formaldehyde, and thimerosal (a mercury- containing preservative). Although the disorder rarely occurs, thimerosal, found in some vaccines, is linked to autism. Aluminum is harmless when ingested because the body does not absorb it when it is consumed. When it is put into vaccines and injected it is meant to increase the effects of the vaccine. However, when aluminum is injected into the body while kidney function is impaired or a baby is premature it can accumulate in their bones and brain and Shah 5 become toxic. If child is given above the recommended dose then this could be fatal and cause permanent brain damage. Formaldehyde, a toxic cancer causing carcinogen, is harmless when used in vaccines. Nonetheless, when one is allergic to it the substance can cause many side effects; and about 15 percent of the general population is allergic to the substance. A parent unaware of their allergies could give such a vaccine containing formaldehyde and cause a great deal of suffering (Megan). Ergo, if all parents were forced to give their children vaccinations without any precautions taken for children many health would be at risk. When the both stakeholders, for and against vaccinations, are juxtaposed each side is in contrast with the other. One difference is that the proponents for mandatory vaccinations say that it is necessary because parents are incapable of deciding for themselves due to propaganda of misleading information; meanwhile, the opposition claims that by doing so the government is impeding of rights. Another difference is that the proponents believes that if everyone is vaccinated, then epidemics that have happened in the past can be prevented in the future. On the other hand, the demurral claims that if everyone is immunized then then many health could be at risk. One aspect they have in common is that both sides are concerned for the overall well-being of the children getting vaccinated. To reconcile both side of the mandatory vaccination conflict each side must receive compensation for their perspective on how to keep the children safe. The settlement between both sides is to make every couple that has a child to take a vaccination course made by the CDC. Then they can decide for themselves whether or they want to vaccinate their child. The proponents get to educate the people on the matter because although vaccines can make a negative impact on the subject, the opposition can often exaggerates and misinforms the public. Shah 6 The opposition gets to protect the individual rights. Now that the public would have been educated on the matter, they can decide for themselves. Finally, both stakeholders have received fair compensation. In conclusion, both stakeholders were at odd on the matter of mandatory vaccination. The advocates felt that many people were misinformed on the issue and should not be able to choose for themselves. The opposition claimed that forcing people to get vaccinated was impeding on a individual rights. In addition, they claimed that they can potentially be harmful. Ultimately, they came to the settlement that the advocates would get to educate the parents on the matter and the opposition gets to protect individual right. Shah 7 Works Cited Government Vaccines - Bad Policy, Bad  International Medical Council on Vaccination. N.p., 10 Dec. 2002. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. MMR (Measles, Mumps, & Rubella)  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 18 June 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Katz, Samuel L., Dawn Richardson. Issue: Should vaccinations be CQ Researchers 2000: Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Oct. 2016. Knopf, Alison. MMR vs. Autism: A False  The Brown University Child and Adolescent Behavior Letter 31. (2005): 1-2. Academic Search Premier. Web. 10 Sept. 2016. Megan. Vaccine Ingredients A Comprehensive  VaxTruth.org. N.p., 11 Aug. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Stern, Alexandra Minna, and Markel Howard. The History Of Vaccines And Immunization: Familiar Patterns, New  Health Affairs 24.No.3 (2005): 611-21. Web. 10 Sept. 2016.