Garrett Kriston ENG1102 Intermediate Draft Due: 2/1/17 Child Policy The population increases significantly from generation to generation, and with only limited amounts of land here on earth, it can easily be seen as an issue in the To solve this problem, or more as an incentive, some countries have put a in place; a policy in which a family was only limited to bearing a specific maximum amount of children, or face fees and financial penalties. The policy necessarily forbid a family from having multiple children; however, if so, they can face financial abuse from the government. Vietnam currently has a policy, and China just implemented a policy as well an increase from their previous policy. Although child policies can limit the population, which is beneficial at the moment, they take away the rights of a family who would rather bear more children. They can also put women in extremely sensitive situations; someone who is against abortion due to or even religion can be forced to make a stressful decision. So the question is: Are child policies necessary to control population? Is there possibly an alternative solution? Or can child policies gain the support of the majority with slight modifications? Today there are approximately 7 billion people in the world, and the population is predicted to grow to at least 9 billion by the year 2040. Although the numbers keep rising, the growth rate has shown to decrease with a possible stabilization 0% growth rate before 2100 due to a decrease in fertility rate. For someone who specialize in numbers, an easy way to describe this situation. say a country has a population of 1,000, and in one year, 200 are born and 100 die. The population increased from 1,000 to 1,100 a 10% increase. Now lets say the next year only 150 are born, and 100 die. The increase from 1,100 to 1,150 decreased the growth rate from 10% to just under 5%. says that this growth will eventually hit 0%, and has a great chance of actually decreasing, resulting in a lower world population. So what exactly do these statistics have to do with a child policy? Actually, more than that meets the eyes. Child policies are put in place to control population, but if the population is projected to decrease before 2100, some might as the question, the point of maintaining such a Think of it this way, the population is still increasing even with the policy, so imagine how much larger the growth rate with be without the implementation of the policy; it would be outrageous! In a way, the child policies placed in some countries have done some good by controlling the population growth. These policies necessarily put in place to lower population, but more or less to control it. Population is a huge role in this world, from people operating businesses, to others collecting staple materials, such as oil, to keep a beneficial balance in the world. Child policies have done a great job controlling the growth of the population to a stable number. The limit is too extreme. It violates law. And in the long run, this will lead to mother  [2 1 According to The Daily Telegraph, there were approximately 20,000 abortions Guangdong Province in only a year because of violation of policy. [2 2 Along with this, scientist Steven W. Mosher talks about how women already in labor, during their last month of pregnancy were having their child killed while still in the womb, or even right after birth because of child policy regulations. [2 3 Child polices do in fact do a great job in controlling the population; however, theirs always a consequence, and someone has to pay it. Abortion is a complicated, and sensitive topic that plays a moral and religious role in life. People have their own views and opinions, which will not be discussed here, but for women who are against abortion, these consequences above can be traumatizing. Child policies in some countries include a violation of human rights to complement with a control in population. Pregnancy, in my opinion, is probably the grayest area in child policies, especially unplanned pregnancies. When people follow a child policy, they tend to plan pregnancies, but for woman who accidently become pregnant, now they have to accustom to the policy, even if it means having their right abused and forced to abort their child or even have him or her killed after birth. Some countries still enforce this policy, and some have recently outlawed it. In 2002, China went away with forced abortions, giving back humanity. [2 4 Although some countries are modifying their policies, some are not, and the people unfortunately must take the hit for it. All in all, child policies can violate the of humans, all for the greater good for the government itself. Going back to the original question, Child Policies without looking at this from a humanity standpoint, in some cases absolutely. Our population skyrocketed even higher if it for the policies. With population at 1.38 billion people one country containing almost 20% of the population a law as such can be extremely necessary. either one of two options, control the countries population, or expedite a fraction into other countries. With a population as large as China, child policies are perfect, because the government have to force people out of the country to control population; if individuals like the crowdedness, they can always chose to leave at their own free will. In a country like the United States, they have so much free land compared to the population that it over crowded; therefore, a child policy quite needed. As shown, child policies are best, if implemented, in countries with an extremely large density of humans per area of land. about an alternative solution? And if not, are there modifications that could be made to existing I believe that an alternative can really be concluded at this point. The purpose of a Child policy is to control population and growth. Ideally though, some changes could be made to better benefit individuals who chose to live in a country with such plans. First off, individuals should always have their rights protected, so I believe that forced abortions and killings of born children are necessary. I am not talking about views of abortion; discussing forced abortion as a result. I also believe that a policy as a minimum can help. better for the children growing up, and for family interactions as a whole. Plus, if a family wants a boy to continue the family name, which is a huge factor in some countries, it gives families the opportunity to have that chance. As a whole, I think child policies can benefit, and at the same time allowing protection of human rights. If policies were implemented only in high density countries with a minimum of two child restriction, and no forced killings and abortions, I believe that it could benefit everyone as a whole, while keeping the population at a steady and healthy rate. Works Cited World Population Prospects: The 2015 Revision Key Findings and Advance  (PDF). United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division. July 2015. Retrieved 26 June 2016. *The Wikipedia source contains sources 2 1 , 2 2 , 2 3 , and 2 4 as different sources. Each source is different as shown in Wikipedia, however, I had trouble pulling up the individual sources themselves. Total of 7 sources.