Abortion, as defined by Merriam-Webster Dictionary is termination of a pregnancy after, accompanied by, resulting in, or closely followed by the death of the embryo or For many years abortion has been viewed as a controversial topic at a stalemate as far as compromises are concerned. The Pro-Life Action League is an organization that does not agree with the concept of abortion. Their belief is that mothers are faced with other options other than abortion and they strive to stray mothers away from abortion. The National Federation of abortion believes abortion is a decision. They strive to ensure woman have access to safe abortions and pregnancy care. With the common ground of ensuring the wellbeing of the mother, pro-life organizations such as the Pro-life Action League (PLAL) and pro-choice organizations such as the National Abortion Federation (NAF) can come together and compromise on this subject. By establishing a joint organization that supports the decisions of the mother as well as considers the life of the fetus. The Pro-life Action League is an organization aimed at unborn children through non-violent direct (prolifeaction). This organization participates in counseling, prayer vigils, and peaceful protest in order to offer mothers, and families alternatives to abortion. PLAL speaks to abortionist and works to prove the immortality of abortion. The National Abortion Federation believes every woman has the ability to make informed decisions about their reproductive system. NAF stresses the importance of education on the topic of abortion and the other options there may be. According to the National Abortion Federation website, the NAF; as an international organization, works to increase access to quality abortion care by supporting in-country health care professionals with training and education n.p.). With an issue as intensely sensitive and controversial as abortion there seems to be nothing in common with the Pro-life Action League and the National Abortion Federation. While at a first glance this may seem logical, the truth is far from it. Both organizations share the goal of ensuring the wellbeing of the mother. The National abortion federation aims to educate mothers, and people in general about pregnancy health care, abortions, and the options that women facing abortions have. The organization is listed as an educational resource for several websites including Nursing students for sexual and reproductive health. They ground themselves in providing the assurance of safe and high-quality care. Similar to the National Abortion Federation, the Pro-Life Action League reach out to abortion-bound women and couples and encourage them to stray away from the option of abortion. They offer prayer vigils, counseling, and access to pregnancy resources. Their activism and outreach has been mentioned in numerous news stories They focus on the well-being of the mother and/or parents in order to ensure the safety of the fetus. The PLAL believes that abortions wound mothers physically and emotionally. Both the PLAL as well as the NAF, want to help mothers make an educated and safe decisions. A compromise between the National Abortion Federation and the Pro-life Action League may not seem feasible, but with the interest of the wellbeing of mothers at the core of both organizations, compromise can be achieved. I propose that these two organizations come together to form a single organization that provides free sexual and reproductive education, counselling for those who are considering abortions, and raises money in support of developing technology enabling fetuses to grow and survive outside of the womb. The Pro-Life Action League offers counselling and educational services and the National Abortion Federation makes education one of their top priorities. By combining these two organizations, they would be able to reach double the amount of people they are now. Through counselling, this new found organization can give mothers and families all the facts and perspectives about abortion. They will be able to help mothers through the process whether she chooses to have an abortion or not. The joint organization would offer high quality abortions and education as well as down to earth and relatable counselling. Sex and reproduction education will benefit everyone the joint organization reaches. The organization can prevent the need to seek pregnancy help from the organization. By educating the youth as well as the elder generations, this organization can spark change in current trends. The education provided to people can help them determine if and when they are ready for children and all the options there are if they are expecting one they are not ready for. The joint organization between the National Abortion Federation and the Pro-Life Action League can help fund research for ways to support life outside of the womb. According to The Guardian, scientist have constructed prototypes out of female cells. Embryo have ascribed to these prototypes and grown. While there are regulations on the research, the break throughs have grown rapidly (Tadich). In an article written by Robin Mckie, scientist have successfully studied the concept of artificial growth with rats. He states, materials science advances as fast as biology, the ability to develop advanced biomaterials to build an artificial womb may be just over the (Mckie). By supporting this research the joint PLAL and NAF will be promoting a break through in the world of abortions. They will be moving toward a definition of abortion which include the termination of a life. This research would benefit the entire organization and would offer the mothers another educated option to choose from. Although the topic of abortion has produced a split and a stalemate between organizations such as the Pro-Life Action League and the National Abortion Foundation, a compromise can be met. The combination of these two organizations would have the ability to change and possibly end the abortion controversy. The implementation of sex education, counselling and support, as well as funding for ground breaking science, can lower the tensions and cease the divide they once had. https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/abortion https://www.theguardian.com/world/2002/feb/10/medicalscience.research - View more at: https://prolifeaction.org/about/