Student 1 Student L.E. DuBois ENC 1102 29 January 2017 NCAA Paying Student-Athletes The NCAA is a multi-million dollar organization that specializes in the sports entertainment business of college sports. Worth almost a billion dollars, this organization benefits from the contributions of college athletes in their respected sports. However, the athletes are the ones that are working hard and putting in their blood, sweat, and tears into the game, and they see none of the money that gathered through their hard work and effort. This is the equivalent of slavery, in a sense, as these college students are working for free basically. College students should get paid by the NCAA because they are the main workers that are the main reason for the revenue. This outrageous concept that student athletes are not allowed to get paid has sparked controversy among the players and the NCAA itself. The NCAA uses these student athletes in order to use their talents to sell out venues, gather television views, and sell merchandise from their respective colleges. Sure, the NCAA does provide scholarships and education for these students, but that just enough. As scholarships just cover school costs and account for the countless other costs. the need for school supplies, gas money, money for clothes, money for household supplies, and the need for pocket money for whatever reasons. Regardless the reason, student athletes need extra money in order to live an adequate life outside of the simple costs for school, meal plans, and school books. Sure, they could ask mom and dad for money, but for most of these college athletes, their parents afford to send them extra cash for personal spending. They could also get a job, but as most athletes know, there is no time for a job. barely time to sleep. Student 2 Athletes have to devote time to practice, and travel to their athletic events, as well as devote time to homework, studying, and actually going to class, and then you also have to include time to eat and downtime to relax from all the stress that student athletes constantly deal with. Student-Athletes deserve to get paid at least a minimal salary for their hard work put on the field that generates the great wealth for the NCAA. If it for these athletes sacrificing leaving their hometowns, practicing every day, and limiting their social life, the NCAA would be nothing. These student athletes usually get to go out and party and have fun and do all the things their fellow peers do because of their tight schedules and limited time, which leads to having to prioritize and sacrificing certain things. These athletes deserve this money due to their sacrifices and hard work. no time for them to try and pick up an extra job, so they have to struggle through college being broke. a real struggle to be walking around broke with no money, while the NCAA makes millions of dollars off of your production on the field, and you see none of that money. Its like a slap on the face, like being used, like a slave to the NCAA.