Phillipson 1 Ashley Phillipson Ms. Collins ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Deforestation in the Amazon The slashing and burning of timber and shrubbery in forests accompanying the loss of biodiversity of organisms in forests around the world is an image that is too well known. Forests once thrived with flora and fauna around each corner; yet recently, they have crumbled into desolate lands covered in tree shards and ashes, where animals are nowhere in sight. Lawmakers, senators, and environmental agencies alike attempt to create programs, laws, or acts to prevent the destroying of these natural habitats; however, this issue is too prevalent to deter by a measly government policy. Rather than creating measures to impede ineludible acts of deforestation in the Amazon rainforest, steps need to be taken to counteract the damage already done. Establishing a compromise between environmental groups and infrastructure developers is a necessary step that needs to be done to mend the prevalent environmental problem of deforestation. To do this, environmental groups and infrastructure developers must establish ways to preserve forests by promoting sustainable forest management, encouraging wood alternatives, or increasing the area of forests. By completing these methods, the condition of the forests may be reversible and preserved for generations to come Initially, to fix the problem of deforestation, the concept, origins, factors, and repercussions of deforestation need to be analyzed. By doing so, the entire purview of deforestation will be covered and the problem can be better assessed. To commence, in simple words, deforestation is the act of harvesting the trees, plants, and other forestry on a Phillipson 2 massive scale to use later for commercial consumption (Munita). Nevertheless, stating the definition of deforestation does not come close to highlighting the massive impacts that it creates economically, politically, and socially. The roots of deforestation can be traced to the Agricultural era where farmers would clear the surrounding land to plant crops and allow their livestock to graze (Lindsey). This practice is one of the many factors that has destroyed the forestry in the Amazon rainforest. Farmers in surrounding villages use the forest for agriculture means by using ancient techniques of slash and burn agriculture to grow and harvest food in the bundled, cut forested land, and burn vegetation to make way for a new line of vegetation (Powell). The process of repetitive cutting, burning, and using the soil of the land causes the fertile soil lose its nutrients within a few years. This process is one of the main causes of deforestation because families in surrounding villages receive sustenance from the forests and trade around in villages for other necessities, when the soil is exhausted, the villagers migrate to another side of the rainforest. On the other side, infrastructure developers manipulate the forests for commercialization to produce log houses, wood floors, plywood, and other commodities. The greed of infrastructure developers pushes them to harvest more of the timber to use, but in the case of the village families surrounding the Amazon rainforest, their entire livelihood is based on their harvesting in the rainforest. To combat this problem, both environmental groups who desire to preserve the rainforest for generations to come and infrastructure developers who want to use the resources both have a common ground to establish a compromise that will benefit each other and will indirectly help the farming villages in the surrounding areas. As mentioned previously, the environmental group, Greenpeace wants to maintain or to improve the condition of the rainforest Phillipson 3 which can allow the biodiversity in the rainforest to once thrive again, while infrastructure developers such as, Sierra Pacific Industries desire to make a profit by harvesting timber, but they need to conserve resources for future profit. In other words, no trees yields not profit. Therefore, establishing a compromise to preserve the rainforest can reduce the negative repercussions of deforestation. By joining forces and creating a plan to save the rainforest, Greenpeace and Sierra Pacific Industries can both benefits. The steps to reach success and optimize their benefits include promoting sustainable management of the forests, encouraging wood alternatives, and increasing the area of the rainforests. One of the many methods that the conglomerate organization can take to reverse the effect of deforestation is to increase the area of the rainforests in general. By increasing the area of the rainforest on the outskirts by planting more trees and plants can allow for a gradual increase in biodiversity. After time has passed, the agency and infrastructure developers can designate the area deemed for commercial use and long-term timber production where the developers are able to make a steady perpetual profit (Chakravarty 16). Furthermore, environmental agencies can also designate land for preservation without the interference of commercialization of timber. These protected areas can be open for the public to gain tourism and stimulate the economy and to allow foreign travelers and domestic denizens to appreciate the beauty of the forest and reasons why the conservation of the forest is significant. Along with increasing the area of the forests, this organization can also market the use of wood alternatives to protect the trees that do not need to be harvested for materialism. Although many enjoy appearance and texture or mahogany, hickory, maple, and bamboo, there have been recent products that can replace the use of woods such as wood composites that consist of 50 % Phillipson 4 plastic and the other 50% organic wood material. Advancements in technology has yielded many products that can replace wood such as Mineral-Added HDPE Plastic Lumber or Polyvinyl Chloride (Product Comparison). To continue, as technology advances more wood alternatives will be created to reduce the harvesting of trees in the Amazon rainforest. This is one of the many steps that can be taken to lessen to the consequences of deforestation. Furthermore, the following and most progressive reason to combat deforestation can alter the concept of deforestation. Deforestation is considered as cutting down the trees, but through replanting trees the concept of sustainable forest management can be promoted. This method is the most hands on and can demonstrate results. Both the environmental agency, Greenpeace and the infrastructure developers, Sierra Pacific Industries will be able to see a gradual change by planting more trees and diversifying the array of trees. Several factors must be controlled just as one would for a science experiment. For example, elements such as biodiversity, soil erosion, soil fertility, water quality need to be sustained (Chakravarty 18-19). An official plan of action to control each factor will need to be created because all of these facets contribute to the condition the Amazon rainforest. Ultimately, forests such as the Amazon rainforest need to be preserved for generations to come. If environmental groups and infrastructure developers can come together to reduce the deforestation in the Amazon, the benefits will go to both parties and others, indirectly. Through methods of increasing the area of the forest, endorsing wood alternatives, and promoting a sustainable wood management plan, the goal of reversing the impact of deforestation on the Amazon will be reached. Phillipson 5 Works Cited Azevedo-Ramos, C. development and challenging deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon: the good, the bad, and the FAO Corporate Document Repository, http://www.fao.org/docrep/011/i0440e/i0440e03.htm. Accessed 24 Jan. 2017. Chakravarty, Sumit. Causes, Effects and Control 2012. http://cdn.intechopen.com/pdfs/36125.pdf. Accessed 24 Jan. 2017. DeLuca, Giacomo. Development and Deforestation: a 2007. http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTKNOWLEDGEFORCHANGE/Resources/491519 Accessed 24 Jan. 2017. Lindsey, Rebecca. Tropical deforestation: Feature articles. NASA Earth Observatory, 30 Mar. 2007. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Munita, Tomas. and Its Effect on the National Geographic. National Geographic, 9 Oct. 2009. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Powell, Devyn. and burn EcoLogic Development Fund. 25 June 2013. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Product  Sustainable plastic wood alternatives made from recycled high-density polyethylene. EPS Solutions, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://epsplasticsolutions.com/the- plastic-advntage/epss-product-comparison.html>.