Leon 1 Carlos Leon Ms. Kristen Collins Composition II 018 January 29, 2017 Consider 21 That oh nefarious drink which charms all into stupidity; that same drink which never fails to fuel fun times ad infinitum - alcohol. Here in the United States of America, by courtesy of the Minimum Drinking Age Act prohibit persons under 21 years of age from purchasing or publicly possessing alcoholic beverages as a condition of receiving State highway (APIS, 1984 National Minimum Drinking Age Act). As highway funding is needed for expanding and maintaining highways, both very costly activities, no state refused to pass laws raising the drinking age thereby creating the modern status quo. However, to properly consider 21 we must also acknowledge past laws as well. OMICS International U.S history of alcohol minimum purchase age by state can tell us pre-prohibition most states simply did not have any laws prohibiting alcohol sale or use by minors. In fact, Wisconsin, Washington, South Carolina, New York, New Jersey, and Arkansas are the only confirmed states to have had any laws regarding alcohol. Post-prohibition most states had laws effectively limiting the drinking age to 21 while does who did not had it at set to 18 or 19 usually specifying the alcohol type or content for that age. After the 26 th amendment, most states felt that a person who could fight and die for his country and vote to change it should also be able to drink alcohol. In total 12 states maintained 21 as a minimum, 9 states restricted only liquor for 21 and above, while the rest lowered their minimum drinking age to 18 and 19. Leon 2 Then came the Minimum Drinking Age act in 1984 which maintains its effect to date. From a modern standpoint, there are two forces evaluating these facts and extracting two different viewpoints from it; namely Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) and the National Youth Rights Association (NYRA). The NYRA is group committed to first-class citizenship to its young (NYRA, Our Mission). They are grassroots movement who seeks to setup chapters and work with politicians to persuade the public to lower the voting age, the drinking age, and remove curfew laws. They are mostly concerned with youth rights in general aiming to empower and instruct young people to protect and know their rights. They also work to get and presidents and chancellors to sign off on the Amethyst Initiative- an initiative to the drinking (Amethyst Initiative, Welcome to the Amethyst Initiative). They are relatively young group (1998) when compared to MADD who have been around since in 1980. As such they have a much more cemented stance and reputation. MADD quite simply aims to drunk driving, help fight drugged driving, support the victims of these violent crimes, and prevent underage (MADD, our mission). In the past led by founder Candy Lighter they successfully raised of the dangers of driving while that effected the drop in fatalities since the (Abolish Drunk Driving Laws, Radley Balko). MADD is primarily concerned with the health of youths and adults. They find 18 to be too young an age for youths. Moreover, they advocate that than 25,000 lives have been saved in the U.S. thanks to the 21-minimum legal drinking (MADD, Addressing underage Drinking). MADD currently works to further educate youths about the dangers of drinking, and criminalize drunk driving and underage drinking even further. On the other hand, the NYRA works towards Leon 3 creating a discussion about the drinking age to possibly rework current laws lower the minimum drinking age to 18. Now consider the other evidence each group cites- Europe. MADD claims that statements such as have fewer underage drinking is a myth. MADD asserts that countries have worse problems than America does... Studies show that Europe has more underage drunkenness, injury, rape, and school problems due to (MADD, Why 21). Simply put they argue that Europe, the example, is in worse shape than America. The NYRA on the other hands simply that the clear majority of countries in the world, not just Europe, have a legal drinking age of 18. The implied argument asserts that the U.S. is being unnecessarily strict when compared to the rest of the world. Of course, the world is not the U.S. and vice-versa so then consider the facts about Europe more specifically. The Prevention Research Center explains that European teens spend more time intoxicated than Americans (Bettina Frieze and Joel W. Grube, Youth Drinking Rates and Problems: A Comparison of European Countries and the United States). However, being drunk is not the same as driving drunk. A study by the World Health Organization confirmed that Americans do drink less than Europeans, but die more from alcohol-related causes (WHO, Global status report on alcohol and health). Moreover, tradition in Europe is such that a glass of wine at dinner is not uncommon for children as young as (Huffington Post, Wil Fulton, is it Time to Lower the Drinking Age to 18?). The commonly held belief in Europe is that the forbidden fruit appeal that alcohol has disappears if you teach children from a young age so that when they are teenagers they are not encouraged to do illegal things to get alcohol nor do illegal things with it. Thereby producing more responsible drinking habits in teenagers. Yet, the tradition theory is but Leon 4 one viewpoint. A critical point missed by both MADD and the NYRA who reject all other viewpoints. MADD fails to realize that the NYRA is not looking to increase drunk driving or any alcohol related crimes. Instead, the NYRA find that a responsible adult at 18 should drink at 18. An argument MADD offers no counter to. However, the NYRA is just as guilty of ignoring the other side. They make no mention of the fact that the brains logic center (frontal-lobes) to mature well into the (Sara B. Johnson Ph.D., M.P.H, Adolescent Maturity and the Brain: The promise and Pitfalls of Neuroscience Research in Adolescent Health Policy). Moreover, the NYRA does not try to appeal to the fact that lowering the drinking age could have great negative implications such as a spike in alcohol related deaths. However, a legal drinking age set above the legal adulthood age- the age at which you are responsible for your own actions- is an infringement on personal liberty even if it is set was set with the best intentions. However, simply lowering the legal drinking age does nothing to curb drinking related accidents like a fatal alcohol powered car accident, all things considered, a lower drinking age would cause an immediate increase in drinking related accidents. Yet, manipulating the drinking age is not the only way create safer roads; instead, raising minimum sentencing laws and fines for drunk driving as well encouraging police officers to pull-over more suspicious vehicles for an alcohol check with a monetary bonus could yield even better than results that currently exist. The clear majority of drunk driving accidents are caused by people who can legally drink (NHTSA, Alcohol-Impaired Driving 2014 data, page 4). Thus, if MADD aims to make the roads a safer place they should be not be looking at underage drinkers nor should they be hung on the idea that taking the right to drink from 18-year is necessary to making roads safer. In the same manner, the NYRA should realize they cannot just lower the drinking age as it would cause Leon 5 spike in drinking related incidents; they need to do more. By increasing police presence, making stiffer fines, and reworking minimum sentence laws we can both make the roads safer and give back 18-year their legal right to drink as adults. Leon 6 Works Cited Madd. MADD - Why  MADD - Why 21. MADD, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Drinking  National Youth Rights Association. NYRA, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Friese, Bettina, and Joel W. Grube. Youth Drinking Rates and Problems: A Comparison of European Countries and the United States. N.p.: Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation, n.d. PDF. Alcohol-Impaired  National Institutes of Traffic Safety Administration. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Johnson, Sara B., Robert W. Blum, and Jay N. Giedd. Adolescent Maturity and the Brain: The Promise and Pitfalls of Neuroscience Research in Adolescent Health  The Journal of adolescent health : official publication of the Society for Adolescent Medicine. U.S. National Library of Medicine, Sept. 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Thrillist. Is It Time To Lower The Drinking Age To  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 7 Apr. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. U.S. History of Alcohol Minimum Purchase Age by  U.S. History of Alcohol Minimum Purchase Age by State Open Access Articles Open Access Journals Conference Proceedings Editors Authors Reviewers Scientific Events. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Initiative, Amethyst. Amethyst  Amethyst Initiative Welcome to the Amethyst Initiative. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Global Status Report on Alcohol and Health. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization, 2011. Www.who.com. World Health Organization. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.