Student 1 Student L. E. DuBois ENC 1102 29 January 2016 Electricity Generation in the American Energy Market The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) is a statistical and methodical agency in the U.S. section of energy. The company collects, make analysis, and disseminates independent as well as unbiased information of data for purposes of making policies, efficient markets as well as a public indulgence of energy and its economic and environmental relationship. The energy company is the primary source of energy information, and the U.S. government officers and employees approve its data and analysis as well as forecasts. Energy Information Administration performs a comprehensive data collection program that covers the whole spectrum of sources of energy; end users, as well as energy, flows. The company prepares an informative power analysis, the market trends for short-term and long-term forecasts for each month. According to the Energy Organization Act, EIA was established as the main federal government legislative on energy statistics and analysis. The organization was created to respond to the needs of increasing the collection of national initiatives and publicize energy-related information and evaluating as well as analyzing the information. The organization has broad outreach to consumers and stakeholders whereby they get to engage with them in so many ways. A common quality in each of the relationships is that the company has the capability of listening and openness to change. A thesis drawn from the mission is promoting sound policymaking, make efficient markets as well as an understanding of energy and its economic and environmental relationship. The stakeholders that Student 2 EIA get involved with include Congress, federal and the state government, commerce, corporations, NGOs as well as the media. EIA makes an annual conference with leaders from other industries and the government to discuss and analyze the trending challenges that energy markets and policymakers make. To assure high-quality products for the consumers and data users, EIA uses Independent Expert Review Plan as a way of seeking technical reviews of the data and analytical task away from subject matter. The power plants in U.S. use renewable sources of energy such as water, wind, coal, geothermal, and solar to produce electricity. The wind became the second source of heat after hydroelectric power giving a percentage of 35 while 46% for hydroelectric. Most of the non- hydro sources of power such as solar combined with wind source in 2015 to produce more electricity than that generated by hydropower. The amount of wind power has made a substantial increment over the past eight years. Increased generation of electricity was also contributed by reduced cost of generation from the wind as well as the policies that advocated for the development of inexhaustible energy sources. The United States is ranked as the top manufacturer of electricity from the wing in the world. The reason behind increment of production of electricity from the wind is the great support of the U.S. government where most of the tax collected contributes to the production as well as paying the producers per kilowatt- hour of the generated electricity, which motivates the targets involved. The power grid connects the producers and consumers of electricity through transmission also distribution lines and associated facilities. However, a national power grid is not available, and only three power grids operate within forty-eight states, and they include the Eastern, Western and Texas interconnections. The interconnections work independently despite their limited links among them. Standards are developed by electric energy industries and approved by Student 3 FERC to the operations are coordinated in the best way possible. The FERC regulates the transmission of legitimate gas, oil as well as electricity. To ensure adequate storage of electric power and the most stable grid, the production and use of electricity power should be in the same time range. Transmission lines are used to transport electricity from the power station to the consumer, and they are observed to hang between metal towers. Recent research shows that mixed fuels have been combined for purposes of generating electricity in the US where legitimate gas and renewable sources of energy take part in the increment of production of electricity in the United States. The state of production projects that the U.S. EIA production of electricity will continuously grow up to 2040. However, production of electricity from fuel mix has drastically decreased from 1990 to 2014. In 1990, coal used to produce 42 percent of the electricity in the U.S. while in 2014 the production accounted for 39 percent. The natural gas was majorly obtained from shale to serve the entire U.S. which is a sedimentary rock composed of silt and clay mineral particles. The pictorial chosen by the stakeholders were used for purposes of indicating the various sources of energy used in the United States to produce electricity. The energy was produced from different sources to make electricity available to many consumers at lower prices. The process was conducted in the setting of standards to marketers who participated in consumer choice program. The stakeholders had a primary objective of providing energy services and increasing the electricity generation by increasing pressure. The message communicated by the pictures indicate that the most likely target participants in the institution were the researchers, consumers and policy makers who intended to take care of the environment by maintaining it and making rules and regulations that would govern the environment. Color and design used in the image convey certain rhetorical appeals such as emphasizing on the usefulness Student 4 of the solar panels and wind turbines. However, another rhetorical appeal is indicated by the background image of the picture such as the sky to show the main purpose of the distribution lines which is to transmit electricity to users and occupation of a large area for fuel to show the capacity and basis of the energy obtained from the different sources. The third rhetorical appeal enables in understanding the working mechanism of the solar panels, wind turbines through the transfer process and how they are made. Production of electricity have logical fallacies such as generation could lead to the destruction of the environment when people decide to use more wood, waste from crop as well as the use of coal in place of other sources of energy which result in pollution of the environment. The organization assumes that there is the unequal demand of electricity and hence its distribution is a factor of consumers. Electricity production is a summation of all related companies result. The amount of electricity produced from wind turbines is expected to increase in growth depending on the season such as being high in spring and low during summer. However, the pattern could change due to atmospheric and geographic conditions. The energy market is divided into four main sections that include the residential sector that consumed 22 percent of the total energy, the commercial section that spent 18 percent. The third area is the transportation section that consumed 28 percent of the energy produced and lastly, the industrial section that consumed 32 percent. The U.S. EIA has four major goals that are reflected in the images. They include striving to improve the collection of data and the management processes, increasing the analytical impact, increasing consumers experience and lastly to ensure the success is impacted on the targeted people. (WC: 1,197) Student 5 Works Cited EIA, US. Annual energy outlook 2011 with projections to  Washington DC: Energy Information Administration, United States Department of Energy (2011). Moxley Joseph M. WRITING COMMONS. Web. Jan 24.2015 Student 6 Picture 1. http://www.eia.gov/outlooks/aeo/?src=home-b4 Picture 2. https://www.eia.gov/petroleum/drilling/?src=home-b1