Lando 1 Alex Lando Professor Gocinski ENC 1102 23 January 2017 The Issue of Concussions is a Real Headache for the NFL The National Football League formerly known as the American Professional Football Association was founded in 1920 with little recognition from the public. Over the past 97 years it has grown into an industry that makes billions every year. Over the last few years there has been a lot of public back lash because of one major issue, concussions. In 2015 the movie Concussion came out and brought a lot of public attention to this issue. Dr. Omalu is one of the main doctors who has seen a correlation between CTE and former NFL players. CTE is a degenerative brain disorder, that can lead to depression and in bad cases death (Bien). The NFL and the NFLPA or National Football League Players Association are the two major stakeholders that will be talked about in this paper. The mission statement is to provide fans with the best entertainment possible while the mission is to help current and former players with life on and off the field. The NFL is just looking to maximize profits while the NFLPA truly cares about safety. The NFL and NFLPA seem to be far apart on this issue. But if the players are safer that means more of them will be on the field playing which will increase competition thus making the games more enjoyable to watch for fans. Since both stakeholders have common ground here there is a possibility for a compromise. The NFLPA is the official labor union for the NFL. The NFLPA have a specific mission statement but on their website, they have six main goals of their union. The six goals can be summed up by saying the mission is to protect the best interests on and off the field (NFLPA). An article written by Jay Harris, discusses how a settlement was reach in 2015 between the NFL and NFLPA but former players are still upset. Harris says that in the settlement the NFL refuses to cover medical Lando 2 bills for CTE which is one of the leading diseases that correlates with concussions (Harris). The NFL needs to increase spending on CTE and until then the NFLPA will not be content. The NFL needs to respect former players for a few reasons. One reason it is morally the right thing to do. The next reason is because it will make their public image look better. Parents letting their kids play football because they have heard about thing like CTE in former players. While a lot of people think this is hurting the brand they are still a huge billion dollar empire. The National Football League is one of the biggest entertainment industries in the world. This correlates directly with their mission statement which is, provide our fans, communities and partners the highest quality sports and entertainment in the world, and to do so in a way that is consistent with our values Even though this is their mission statement the NFL has stepped up their position on concussion. For example, in 2009 Roger Goodell came out and said the NFL has a new stance on concussions which was, if a player shows symptoms of a concussion the he may not return to practice or a game that day (Bernstein). Also, if the symptoms continue the next day then the play must have further testing (Bernstein). Since then they have taken a few more steps to show their dedication towards this issue. One of the things they have done is have third party concussion doctors on the sidelines of every game so if a player is believed to have been injured the third-party doctor will either hold them out or clear them to play. Also, there is a zero-tolerance stance on concussions now so if there is any indications of one then the player must sit out. These are all great steps to help the case that they are doing more than enough on the issue of concussions in their league. Both sides from the outside may not seem to have common ground but if you dig deeper they have some common ground. The mission statement is provide our fans, communities and partners the highest quality sports and entertainment in the world, and to do so in a way that is consistent with our values While the mission is to look after the best interest of the players on and off the field. The common ground I found between the two stakeholders is if the players are more health, Lando 3 then the product on the field will be better. Also, if the NFL invests money into former health care then current and future players will feel better about their retirement. Parents be as concern to let their kids play if they know changes are being made nationwide. So now we can see there is some common ground and compromise is possible. The NFL and NFLPA have been coming closer to reaching the ultimate compromise for years. A possible compromise for both stakeholders could be the NFL must invest more money into research on CTE and better healthcare for former players. The NFLPA must give up something as well so the current players would have to give up certain contract bonuses. For example, bonuses for touchdown, sacks, or any type of incentive. Current players will still be making seven digits a year but will get much better healthcare once they retire and be left out by themselves. Increase research on CTE will help keep player on the field thus making the overall product better. With this compromise both sides win. The issue of concussions in the NFL has been discussed for a while in the NFL. But recent years the public has been getting involved causing the NFL and NFLPA to reach certain compromises. Many people believe these compromises been enough. The NFL wants to put the best product on the field while the NFLPA is worried about player safety and their wellbeing on and off the field. This makes room for compromise. If the NFL invests more money into CTE research and better healthcare for current and former players, then players can play longer and will feel more comfortable going out on the field and will compete at a higher level. This compromise must happen if the NFL wants to stay at the top of the entertainment industry. Lando 4 Work cited Bernstein, Amy. Into The Red Zone: How The National Football Quest To Curb Concussions And Concussion-Related Injuries Could Affect Legal  Seton Hall Journal Of Sports & Entertainment Law 22.2 (2012): 271- 309. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). 30 Jan. 2017. Bien, Louis. Why the NFL Can Finally Admit Football Causes CTE and Not Owe Players  SB Nation. Vox Media, 18 Apr. 2016. Web. 4 Aug. 2016. Harris, Jay Barry1. Only Just Begun: Determining Who Pays After The Approval Of The NFL Concussion  Defense Counsel Journal 83.2 (2016): 156-164. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). 30 Jan. 2017. NFL. MISSION AND  NFL - Careers. NFL Enterprises LLC, 30 Jan. 2017. NFLPA. The NFL Players  NFL Players Association - NFLPA About us. NFL Players Association, 30 Jan. 2017.