Student 1 Student Lisa DuBois ENC 1102 29 January 2017 GMO Answers for the Safety of Genetically Modified Organisms As society advances, the development of new food technologies is inevitable. The population is continually growing, and there have been many steps taken in order to produce more bountiful and nutritious crops. A technique that has been developed to produce these more efficient crops is genetic engineering. In order to do this, a target trait of interest must be isolated and inserted into the intended organism (Powell). This advanced scientific process evolved from simple selective breeding, which involves just breeding organisms that exhibit the desired phenotype. The main reason for creating these genetically modified crops is to produce food that can feed more people than its non-GMO counterpart. This has been done with crops such as rice and soybean There has been much controversy with GMOs as their safety is always questioned, and this is partly due to the fact that people sometimes fear what they do not completely understand. In order to ease some worries, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, the Food and Drug Administration, the World Health Organization, and the American Medical Association have all deemed biotech food and GMOs safe Because of this misunderstanding by consumers, there are websites such as GMO Answers that serve to spread credible information so that consumers can make more educated decisions about their consumption methods. In order to present their message and make a positive impression on their audience, GMO Answers utilizes different Student 2 images. These images can be more deeply analyzed in order to better understand the visual rhetorical devices used. Many of GMO images and graphics used on their website are infographic in nature. This is the case with Image 1, as it is the first image that can be seen on the GMO website. One of the first things that should be noticed is how bright the colors are within the image. There are many different shades of green, red, and yellow that serve to capture the attention. One of the main rhetorical devices used is ethos, which is the appeal to authority and credibility (McIntyre and McKee 27). This can be seen by multiple different components of the picture. The use of organizations such as the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine appeals to the credibility of this website. Also, the image of doctors in this picture appeals to authority, as doctors are known to be respected across most cultures. Developing ethos in this picture is important due to the fact that the audience should trust and believe in the information that GMO Answers delivers. Another rhetorical appeal used in Image 1 is logos, which refers to logic and the presentation of numbers and statistics (Lane, et al 32). Logos in this picture can be seen in how it is stated that 900 studies were reviewed, as well as how this is based on over twenty years of data. Additionally, more than twenty scientists and researchers were responsible for reviewing all of these studies. Providing the audience with these numbers appeals to the logical aspect of the picture. The third rhetorical device used in Image 1 is the emotional appeal to pathos, as there are some aspects that feed off of the emotions of the audience (Lee, et all 37). One of the biggest emotional drivers of habit is fear, and having written largely on this image could impact the decision-making. This is because if the consumers believe they are safe when consuming GMOs, then there would be an increase in the support and use of GMOs. Student 3 Like Image 1, Image 2 serves a similar purpose as to inform the audience of safety of GMOs and seed improvement. Image 2 is also visually pleasing as it has a very calm and organized layout. The background shows a blue sky with some clouds, which can invoke a sense of peace and nature, which play a huge role in GMO message. The ethos of this image can be seen in its use of facts and statements sourced from a professor at the University of Florida. Providing a source from where this images facts originated from definitely improves its credibility to the audience (McIntyre and McKee 27). Logos can be more directly identified from the many numerical values in Image 2. The picture clearly compares and contrasts the values of genes altered in each different type of GMO. Also, logos is further developed by how the GMOs are distinguished with regards to their mutagenesis and transgenesis. Kairos, which is another rhetorical device that focuses on timeliness, can be somewhat inferred by the text in Image 2. The picture states how our understanding of genetic engineering and genetics in general has accelerated in the past 100 years as compared to before. It highlights how many more improvements can be made if humans continue to experiment with seed improvement using genetic modifications. GMO main goal is to educate their audience of how beneficial and safe GMOs are. The audience is mostly adult-aged individuals that shop for themselves, and images were used to spread the message to them. Although rhetorical appeals are mostly thought of as textual, GMO Answers shows how they can be used in images. Ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos can all be used to effectively present ideas and facts through images. Both Image 1 and Image 2 show how GMO Answers utilizes these devices in order to improve their understanding of genetically modified organisms. Student 4 Works Cited Labels: 10 Things You Should Know About GMOs. GMO Answers, gmoanswers.com/studies/beyond-labels-10-things-you-should-know-about-gmos. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Alysia Sawchyn.  Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-46. E-text. Lane, Emily, Megan McIntyre, and Jessica McKee.  Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. Lee, Kendra Gayle, Megan McIntyre, and Jessica McKee.  Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and Jessica McKee.  Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. E-text. Powell, Chelsea. to Make a Harvard University, http://sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2015/how-to-make-a-gmo/. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Student 5 Image 1: (https://gmoanswers.com/sites/default/files/gmos%20safe.jpg) Student 6 Image 2: (https://gmoanswers.com/sites/default/files/b232f9505c694327f603209795ad9c26.jpg)