Jessica Rhule ENC 1101 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Professor Campbell 1/30/17 Rhule 1 INVOLUNTARY PSYCHIATRIC HOLDS: FOR BETTER OR WORSE? In the field of psychiatry there is an ongoing issue regarding the topic of involuntary commitment. Involuntary commitment/forced psychiatric treatment involves judge/court ordered psychiatric treatment to an individual experiencing mental health problems (APA Official Actions). These treatments can be inpatient stays, commonly due to a mental health crisis in which the individual is a threat to themselves or someone else, in this scenario the individual will typically be hospitalized in a psychiatric facility or treatment ward, for at least 72 hours and then reevaluated. In outpatient facilities, the individual will be required to adhere to a treatment plan designed by the courts, established on a case by case basis. Organizations like Mental Health America feel that these types of treatment plans restrict the autonomy, disregard the intelligence, and go against human rights (Position Statement 22: Involuntary Mental Health Treatment). However, the American Psychiatric Association believes that involuntary psychiatric commitment is a necessary tool for people struggling with mental illness, and can be key in recovery (APA Official Actions). Due to their surface level differences, neither of these parties have found a resolution on their own, however, at the core, both organizations wish to help people with mental health issues recover in a humane, respectful, and effective way. With these similarities in mind, the two organizations could find a satisfactory compromise through modification of the involuntary treatment policy to be more individualized, compassionate, and detailed. MHA is a nonprofit organization that argues against the use of involuntary treatment in psychiatric facilities to protect factors such as human dignity, autonomy, and respect of persons Jessica Rhule ENC 1101 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Professor Campbell 1/30/17 Rhule 2 for the individuals with mental health issues that come through the system. This organization prides itself on focusing on the individual above all else and pushing for changes in American mental health related policy. They are a group of people aimed at promoting mental health throughout America during this time of mental health epidemic by working on pushing policy that promotes early identification, and intervention, access to integrated care, and insurance as stated in the MHA policy, they clearly show support for personal autonomy in recovery. (Position Statement 22: Involuntary Mental Health Treatment). The main concern regarding involuntary treatment is also revealed on this page when they discuss their background, MHA explains health treatment and services can only be effective when the consumer embraces providing reasoning to support their anti-involuntary psychiatric treatment perspective (Position Statement 22: Involuntary Mental Health Treatment). APA would argue that these reasons are not enough to take away from the value of involuntary treatment, however, like, MHA, Alaskan involuntary psychiatric drug researcher James Gottstein would disagree. In his research on the topic he states free from unwanted psychiatric drugging is a fundamental in additional to providing thorough evidence that said drugs also had significant long, and short term negative side effects (Gottstein, 51). This research not only proves to how harmful some of the analyzed drugs were but also, provides significant support to validate the concerns presented by MHA. In contrast the APA is an established organization that determines the guidelines for diagnosis and treatment in all things related to psychiatry, including mood, anxiety, behavior, and cognitive disorders. Their first diagnostic tool (currently the DSM-5) began establishment as Jessica Rhule ENC 1101 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Professor Campbell 1/30/17 Rhule 3 early as 1880 when mental health was first categorized by mania, melancholia, monomania, paresis, dementia, dipsomania, and epilepsy, ever since the diagnostic tool has been expanding and changing to determine what we consider mental health and how it is treated. In accordance with this, the APA is directly concerned with the treatment of people with mental health issues, and prioritizes humane care, effective treatment, education and expansion of the field Vision, Mission, Values, and Goals). The APA believes that involuntary commitment is often necessary when one is a threat to themselves or someone else because of their mental health issues and claims that it can be an effective and useful treatment method. This is commonly due to the fact that individuals are frequently inconsistent and not dedicated to the treatment on their own, thus involuntary commitment is required for it to be effective. (Report of the Task Force on Involuntary Outpatient Commitment). In their own research, later used to report on the views on involuntary commitment found legitimate results that validate their concerns, they found of the discharged patients continued to be unwilling to accept treatment voluntarily (9), discontinuing treatment immediately after despite the fact that the same patients were responsive to treatment during inpatient stay, thus resulting in what psychologist and psychiatrists frequently refer to as the door (Report of the Task Force on Involuntary Outpatient Commitment). As shown previously, both sides have valid concerns, and both sides also have valid points, leading to lack of solution to this disagreement. Additionally, since the MHA is a nonprofit organization, pushing for change in legislature, while APA is a established Jessica Rhule ENC 1101 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Professor Campbell 1/30/17 Rhule 4 organization responsible for major decisions in the realm of psychiatry the two groups have yet to work together and find a compromise that would meet both of their desires. The common ground between both parties is the fact that their priority is in regards to concern for mentally ill people and finding effective and human treatment for them. On their site, the MHA mentions multiple times, involuntary commitment is permisable in last resort, specific cases, implying they permit the use if it is on humane, and very necessary terms, where persons pose a serious risk of physical harm to themselves or others in the near (Position Statement 22). Additionally, the definition of involuntary commitment, it is to only be used when one is an immediate threat to themselves or others (Involuntary Commitment). Therefore, there is clearly some established agreement between the two groups that is not being acknowledged. Based on the established agreement that involuntary treatment should only be used in cases where the individual is truly an immediate threat to oneself or to others, in addition to changing policy so the rules are more individualized to each case, rather than established for everyone to follow, both organizations would have their needs met, and the system could be much more effective. This would include, the APA changing the treatment procedure for mentally ill patients in crisis in the next DSM, (DSM-6), to require much more in depth personal analysis, gentle and more compassionate employees, and treatments available for longer than 72 hours, per communication with individual. This compromise would prove to be a more effective treatment method based on the research claims made by Dan Moon, whose research showed a case study based on a mentally ill gunman, whom if his psychiatric analysis had been deeper, and if the professionals paid more attention to him, and spent more time with Jessica Rhule ENC 1101 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Professor Campbell 1/30/17 Rhule 5 him, he could have been recognized as someone who needed help before he killed and injured a total of 18 people. His report shows that he showed classic signs of mental illness, however, when analyzed and seen by professionals, they released him without proper diagnosis. This case shows how this compromise would create mental health facilities with deeper psychiatric and mental health analysis, and more compassionate, individualized attention and could therefore, significantly benefit mentally ill (Moon, 209). Additionally, this compromise is a feasible option because of dealing with the APA. Since the APA is already in a position of establishing the rules and guidelines for the entire countries psychiatric guidelines, the writers would simply need to include these details in the next edition of the APA in terms of treatment for the mentally ill in crisis, and the compromise would be met. Jessica Rhule ENC 1101 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Professor Campbell 1/30/17 Rhule 6 Annotated Bibliography American Psychiatric Association. Psychiatry.org: Vision, Mission, Values, and Goals. American Psychiatric Association, 2017. Citizens Commission on Human Rights. CCHR Florida: Baker Act. CCHR Florida, 2015. Curtis, Alicia. Bad Subjects; Political Education for Everyday Life: Involuntary Commitment. Alicia Curtis, 2001. Gottstein, James, B., Alaska Law Review: Involuntary Commitment and Forced Psychiatric Drugging in the Trial Courts: Rights Violations as a Matter of Course. Duke University, School of Law, 2008. Mental Health America. Mental Health America: Who We Are. Mental Health America, 2016. Moon, Dan. The Dangerousness Of The Status Quo: A Case For Modernizing Civil Commitment  Widener Law Review 20.(2014): 209. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Starrett, David, Miller, Robert, D., Bloom, Joseph, Weitzel, William, D., Robert, Luskin, D. Involuntary Commitment to Outpatient Treatment: Report of the Task Force on Involuntary Outpatient Commitment. American Psychiatric Association, 1987.