Sabrina Downing Sabrina Downing ENC 1101 Instructor Emil Smith February 5, 2017 Nuclear Power as an Alternative Energy Source As we prepare for the future, we are realizing our potential permanent destruction of our environment. The substances sought to support the ever-expanding human population are being depleted, and create mass amounts of waste and environmental damage. An alternative clean power source is crucial to support this increasing need, all while preserving the environment. Currently, our main energy sources are oil, coal, and natural gas. These three are culprits of mass destruction. Among the other energy sources, nuclear power is pushing its way to the top. How is nuclear power a better alternative to current energy sources, and what are the risks of producing and using it? Kessides, I. N. (2010). Nuclear power: Understanding the economic risks and uncertainties. Energy Policy, 38(8), 3849-3864. doi:10.1016/j.enpol.2010.03.005 Two technologies that are emerging into energy alternatives are nuclear power and carbon capture and sequestration (CCS). It is discussed whether nuclear power will be cost effective or not. This is supported by studies and forecasts done over the last four decades. Cost of nuclear power is also observed through waste disposal, risks of proliferation, financial liabilities, and risk radioactive exposure. Ioannis Kessides received a B.S in physics from Caltech, M.A. in plasma physics and a PhD in economics from Princeton University. At the time of this publication, he was Sabrina Downing Lead Economist, Development Research Group at the World Bank. The World Bank supports research and discussion of economics. Rogner, H. (2010). NUCLEAR POWER AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT. Journal of International Affairs, 61(1), 137-163. Sustaining the environment and replenishing resources effectively and efficiently is a key issue explored in this article. A major contributor to this issue is power sources. This article seeks to address nuclear power as a key alternative to current power sources. The idea of nuclear power as a threat is observed dependently with the other power sources used today. Three topics are explored regarding nuclear power: radioactive waste, safety, weapons, and public/ political acceptance. Power and Sustainable was peer reviewed by the Journal of International Affairs, which is published by the School of International and Public Affairs at Colombia University. Topics discussed here are heated debates of foreign policy and global events. Author H.-Holger Rogner was the section head of the Planning and Economic Studies Section (PESS) at the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Budnitz, R. J. (2016). Nuclear power: Status report and future prospects. Energy Policy, 96, 735- 739. doi:10.1016/j.enpol.2016.03.011 This article seeks to inform the reader of the advancements in nuclear power safety and international implementation. Other countries are now considering building nuclear power plants. An issue is mentioned on political talk of nuclear power. The author states that there should be a separation of nuclear operation from such day talk. Reactor safety and physical security is covered, while explaining the likelihood of accidents. Sabrina Downing The Energy Policy is a peer-reviewed journal that discusses a wide range of energy topics and issues. It is an international journal that covers topics of the economic, political, social, and environmental aspects of energy. Author Robert J. Budnitz is on the scientific staff at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory at the University of California. For many years, he was involved with nuclear-reactor and radioactive-waste safety. He earned a PhD in experimental physics from Harvard in 1968. Stanek, W., Szargut, J., Kolenda, Z., & Czarnowska, L. (2016). Exergo-ecological and economic evaluation of a nuclear power plant within the whole life cycle. Energy, 117, 369-377. doi:10.1016/j.energy.2016.04.022 This article provides an in-depth evaluation of the costs of nuclear power technology, and its relation to other power technologies. Diagrams and mathematical equations are presented to further explain the cost. An analysis of greenhouse gasses is also made. To compare nuclear power plant costs with the costs of alternatives (coal and gas plants), an evaluation of the whole life cycle of electricity generation is required. Authors Wojciech Stanek, Jan Szargut, and Lucyna Czarnowska are all from Silesian University of Technology, Institute of Thermal Technology in Gliwice, Poland. The other author, Zygmunt Kolenda, is from The University of Science and Technology, Department of Fundamental Research in Energy Engineering in Krakow, Poland. is a peer-reviewed journal that is international and multi-disciplinary.