Last Name 1 Student Lisa DuBois 29 January 2017 Amnesty International: Stopping Torture Human Rights are rights that everyone has, despite sex, nationality, location, or background. These rights, theoretically speaking, cannot be taken away for any reason. There are even international laws and treaties stating the rights we have as humans. One of the most important documents created was the Universal Declaration of Human created by representatives from all different cultural and legal backgrounds. The declaration out, for the first time, fundamental human rights to be universally Universal Declaration of Human It seems as though this would be common sense, but there are certain circumstances where governments feel it is for the greater good to break these rights. To be more specific, there have been numerous instances of governments, all over the world, torturing suspected terrorist as punishment and as a form of interrogation. This is a basic violation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, yet it happens all the time- which is why organizations, such as Amnesty International, form. International is a global movement of people fighting injustice and promoting human including the basic human right to not be subjected to torture To gain support for their cause, Amnesty International carefully creates images that evoke emotion and cause the viewer to be inspired and supportive of the cause. In image A, there is a plain wooden chair with a light bulb hanging from a wire directly above. The single chair represents the isolation felt from being tortured. The image looks like a sketchy interrogation Last Name 2 room, like what you see in a movie where the government want anyone to know going on. Pathos, appealing to emotion, is used in this situation because it induces a cold, dark, and depressing feeling. There are also the words can stop to the left of the chair, with the word torture crossed out. By crossing out the word, it brings attention to it. It also symbolizes the goal of the group, which is to eliminate torture. The font is white and yellow, which is a great contrast to the dark background image. It represents the hope and goodness of the group in response to the dark issue of torture. The word is in yellow font, along with the line crossing out the word By changing the color of the word Amnesty International is saying we will stop this issue; it shows confidence and adds emphasis. Ethos appeals to the credibility of the author and is the way of establishing trust with his or her reader (Hoffman 20). The image includes the well-known and highly developed organization logo in the right-hand corner to let the viewers know the credibility of the source. The wording can stop is a casual statement that appeals to the viewers reasoning, or the appeal of logos. The overall message of the image that Amnesty International is conveying is that together, we can stop torture. Not everyone views images the same way, so different styles and designs can be more affective in getting the message across and gaining support. Image B is quite different from image A in that image B is strictly words, no visual pictures. The image states by the hair. Head held under water. No air. Just water. Scared to breathe. No air. Scared to choke. No air. Scared to die. Water. Water. Water. Until you put a stop to it. At In an image with only words, it is necessary to analyze the syntax and diction of the message. Image A describes someone being tortured with water and feeling like dying. Every word is carefully chosen to evoke a sense of despair and wrong-doing. The Last Name 3 repetition of creates a traumatic feeling of hopelessness, which is the use of pathos. Kairos appeals to timeliness, the right place and the right time (Hoffman 25). Image B uses a form of Kairos called a to appeal to some particular fast approaching moment is often a attempt to create a perfect kairotic moment for his or her message by creating a sense of (Hoffman 25). By repeating the phrase it creates a sense of urgency to save the person speaking. The sentences are short and simple because not appealing to see a large paragraph of words on an image- most people take the time to read it. The color contrast between the bright yellow background and the black font appeals to the eye- it makes it more and draws attention to it. The way the message is worded, using repetition and short sentences, causes the viewer to feel like they are in the same situation as the speaker, which is an excellent way to gain support for the elimination of torture. Amnesty International stands for the protection and promotion of basic human rights, including torture. They use specially crafted images to gain support and convey their message that we can end torture. All their images have some similarities, including tone, audience, and the overall feeling of solemn. The tone of both images is serious and somber, because the issue at hand is serious and somber. The audience for both is adults, more specifically individuals who would support the organization and those who think that torture is okay. The two images discussed earlier provide two different ways of relaying the same message. Image A had few words, but a background image, while image B was completely written words. No matter the image, the message is the same- torture is not okay, we have the power to stop it, and we must put that power to use. (WC:1005) Last Name 4 Works Cited: Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Our  Amnesty International USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. The Universal Declaration of Human  Universal Declaration of Human Rights Main. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.