Mirzakhalov 1 Jamshidbek Mirzakhalov Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 Security versus Privacy With the advancement of Internet and increased willingness of people to stay connected to the Web, the world has become as much connected as it has never been before. Let alone laptops, phones or PCs, more and more household devices are starting to require internet connectivity to function properly i.e. TVs. While this has brought enormous comfort and efficiency to our lives, everything one does in the Web is with to say any information about any point of connectivity can be found and used for different purposes. As much as this is useful to FBI and other intelligence agencies to provide security to citizens by allowing to track the dangerous criminals, it is also as important for people to keep their private information unexposed. Giant technology companies like Apple Inc. also want to ensure its privacy as much as they can. Here comes the clash between Apple versus FBI or Privacy versus Security. Although the common goal of both Apple and FBI is to serve people, they have gone through many debates over prioritizing privacy or security more. Instead of diverging to accomplish their duties, it is suggested that both Apple and FBI along with other intelligence services work together without interfering into each methods and technologies which could ensure both privacy and security at the same time. Apple wants privacy to hold some significance in the minds of FBI or NSA personnel, so it will protect its customers from being completely exploited as much as it can. Apple reinforces that it is the US Constitution that provides the freedom of not to be exposed to its customers, and their privacy would reinforce the strength of freedom of speech: right of the people to be Mirzakhalov 2 secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be Const. amend. IV). For instance, there was a major court case earlier in 2016 involving Apple and FBI. It sparked as FBI requested Apple to write a software to unlock its phones to help FBI solve criminal cases, and as Apple refused, the case went to the court. Apple won the court saying that the software FBI is requesting could be potentially devastating for Apple products and their security (Chris, Bloomberg.com). Editor-in-chief of PcMag.com, Dan Costa, in his interview to CNBC about the court case, said that Apple had been helping FBI for a long time indeed, but this time FBI wanted even more access. Again, he mentioned that Apple will stick to its guns, also backed up by many other tech giants, as a defender of civil liberties(Costa). On the other hand, FBI and other intelligence agencies, namely NSA (National Security Agency) and CIA (Central Intelligence Agency) stress that most attacks and security threats can be thwarted if everything is kept under records. It is logical that for the full investigation of the cases, it is crucial for the personnel to have all the data and evidence available. For instance, they catch and investigate people who are purchasing illegal guns online, or planning some attacks with the help of tracking and surveillance. It is certain that everyone wants to be safe, but , seemingly people now have less trust in those intelligence agencies in terms of their personal data. In fact, intelligence services had relatively better reputation before former CIA agent Edward Snowden made some revelations about the excessive and unnecessary surveillance over people, such as phone call tapping (Chandra). Even if this is true, national Mirzakhalov 3 security is too delicate and costly to be ignored for the sake of privacy, and to provide this security, FBI, NSA, CIA and others should be able to perform their duties as needed. So far, arguments of both sides sound very reasonable and compelling, and both sides seem to be very much far from the compromise. However, if thought carefully, at the core of the conflict lies trust and human ego. there is a will, there is a says editor of Huffington Post, Admiral Jim Stavridis. Although, intelligence agencies insist that all their actions, including surveillance are only targeted and completely constitutional, the public seems to have lost some faith in their actions and intentions (Stavridis, Huffingtonpost.com). The solution could be, as editor-in-chief of PCMAG.com already said, the cooperation between FBI and Apple. Going into more detail, as Apple does not want FBI and other intelligence agencies to gain control of the encryption codes, it can hand the necessary data to FBI by itself. For instance, in the court case between Apple and FBI in March, 2016, the main topic was the terrorist attack in San Bernandinho, where a married couple left 14 people killed and 22 seriously injured after a mass shooting in San Bernandinho Department of Public Health training event and Christmas Party. The couple fled in a sport utility vehicles, and they were killed in a shootout after police pursued them. The phone was found and was a valuable piece of evidence for FBI to reveal the case. The phone was an Apple product, therefore could not be opened without password at all. Apple totally rejected the proposal of opening the phone. In this case, the data in the phone could only be accessed by Apple personnel, so the perfect solution instead of the court case would be Apple would get the personal data in the phone and pass it down to FBI for further investigation. If this happened, both FBI would get what they needed, and Apple would successfully reserve their rights of privacy. The only reason this did not work at that time is because both Mirzakhalov 4 stakeholders wanted to get most of out the situation: FBI wanted to learn how to crack iPhones in general, and Apple wanted to show its credibility to its customers. To put in simpler terms, cooperation is necessary to keep the privacy and security in balance, but this balance is very delicate. In the worst cases, US Supreme Court should become a key player either to let or not let FBI get what they wanted for the sake of national security. Indeed, Apple has expressed its surprise over why FBI took this case to the court, as Apple had already been helping FBI on many occasions by providing the necessary data. Reporter of MacWorld.com, Steve Musal writes the following from the court case: Sewell, general counsel, told a House commerce oversight subcommittee that the company already works with law enforcement regularly and would help develop the capability to decrypt technology itself, but open to its iPhones due to the security risk that would pose to all users. The FBI had demanded that Apple write a new version of its iOS operating system to give access to the iPhone of San Bernardino shooter Syed (Musal, MacWorld.com) Therefore, it seems that Apple is not against cooperation at all, and is willing to find the best compromise. It is now only FBI who should admit that they are not able to track and hack without a partner who is experienced and practical enough to help, and who, at the same time, represents the concern of general public. Mirzakhalov 5 Works Cited FBI Cracks  Interview by Dominic Chu. Cnbc.com. CNBC, 29 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Musal, Steve. Looking for Common Ground in Apple vs. the  Macworld. Macworld, 19 Apr. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lawlor, Maryan. Privacy vs. Protection: A Delicate  SIGNAL Magazine. N.p., 16 Jan. 2015. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. (Ret.), Admiral Jim Stavridis. Apple vs. FBI. About How to Achieve  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 08 Mar. 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Robinson, Teri. to rumble: Apple vs. SC Magazine. Vol. 27 Issue 4, p18, 6 p. Haymarket Media Group. April 2016. Steele, Chandra. The 10 Most Disturbing Snowden  PCMAG. PCMAG.COM, 11 Feb. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Strohm, Chris. FBI and NSA Poised to Gain New Surveillance Powers Under Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 29 Nov. 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. U.S. Constitution. Art./Amend. IV.