How Are Renewable Resources Taking Over Fossil Fuels? As we all know that fossil fuels are running out of fossil fuels and renewable resources are replacing them constantly. It has been like 3 centuries since when we started using the fossil fuels and now we use it to all the potential and just due to that reason, we are going to lose all the fossil fuel supplies like the coal, the oil, the natural gas and almost everything and slowly and steadily the natural resources which can be constantly renewed to be used again and again. Thousand of years of ago all the dead animals and plants were buried under the earth surface and due to high pressure and high temperature all the organic matter turned in fossil fuels which now are used to power almost everything on our planet. Just due to that we are running out on fossil fuels we started using the renewable resources like water energy, solar energy, biomass, air energy, geothermal, and other resources that can be utilized again and again. All the countries in the world are finding and working on to get the most out of the renewable resources and utilize the fossil fuel in the most judicious way they can. The governments are encouraging the the use of renewable resources to sustain development for a longer term. ALIKO, ABAZ, and SKRELI. Assessing Legal Environment Factors That Impact In The Decision To Invest In Electricity Generation From Renewable Resources - Case Of  Albanian Journal Of Agricultural Sciences 15.4 (2016): 161-171. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 Providing the country with the necessary energy is a main component required for a development and the better the energy supplied the better the country progresses. One of the major reason why we require both the natural and renewable resources is for electricity. It one of the most important and most required commodity without which nothing can prosper. Almost everything, from the the home-appliances to the car now a days run on electricity. The electricity is produced by boiling the water and then the steam runs the turbine and hence electricity is produced as a result. This is a credible source as it is from the Albanian Journal Of Agricultural Sciences. This shows that this academic journal is credible. It is relevant to my research topic as it tackles the issue of depleting fossil fuels and its viable alternative (renewable energy). Bolinger, Mark. Balancing Cost And Risk: The Treatment Of Renewable Energy In Western Utility Resource  Electricity Journal 1 (2006): SciTech Connect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Markets around the world needs electricity for everything from the smallest of works to the greatest and as the fossil fuels are getting less day by day so now all the nations has shifted their attention to the renewable resources as they are more efficient and cheaper than extracting the electricity from the fossil fuels and they are clean and does not cause any pollution and and the investment in this is quite high and many windmill farms are set up and solar energy projects are increasing at a constant rate. The treatment of energy in utility resource plans is not uniform and and very substantial. This is a credible source as it is from the, Balancing Cost And Risk: The Treatment Of Renewable Energy In Western Utility Resource Plans. This shows that this academic journal is credible. It is relevant to my research topic as it tackles the issue of depleting fossil fuels and its viable alternative (renewable energy). Are Renewable Energy Resources Large Enough To Replace Non-Renewable  Systems Perspectives on Renewable Power 2014. 18. n.p.: 2014. SwePub. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. There is a very large potential of renewable energy known by the few scholars and people on earth by the end of nineteenth century and the main thing to seek out for is that there are enough of renewable resources to replace the fossil fuels and follow a desirable necessary first step on possible and desirable development. The main reason for producing energy is to electricity. As we can see electricity is a very important energy and the most versatile too. We can harvest heat from electricity and this is the mean how electricity is got. We can also harvest electric energy from chemical energy stored in hydrogen and hydrocarbons. This is how we get all the energy demand fulfilled by the world. This is a credible source as it is from the,Are Renewable Energy Resources Large Enough To Replace Non-Renewable Energy. This shows that this academic journal is credible. It is relevant to my research topic as it tackles the issue of depleting fossil fuels and its viable alternative (renewable energy). Groth, Christian, and Poul Schou. Can Non-Renewable Resources Alleviate the Knife-Edge Character of Endogenous  Oxford Economic Papers 2002: 386. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Economy that is imposed by the need to extract successively smaller amounts of the non renewable resources can cause some very severe effects which allows for the increasing returns to the inputs that is put in and the endogenous growth reappears as an inability problem that everyone can see to it where-else the the semi endogenous growth is quite attracting, has an alternative, it can be relied upon and it maintains good stability which allows rich set of determinant long-run growth. This is a credible source as it is from the,Can Non-Renewable Resources Alleviate the Knife-Edge Character of Endogenous Growth. This shows that this academic journal is credible. It is relevant to my research topic as it tackles the issue of depleting fossil fuels and its viable alternative (renewable energy). Tong, Chuan, et al. Macroeconomic Efficiency Of Use Of Non-Renewable Resources In The Industrial Economy During A Period Of Rapid Economic Growth In  Resources, Conservation & Recycling 52.(2008): 737-746. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The efficiency of using the non- renewable resources showa us about how well we are going with the sustainable development performance worldwide at current the the statistics is deficient of extraction, manufacture and comparison and made a macro-economic to see the economic value added by the renewable resources to the industry and the annual income.compared to 1985, the non-renewable resources efficiency increased by more 215 percentage. This is a credible source as it is from the,Macroeconomic Efficiency Of Use Of Non-Renewable Resources. In The Industrial Economy During A Period Of Rapid Economic Growth This shows that this academic journal is credible. It is relevant to my research topic as it tackles the issue of depleting fossil fuels and its viable alternative (renewable energy). Stevens, Jason. The Benefits Of Storage And Non-Renewable Resource Price  Canadian Journal Of Economics 46.1 (2013): 239-265. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Renewable resources are very important for energy and development of humans and it is more to be learned about them for human growth and development. It is required for the production of all the goods and services that we have in the existence right now and the economic stability of any country now depends on it. This is a credible source as it is from Benefits Of Storage And Non-Renewable Resource Price This shows that this academic journal is credible. It is relevant to my research topic as it tackles the issue of depleting fossil fuels and its viable alternative (renewable energy).