Student 1 Student Lisa Dubois ENC 1102 1 January 2016 GMO Stand for GMO Labeling GMOs, or genetically modified organisms, is a heavily debated topic within the United States. This is considering that thirty-eight countries have already banned GMO crops (Sorry, Monsanto: GMO Crops Now Banned in 38 Countries, Grown in Only 28), many think the United States should adopt similar policies toward this controversial crop. While the crop is, controversial many companies do not take efforts to state whether their product do or do not contain GMOs. GMO inside aims to act against many of these companies to label if they use or use GMOs in their products. Their stating is that many of these companies put GMOs onto the market without any adequate testing (Why GMO Inside?). They fight this by providing many of their followers with information and ways to contact these companies and demand for them to label or boycott, additionally promoting non-GMO providers. This is important to their intended audience, as those that view GMOs to possess negative health effects would act against any consumer products they would buy unknowing that it uses GMOs. GMO inside uses their images to spur their advocators to both warn and act against companies using GMOs in their products. They achieve this not only by informing through their website, but creating propaganda images to spur the audience and gain their interests. GMO Inside tries to spur their readers to action against many baby formula providers through image A. Image A consists of an innocent looking child, plastered with logos of many baby formula producers, against a white background. To the right of the child is text stating a Student 2 question and precedingly a statement regarding Nano. The statement regarding Nano is logical and simplistic appealing to logic, or logos (Logos: Appeals to Logic 20). As Nano is about toxic nanoparticles found in such formulas, and the statement is considered extremely logical that the children do deserve better than being poisoned. The intended audience towards this image are primarily family oriented members, as they have a strong sense of pathos, or are drawn into the image with a connection to the subject matter, as stated by Lee, McKee and McIntyre (Pathos: Appeals to Emotion). The emotions invoked in this image are of shock and worry. The superposition of logos over an innocent and unknowing baby shock the audience. This works with the question written in the right, saying that companies are using them as lab rats, evoking worry within much of the audience. This worry is only heightened when considering the statement located below the question, talking about toxic nanoparticles that the children could be exposed to. This worry invokes a sense of panic, this sense of panic also invokes a call to action, this call to action could also be described as kairos. Kairos is described by McIntyre as a call to action by a sense of urgency (Kairos: Appeals to Timeliness.). The threat to the child can be used then for both pathos and kairos. The use of this image is to shock the audience and worry them about the development of their children allow for GMO inside to spur reaction GMO Inside tries to encourage its audience to take a stand against Land O Lakes and their distributors use of GMOs in their diets in Image B. Image B has a white lab rat pushing a Land O Lakes product into the trash within the setting of a dark damp laboratory testing room, with a statement using the logo of Land O Lakes to the right urging the audience to act. Their audience for this image is likely anti-GMO consumers. The main way GMO Inside tries to reach its audience is through its use of pathos, or emotionally simulating material. The statement tells the audience that they are basically treated like a lab rat. This revelation gives the Student 3 audience a sense of fear and panic towards the Land O Lakes company. The rat is placed in the image, causing the consumer to associate themselves as the lab rat. The association is felt to be negative due to the environment as well, where the lab rat is within a dark and suspicious looking laboratory testing room. The rat and setting give the audience a sense of fear and disgust, associating it with Land O Lakes. The call to action used in the statement in the image is the use of kairos rhetoric. This is a call to action by directly telling the audience to stand for themselves against the company. The use of the Land O Lakes logo within the image allows for ethos rhetoric. As the actual logo is very recognizable and adds a sense of credibility to the overall image. The use of this image is to have the audience feel as if they are being used by Land O Lakes, and to act against this company. Each image additionally has the GMO inside logo on the lower right corner, allowing for an additional ethos rhetoric. GMO inside in a clean straight font with a .org off to the side gives a strong sense that the campaign is well researched and professional. The use of this logo helps with the credibility of the overall image and allows the audience to further their search of GMO users by following the link. The intended audience for each image is adult consumers. In image A the image is more geared towards adults concerned about family or children. Image B on the other hand is more aimed towards the general consumer. Through many images showing companies taking risks with consumers by using GMO products GMO Inside tries to stir their audience to act against such companies. They usually utilize both the pathos and kairos rhetoric within their images, to induce both a state of worry and a call to action. Both rhetoric strategies work together to get the audience to worry about their health and work together. While many anti-GMO campaigns try to utilize the negative effects of Student 4 GMOs with legislature and regulations, GMO Inside focuses on the image that GMOs are not adequately tested and dangerous. Additionally, the companies that use these GMOs are practicing shady activities by not actively stating whether they use GMOs in their products. GMO Inside uses these aspects while additionally promoting non-GMO users to advocate against GMOs. Student 5 Works Cited Green America. Why GMO Inside? 2012. Document. 29 January 2016. McIntyre, Megan, and Jessica McKee. Logos: Appeals to  Carabelli, Ed. Jason. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. Print. McIntyre, Megan, Kate Pantelides, and Jessica McKee. . Kairos: Appeals to  Context, Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in. Ed. Jason Carabelli, Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1-253. Print. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Pathos: Appeals to  Kendra G. Lee. Ed. Jason Carabelli, Brogan Sullivan. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. . Print. Sukhoterina, Yelena. Sorry, Monsanto: GMO Crops Now Banned in 38 Countries, Grown in Only 28. 21 April 2016. Website. 28 1 2017. Image A Student 6 Image B http://gmoinside.org/wp-content/themes/kaboodle/functions/thumb.php?src=wp- 2.png&w=920&h=338&zc=1&q=90