Escobio 4 Christopher Escobio Kristin Gosinski ENC 1102 30 January 2017 in the sports world Doping has been a major concern in the professional sports world since all the way back in the original Olympic games. But now the drugs have become newer and better but also more harmful for the players, this leads to the controversy between supplement providers and the professional sports organizations. Organizations such as the NFL and MLB are some of the biggest stakeholders that oppose these drugs. However NXC Supplements needs to sell there product to the players to make revenue for themselves and if they are banned how can they sell them legally. Sports corporations come together every year and decide which of the drugs that are floating around at the time are either to stay banned or be added to the list to keep the play fair and provide the safest environment to the players. Richard Holt goes on to state that, anabolic effects were soon recognised and began to be abused by athletes by the early (Holt 1). This is showing that the players are wanting to take these drugs to get ahead but they can cause side effects that harm them and need to be banned. what these major corporations such as the NFL and MLB think. That is why they perform drug tests regularly so that they can keep the game it was meant to be played and enjoyable for the fans that pay to watch their games. But this means that now the drugs are being obtained through different illegal ways. NXC Supplements sells some of these drugs that are used in the sports today. They sell protein powder that is used for players when they work out in the gym to help them build the Escobio 4 muscle in their bodies. But they also have some of their more stronger drugs that are banned in these sports that they sell to the body builders but if they could sell to the players they would be able to make more money which is what they want. Ryan McGrew States that, actions have detrimentally affected the health and wellbeing of people who make the choices to use these (McGrew 1). They say that people who used to be abusers could go to their doctors and get help with what they should be taken but now that that got taken away from them they must obtain them through a black market deal and it can severely put them at risk (McGrew 1). To the NXC Supplements they are trying to provide a higher quality of the drugs to the players so that they can be put to a higher performance with less risk to their health. This may be something to consider for the sports corporations looking to stop the abuse. These two organizations could end up working together so that they can both benefit from some sort of compromise. They could find a way to come up with a list of the drugs that as bad and be able to use those instead of the illegal ones so that their health and performance will both benefit. Then they would be able to provide a more entertaining game for the fans and would generate more revenue for the sport, and the supplements would be sold to more players and NXC Supplements would in turn get more money and both corporations would be better off. In Terry article he states that, of the ban will ensure that the unfair advantage that the users currently enjoy will be (Black 372). By taking away the unfair advantage that the players that dope up have will in turn actually make the game more fair and create less stacked teams so that every team will have a fair chance at a national title. With two steadfast stakeholders in this specific field there is little room for compromise. The NFL is very against the doping and wants to keep it all banned and not allow for any of the players to use these and gain an advantage, but players still have an advantage of black market Escobio 4 drugs. However the NXC Supplements needs to sell their product to make a revenue so they are trying hard to sell to players at their own risk of getting caught. So with a compromise they will be able to hopefully both generate an increased revenue, allow for the players to take away the unfair advantage, and create a healthier and more fun game for the players. Escobio 4 Works cited 1. McGrew, Ryan, Raising The bar. January 1 2015, https://litigation-essentials.lexisnexis.com/webcd/app?action=DocumentDisplay&crawlid =1&doctype=cite&docid=15+Hous.+J.+Health+L.+%26+Pol%27y+233&srctype=smi&srci Accessed January 28 2017 2. 2. Holt, Richard. Sonksen, Peter. The History of doping and growth hormone abuse in sport. 2009, Accessed January 28 2017 3. 3. Black, Terry. Does the ban on drugs improve societal welfare. December 1 1996, Accessed January 28 2017