Jacob Conaty 1 Jacob Conaty Emil Smith Enc1101.002--Comp 1 January 27 th ,2017 Annotated Bibliography In world the population growth is increasing at an uncontrollable rate every day, but since the population is growing so fast it is a very likely food will become scarce in the far future. But no need to fear because thanks to the scientists developing new ways to grow larger and better quality crops. They do this by genetically engineering our food, especially our vegetation products. In recent news been a lot of controversy surrounding this subject on whether this process may actually be harming the consumers. Like most of us we question the same thing, are the in our food especially in our vegetation products causing more harm or good to the people that consume these products? Michael J., Dogan Gursoy, and Nancy Swanger. To Buy Or Not To Buy: Impact Of Labeling On Purchasing Intentions Of Genetically Modified  International Journal Of Hospitality Management 26.(2007): 117-130. ScienceDirect. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. In this journal entry a controlled science experiment was performed to see how people actually react when the food they buy are labeled with the in it. The scientist that performed this experiment had a variety of groups including, woman, men, age, and region of where they live. He had the stores they visit label what was genetically modified and what was all natural, in response across every group people were more likely to buy the non-genetically modified food. This scientist concludes that people have a negative thought towards genetically Jacob Conaty 2 modified food because of the media, but what they understand is the positive aspects of genetically engineering our food. The authors of this article all obtained a degree from various colleges in the field of hospitality and business management. The first author Michael Fallon graduated from James Madison university with a masters in his field of hospitality and business management. The next author also graduated in the same field from Washington State University with his degree, his name is Dogon Gursoy. The third author also graduated in the same field as the other two from James Madison University with a masters as well. This article relates to my research question above because it helps us understand what people think of the in their food. Although it specifically say if it harms or it has no effect at all, it has the opinion of people themselves. From the article we can conclude that people tend to think there are negative effects for the consumers due to their reactions. Datta, Asis. Genetic Engineering For Improving Quality And Productivity Of  Agriculture And Food Security (2013): Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. In this article the author gives us some ways on how genetically engineering our food can be good to us Americans and around the world. Datta, talks about how the quality of crops have significantly improved and the amount of food actually produced is more than it has ever been in recent years because of genetically engineering these crops. Although he says, we have produced much more food than ever, he says to have a sufficient supply of food for the future we need to produce fifty to a hundred percent more food than we are currently. He then begins to talk about how these modified foods are able to be produced in every kind of weather which was not possible before, and with growing amounts of people in this world GMOs will help keep our Jacob Conaty 3 food plentiful for the future. This Datta says is most important for developing countries where every day a number of people die from starvation or suffer from lack of food. Overall this article is discussing the pros of genetically modifying our food for the sake of food security in the world and how we actually need to do more than we are as of now. These beneficial outcomes include, but not limited to, larger crops, quality of crops increase, able to plant and grow year round, and it can eventually help us lead to a world with little to no people suffering from starvation. The author of this article, Asis Datta, is a very well respected biochemist from India specializing in molecular biology and genetic engineering. Asis Datta is also very well known for his research on genetically engineered food and food nutritional security. This Article relates to my research question because it gives reasons on how genetically engineering our food has more beneficial outcomes than negative outcomes. Jez, Joseph M., Lee Soon Goo, and Ashley M. Sherp. The Next Green Movement: Plant Biology For The Environment And  Science 353.6305 (2016): 1241. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. From domestication and breeding to the genetic engineering of crops, plants provide food, fuel, fibers, and feedstocks for our civilization which is growing at an incredible pace. This article specifically talks about how genetically engineering our food products can not only create an increase in food but also in fuels and feedstock. Also with the climate evidently changing the natural crops will have a shorter season and in result to that less food will be able to go to the market for us to get. With this new coming into place and perfecting it in the last few years we can grow more food in less acres than ever done before. Thanks to recent discoveries we are also now able to create fuels to run our machinery in a way we never thought was possible with out genetic engineering plants. All together this article show the pros Jacob Conaty 4 to just us, the people, but to everything in the world including creating new fuels to run our machinery, and feedstock to build energy or to also fuel these machines too. The main author of this article Joseph M. Jez, is a biology professor at Washington University in St. Louis. He received his PhD degree in Biology and Chemistry. Also, Joseph has several more articles published and peer reviewed about Biology and genetic engineering. This article directly relates to my research question because it is giving the reasons on how are benefitting us humans in ways other than for our bodies. Lemaux, Peggy G. Genetically Engineered Plants and Foods: A Analysis of the Issues (Part  Annual Review of Plant Biology 59.1 (2008): 771-812. Web. In this article the author talks about how in our food are actually harming not only us but also the environment in ways we never thought. He starts off by telling us how in world there are over two hundred and fifty million genetic engineered crops and this poses a bug problem. This problem is that they are tolerant to pesticide and herbicide meaning there is almost no way to kill or control them causing them to continue growing and taking over other crops at the farms and destroy those. He also goes onto talk about how the products could eventually lead to a growing amount of obesity in the world because in an experiment conducted with mice only fed genetic engineered food, the mice gained an extra twenty-five percent more weight than the ones fed natural organic products! Although, there is no experiments on humans consuming these products he says the weight the mice gained while eating these products could possibly be directly connected to what they are doing to our own bodies. The author of this article Peggy G. Lemaux received her PhD in Crop biotechnology and research from the University of Michigan in 1977. She currently is a Professor at UC Berkley teaching a class on biotechnology. Peggy also received numerous awards for her research efforts Jacob Conaty 5 in plant biology and her advancement in science in these subjects. This article relates to my research question because it gives us some harmful aspects of in our world and how it can possibly effect our health in a harmful way.