For thousands of years the forces of the old and the new have been fighting in society for control. This eternal battle continues today in the form of secularization versus anti- secularization. Secularization is the process of making separate from religious or spiritual connection or influences  Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.). The question of weather this conflict persists in the twenty first century, Does secularization cause conflict in modern Western culture?, is a heated debate. As early as the sixteenth century, when Martin Luther posted his ninety five theses and paved the way for a secular society. The United States of America was founded on the principal of of church and because of the divine monarchy established in England. Many current events and pressing issues have a great deal to do with religion and weather religion should have a role in society. The same constitution that proposes separation of church and state also states God we it is this conflict of how much of a presence should religion have in modern society. Dhareshwar, Vivek. Marx, Foucault, And The Secularization Of Western  Rethinking Marxism 28.3/4 (2016): 354. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The article is about the correlation between the increase of secularization in Western culture with the decline of spiritual knowledge. The article also discusses Karl Marx and his belief in secularization with the goal of an ultimately non-religious society. However it is Michel Foucault who realized the correlation between advancements in secular society and a decline of spiritual knowledge. This article is essential to the understanding of the long and complex conflict between the forces of religion and state. Karl Marx, a known atheist wanted a society devoid of God, a means that could be achieved with lack of spiritual knowledge. This regression of spiritual knowledge and involvement fueling secularization, in turn fuels the opponents of secularization to push for further education of religion in society. European Societies; Mar2012, Vol. 14 Issue 2, p203-221, 19p, 2 Diagrams, 1 Graph This article describes the conflict of secularization in modern day Spain. Although Spain is a modern, first-world, nation, Spain is one of the Western countries with the most negative opinion of Jews. The study examines conflicts in Spain with secularization in the Western nation of Spain. This article does well to give context to the argument of secularization and the conflicts it inspires in the West and Western culture. This article goes to prove that Spain, a Western society, must deal with secularization and how it is a nation divided on the issue. The article explores how some societies must choose between acceptance of all religions or rejection of all religions nationally, as they cannot pick and exclude certain religions. To endorse Christianity the society must also embrace Judaism and other religions as well. Current Sociology; Oct2014, Vol. 62 Issue 6, p886-904, 19p This article discusses the incompatibility between modernization and religion. It discusses the recent conflicts that religion has on modern society; and how Europe in particular is a prime example of the conflict that religion and modern society have in the 21st century. This article is particularly vital to the research question, because it discusses how Europe is becoming a hotbed of conflict with religion and secular modern society. Whilst many Western European countries are moving further and further away from religion in society there is a portion of religious extremists that want to enforce their religion upon those who do not wish to worship. These extremist do not belong to one particular religion and saying so would be imperially false. Lynch, Thomas D., and Richard Omdal. Secularization Of Public  Journal Of Public Administration Research & Theory 7.3 (1997): 473. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article speaks to the opposing viewpoint that religion and spirituality must be embraced in society. It states that secularization removes all linkages between spiritual wisdom and public values. This article uses the common anti-secularization view point that society needs religion to act as a moral compass and without religion in society, people would live lost and immoral existence. The article does not advocate one religion over another, but instead argues that religion and spirituality as a whole must be embraced by society to improve society as a whole. The article is important to the research question because it gives the anti- secularization viewpoint stating how religion is beneficial to society. The article is highly biased but it provides a clear retort to previous articles. Harrison, Peter. Science And  Intellectual History Review 27.1 (2017): 47. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article discusses how science has been a driving force of secularization and modernity, and how science conflicts with religion. One of the greatest opponents of religion has been modern science, mainly because science offers alternative answers to the questions that religion claims it can answer. The article states that the advancement in science has corresponded with advancements in secularization. This article is important to the research question because science has been a long standing issue in the battle for a secular society and religion has been battling science for centuries. Zimmermann, Jens. Humanism And Religion : A Call For The Renewal Of Western Culture. Oxford: OUP Oxford, 2012. Discovery eBooks. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article discusses the profound effect that religion has on humanity as a whole, and how its effect on humanity transcends any culture. The conflict that ensues from the debate of religion and secular society is a direct reflection of people and humanity as a whole. This article is important to the research question because it discusses how the issue of secularization transcends past the societal realm and becomes an issue of humanity and how humans interact in the world.