Abdulghani Almutana Cat Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 2/5/2017 Negative Impacts of Globalization on the Culture of Saudi Arabia Historically, Saudi Arabia is characterized by a high Islamic culture. There are different views on the effects of globalization on the Saudi Arabian society with some seeing it as a form of westernization and others of the opinion that it comprises reverse colonialism. Saudi Arabia is a primarily Islamic culture, though, with continued contact with a global economy, it has affected the Saudi Arabian culture both negatively and positively. However, globalization has its attendant negative effects on the culture of Saudi Arabia. As the main country in the Arabian Peninsula, Saudi Arabia is well known for being the least understood country with a secretive government. Most of the negative effects of globalization are being experienced by most countries of the Middle East region. The Arab community profoundly understands of their precious cultural values, which are predominantly derived from the Islamic tradition. However, the constant interaction of different cultures across the world has led to change in the way of life of some Arabs. Due to globalization, some of the normal cultural ideas of Arabs are changing, so that leads to the degradation of culture in Saudi Arabia. Also, with the coming of information technology, more Arabs have knowledge of the economic gaps that exist between the MENA regions and the western countries. Therefore, the research question for this study is: how the globalization affects the culture of Saudi Arabia negatively. Al-Gahtani, Said S., Geoffrey S. Hubona, and Jijie Wang. Information Technology (IT) In Saudi Arabia: Culture and the Acceptance And Use Of  Information & Management 44. (2007): 681-691. ScienceDirect. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. The article uses the unified theory in a study test gathered from 722 learning specialists utilizing desktop computer applications on a purposeful hypothesis in Saudi Arabia; the study inspects the relative force of an adjusted variation of UTAUT in deciding IT use and behavior among the citizens of Saudi Arabia. The study found that 39.1% of variation in expectation to utilize, and 42.1% of utilization change. In addition, drawing on the hypothesis of social measurements, the researchers found out that similarities and contrasts exist between the North American and Saudi approvals of UTAUT as far as social differences that influenced the official acknowledgment of IT in the two social cultures. The authors are renowned scholars from Saudi Arabia, and therefore are competent enough to provide an accurate explanation of globalization and its effects on the culture. From their experiences and studies in living in the country, I shall obtain first-hand accounts of how globalization has affected the different sectors of the Saudi Arabian nation. Therefore, I feel this source provides me with a source that is both dependable and relevant to the research question. The reason why I selected this source is to obtain a fresh outlook that deals with the various issues related to the adverse effects of globalization from an authority that has experienced this impacts in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia context. Choudhury, Masudul Alam, and Sulaiman A. Al-Sakran. Culture, finance, and markets in Saudi  Managerial Finance 2001: 25. Academic OneFile. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. A theoretical and observational review that attempts to explain the nature of Islamic political economy in respect of core practices between the religious, economic and economy of Saudi Arabia. The background investigation of Saudi Arabia in such manner underpins the few effects of globalization on the political economy. The paper discusses the characteristics of Islamic Law that affect the social interactions between the economy, culture, and behavior in the Saudi Arabian Republic. Moreover, the authors detail the importance of understanding the application of the tenets of Sharia law in the cultural, social, economic, and political conduct of nation building as related to globalization. I feel that the article is appropriate to my research activity in providing a researcher with a viewpoint from the perception of Saudi Arabian women who are trying to integrate into a global and westernized society within the boundaries of Islamic and Arabic culture. Therefore, the results of the analyzed data provide me with quantitative measures that explain the relevance of globalization in the context of the country under consideration. Gharaibeh, Fakir M. Al. An Exploration of the Evolution of Roles In Societies Of The Gulf Cooperation  Social Development Issues: Alternative Approaches To Global Human Needs 3 (2015): 22. Academic OneFile. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. This article reviews the social roles that women play in the countries of the Arabian Peninsula with a particular focus on the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. In the article, the author describes the economic, political, cultural, and religious activity of women in different sectors of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). The barriers that prevent the attainment of equality for females are highlighted using outline in the context of the GCC cultural norms, traditions, laws, and political activities. The analyses in-depth interviews with twelve different women from the countries of the GCC who provide remarkable overviews of how globalization has affected the cultural outlooks of the country. This article is relevant to the research topic as it provides an in-depth analysis of the different negative impacts of globalization on the Middle East countries using experimental research. In their study, Lutz and Lutz carried out an analysis of terrorism levels as well as indices of social, economic, and political globalization alongside the terrorism levels between 1970 and 2010 (Lutz and Lutz 27). From this empirical study, the findings showed that the part of globalization in the Middle East countries was directly related to terrorism. The important of this research is that the article will provide new and enough information about the negative impact of globalization on culture and political systems of the Arab countries. Various aspects have been outlined in the article, including religious terrorism as a negative consequence of globalization (Lutz and Lutz 29). Therefore, this article will be resourceful for the present study. Moser, Sarah, Marian Swain, and Mohammed H. Alkhabbaz. King Abdullah Economic City: Engineering Saudi Post-Oil  Cities 45.(2015): 71- 80. ScienceDirect. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. This paper discusses the states of mind Saudi college students hold toward Western culture. Saudi members finished an open survey about states of mind toward Western culture, comprising of five open-ended questions. This paper presents poll reactions from 210 college students in Saudi Arabia (male and female). Within the paper, one finds that significant portions of these students are academically curious and hence demonstrates a positive outlook toward Western culture. It additionally illustrates a connection between helpful motivation on students who study science and engineering. The review shows that a fair share of students favors Western culture. The discussion presumes that these Saudi students are lean towards greater cooperation with the West. The journal article is relevant for the study as it highlights some of the problems that have been brought by globalization to Saudi Arabia. It also describes the history of globalization in Saudi Arabia together with the negative effects of globalization on the social, economic, and political environment of the country. Moreover, the article is resourceful as it also explains the economic inequality that has been brought by globalization. Therefore, a thorough review of the report will enable an in-depth understanding of the historical context of globalization, the underlying problems related to globalization in Saudi Arabia, and the negative cultural effects of globalization. Works Cited Al-Gahtani, Said S., Geoffrey S. Hubona, and Jijie Wang. Information Technology (IT) In Saudi Arabia: Culture and the Acceptance and Use of  Information & Management 44. (2007): 681-691. ScienceDirect. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Choudhury, Masudul Alam, and Sulaiman A. Al-Sakran. Culture, finance, and markets in Saudi  Managerial Finance 2001: 25. Academic OneFile. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Gharaibeh, Fakir M. Al. An Exploration of the Evolution of Roles in Societies of the Gulf Cooperation  Social Development Issues: Alternative Approaches To Global Human Needs 3 (2015): 22. Academic OneFile. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Moser, Sarah, Marian Swain, and Mohammed H. Alkhabbaz. King Abdullah Economic City: Engineering Saudi Post-Oil  Cities 45.(2015): 71-80. ScienceDirect. Web. 3 Feb. 2017.