Matos1 Andrew Matos-Pagan Ms. Kristen Collins Composition II 29 January 2017 America and whiteness White privilege. The term has gained increased attention in political debates and in racial campaigns in America. White privilege is used to characterized the perceived advantages the white population has in the unites states juxtaposed to the disadvantages the nonwhite population has in the U.S. On one side, liberals believe white privilege is evident and must be dealt with in order to maintain equality and freedom. While conservatives argue opposed to white privilege and rather argue it does not even exist. Regarding education and employment, Liberals on the opposing side of the discourse believe there is an enduring system of white supremacy throughout system regarding education, employment, and the judicial system. By alluding to history in the center of their argument is the fact that white ancestors subjugated minorities and exploited what today are minorities. This reference to history is accurate. To them the government should balance out the disadvantages brought onto minorities from established historic oppression and exploitation from the advantages whites obtained. With more government intervention in the daily lives of Americans and the economy to liberals is the best way to combat perceived advantages white Americans have. White Americans first acceptance of their privilege is the first initial step to create a balance between minorities and whites. Once the government applies race considerate policies combating white privilege the lives of all Americans will improve. Conservatives believe that individuals are the Matos2 ones who dictate their advantages and it is within grasp to be successful in any area of life. Throughout history they support less government. With the belief that less government intervention will guarantee every freedom to pursue their goals. The concept of a personal responsibility is the essence in conservatism. To an extent these concepts and theories can be interpreted as truth or possibly fact. Examples are seen when conservatives approach policies that engage education, and employment. For education conservatives, do not believe it is fair for race to factor into an acceptance into a college rather their ability to perform at higher rates academically should have more importance. This idea is held true to employment as well. Clarifying from the belief racism does not exist in America but, wholly believe racism does exist America but specify rather that it is individuals who are racist. To them they blame America as a society for this is illogical. Reverse racism to them is not the answer to the differences between wage gaps, and education gaps both of which are confirmed to be true to both parties. Instead conservatives believe at its core conservatism maintain belief in essential base and irrational (Dr. Jim L. Riley). At its core liberalism has in and support of human rational (Dr. Jim L. Riley). Their views align in these two beliefs because a human being can only have rational potential if human being is irrational. Such as if a human being is irrational by nature then set human can recognize his/her own rational potential to achieve anything. For example, a person who believes they cannot get accepted into college does not believe however that they lack the potential to get accepted rather by maintaining a level of irrationality do they convince themselves otherwise. To continue if a human believes that whites have it can be interpreted as irrational and yet still seen as achieving their rational potential of acknowledging white Both parties strive to improve the lives of Americans liberals want opportunity and equality for and Matos3 conservatives want the greatest opportunity and the highest standard of living for (student news). We can agree that there is moderate privilege in certain white Americans not that Americas racist but possibly that there is racism in America which may be more prevalent than previously interpreted, to prevent this we can implement local governments to begin to teach in school. Companies will be encouraged to do so as well be giving tax cuts to companies who implement courses in which they discuss how to accurately spot racism and report it. However even though this education will highlight how certain whites may be privileged the goals, and individuals should be held accountable for their actions. Instead of focusing on the disadvantages or advantages between minorities and whites, the advantages between the rich and poor could be highlighted. This solution proposed is characterized by teaching the population that economic status has a greater impact on an advantages than race and the optimum way to combat this is to strive for higher levels of education. Liberals use statistics such as drug arrests were 4.8 times greater in 2007 than in 1980; white arrests were 3.2 times (Decades of Disparity) to prove that white privilege is prevalent in America. Which to most would give liberals a valid reason in believing why America as a whole is racist and white privilege is a real thing. However, Ben Shapiro a Jewish conservative claims statistical disparity does not always mean a  from one of his speeches attempting to debunk white privilege. So, when dissecting the reasons why both parties have valid points and yet still not being able to comprise, one must first understand that both sides make sense. Both sides simply have different ways of approaching their ultimate goal of improving every Americans life. This is why my compromise is feasible. Not only does it give both parties the sense that both of their views have been meet between completely believing in white privilege in every white American but more towards white rich Americans. A balance Matos4 between more government and less government intervention because it will be local governments who implement the policies not for say the federal government. Conservatives believe capitalism is the solution so we give companies and incentive to satisfaction to teach about which produces tax cuts in turn promoting capitalism. By harnessing a piece of both policies, it further strengthens my proposed policy the science journal states public policy tends to be effective when liberals are consistent with liberal core values. Similarly, conservative public policy tends to be effective when conservatives are consistent with conservative core (Miles, Matthew R) thus further asserting my proposed compromise is valid and feasible. 1065 words Matos5 Works Cited Bonds, Anne, and Joshua Inwood. Beyond White  Progress In Human Geography 40.6 (2016): 715-733. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 Fuller, Laurie1, Ls-Fuller@neiu.edu. Feel White Privilege? It Might Be  Radical Pedagogy 13.1 (2016): 39-53. Education Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Croll, Paul R. A New Look at Racial Attitudes in America: Incorporating Whiteness by Examining White Privilege, University of Minnesota, Ann Arbor, 2008. Ethnic NewsWatch; ProQuest Dissertations & Theses A&I; ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global; ProQuest Social Sciences Premium Collection, https://search.proquest.com/docview/304531613?accountid=14745. Rainer, Jackson P. Understanding And Challenging White Privilege In Higher Education As A Means Of Combatting And Neutralizing  Multicultural Learning And Teaching 2 (2015): 149. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Miles, Matthew R. Process Over Outcome: How Perceptions Of Procedural Fairness Influence Conservative Support For Redistributive  The Social Science Journal 51.(2014): 615-626. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 white privilege is a way to silence anybody who is not of  statistical disparity does not always mean a  Ben Shapiro