Ntukogu 1 Ofordili Ntukogu Ms. Gocinski ENC 1102 Jan 30, 2017 Gun Control Gun Control is one of the most controversial topics in our society today. News coverage of numerous shootings around the country has forced this issue into the national spotlight. Gun control is a hard issue to approach because the second amendment protects Americans right to own guns. However, some organizations like the Brady Campaign have tried to limit the guns that can be sold to the general population, in hope that it lowers the gun violence in the United States. Some people argue that since the American society is so different than when the constitution was drafted the second amendment is not needed anymore. In contrast the National Rifle Association(NRA) mission is to protect the second amendment, and make sure that no new limits are placed on the gun industry. The NRA along with numerous gun manufacturers argue that since the second amendment protects the right to own firearms, the government be allowed to place restrictions on the gun manufacturing industry no matter the changing circumstances. While the NRA and the Brady missions go directly against each other it is possible that a compromise could satisfy both parties by lowering gun violence. The Brady mission statement is to cut gun related deaths by half by the year 2025. To achieve this goal, they have tried to get the government to take action against the gun industry, which they feel is out of control. Many people are astonished by the various acts of violence that occur throughout our country. In article Battleground America she states that the United States is the country with the highest rate of civilian gun ownership in the world. Ntukogu 2 Guns contribute to most of the violence in this violent situations Stell estimates that 70% of all criminal killings in America involve guns, and 50% percent of all suicides involve guns. Stell also concludes that assault with guns are 5-7 times more deadly than any other types. The Brady approach to gun violence is unique because they are not just calling to limit the types of guns being sold. Their goals are to enforce Brady background checks on all guns, crack down on the few gun dealers that supply criminal organizations with most of their guns, and to educate the public about the danger of guns. The Brady campaign has faced resistance on some of these goals until recently. A major catalyst of change was the Sandy Hook shooting in 2012. Sandy Hook forced the gun control issue into the national spotlight after the death of twenty elementary school kids and six adults. After Sandy Hook Devi states that there have been 138 new gun laws in 42 states. And, support for new background checks is around 90% but people are not voting out legislators that are voting against universal background checks despite the majority of people that would support them. Also, research done by Kleck and Tomislay have supported the Brady theory that new background checks would lower the rates of certain crimes. For example, in their research they concluded that states that have bans on guns for alcoholics, criminals, and the mentally ill have a lower rate of homicides, assault, and robberies. However, associations like the NRA feel like these restrictions will have any influence on violence in the country. The NRA mission is to protect the second amendment. They argue that the 2 nd amendment should not be infringed on in any circumstances and that it would be impossible to limit the gun industry with the number of guns that are in America. In article she states that there are almost 300 million privately owned firearms in America. Wilson in his article Ntukogu 3 Control the argues that even if you put restrictions on guns, gun violence will still occur. He uses the Virginia Tech shooting as an example. Prior to shooting Virginia Tech was a guns-free zone, but the University still ended up having a shooting where around 32 people ended up dying. He also argues that a change in background checks would not solve the problem either because the people who would want to use guns for violence would either steal them, buy them from unauthorized sources, or borrow them. Also, there have been research on the effectiveness of laws that restrict gun purchasing. Kleck, Kovandzic, and Bellows researched several laws the restrict the gun industry and concluded that, control laws generally show no evidence of effects on crime They hypothesize that this is because gun levels do not have a positive effect on violence rates. This validates the argument that a lot of people in the NRA have, which is that guns the reason America is violent, Americans are. Wilson points out that the non-gun homicide rate in America is three times higher than in England, which he suggests is due to the American culture violent. Wilson also argues that restricting peoples access to guns would make it harder to people to protect themselves from potential attackers. He uses various examples of armed administrators or teachers apprehending school shooters before they did more damage to the students in the school. And he concluded by saying that if some teachers would have been armed there could have been less deaths at Virginia Tech. Which starkly contrasts with the Brady attitude that guns should be less accessible. Though the Brady Campaign and the NRA campaign oppose each other on most points the both want less gun violence. For the Brady Campaign their mission is based on making sure there is less gun violence. However, the NRA would like less gun violence so that they are stopped being seen in a negative light. To help reduce gun violence both parties could come to a Ntukogu 4 compromise to implement more in depth background checks for all weapon sales. This would satisfy the Brady Campaign because one of their goals is met, and it severely limit the gun industry so the NRA will be satisfied. What would be required is that the countries legislators would have to pass laws that would change the background checks. It is already stated in research that 90% of the population backs universal background checks. So, all that would be required is that the voters put pressure on their legislators to pass the background check laws or vote them out of office. There is past evidence of the NRA contributing in efforts to regulates guns. Clarke and paper points out the fact that in the 1930s and 1960s the NRA helped craft gun legislation. They state that the NRA changed from a gun hunting and hobbyist organization to a 2 nd amendment protecting organization when they got new leadership. So, if the NRA could revert to their roots they could make the transition through the compromise much easier for everyone involved. The Brady Campaign and the NRA are very differently in almost every possible aspect. However, nobody is okay with the gun violence that plagues this country. So, if both parties can keep this common goal in tact they could help create a compromise that would benefit everyone living in this country. Even though both parties will end up giving up some of their core goals a significant change is needed to increase the safety and address this huge problem in our society. Works Cited Wilson, James Q. Control the Los Angeles Times, 20 Apr. 2007, www.latimes.com/la-oe-wilson20apr20-story.html. Accessed 10 July 2016. LePore, Jill. The New Yorker, 23 Apr. 2012, www.newyorker.com/magazine/2012/04/23/battleground-america. Accessed 10 July 2016. Devi, Sharmila. The Long Road To Gun Control In  Lancet 388 North American Edition.10041 (2016): 224-225. CINAHL. Accesed. 30 January. 2017. Kleck, Gary, Tomislav Kovandzic, and Jon Bellows. Does Gun Control Reduce Violent  Criminal Justice Review (Sage Publications) 41.4 (2016): 488. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Accessed. 30 January. 2017. Stell, LK. The Production Of Criminal Violence In America: Is Strict Gun Control The  Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics 32.1 (2004): 38-46. CINAHL. Accesed. 30 January. 2017. Clarke, Kevin, and James Martin. A history of violence: Gun control in.  America 2016: 31. Academic OneFile. Accessed. 28 January. 2017