Student1 Student L.E. DuBois ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Treatment of depression: Insistent and Helping Nowadays, the depression has become the general problem in people daily life. A lot of people feel weak when they have to resolve some difficult problems. When these people have no idea how to solve difficult problems, they will get depression and have insecurity feel. Depression is a brain disorder, it has own occurrence and development. In recent years, the emergence of psychological therapy increased the success rate of depression cure. Over the depression and antidepressant research has been an important research field of contemporary psychiatry. With development of the society, there are main two types of treatments. One is medical treatment and the other is Psychological treatment. For some patients, medical treatments are more effective; for others, psychological treatment is more effective. With the depression has been valued by many people, some depression organization have found. The DBSA (Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance) is one of these organizations that try their best to help people who are suffer by depression. DBSA envisions wellness for people who live with depression and bipolar disorder. Depression and bipolar disorder can be isolating illnesses, but DBSA support groups can help you connect with others who have been there as well. In that way this organization will provide a lot of effective methods to deal with depression. For this Student2 organization, they provide the education of depression like mood disorders, educational materials and training. These images would show the goal and thesis of this organization and help patients how to treat their diseases. The organization persuades the audience to believe everyone is unique in this world. Everyone has their different needs and goals. So people should not their disadvantages to compare advantage. For image A, the background is white. And the title is on the top of the image and makes a summary: Your Unique Bouquet of choices. Some flowers are lying on the green line. They have five groups and each group have the same color flowers. However, the combos of the flower are obviously different. Each combo means different treatment and the author make Pathos here: flower make people feel relax the emotion of the audiences. 71). This image makes the patients to get their hope again. Every patients will have their unique treatment so their diseases will be cured. And the words of the image also explain why the organization comes up this idea: need and goals are different. wellness plan bouquet will be different too. None is better than another as long as works for the According to the Lee, Mckee, 63), this picture tells that now scientists have found many methods to treat depression. In recent years, the emergence of psychological therapy increased the success rate of depression cure. Especially for patients have serious depression, psychotherapy can be used to relieve symptoms of depression relatively quickly, and medicine can be embedded through psychological therapy, and gradually reduce the harm caused by medical side effects. The author believes that each patient will find the best treatment Student3 for themselves.. In conclusion, DBSA wants to encourage people who are suffer by depression do not give up themselves. So patients should pick up their courage again to regain their wonderful life. This pictures use pathos, logos, and kairos to make audience easier to understand what they want express. According to the image B, DBSA persuade people to help others who need advices. The image is made by two people, the organization marks and a question at the bottom: Would you like to use your lived experience to help others? In this picture, a female is telling her own experience and a male is listening very carefully to her. All the treatments of depression need patients themselves and people who around them. Maybe experience will help a lot for a depression patient. Psychotherapy is actually more ancient than medical therapy. The key reason is that psychological treatment must have patients on their own problems,  and self-desire to  as the basis, then the treatment can be effective. And not like medical treatment, is healthier than medical treatment. Appeals to Emotion pointed out offers a way for the audience to relate to the subject through commonly held 70). The man is listening carefully because his hands are shaking together and his eyes expressing his honest and looks like he is very expectant. The female use her own experience to give advices to the male. The organization believes these advices will help a lot for the patients to treat the depression. So the sentence at the bottom is more like an appeal. And the logo of the organization is eight persons raise their hands to the sun. These eight people include teenagers, children, and adult. And the sun means the DBSA. is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the Student4 attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating his own credibility or (McKee, McIntyre, 66). The Organization wants people fight with depression together so it uses this poster to impact other emotion and expect more and more people will join the DBSA. The DBSA uses ethos, pathos and kairos to encourage people to help each other and fight with their same enemy: the depression. The audiences of the images are people who care about the development of the treatments. The DBSA points out that the biggest problem to treat depression is the confidence of the patients and people around them. And they believe everyone have the unique method to fight with depression. The DBSA uses many rhetorical in the pictures to show their opinions. The effect of such treatment is adjusting the results of patients personally, which for the harvest to be more important than medicine. And the DBSA also believe the helping between humans will reduces the number of depression patient. To sum up, this organization does a lot for helping human against depression. (WC: 1011) Student5 Work cited Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance. Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance, http://www.dbsalliance.org/site/PageServer?pagename=home Lane, Emily, McIntyre, Megan, and Jessica McKee. Logos: Appeals to  Ed. Jason Carabelli. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context . Ed. Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. Print. Lee, Kendra Gayle, McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Pathos: Appeals to  Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context . By Kendra G. Lee. Ed. Jason Carabelli and Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. Print. McIntyre, Megan, and Jessica McKee. Ethos: Appeals to Authority and  Ed. Jason Carabelli. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context . Ed. Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. Print. McIntyre, Megan, Kate Pantelides, and Jessica McKee. Kairos: Appeals to  Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context . Ed. Jason Carabelli and Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. Print. Student6 Figures Image A https://www.facebook.com/DBSAlliance/photos/a.10150326534041122.370446.9592 0556121/10152724707451122/?type=3&theater Student7 Image B https://www.facebook.com/DBSAlliance/photos/a.10150326534041122.370446.9592 0556121/10154447182351122/?type=3&theater