Intermediate Draft In America, today, we face many issues. One of these issues seems to be the violence toward citizens caused by police. It seems to plague our afternoon and morning news with the latest in a great number of police shootings. It is alarming to see this problem elevate over the past couple of years. The public seems to have it out for the police, but what if there was another narrative to this problem which has harmed our nation. A look at both sides of this issue will benefit both parties and then there can be an understanding on how to connect and perhaps stop the violence that has spread across the United States. By examining the dangers that police face during their work, the fear associated with that line of work, the statistics around the circumstances of police shooting, and the public opinion on the police force; a possible breakthrough could be found on finding the common ground between the police and the public to prevent civilian lives from being taken. Our first stakeholder in this issue; police, police force and other law enforcement agencies, have a very difficult task on their hand. They are tasked with being able serve and 1 the citizens of the United States. Some people might say that is not what they stand for but before any type of conclusion is drawn up, the nature of the job must be examined. The dangers police face involves working with criminals, civilians, other law enforcement agencies. An officer will also during their career the areas they are assigned respond to calls, enforce law, make arrests, and issue The job requires a great deal of learning value of knowledge, and wisdom, and Another factor to consider is that many civilians in America own a weapon (many of whom should be nowhere near a firearm) 2 . This is often a reality that many officers cannot ignore. With many factors and variables on the table it is the officers job to discern these variables and make the correct judgement of a situation. That is the scenario of what a police officer of the law must do. So where do the issues arise? What causes officers to shoot unarmed civilians in the streets of America for what seems to be no reason whatsoever. The reason lies within a basic human emotion that we have all experienced at some point within our lives. This emotion is fear. Fear can cause any person, even an officer who is trained with tactical and de-escalation skills and communication !1 to fall victim. When your account for the dangers associated with the job of a police officer, fear becomes a very explainable reason for some of the actions taken by officers. But does it excuse the actions of officers? To answer the previous question, we will introduce the second stakeholder; the American public/ people. To add context to this situation, the American people have been under strife for several years over the violence and deaths associated with police officer killings and police brutality. This strife has reached an all-time high in recent years and many people continue to search for the truth. To provide perspective on this matter, statistics will reveal the amount of deaths caused by police officers within the United States. In 2015 and 2016, police officers in the US killed more than 1000 people alone each year. In fact, 94 people have already died in 2017. At this rate, we reach the same amount of people who got killed by officers in this year. 3 It is possible to reach a common ground between both sides of the stakeholders. If officers do not want to gun down civilians out in the streets, we can bring that death count severely if we resolve some foundational issues within the police department. The first issue that can be proposed is an overall reworking of the understanding of what it means to be a police officer and not teaching fear. To fully explain this compromise, it requires some patience from both sides. Police officers will start at the fundamental of their training by changing an overall mindset about the job. The perils of the dangers should be taught and understood by every police officer, however fear about the duties that they must perform should not be kept hidden from them. An article published in 2016 wrote the testimony of a former police chief. He claimed that after serving as an officer of the law he learned a few things. One of the things he claimed is that a Cop Is a Dangerous 1 The claim extends from the issue of fear being used to teach other officers in the police department and other training agencies. A simple, his life or your life, and you got kids to look He claimed that the police academy teach an officer to manage his fears but do the exact opposite. The police academy and other training agencies teach their officers to be very afraid of any situations. 1 Civilians should understand this and only try to make the officers job easier in traffic stops. Perhaps the best way to do this would be to establish a guideline for things civilians should do to prevent miscommunication from both sides. Tweaking a few mentalities and doing a couple of established procedures cause too much fluctuation amongst people and police departments making it a valid option for moving forward. Another compromise or common ground, we can find between police officers and the public would be to find a way to stop people from gaining access to illegal firearms while regulating licensed ones. The goal of this compromise would be to take away the illegal firearms away from civilians who use them for heinous crimes and add heavier penalties and punishment for those who use their licensed guns for heinous guns. It serves as a check-off sheet. Take all the bad guns away and then officers will have less weapons to worry about when it comes to talking and worrying about civilians. Officers would not feel like their lives are in danger from a routine traffic check simply because it is America and many people own firearms. This is a long-term solution which might be met with some resistance. Many people will not want their regulation of firearms to be regulated even more through extra laws however officers would be more than happy to get extra guns not registered off the streets of the American public. This plan can also setup for existing programs to piggy-back off and ride the momentum. Both sides have felt immense pain from miscommunication, racial tension, and violence. Both sides can and will work to an end to this violence and pain that has plagued this nation. The compromises that have been briefly explained here are only scratching the surface of all the possible solutions that can prevent the death of the next civilian, son, daughter, husband, wife, mother, or father. If both sides understand that at the end of the day, they both want to preserve life and protect the innocence then can they only work together to create new solutions like the compromises. If both sides can understand how valuable a human life, only then will the actions around those lives matter. Works Cited Page 1 Stamper, Norm. Former Police Chief: A Scared Cop Is A Dangerous Cop- And Fear Is Often 11 August 2016. Web. Accessed 29 January 2017 2 To Become A Police CriminalJusticeUSA, Web. Accessed 29 January 2017 3 CopCrisis, Web. Accessed 29 January 2017