Ayrsman 1 Haley Ayrsman Instructor: James Josue ENC 1102 29 January 2016 Project 1 Intermediate Draft In world there are many children that grow up with technology such as tablets and smartphones. This could be seen as a problem to many people but also seen as a positive influence to other people. There are two main stakeholders in this topic, the NAEYC and Ofcom. The NAEYC (National Association of Education in Young Children) believes that having children use technology in school will actually help children in the future. Ofcom believes that children with technology have a higher attitude and they should not have technology at this young of an age. Although there are negatives and positives on whether or not children should be growing up with technology, there is a goal to make sure that technology is safe for children. The NAEYC and Ofcom have opposing views on this topic. The NAEYC sees technology as media tools for education in young children and Ofcom sees that it is causing problems with kids because kids growing up with technology have higher attitude problems. Children today are growing up in a world with digital media all around them that is advancing very quickly. There are now tablets, smartphones, laptops and all sorts of new media that children have access to. Allowing kids to have access to technology in the classroom and to do their work can be very beneficial. There are programs on the internet and apps for tablets that allow kids to not only play games but also learn the necessary learning requirements for school. Having this technology and these learning tools is not only just helping the kids but it is Ayrsman 2 preparing them for how they are going to be learning and doing homework in the future when there are more advancements in technology. Ofcom sees that the number of kids that use tablets or computers at home has increased and the use of television and game consoles in children has decreased. Some parents say they are concerned about what their kids might see on the internet, also many say they are monitoring what their kids are doing online. The increased use of tablets and computers among kids is causing them to develop less social skills and avoid going outside. Kids would rather choose to talk to people online than face to face and parents say the way they talk online is much different than how they would talk in person. Kids are more comfortable having conversations with people over the internet and not so much in person. There are more parents now who feel like they can not talk to their kids about their use in the internet or even just problems they have without them getting upset or angry. These two organizations have very conflicting opinions on the use of technology in children, though there are some compromises that each can make so they both can see that their research has only helped parents and children in this situation. The NAEYC and Ofcom both have goals when it comes to children using technology. For both organizations to achieve their goal, some compromises will need to be made. For instance, if kids were to do their school work on tablets or computers, they would be able to use technology at home but also for educational purposes. School work is not favorite, but there are websites online that have educational games so that kids can have fun and learn at the same time. Not only that, but there are apps now available that have been made for tablets with the same purpose as the websites, this way kids that have tablets can also have the educational games at the touch of a finger. Another compromise that could be made is to put Ayrsman 3 restrictions on phones, tablets, etc. Having these restrictions will allow the parents to monitor what their kids are looking at or doing on the internet. Restrictions can also allow parents to only allow their kids to do a certain amount of things online such as school work, games, and social media. How this works is parents can go on to a program that is downloaded and they can block certain websites or website categories from that device. This can allow for kids to use their technology for playing games, going on the websites they want to go on, and doing school work while their parents do not feel uncomfortable for how they are using their device. Either of these compromises would be very helpful for these two organizations, but one may be more helpful than the other. There are a few compromises that can be made so that the NAEYC and Ofcom can achieve their goals, but there is one that stands out as the best way to make technology a safe place for kids. Using the programs to put restrictions on devices seems to be the best all around compromise for these organizations. There are many programs that can be downloaded to put restrictions on devices and even websites on the internet. These restrictions can allow the kids to go on the websites that want to use but also keeps them off websites that are inappropriate and the ones that cause viruses. Not only do these restrictions help the kids, but also keeps them protected while using their devices. The parents are able to monitor the websites that their kids are going on and be able to see what websites they use and how often they use those websites. Parents can alo limit the amount of time their kids are able to use their devices. This will allow for the kids to get the fun time on their devices but they also go outside and get the physical activity they need to be healthy. The restrictions keep the parents from worrying about what websites their kids are on and their safety on the internet. This compromise benefits both Ayrsman 4 organizations in achieving their goal to help make technology safer for kids. This allows the kids to be able to do their school work and use the internet safely on the technology they are given. Overall, children in the 20th century are growing up with technology in schools, and out of schools. This can be viewed as good or bad thing, but it can go either way. The two main stakeholders on this topic is the NAEYC and Ofcom. The NAEYC views technology in young children as a media tool for education. Ofcom has shown that children who are interactive with technology at a young age will develop attitude problems as they get older. These two organizations can come to a compromise so that they can both achieve their goal. Although there on two sides of the negatives and positives on children growing up with technology, they both are striving for the same goal of doing what is best for the children and making sure the internet is safe as well as beneficial. Ayrsman 5 Work Cited and Interactive Media as Tools in Early Childhood Programs Serving Children from Birth through Age The NAEYC and Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning and Media, January 2012, and Parents: Media Use and Attitudes October 2014, www.ofcom.org.uk