Nicholas Povolny Comp 2 Intermediate Draft 1 Internet Censorship Internet censorship has been an ongoing debate in America, with stakeholders arguing over what should or should not be allowed on the internet. Federal departments such as the Department of Telecommunications and the Department of Electronics and Information Technology want to limit what can appear on the internet (Singh, Shalini). These censors would be for social media sites, news sites, and potentially any website, that the departments deem necessary. The United States constitution protects against direct censorship with the freedom of speech in the first amendment (Stanford), however censorship can still occur. These stakeholders should find common ground, finding a balance between protecting free speech and protecting people from dangerous content on the internet. The first issue that federal departments want censored is copyright infringements. This includes sites that potentially aid illegal activity. This is typically a grey area, as the websites in question, such as piracy sites, do not actually break any laws (Condon). Sites that help people find pirated movies actually steal content illegally, they just help other people to steal content. This censorship would effect sites like google, as they would have to limit the sites that appear in a search for this subject (Stanford). More than 75% of computer owners have at least 1 illegal download on their computer and piracy sites are visited internationally 53 billion times a year (DGA). The limitation of sites in google searches would cause a significant loss of ad revenue for google with the amount of internet traffic piracy sites get. While pirating is illegal, google is not doing anything illegal by allowing these sites to show up in searches. Another copyright issue, is using material you own for homemade online content. While other media sites experience issues with this as well, YouTube has gained the most attention regarding the topic of copyright infringement. YouTube allows anyone to make content for an audience, which can cause issues with ownership of certain things. For example, it would be ridiculous if every time a creator wanted to use a song in the background of a video, they had to acquire the rights to use the song. There are far too many YouTubers who require song, video, or movie clips for their videos, so the compromise currently being used is the use (YouTube). As long as the content using copyrighted material meets certain requirements, such as not using the material to profit, then the content is allowed. Federal departments also request censorship on sites for crime related information or material that internet users might find sensitive. received 187 requests from United States law enforcement agencies and courts to remove content from its Web properties from July to (CNN). Google is allowed to deny requests for censorship, only complying if they deem it necessary or just. One request from law enforcement was to take down information that one of the departments officers, and google refused to comply with their request (CNN). Information like this should never be censored, or it will conflict with freedom of speech. People have the right to know if a police officer or anybody is dangerous, and hiding that information from the public essentially suppresses something that should be public record. In another instance, separate law enforcement group asked Google to take down 1,400 YouTube videos (Google owns YouTube) because of alleged (CNN). On YouTube, users can make videos that address anyone publicly. Potentially users could use videos or comments on videos to bully or harass people. These would technically be acts of free speech, but unlike in the real world, these acts are able to be deleted. YouTube did not end up taking the video down, as people do have the right to say what they want, even if negative. When it comes to censoring the internet over sensitive material to users, those who are content with the material miss out on the information it provides when it is censored. Issuing a warning on sensitive information should be enough to steer people from potential being offended or scarred. Over the years, google has complied with more and more requests from federal departments, but the clunky system of requests and approvals should be improved. Perhaps google can estate a list of requirements for something to be eligible for censorship, in order to decrease the amount of requests that google has to deny. News censorship has become a large issue in America revolving around the development of massive amounts of fake news stories that float around the internet. Facebook has become the largest outlet for fake news on the internet, even being accused of effecting the 2016 election results from its number of fake stories. Fake news has become an epidemic, encouraging media outlets to remove fake stories when possible. Fake news fuels opinions and arguments that are not actually valid because the story is untrue. Facebook does not actively search for fake news to remove currently. If Facebook set aside resources to have users report fake news, and then evaluate reported stories for validation, then the fake news issue would be able to improve significantly. While fake news is technically someone speaking freely, it misinforms massive amounts of people leading to unwarranted assumptions and choices. On the other side, fake news stories do increase the amount of traffic Facebook receives, as the headlines are always able to be written as interesting or ground-breaking. Fake news is great at creating buzz for media sites, benefiting companies, but misleading massive amounts of people. Facebook may consider at least labeling stories as fake or validated instead of removing them completely. The internet is relatively new, and a lot of it has been unregulated and open for free use, but as security, legal, and moral, issues continue to rise, stakeholders start to get involved to prevent any negative effects. With free speech in the American constitution, it becomes harder to settle what should be restricted on the internet. People have the right to say and view things as they please, but when those things begin to negatively affect lives, restrictions can have a valid place on the internet. Work Cited Piracy Statistics - Piracy by the  DGA, Homepage. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Free Speech  US Censorship Policy, Stanford. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Condon, Stephanie. PIPA, SOPA Put on Hold in Wake of  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 20 Jan. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. reports rise in government censorship CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. YouTube. YouTube, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Travers, Robbie. The Fake  Censorship  Gatestone Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.