Espeland 1 Stine Lise Espeland James Josue ENC 1102-100 January 29 th , 2016 Project 1 Intermediate Draft The danger of the loss of our rainforests is a topic that has been in focus among politicians, scientist and media for a long time now. It is common knowledge that the loss of the rainforest means much more than just losing some forest, the loss of the rainforest means the loss of lives, different species that we even know exists will never be found. It will also have a very big affect on out environment and ecosystem as well as it will be problematic for the humans that live in the area and lose all their resources. This is a topic with many concerns and something people have a lot of opinions about. People are concerned about the live that gets lost, and about the environment that will no longer be the same, but some are also concerned about how the economy will be affected with the loss of the rainforest. With the loss of the rainforest follows also the loss of life. Ostrich is the journal of African Ornithology and writes about their concerns about the loss of bird communities that comes from logging and clear-cutting of the forest. Their focus in the Journal is the environmental aspects of biodiversity and that there is need for bird conservations in the rainforests that are being cut down. Ostrich is mainly focusing on the loss of birds because they lose their habitat when the rainforest is cut down. They introduce the issue by stating that major challenge is to understand the consequences of these habitat changes for biodiversity and the time scale at which biodiversity can recover after such Espeland 2 (Ostrich, 2016) Also they show us that even after many years it is still showing that the communities of birds that were harmed in the clear-cutting or logging have still not fully recovered. It is for this reason that they feel like the need of a conservation for birds in the primary forests. The economy the rainforest provides is in many areas large, if they lose this the economic will also be lost. Jon Strand writes in Ecological Economies about economic models they have about the rainforests as well as he writes about the ecosystem services and ecological economics that there is to find in the rainforests. What he has in concern is that the forest may dry or burn because of fire risks. He states that economic value of a rainforest is modeled as a dynamic asset subject to fire risk and potential increase in (Strand, 2017) He moves on with this statement as to write about what would happen if this was the case because the asset value of the rainforest lays in the knowing of a constant growth of the rainforest. So if the rainforest does not grow, but instead gets dryer or in bigger risk of fire then the value would be lost. He is not saying that it is right to use the rainforest just for economic gain, he agrees with Ostrich that the life of the rainforest is more important and that we need everything the ecosystem from the rainforest provides. What he is doing is that he modeled the marginal value of rainforest losses to find out what could be restored of the damaged areas and what was lost for good. What been looking into then is what they can do with the lost areas, and how much value there is to find in them. If we can use the areas that Strand has mapped out to be lost, then that could possibly be one solution to the issue of deforesting the rainforests. Both of these stakeholders have in common that they are passionate about the fact that we need the rainforest, and the ecosystem that the rainforest provides. They are concerned about the environment and shares the belief that we really need the Espeland 3 rainforest, not because of our economy, but because of the ecosystem it provides and all the life that will be lost if we loose it. To achieve their purposes they could both sit down together and look at eachothers work, and see how many similarities they are worried about. That they are worried about the animal and living species life, about the economy that will be lost, and about how important the rainforest is in general to the earth and what we need to keep on going. They will see that they have a lot of similar points, and therefore they can look at that and compromise with the solution to co-work with finding out how they can work together to make the rainforest and the life in it conserved. Both of them look at how the future will be if we loose the rainforest and all the species that goes with it. In other words their concerns are a lot of the same, except that Ostrich is mostly focusing on the birds in their journal while Strand is focusing on mapping out the damaged and the survived parts of the rainforest. Because they have similar ideas and concerns it should be possible for the two stakeholders to find a valid compromise. Ostrich is mainly focusing on the loss of birds because they lose their habitat, so we could start there, to try and keep the habitats for the animals by making the rainforests a place that humans are not allowed to change. Strand is worried about how this can affect the economy, and also mentions the humans that live in these areas and make their living off of it. That can be something that needs attention too. So a compromise could be that they work together to make other jobs and markets for the humans in the areas. In that way it could solve more than the rainforest issue. It could also provide less fortunate people work and possibilities for a better future. To accomplish these factors they will need a lot of help. So to start off small, they need to get attention, to make their case heard and familiar. When they get the attention they need to convey their message they need support, and support can be found a lot of places such as companies that might be interested in expanding their service and market Espeland 4 to other places, or politicians that can forward their requests and after that make a plan to make a market that is not dependent on the rainforest. All of this are steps that will take time and effort, but also something that can be achieved if the work and passion is put into it. Also, the mapping Strand did to find what parts of the rainforest is too damaged and what parts that can be saved could also be something to work on for the two stakeholders. They cold make a compromise to use the damaged part and try to use that for economic gain, while leaving the rainforest that has potential for a return to normal alone, without interference from human activity. Even though we most likely will never have the rainforest back to the way it used to be, and how big it used to be, it is still an important case that needs to be taken seriously and taken care of. Ostrich makes their case about the danger of all the bird communities that will be lost if we let our rainforest be chopped down. Strand has very good points about how the rainforest is good for our economy, but the most important points of view he has is the mapping of the destroyed and still living parts of the rainforest, and how that can be used in the process of saving what is left. These two stakeholders have potential to look at the similarities and the differences they have and make it into research that possibly can be important to save the rainforest and all the living creatures that has their habitat there. Espeland 5 Work Cited: Greaves, Emma. Stanisstreet, Martin. Boyes, Edward. ideas about Journal of Biological Education (Society of Biology). Vol 27. Autumn 1993. Latja, Pirita. Malinga, Geoffrey M. Valtonen, Anu. Roininen, Heikki. of bird communities after selective logging and clear-cutting in Kibale National Park, Ostrich: The Journal of African Ornithology. Vol 87 Issue 1. February 2016. Strand, Jon. the marginal value of rainforest losses: A dynamic value function Ecological Economics. Vol. 131. January 2017.