Castle 1 Samantha Castle James Josue ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Physician- Assisted Suicide The debate for legalization of physician- assisted suicide is growing exponentially in the United States. Since 1991, five states have legalized physician-assisted suicide and since then more Americans are petitioning for full legalization across the United States. However, the Supreme Court has yet to pass this law because there is no actual being violated for not legalizing physician-assisted suicide. There are two major stakeholders that are currently at odds with each other on this issue. The Euthanasia Research and Guidance Organization (ERGO) and the Ethics Task Force are on opposing sides of this debate. To diminish the debate about physician-assisted suicide in America, these two stakeholders must establish their common ground and come up with a compromise that will make them both happy. ERGO is the organization that argues for the legalization of physician- assisted suicide. holds that voluntary euthanasia, assisted suicide, physician-assisted suicide, physician-assisted dying, and self-deliverance, are all appropriate life endings depending on the individual medical and ethical (Humphry 4). This moto, found in official textbook, proves that they believe in killing a patient when the conditions of that patient are terminal. This means that when a patient is in pain on their death bed, that it is ethical for them to ask their physician to end their life. This process is either done by the physician prescribing a lethal drug to the patient and the patient administers the drug themselves, or by the physician delivering the lethal drugs to the patient themselves. However, no Castle 1 matter what process the physician decides to pursue, they are both considered physician-assisted suicides. ERGO wants to achieve full legalization of physician assisted suicide so that all Americans can exercise their right to choose when, and how they die. They believe that it should be up to us, as free Americans, how we want to go out of this world and that we should be able to control at least this one part of our death. argument assumes that there is a sense of dignity that we have when we can control how and when we die, a feeling of pride that we can get when we can let ourselves go by our own choosing, not by sitting in a hospital bed waiting until it all stops. main goal is to ensure the well-being of patients and to help them have a choice. On the other hand, the Ethics Task Force is the stakeholder arguing against physician-assisted suicide. This organization focuses its arguments on the issues of human morality and ethical principles. The Ethics Task Force promotes the ideas of palliative care. care aims to prevent or reduce suffering and hopelessness at the end of (Masterstevd 2). Palliative care describes how the Ethics Task Force is more aimed toward making the patient comfortable in their final days, rather than ending their life all together. The Ethics Task goal is to make physician-assisted suicide completely illegal in the United States and in other countries as well. This organization assumes that suicide is suicide no matter what the circumstances are. Even if the patient is dying, ethically and morally, suicide is still considered wrong and is not something the Ethics Task Force wants to condone. This organization has compiled a list of potential risks to legalizing physician- assisted suicide. The list is as follows: pressure on vulnerable persons; (2) conflict between legal requirements and the personal and professional values of physicians and other healthcare (3) an increase in the incidence of nonvoluntary and involuntary medicalized killing; (4) killing become accepted within (Masterstevd 3). This excerpt from the article on the Ethics Task Force highlights the main risks and concerns with completely legalizing physician-assisted suicide. According the organization the personal, ethical values of the physicians will be compromised, if in fact the supreme court legalizes physician Castle 1 assisted suicide. Medical professionals will have to face a moral decision every time they have a patient that is terminally ill. For every patient that was terminal, doctors would have to ask themselves if it was right or wrong to let them die. If physician-assisted suicide was illegal, these medical professionals have to undergo this decision. All of the arguments that the Ethics Task Force makes is based off of their main goal of protecting their well-being and assuming that people, usually, do not want to die. The Ethics Task Force and ERGO do not agree on a widespread of issues. However, they do agree that patient well-being should be the main focus of their organizations, and should be the main focus of physicians. This small agreement is considered their common ground. Having common ground is an important aspect of any argument. It means that there may be a chance for compromise among the different stakeholders involved in the debate. In this case, both these stakeholders hold the ideals and beliefs of ill patients in high regard. However, they disagree on what the beliefs of patients are. ERGO believes that patients want to end their suffering all together, while the Ethics Task Force believes that patients just want to be comfortable instead of in pain. Even though these stakeholders disagree, a compromise can be made. The Ethics Task Force and ERGO have two ways they can compromise on their debate between physician-assisted suicide. First, they can agree on purely state jurisdiction. This meaning that there would be no federal law, but each individual state could pass its own law to be against physician- assisted suicide or for physician-assisted suicide. For this compromise both ERGO and the Ethics Task Force will have to give up their goals for federal legalization and federal illegalization of physician- assisted suicide. Second, they could compromise for the use of sedation. This meaning that the patients can be put unconscious for several hours to relieve the pain and to make them a little bit more comfortable toward the end of life, without killing them. For this compromise, ERGO would have to give up their ideals for voluntary suicide and compromise for voluntary monitored sedation, while the Ethics Castle 1 Task Force would have to give up some of their beliefs on treating symptoms and just making the patients comfortable and compromise for heavier medication and sedation. When carrying out both of these compromises each organization if forced to give up a little bit of their ideals. However, these compromises can lead to a more peaceful hospice environment and can dramatically improve patient well-being, which as mentioned earlier is the main goal of both organizations. Both ERGO and the Ethics Task Force have dedication and pride toward their values and beliefs about physician- assisted suicide. However, the debate cannot continue forever. A compromise must be made between the two before any progress or change can occur. Not only is this true for physician- assisted suicide, but true for every debatable or arguable topic or issue. By evaluating the goals and beliefs of two stakeholders and establishing a common ground, a compromise can be made that can end the tension and cease the debate between them. In the case of physician-assisted suicide, the agreement on patient well-being as a main belief by both stakeholders, led to the compromise on state legislature and the use of sedation instead of suicide. Thus, ceasing the arguments and creating peace. Castle 1 Work Cited: 1. Humphry, Derek. Final Exit: The Practicalities of Self-deliverance and Assisted Suicide for the Dying. Eugene, OR: Hemlock Society, 1991. Print. 2. Materstvedt, Lars Johan, David Clark, John Ellershaw, Reidun Anne-Marie Boeck Gravgaard, Hans-Christof Josep Porta I Sales, and Charles-Henri Rapin. Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide: A View from an EAPC Ethics Task  Zeitschrift Palliativmedizin 5.4 (2004): 102-06. Web.