Student 1 Student L. E. DuBois ENC 1102 29 January 2016 Stopping food waste So many people in many regions cannot have enough food to eat in the life, but another part of people still wasting food in their life. Food waste is a social problem in the world. From the Natural Resources Defense Council a 2012 report that 40 percent of food is never eaten in the United States. According to the EAP, it had more than 37 million tons food waste in 2013 in the United States. And food waste is happening in the home, American wasting 144 billion on food for a year. Food waste also happens on college campuses. A college student can waste 142 pounds of food a year. In the United States, American people waste 40% of food supply, but some families are food insecure. In 2014, it had more than 48 million American people were food insecure, including 15 million children. Food waste is also an environmental issue. A 2015 report shows the United States waste 60 million tons of food a year, and about 32 million tons end up in municipal landfills. The government would cost 1.5 billion dollar for it a year. Food waste is a social cost and it also can make environmental problem, experts says, make food need to cost most water, land and fertilizer. And people threw away most food waste in landfills, when people process it, it can make a potent greenhouse gas, methane. From the report, it about 7 percent of the total emissions for greenhouse gases in the world. The United States Department of Agriculture made the plan and carry out it, they make a machine and it can use food and utensils when it is thrown out to make land and fertilizer. People can use these to get more food in the life. Student 2 The USDA is an organization of government in the United States, it stand by health food and food safety, it also resists food waste. For the picture one, it shows an American farm. It has house, tree, land, sky and cloud. The color is great in the image, green land, blue sky and white cloud. Colors are very distinctive in the image, viewers can feel great nature. It is an example of ethos rhetoric. Food are growing in the environment, it will be great and health. People should not waste food and eat all of them. Most people look forward to live in here like this environment and have a leisurely and health life. There is no food waste and no food insecure. The logos is on the top in the image, the color is navy blue and it is obviously in the image. The navy blue phrase shows the topic of the image, viewers can know it clearly. Also, green color phrases and are example of Kairos rhetoric. It makes people give more attention for there. It calls people have healthy choices and great American grown in the life. On the other hand, the image all have bright colors to form it. These can make viewers feel natural sensation and think should not waste food in the life. Audience of picture is all of people because people look forward to green, environmentally friendly and healthy life. According to picture two, the USDA initiates people do not waste food. The audience is adults because their behavior can influence children. If parents waste food, children would know they also can waste food in the life. In the picture two, the woman will finish the food and throw away the rubbish to compost. It is different with picture one, the picture use the real image of the life and this can be more real for viewers. This is a real example in the life, people make food waste classification. And for the compost, it is the plan about the USDA. They make the machine that it can break down and crush leftovers and utensils. After this, people processed into land and fertilizer. People can use this land and fertilizer to plant food. This plan shows a good way to Student 3 process leftovers and utensils, it hold back food waste to a certain degree. In the image, there is logos and phrase at the bottom. It explains this is the proposition of USDA, and the phrase Walks the Walk on Food is shows the topic of the image. The color of phrase is yellow. This color is very obviously of viewers. People can see it clearly and know the topic in the first time. This example is Kairos rhetoric, because it is call of action. The yellow color means it is important, and viewers can attach importance to the phrase. People walk on the food waste, it calls people should not waste food. For this real image, when people view it, they will think they do this action every times and know this is wrong action in the life. So the real picture can make people believe it and go the right way. The USDA use these two pictures convince people stop food waste in the life. In addition, the logo also has symbolic meaning. Blue colorful word and white backdrop mean blue sky and white cloud in the life. And green curve represent great nature. These symbolize great living environment in the logo. People have green life and they also do not have food waste in the life. So the logo is a good reflection of the meaning and goals. The audience is adults because adults are the dominant society, they can know this problem is important for society and advocacy more people follow the line. Visual image is a good way to get more attention, it can make people pay close attention the problem of food waste in the life. The organization use this way to make life is better of people. And more and more people can leave the problem of food waste. (WC: 1041) Student 4 Works Cited Campus Kitchens Project. Food  The Campus Kitchens Project. Web. 2013 Ron Nixon. Waste Is Becoming Serious Economic and Environmental Issue, Report The New York Times. Web. Feb 25. 2015 Student 5 Picture 1. https://www.google.com/search?q=usda+food+waste&biw=1670&bih=837&source=lnm s&tbm=isch&sa=X&sqi=2&ved=0ahUKEwiartrGzejRAhWE24MKHZnWB- %3B50tjVAWHRgTGnM%3A&imgrc=ChBrvuzQFjKaTM%3A Student 6 Picture 2. https://www.google.com/search?q=food+waste&biw=1670&bih=837&source=lnms&tb UQnvSPuM%3A