1 Rachel Cole ENC 1102 Professor Campbell 26 January 2017 Standardized Testing in the United States Standardized testing has become a way to separate students based off their testing abilities. The first standardized test was created and administered in 1845 in response to public concerns about the educational system (Maranto 1). Parents were concerned that the teachers and the education system itself were unstructured. Now, centuries years later, schools still require students to take a standardized test before being admitted to a college, for advanced placement, and in order to graduate high school. A well-known college test to many parents and students is the SAT. The SAT is a college placement test created by an organization called ETS in 1926 (ETS). The Educational Testing Service (ETS) is a nonprofit organization designed to make and distribute tests such as the SAT, PSAT, GRE, AP and more. They believe that standardized tests should all be relatively the same to provide fair and reliable results. The National Education Association (NEA) represents teachers, faculty, and staff to ensure that public education continues to exceed. They believe that school districts should use locally developed tests instead of statewide-standardized tests because each student is different and they should not all be tested like they are the same. Both of these powerful organizations have different methods to ensure that students succeed; by working together, they can get what they both want. To resolve this issue of standardized testing, the ETS needs to create a college entry test that students based on their major. 2 The ETS believes in the power of learning and testing your knowledge. This organization holds a crucial role in standardized testing by making over fifty million tests in 180 countries every year (ETS). The ETS was founded in 1947 and has grown rapidly popular since. Standardized testing began in 1845 when Horace Mann designed and administered the first standardized test in the Boston public school district (Maranto 1). Standardized testing began to grow in popularity through the late nineteenth century. 1918 and 1932 the number of standardized tests available for school use grew from 100 to more than (Maranto 3). Now standardized tests are given out every year for admission to colleges, certifications, end of course testing, advanced placement, and more. Each president presented his own version of school reform (Maranto 3). Nation at proposed by President Ronald Reagan stated that standardized tests are a critical step for evaluating the progress of students. Also, Child Left Behind and to the are all examples of presidents supporting standardizing testing (Maranto 3). However those were all proposed in a time when inequality strongly existed. Now welcome to the year 2017, when students will be tested on the material they wish to make a career out of one day. The NEA believes that tests should be locally produced as opposed to nationwide testing. Nationwide testing encourages teachers to only teach what the students will be tested on. The NEA believes that testing every student on the same material is simply not fair. Every person is unique in his or her own way and they should not be punished for being bad at something. research suggests that high-stakes standardized testing has played a negative role in the segregation of children by race and class in (Knoester 2). Each student should be tested fairly on what they are good at. The NEA believes that, assessments provide better and faster feedback that helps drive real improvements in teaching and With all 3 of that being said, the ETS needs to create a test that students based on what they are good at and not what is considered The NEA was founded in 1857 almost a whole century before the ETS. The NEA and ETS have history of working together. They are both powerful organizations with a lot of support from people and if they continue to work together, they will get more powerful and get more work done. For example, in 2011 the NEA and the ETS posted a twenty-seven-page report on how to increase teacher diversity (ETS). While they do not agree about the topic of standardized testing, there is potential that the conflict will be resolved because they have worked together in the past. Their common ground is that they both want students and themselves to succeed in the long run. The ETS needs to create a college entry test that students based on their major. According to Natasha Bertrand, students do better in sections of the SAT based on their majors (1). For example, 12,934 students that major in mathematics or statistics scored an average of 613 on the math section, but got an average 535 on reading, and an average 533 on writing. Their combined average score was 1681, which is good, but their math score was great. Colleges should know what the student they are viewing is good at relative to their major. The other scores matter, but that should not be part of their college entry exam. The ETS can call it the new College Entry Test (CET) and the test can be based on five subject fields. The five subjects are: mathematics, reading, writing, science and history. The subjects are broadly based on the students major and if a student is unsure what he or she wants to major in then they can take a standard CET exam. The standard CET exam can tell them what they are good at, which is similar to the SAT test. If they choose a major they can retake the CET exam and send both results to the college of his or her choice. Once CET becomes more popular, the ETS can create 4 even more specific tests for the students. The NEA will benefit by having a test more specific to students and the subjects they are good at. The ETS will benefit by making money off of another test. However, the ETS will have to come up with questions for a new test that will take some time. The NEA will not have tests that are locally developed but they will have test that are unique to a major. Both stakeholders will accomplish their ultimate goal: that students will learn and succeed. In conclusion, standardized testing has been around since the nineteenth century and is constantly changing but its idea is out of date. Standardized testing was proposed because it gave teachers a curriculum to teach instead of having no direction to teach students. Standardized testing became very popular and is now used for end of course exams, advanced placement tests, and college entry tests. The NEA feels it has become out of hand and that teachers were only teaching what would be on the test. Now the NEA and the ETS needs to steer towards CET exams instead of other college placement exams. With the new CET exam, teachers will all teach as much as know and students can take their specific test. The NEA and ETS can come together and compromise for the sake about standardized testing. If the ETS were to create subject tests for students it would fix the issue of students taking tests that are not meant for their unique abilities. 5 Works Cited Bertrand, Natasha. the Average SAT Score for Every College Business Insider, 24 Oct. 2014, accessed 23 Jan. 2017. ETS. of Standardized , 2017. Knoester, Matthew and Wayne Au. Standardized testing and school segregation: like tinder for Race Ethnicity and Education, Jan. 2017. Vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 1-14, accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Maranto, Julie. Effect of Standardized Testing on Historical Literacy and Educational Reform in the ERIC, 2015. Vol. 3, pp.1-8, accessed 23 Jan. 2017. McMahon, Issitt. Salem Press Encyclopedia, Jan. 2016, accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Moulthrop, Robert. Issues and Peabody Journal of Education, Jan. 1981. Vol. 58, no.2, pp. 72-83, accessed 23 Jan.2017. NEA. http://www.nea.org/home/59488.htm , 2015.