Jones 1 Kiemon Jones Prof. Mariama Changamire ENC 1102. 1 st February 2017 Should Marijuana be Legalised? The proposed solutions between the two stakeholders NORML and CALM because of their differing views on the topic of marijuana legalization are Integration of medical marijuana as well as marijuana education. Recently and historically marijuana has and was been a controversial topic which caused and still causes much discourse throughout the world. The basic topic of whether or not marijuana is considered a drug has raised people to take sides on if they are for or against the plant. This is because marijuana can cause many different effects when smoked or ingested such as lessened coordination and balance etc. It has been argued that marijuana use can negatively affect different parts of the body in different ways which is why it has been banned and made illegal in the majority of the countries in the first instance. But recently, people are arguing the exact opposite, and even that drugs that are legal, such as: tobacco and alcohol, can cause more detrimental effects to a health than marijuana could. By a logic, one can determine that there is no reason for the herb to be banned because of it being safer than drugs which are legal but this fact has yet to be proven or even universally agreed with. The organisation, National Organisation for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, founded in 1970 by Keith Stroupe M.D goal is to shift the generally negative opinion on the drug to be accepting enough for the plant to be legalised for adults as well ensure the practice is safe and affordable for persons in places which it is legal (www.norml.org) . The organisation has grown much since 1970 being one of the main stakeholders in the for legalisation. Jones 2 In recent times the general opinion has changed from defiantly against to arguably for the herb since the US has legalised marijuana for medicinal purposes in the states of Florida and California on 2017 and 1996 respectively. These are only just 2 of the many states to have made marijuana in use in some form or fashion legal, whether it be for medical or recreational uses. On the opposing side of the spectrum, Citizens Against Marijuana Legalization is an all volunteer campaign against Marijuana in any use scenario. Its goal is that laws against the use, cultivation, and transportation of marijuana should be maintained and enforced and should not be relaxed or softened. Cultivation, processing, transportation and use are illegal under the Federal Controlled Substances (www.calmusa.org). The main beliefs are against marijuana for medicinal purposes and they also believe that marijuana is the cause for many health problems such as cancer, brain damage and even DNA damage. This therefore puts the 2 organisations at odds with each other because their beliefs seem to be absolute opposites. Following a series of reports published by the Institute of Medicine and National Institute of Health advocating for more research on marijuana, the American College of Physicians (ACP) published seven position statements, 1): ACP supports programs and funding for rigorous scientific evaluation of the potential therapeutic benefits of medical marijuana and the publication of such findings. 2) ACP supports increased research for conditions where the efficacy of marijuana has been established to determine optimal dosage and route of delivery. 3) Medical marijuana research should not only focus on determining drug efficacy and safety but also on determining efficacy in comparison with other available treatments. 4) ACP encourages the use of non-smoked forms of THC that have proven therapeutic value. 5) ACP supports the current process for obtaining federal research-grade cannabis. 6) ACP urges an evidence-based review of status as a Schedule I Jones 3 controlled substance to determine whether it should be reclassified to a different schedule. This review should consider the scientific findings regarding safety and efficacy in some clinical conditions as well as evidence on the health risks associated with marijuana consumption, particularly in its smoked form. 7) ACP strongly supports exemption from federal criminal prosecution; civil liability; or professional sanctioning, such as loss of licensure or credentialing, for physicians who prescribe or dispense medical marijuana in accordance with state law. Through the Science on p. 95) These facts by the ACP then goes onto question whether or not marijuana should be sanctioned for medical testing or not. Based off of the mission and goals of the two opposing organisations it seems to me that only NORML would support the introduction of the plant into medical studies. On the contrary it has been found that there is a risk of addiction, effect on brain development, possible role as gateway drug, relation to mental illness, risk of motor vehicle accidents etc. (www.nejm.org) These claims such as, motor vehicle accidents are all backed by factual statistics; In an accident culpability analysis, persons testing positive for THC (typical minimum level of detection, 1 ng per mililliter), and particularly those with higher blood levels, were 3 to 7 times as likely to be responsible for a motor-vehicle accident as persons who had not used drugs or alcohol before (www.nejm.org) This evidence goes on to support objectives but at the same time states minor inconsistencies in their beliefs. For example it is stated in the risk case of cannabis as an effect on school performance and lifetime achievement it is stated that the statistics show inconsistencies because of the multifaceted nature of the study and this can therefore leave doubt in a readers mind. (www.nejm.org) In recognition of these opposing views two ideas have been created to come to a reasonable solution between these two stakeholders. Firstly, the main solution to the problem Jones 4 is integration, because of the factual evidence in concurrence with the herb as well as the position it is proven that marijuana can have medical benefits and therefore can be introduced into the country to help the society. In desperate situations, when humans are in need and proven solutions are present the morally correct position to take is to implement these solutions no matter personal beliefs. Integration is already being implemented in certain states in the US despite being the minority they are more people in others states who would benefit from marijuana for chronic diseases such as: glaucoma and HIV AIDS just to name a few. The viability of the solution is already proved by concrete models of the drug for example there are 29 states in the US who have medical marijuana implemented. (www.norml.org) The second and last proposed solution in light of beliefs and because of the first proposed solution, free marijuana education classes are mandatory for adults who want to access the drug for medicinal purposes as well as teenagers who are 18+. This is to circumvent abuse of the drug even for the medicinal stages as well as to prevent recreational use because one would be cognisant of the pros and cons of the herb. The implementation of these classes can be administered by both stakeholders who can give the advantages and disadvantages respectively. This can give promotion to both organisation and they can both share their factual evidence of their stance on the topic. Forms of the proposed solution can be seen by pamphlets on the drug to educate persons but these are almost always negative. Furthermore, a similar model of this solution for drugs has already been proven to work, the D.A.R.E (Drug Abuse Resistance Education) program, according to the Effects of School Based Drug Education: A Six-year Multi-Level Analysis of Project by Dennis P Rosenbaum and Gordon S Hanson, Immediately after graduation from the D.A.R.E program there was a decline in the use of cigarettes in comparison with the control group. ( Jones 5 Rosenbaum and Hansom, p.8) It is also stated that the D.A.R.E program is the most popular school based drug education program in the United States. (Rosenbaum and Hansom, p.1) Even though there has never been a compromise between the two organisations on the topic there is definitely tension between the organisations that must be settle because of their relevance as well as their beliefs on the same topic. The two proposed solutions could very well benefit the stakeholders involved to be as close as possible to their goals while still co- existing. (1378 words) Jones 6 Works Cited Citizens Against Legalisation of Marijuana, www.calmusa.org , Accessed 22 nd January 2017 Danovitch, Itai M.D. Through the Science on Marijuana: Facts, Fallacies, and Implications for McGeorge, 2-6-11.pdf , Accessed January 30 th 2017 National Organisation for the refrain of Marijuana Laws, www.norml.org , Accessed 22 nd January 2017 Rosenbaum, Dennis and Hanson, Gordon the Effects of School-Based Drug Education: A Six-Year Multilevel Analysis of Project Sage Journals, http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/0022427898035004002 , Accessed January 31 st 2017. Volkow, Nora M.D., Baler, Ruben Ph.D., Compton, Wilson M.D., and Weiss, Susan Ph.D, Health Effects of Marijuana The New England Journal of Medicine , http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejmra1402309 Accessed January 29th 2017.