Lu 1 John Lu Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 Feb 1 2017 Is Immigration benefit for America? In this era of convenient transportation, people can choose their favorite country to live, thence, there are a lot countries have many immigrants, especially the developed countries, such as America. Recently, business tycoon Trump defeated his opponent, became the current president of the United States. However, the incumbent president of the United States had spoken that he does not support a large number of immigrants and refugees into the United States, because this will lead to more confusion in the United States. He declared on his immigration home page that he has to ensure the interests of local Americans, and he will resolutely drive away illegal immigrants (Trump). He must be a extreme right-wing molecules, this will lead to the immigrants and refugees of the United States into crisis. When Trump took office, those anti-immigrant organizations are most happy, because their thinking are oppressed for many years, it will be supported by the president now, among them, AICF (American Immigration Control Foundation) is one of the most prominent organizations. It founded in 1983, is about stopping the millions of immigrants into USA, and there are more than 250,000 member in this organization (AIC). On the other hand, there are also a lot organizations that agree and support immigrants into the US, such as Erickson, it is a group that to help immigrants into US, and to ensure welfare for them, there are many excellent attorneys and administrative staff in group, it is a outstanding organization. In general, both organizations have the same goal, and they want the United States to be better, but their ideas are not uniform, so that they stand in the opposite sides. Lu 2 In fact, this is not unreasonable that some native Americans refuse to immigrants. According to the website of AICF, the page shows that there are so many immigrants into US in recent years, and they enjoy the United States of various resources. Nowadays, most of immigrants undermining American customs, culture, language, and institutions (AIC). For example, a large number of immigrants into the United States, to increase the employment pressure of the native American. There are many native American cannot find a suitable job, they rely on subsidies from government to live, over time, they become lazy, and do not want to work, lead to the whole nation will go downhill. On the other hand, a large number of immigrants into America, lead to there are too messy culture, customs, and languages. However, the traditional American culture and customs are slowly disappearing, until finally completely integrated by other cultures. Also, Waters Mary, a famous university professor states that immigrants make crime rates is rising, lead to there are new forms of exclusion and discrimination in USA. Because there are a lot of low education immigrants and illegal immigrant into USA, and they cannot find a job, so they have to steal and grab for livelihood (Waters, 33). These show why are there so many anti-immigration organizations in US, and the reasons for they reject immigrants. The other side, the vast majority of Native Americans are friendly and sincerely to admit immigrants, just like the immigration group Erickson that mentioned above. According to the official website of Erickson, the page shows that there are also many native American think that the benefits of immigration far greater than the losses immigrants bring, they are one of them. Because immigrants bring a lot of workforce, and their hard-working, most of them working on grass-roots job that Americans are not satisfied. Not only that, they think that the culture brought by immigrants is not undermining local culture, customs, and language. On the contrary, they realize that immigrants make the United States more diversified, and became a talent gathering Lu 3 place (Erickson). For example, the immigration increase competitiveness, to keep Unite states energetic and active. Because native Americans are living in a cozy and developed country for long time. Inevitably, there are some people will be lazy and negative, just like  come from department of motor vehicles, their actions were super slow. Fortunately, immigrants alleviated this phenomenon, because most of them came from developing countries, and even backward countries. In order to have a better life, they were more hard work than native American, and they require less salary, so employers are more willing to hire them, lead to some native American were left out, who are lazy and negative. There is no doubt that immigrants injected a dose of cardiac strengthening agent for United States, to awaken those negative Americans, and to make them more active. In addition, immigrants brought different cultures, customs, and languages from around the world, to make the United States has become a melting  of the world, and there are elements and talents from all over the world, this may be a important reason for why the United States is overlord of the world. More importantly, immigrants made a great contribution for the American economy. of U. S. Immigration , an academic journals states that immigrants increased the GDP of the United States, and let it growth year after year, also immigrants led the consumption level, to make the economy of US is more robust and powerful on the basis of the original (Orrenius and Zavodny, 948). As a result, these evidences show immigrants were helpful for the United States, and the organizations that support for immigrants have a right values, such as the Erickson immigration group. In fact, these two organizations have some incompatible views at the same goals, both of them want the United States to become more stronger, so there must be a compromise that would satisfy for both sides. As it turns out, immigrants are helpful for the United States, even if there Lu 4 are negative impacts of immigration, but the benefits of immigration is greater than the loss. Therefore, native American should continue to support immigration, since it is a right way for American development. However, undeniable that not all immigrants bring interests to US, so the screening of immigrants become more important. As a result, the compromise should be recognized by both sides: the number of immigrants will be limited, and their identity must be clean and free of stains. Also immigrants should to accept the agreement that if they do something illegal, serious criminals may be deported. Overall, this is a reasonable concession for both sides. Because this compromise mitigates the negative effects of immigrants, and retain the excellent immigrants to make the United States more stronger. Just as the book The Impact Of  states that immigration is an indispensable road for United States, and it also is a double-edged , if the government use properly, there will be an inestimable harvest (Dustmann and Stuhler, 31). To sum up, immigrants are helpful for United States, even if some immigrants have had a negative impact, but this compromise as a constraint, they will have a good relations of cooperation for the country to contribute between the anti-immigration organization AICF and Erickson immigration group. In addition, the United States will be more stronger and powerful in this harmonious development. Lu 5 Works sited Americans for Immigration Control . N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Dustmann, Christian, Uta and Jan Stuhler. The Impact Of Immigration: Why Do Studies Reach Such Different  Journal of Economic Perspectives 30.4 (2016): 31-56. Business Source Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Erickson Immigration Group. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. http://eiglaw.com/our-firm/our-core-principles/ Orrenius, Pia M., and Madeline Zavodny. The Economics Of U. S. Immigration  Journal Of Policy Analysis & Management 31.4 (2012): 948. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Trump, Donald J for President. Trump Pence N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. https://www.donaldjtrump.com/policies/immigration WATERS, MARY C.1. Crime And Immigration New Forms Of Exclusion And  Issues In Science & Technology 33.1 (2016): 29-38. General Science Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017.