Student 1 Student Instructor Lisa DuBois Composition II ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Fight for a Better World The climate of planet Earth has changed a lot since its birth. We have been through ice ages, huge droughts, millennia of But since the first industrial revolution the changes have grown and they do not seem to revert. Today our biggest concern is the increase of the global temperature. Gases like carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and methane (CH4) are produced all over the world and they increase the retention of heat in the atmosphere of the planet. These retentions are responsible for the increase in the temperature, which can lead to damage in all kind of life forms and ecological processes. Greenpeace is an organization that exposes these problems with the environment through peaceful protests and create solutions for those problems. Since its foundation in 1971, Greenpeace has been maintained only by the donations of its members. They have achieved tons of things over this years, some of those achievements are: banning of commercial whaling, the stop of nuclear testing and the protection of Antarctica (Greenpeace online). Greenpeace has many goals and projects going on, but with the use of these images we will see that they are very focused in the global warming issue. In image 1, the stakeholder gives us a clear and unchangeable message. We can see a huge use of Pathos and Kairos through the image as well as some uses of Ethos and Logos. Pathos is a rhetoric element that makes us experience or sense an emotion (McIntyre, Mega, and Alysia Sawchyn 22) as defined by McIntyre, Mega, and Alysia Sawchyn. In image 1 we can see Pathos when the stakeholder chooses to include the Student 2 image of a factory emitting gases. These gases give us a sad feeling since we normally do not feel comfortable around dangerous gases. Since the image presents red-oranges colors, we get a feeling that in that place the weather is warm, thus we feel surrounded by the gases and the heat. The image also gives us a call to action to stop the President of Exxon becoming Secretary of State. This is the most dominant message in the picture and it uses Kairos as rhetoric element. Kairos is defined as a of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right (McIntyre, Mega, and Alysia Sawchyn 25). The image is calling upon the U.S. citizens to stop that person now, before it is too late. We can also add that the image uses Logos, which is a rhetoric element that to logic and (McIntyre, Mega, and Alysia Sawchyn 23). By logic we know that the environment will not benefit a bit if the president of an oil company becomes Secretary of State. He will enact policies that may damage the climate or ban policies that ensures its wellbeing. Combining those rhetorical elements, we get an image that is calling us to stop a person before it is too late and to give us a sense of need they use the picture of the factory: If you do not stop him, he will turn the world into a huge factory. In image 2 the stakeholder asks for donations in order to maintain the fight for climate change. The stakeholder uses mainly Kairos, but there is presence of the other three elements as well. By telling us that the climate cannot wait and that they need donations now, the stakeholder gets the people attention because he relies his petitions in what is happening today. Everybody sees in any news that the climate needs help, thus is a current event and people will know that they can help solve that by donating to this organization. We can also see Kairos present in the ocean and sky of the picture. Oceans and skies are timeless and there are there and they will always be. That concept can be applied to the call to action by saying that if you help them protect the environment the oceans and skies will keep being timeless. In the image the stakeholder Student 3 also uses Ethos. This rhetoric element is defined as way of establishing trust with his or her (McIntyre, Mega, and Alysia Sawchyn 20). In the image, we can see the name of the organization in a ship sailing. Anybody can use that name to investigate about the history, achievements, and fights. With that information, people will be able to create a trust relationship with the organization and they will know that the money they donated will not be wasted in projects that do not benefit the environment. The use of Pathos is also very present in image 2. The bright and vivid colors of the picture give the audience a sense of joy and hope when they see it. By placing the ship with the name of the organization in that picture, they ensure that people associate the name Greenpeace with hope and salvation for the environment. With the sum of all these rhetorical elements, we get an image that brings the audience hope, joy, and security if they donate to Greenpeace. They will know that their money is well expended and that the environment will be a little safer. Although Greenpeace is an organization that works in many projects to save the world from our own hands, their primary job is to ensure that global warming stops. Through the images presented in this essay we have seen that they fight to prevent people that negate global warming from taking public offices; and that they ask for money to keep their work up. They use very powerful rhetoric elements to grab the attention of the audience and make them think if it is worth to fight. They fight ignorance, they fight for a better world. (WC: 1022 Words) Student 4 Work Cited Greenpeace USA. Greenpeace USA, n.d., http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/ . Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. McIntyre, Mega, and Alysia Sawchyn. The Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text. Student 5 Image 1 www.greenpeace.org/usa/global-warming/ Student 6 Image 2 www.greenpeace.org/usa/global-warming/