Malanga 1 Daniel Malanga Professor Ryan January 26, 2016 Project 1: intermediate draft The debate of whether abortion should be a legal right to women who are pregnant has been a heavily disputed topic since long before the 1973 roe v.s wade case, which resulted in the supreme court ruling abortion legal. The laws on abortion have bounced back and forth from legality to illegality, usually depending on the president in office and his or her political party. These two sides are commonly viewed to be extremely fixed on their opinion and little to no compromise as arisen between the two. Organizations such as Planned Parenthood and the National Right to Life committee have both made tremendous efforts to educate and fight for their views. With the transition of focus from their own fixed views on abortion to the other aspects within abortion, such as birth control and safe sex essentials, these two conflicting organizations can come together to prevent unplanned pregnancy. Planned parenthood is one of the most well-known and respected pro-choice organizations in the country. They are extreme advocated or rights and provide many health care needs for those who afford it, such as birth control, STD tests and cancer screenings (plannedparenthood.org 1). Their stand on abortion is that women have the right to choose whether they want an abortion, regardless of trimester or period of pregnancy. They strongly believe that the developing fetus is not yet considered human life and that is only the body that should be taken into deliberation. They are constantly fighting government Malanga 1 laws that prevent women from having their right to choose. 2011, Texas cut its state family planning budget and changed the way it allocated Title X funds to significantly reduce grants to Planned Parenthood and other More than 75 clinics, a third operated by Planned Parenthood, closed as a result (New York Times 1). This quote is just an example of how heavily planned parenthood relies on federal funds to provide the health care for their patients. With just one small funding decision form the government, planned parenthood can completely disintegrate as an organization. These are just some of the major views, functions and obstacles that planned parenthood engages with daily. The National Right to Life committee is recognized to be one of the most influential pro- life organizations in the country. Their main focus is to end the legalization of abortion throughout the country and to educate people about why they believe abortion is murder and their supporting evidence for it. Their website consists of links and short entries with factual evidence regarding the development of the fetus inside a pregnant body. unborn heart begins to beat 18-21 days after (nrlc.org 1). They have several advertisements with pro-life slogans on them such as see a potential life; we see a life with and hearts and hands for They fight the laws legalizing abortion and have recently celebrated a victory for the pro-life side as the new president elect Donald Trump signed an executive order blocking foreign aid or federal funding for international nongovernmental organizations that provide or  abortions (Hellmann 1). The efforts of NRLC are recognized by almost everyone in the pro-life movement and continue to be fighting activists for their beliefs. Malanga 1 Although these two sides have completely diametric views, coming together to prevent pregnancy would be a key factor to solve both of their problems. With the compromise of combining funds with each other to advertise and support aspects of safe sex such as condoms and birth control, they would both be getting publicity while helping prevent the issue that divides them. Birth control helps even more than just abortion, as women can be sexually active and not worry about pregnancy during pivotal times in life for things such as career building or higher education. The timing of pregnancy is often an important factor for women when considering abortion.  The pill directly lowered the costs of engaging in career investments by giving women far greater certainty regarding the pregnancy consequences of (Goldin,Katz 1). If Planned Parenthood and the National Right to Life committee could come together to bring more awareness for the need of safe sex, they could save countless amounts of women the hard decision of whether to get an abortion. Another compromise the two opposing sides could be combining funds to start an abortion clinic where they require women to watch the sonogram before deciding whether they still want to proceed with the abortion. The pro-life movement often argues that women who get an abortion are not fully educated about the fetal development process and that they are not fully aware of the process. Planned Parenthood frequently debates that women are entitled to a safe and professional place for the operation to take place. Parenthood works to make health care accessible and affordable. Some health centers are able to charge according to income. Most accept health insurance. If you qualify, Medicaid or other state programs may lower your health care (plannedparenthood.org 1). Since Planned parenthood is such a strong advocate for people having the right to being provided with health Malanga 1 care, they will be benefitting from any sort of certified abortion clinic. With this compromise, the NRLC Is getting what they want in the way that women are being more educated on the abortion itself and get a better understanding of what is at stake. Planned parenthood is being compensated with the fact that women will be provided with a qualified abortion clinic. With this compromise, both organizations will be helping pregnant woman. In order for them to accomplish the compromise both organizations would have to be willing to combine funds. This would allow much more exposure for both companies which could lead to greater donations. They would likely choose a form of advertisement that would reach to a large audience such as a commercial or billboard. They could have both advertising teams come together to form a slogan emphasizing the importance of birth control. Finding a sponsor with even larger funds to help with the advertisement, such as birth control companies, could expand the benefits to an even greater extent. The audience also may admire the unity of the opposing sides and the large corporations that birth control is run by coming together to prevent unplanned pregnancy, which could also lead to greater donations. With this agreement, both organizations can make profit and publicize themselves while reducing the rate of unplanned pregnancies. Shifting these two attention from their opinion of abortion, and chose to unite to emphasize the importance of protective sex and birth control, these two contrasting sides can find common ground. Without pregnancy, there is no need for the dispute about whether their abortion should be legal. Both these organizations are benefitting from this compromise both financially and emotionally. Malanga 1