McKinley 1 Dillon McKinley Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 27 Nov 17 Intermediate Draft College debt is among one of the most serious issues young Americans are facing today. The recently sharp increase of college debt defaulters is what many people are predicting is going to cause a second recession with correlation to the events that occurred in 2008, only with college debt. Many people suffer with these debt obligations thanks to federal financial aid. The easy accessibility that the Department of Education (D.O.E.), the primary disperser of these subsidized loans, allows is what has caused many people to go into debt, and on top of that, cause tuition prices to rise. Republican and Democratic policy makers play key role in the regulating of the D.O.E., and with their bipartisan cooperation, they could easily help prevent this potential economic crisis. My thesis on a compromise and a resolution to the subsidized loan problem is the implementation of a stronger cap on the availability of subsidized loans and implementing an income adjustable payment plan. With these compromises created into policy, it benefits both the parties as well as the many constituents who are subjected to these harsh debt obligations. Republicans handling of the subsidized loan problem is directly targeted at the existence of the D.O.E. The primary goals are to cut or severely reduce the spending on the D.O.E. and give that power to the private sector. The article Would Cut Student Aid More Than Budget Blueprint by Kelly Field brings up the comment, have proposed McKinley 2 similar cuts in the Pell and student-loan programs in past budget This comment is a perfect representation of the policy platform Republicans have tried implementing into legislation. The cutting of the student-loan program to Republicans would help reduce the power of central government, and force colleges to lower tuition costs to compensate for the loss of federal subsidies. The reduction in the amount of money students can attain from Pell grants and subsidized loans also keeps students from accumulating a large amount of debt after college, even with comparatively larger interest rates. The Democratic handling of the student loan problem consists of optional programs to help the individual loaner, while keeping the D.O.E. at its regular state. Programs and concepts such as income-based repayment plans and allowing bankruptcy as an option are ways the Democratic Party want to handle the economic situation of subsidized loans. A good example of where Democratic ideals were consistently agreed upon was in 2007. In Kelly article, Lawmakers Approve Landmark Increase In Student they talk about how congress was able to pass a slash in private student loan funding, increase federal student loan funding, and raise the maximum Pell grant. These are all seen as good signs because reducing private sector investments and focusing on federal sector helps keep interest rates low. For increasing the federal student loan funding, and in junction with raising the maximum Pell grant, the federal government is able to lend out more money to students who might need it in order to attend college. First and foremost, both parties have the same agenda of trying to reduce the problem of subsidized loans. Even though they may have different ways of solving the student loan problem, they both want to see a reduction in student debt and a better system for students to obtain financing for college. Another aspect they both can agree on is that interest rates are too high and McKinley 3 it is this factor that causes so many problems for graduating students. The adjusting interest rates that college students deal with throughout college are what caused the loan amount payment after graduation to increase drastically. In Robert article, of Student Loans: A Proposal to Reform Federal Accounting, Reduce Government Risk, and Introduce Market Mechanisms as Indicators of Quality he brings up a perfect example of bipartisanship in reducing interest rates with a common purpose in both parties. This interest rate reduction was a response to the increase in interest rates back to 6.8% that was meant to take effect after a four year interest rate reduction plan ended (Proudfoot 25-26). This cooperation of policy makers is a testament to the fact that both parties want to see that borrowers are able to eventually pay off their student debt, and that they both realize that increased interest rates will only prolong this event from happening. The first key to a congressional compromise is a stronger cap on subsidized loans. The stronger the cap is on subsidized loans, the less money borrowers can receive, which reduces obligated debt. What this also does is reduce tuition prices. In Merit-Based Aid Improve College Affordability? Testing the Bennett Hypothesis in the Era of Merit-Based by Jungmin Lee, she discusses the growing relevancy of the Bennett theory in university system. Bennett theory is an idea that was created by William Bennett, a former Secretary of Education, who proposed that as federal funding increases towards colleges, so does tuition costs. In article, the following comment was made: in the first category raised student charges without increasing student aid. This was the worst scenario observed. If students did not receive merit-based aid, they would pay higher prices than before, compared to their peer students in other states. Public colleges in Arkansas, Kentucky, and West Virginia, as well as McKinley 4 private colleges in Arkansas, South Carolina, and Louisiana, belonged to this category (Lee 67) This open expression of Bennett theory being proven is a sign that congress needs to strengthen the cap so that way colleges will compensate for the loss of federal aid by reducing tuition costs. When you reduce the cost of tuition, you give more people the ability to attend college. Another compromise that needs to be made is implementing an income adjustable payment plan for borrowers of subsidized loans. The biggest issue facing many borrowers is that they end up becoming the product of a tight job market and might not find a job with substantial pay immediately. With the implementation of the income adjustable payment plan, this gives borrowers to control the amount of money they pay, which helps both the government and the borrowers. It helps the government because it reduces the amount of defaulters, and it helps the borrower by giving them the control of their obligations, which take out too much from their potentially temporarily mediocre paychecks. The compromise for the first half is that there is a reduction in spending, which favors Republicans, and for the second half, it enables the D.O.E. to still operate, which favors Democrats. The financial aid system is something that has become ubiquitous with college financing. Even though the system is faulty, that mean that the system needs to be dismantled or we have to overfund it to see its success. Congressional members coming together to increase the subsidized loan cap and the implementation of an income adjustable payment plan, American college students will be able to expedite the student debt payment process and will one day be able to live without that debt. With more time and research into this educational funding system, new ideas on handling student obligations will be created, which could eventually lead to McKinley 5 financial aid being a small percentage of your accumulated debt. The time has come to see the student debt crisis in America become a thing of the past. McKinley 6 Works Cited