Since the creation of the internet in the the world has become reliant on information; and as internet speeds accelerated, devices shrank, and information became more readily available, the unique challenges associated with privacy have presented itself as a serious conflicting concern for technology manufacturers and the justice system. In the past, before information was sent as bytes across a vast invisible network of interconnected machines, the concept of laws and rights around privacy was limited to the physical touch. The internet has reconceptualized many theories around business, and many of these ideas have successfully adapted to its model but privacy is by far one of the most important that is still widely up for debate. More recently, The Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI.gov) and Apple (Apple.com) entered into a very public debate around user privacy rights and its connection to a terrorist attack that happened earlier in the year. The Federal Bureau initially petitioned Apple to unlock a deceased terrorists iphone citing it could hold potentially pertinent information to case that pertained to national security and the recent terrorist attack. A New York Times Article explaining why the government made the request said, officials say that encrypted data in Mr. phone and its GPS system may hold vital clues about where he and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, traveled in the 18 minutes after the shootings, and about whom they might have contacted As this is a public debate between a publicly traded company and the government, it would appear that the bureau is trying to gain support for their argument through appealing to the pathos of the people and the emotion they experienced from past attacks. Additionally, they are appealing to the logos of the audience through stating that if they received this information it could potentially prevent future attacks and help them find other known terrorists. There is also this negative stigmatism that Apple has faced simply because by not complying with the court mandate this has been interpreted by members of the general public as aiding in terrorism or at the very least obstruction of justice in a high profile case. After receiving a court order, Tim Chief Executive Officer, ultimately did not acquiesce stating in an open letter to the public it was their duty to protect the privacy rights of the consumer both now and in the future, and that creating a backdoor undermines hundreds of security of protocols that have been developed over the years. Additionally, his letter to the public addresses the long-term effects of such a solution. By leading the public to the potential ramifications of complying with the court mandate, Apple is attempting to gain support through appealing to the public ethos. By equating protecting the rights of terrorists to protecting the rights of every other american, Apple is heavily working on a pathos argument. While as whole the majority public may never be in as serious legal trouble, many can still empathize with a right to privacy and have their own personal beliefs about how far the government should be able to go before a violation of privacy rights is determined. Apple also presented the argument that as an company they are a large multi-national brand and that a legal actions of this magnitude may not only jeopardize the relationship that have with american consumers, but also the relationship they have with other countries, their private companies, and constituents. The sine qua non of the user privacy rights argument are the legal ramifications that are presented as a result. There are numerous legal outcomes that could potentially have long term effects on the country if a final decision was made. One of the arguments that has been made by the FBI is that as technology becomes more sophisticated and end-to-end encryption becomes a market demand it will make it more difficult to solve other cases similar to this, and will make it harder to protect the safety of going forward in the future. largest dispute is centered around the legal precedence that would be set as a result of complying court mandate and the lasting it affects it will have on future user privacy rights. Apple recognizes this request as the government overreaching, and that if they concede to the this mandate this will set legal precedence for future cases, which will allow the government to expand its authority for future cases in the decades to come. Tim Cook believes this is serious infringement on user privacy rights and Apples duty to protect those rights. This has been an ongoing topic of discussion for years between Apple and the government, but they do have some synergy on a couple of points. Both Apple and the FBI wants to make the best decision in the interest of the people. Additionally, both organizations do not take matters of National Security lightly and understand the effects of national security breach or a terrorist attack. However, while the collective parties believe in user privacy right, they seem to agree on where privacy line sits or where the responsibility to customers melds with national security. With this discussion, having been going on for many years now in other cases, I believe that the best solution is one that goes beyond both parties because as mentioned earlier user privacy extends farther than any one nation, company, person, or device. In order to find a viable solution, one must consider the global scale of privacy in relation to security to help these parties effectively compromise. The best solution would be to organize a global summit with world leaders and technology organizations where a rubric is debated, developed, and agreed upon outlining the requirements for such a situation. Among the terms would include a rule that, Apple and other technology companies would never be required to write code or create backdoors into the software. Furthermore, they will agree to supply teams that will consult governments in the case of a situations of the utmost importance. In order to maintain user privacy, the government agrees to provide Apple or the technology company with the source code utilized to gain access so that the security flaw can effectively be patched as quickly as possible. If and when a situation arose, a collective of nations, not including the country or parties involved, would be called upon to hear the facts of the case and make final verdict on the matter. Apple in this solution would be compromising by providing consulting services to help government get the information that need much to their chagrin. The FBI would be compromising in this case because of the arduous process that would be required to get approval to get the information and subsequently the technological resources needed then retrieve the data. Additionally, they would also have to do this work knowing that this is a one- time solution because per the agreement Apple would be patching the system following the authorized breach. In this regard, both parties would both be compromising and receiving free services. The government hopefully catches more criminals, and Apple discovers new flaws in their system. Unquestionably, the proliferation of the internet around the globe has generated significant advancements for mankind. However, those life-changing achievements now challenge the world to reevaluate cherished civic rights, such as trust, against the cost of national security. Proposed Source List 1. Berinato, Scott. Apple vs. the FBI Is Really, Really  Harvard Business Review. N.p., 19 Feb. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://hbr.org/2016/02/apple-vs-the- fbi-is-really-really-complicated>. This source was used a scholarly article that aggregated multiple points of view of the public perspective on the topic. 2. Breaking Down iPhone Fight With the U.S.  The New York Times. N.p., 21 Mar. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/03/03/technology/apple-iphone-fbi-fight- This source was used a comparison after much of the debate was over. 3. Cook, Tim. Customer  Apple. Apple, 16 Feb. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.apple.com/customer-letter/>. This source used as a direct source of what response was to the situation. 4. Maisto, Michelle . Apple Vs. FBI: 5 Key Quotes From James  InformationWeek. N.p., 9 Apr. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.informationweek.com/government/mobile-and-wireless/apple-vs-fbi-5-key- quotes-from-james-comeys-speech/a/d-id/1325052>. This source was used to gain a better perspective of the government side of the argument. 5. Selyukh, Alina , and Camila Domonoske. Apple, The FBI And iPhone Encryption: A Look At At  NPR. NPR, 17 Feb. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2016/02/17/467096705/apple-the-fbi-and- iphone-encryption-a-look-at-whats-at-stake>. This link was used as an objective to source to understand both perspectives in comparison to another.