Celia Kaufman Robert Ryan ENC1102.57 28 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft: Prostitution Considered the oldest profession, prostitution has sparked controversy since its beginnings in early civilizations. Prostitution and sex work in general attracts this controversy because of the stigma surrounding sexuality and the risks included with prostitution. There are many organizations with opposing viewpoints on sex work, the biggest issue being whether or not prostitution should be decriminalized or remain prohibited by the state. But one thing all seem to agree on is that risks such as the spread of HIV or other sexually transmitted diseases, sexual violence, and human trafficking associated with prostitution are serious problems. If the groups with opposing viewpoints come together to bring awareness, educate the population about the issues, and take preventative measures, they can achieve their goals of working towards eliminating the problem. When it comes to the issue of decriminalizing prostitution, COYOTE is on board. A rights group founded in 1973, the official name is Call Off Your Old Tired Ethics, and believes that prostitution being illegal is oppressive towards women and sex work is a completely valid profession. They advocate for the decriminalization of prostitution and believes that laws against pimping (living off the earnings of a prostitute) and pandering (encouraging someone to work as a prostitute) should also be repealed, to be replaced with labor laws dealing with working conditions in third-party owned and managed prostitution (COYOTE, 2004) The group stands for prostitution to be assimilated into the private sector as its own industry. By doing this, they believe that the risks associated with prostitution will be easier managed. By having prostitution decriminalized, the business can be regulated with regular STD and HIV testing to prevent the spread of diseases. Another concern of the organization is violence women and sex workers. Due to the of the government into law the view that prostitutes are bad women, and thus legitimate targets for (COYOTE 2004) and for human trafficking. On the opposing side of this argument, SAGE (Standing Against Global Exploitation) Project Inc. is an organization that provides recovery services to victims of sexual violence and abuse, trafficking and exploitation and of prostitution. Their goals are educating the population on the risks associated with prostitution and an infrastructure of services that work to rehabilitate and reintegrate the most disadvantaged, disenfranchised, and exploited individuals back into (SAGE, 2005) by creating programs to help people learn real world skills and how to handle their past. The group recognizes the negative aspects of prostitution and works with legislators to ensure that prostitution remains criminalized and alter the government approaches it child trafficking and rape. Although the two groups have opposing views in regards to decriminalization of prostitution, what they both can agree on is the risks associated with the act. The issues both address are extremely similar as both care for the safety and well-being of those involved. Both are concerned with the spreading of sexually transmitted diseases and other infections, the safety of women against sexual violence, and the prevalent problem that is human trafficking. Because both stakeholders feel strongly about the safety of sex workers in prostitution, one thing all stakeholders can compromise for is advocating for STD testing to be made cheaper and more available to all women, especially sex workers. Doing so would help prevent the spread of diseases such as HIV. Also, making birth control and spermicides easier accessible to sex workers would prevent the risk of pregnancy. Another way to compromise is to educate women and sex workers on the risks of sexual violence, and making resources for women to learn how to defend themselves more accessible, as well as educating the general public of the issue and ways to prevent it. The same idea can be successful for the large issue of human trafficking. Ultimately, 2 organizations working together to advocate for the same cause will be more successful in achieving their goal. Both organizations will need to compromise money and time, but as a result will help to address the issues that they are directly concerned with in regards to prostitution. One way the groups can easier achieve their goals is to work with the legislators and from all over the US and around the (Guidestar.org) that Stand Against Global Exploitation has connections with to pass legislature making HIV or sexually transmitted disease testing more accessible to women and the general population, helping prevent the spread of disease. They can also work with them to create stricter laws on sexual violence and human trafficking. Call Off Your Tired Old Ethics has a large audience of supporters as they to educate the public about prostitution through publications, speeches, and (Harvard University) which means that any announcements or projects would be seen by thousands. Any collaboration between the two organizations would be known to many and reach an audience large enough to really make a difference. proof of organizations coming together to fight for similar causes- one example being NoMore.org. NoMore.org is a large group launched in 2013 consisting of smaller organizations, such as The Allstate Foundation, Safehorizon, and of other allies working together to end sexual violence for women around the (NoMore.org) The organization uses resources from around the world to advocate against violence and sexual assault and providing help for victims in need. The evidence of multiple organizations coming together for a cause, especially one as important as the health and well- being of millions around the world that associate with prostitution. Works Cited All  NOMORE.org Together We Can End Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. N.p., 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Research Guides: Sex Work: Prostitution, White Slavery, and Pornography: Archival  Archival Collections - Sex Work: Prostitution, White Slavery, and Pornography - Research Guides at Harvard Library. Harvard University, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Sage Project  Pardon Our Interruption. Guidestar, 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. What Is COYOTE? WHO WE ARE WHAT DO WE WANT? WHO GETS ARRESTED? Problems and  What Is COYOTE? N.p., 2004. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. What Is  Stand Against Global Exploitation (2005): n. pag. Harvard.edu. Harvard University, 2005. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.