Jescelyn Wijaya Robert Ryan Composition II Project I Intermediate Draft January 24, 2017 Gun Control in America The debate on gun control in America has been going for many years. Even though many laws have passed and changed however, death rate due to gun violence still remains high which is one of the biggest problems that America faces. Beginning with the Brady Act in 1993, the first gun control law that America made which is to conduct a general background check of individuals for gun purchase (Price, 2010). Even though there are many people who agree with a stricter gun control law, there are still some people who are against it, as they believe that firearms should be allowed to keep in households for self-defense (Bogus, 2008). The National Association for Gun Rights represents these people who are against of the banning of firearms as well as stricter background checks. Due to this disagreement, the topic of gun control has remained unsolved to this day. Despite both of these stakeholders seem to be completely at odds with one another, however they both have a common ground or shared interest, which is safety of civilians. Therefore, even though both the Brady Campaign as well as the National Association for Gun Rights may seem very different as they both have their respective goal, they can work to establish a lasting compromise, which will benefit the country in the long run as long as both are willing to compromise which may be used for the good of all. The Brady Campaign was implemented which aims to make a safer America for both the citizens as well as immigrants that will lead to a reduction in gun deaths and injuries. Even though the Brady campaign has been going on for centuries, it still has clear mission which is to a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (bradycampaign) by creating a policy which focuses on background checks to all gun sales, to stop the gun dealers that supply all crime guns, as well to change social norms of guns at homes, to prevent homicides and suicides that happen in daily life (bradycampaign). BBC stated that compared to other countries such as Canada, Australia and the UK, America has the highest statistics of homicide rate of which by guns in 2012 (BBC, 2016). Due to the availability of guns to civilians, and some people are still able to access firearms illegally from their friends or families of some sort (Bogus, 2008), the country is now going through problems as gun-related crimes keep occurring everyday. On the other hand, the National Association for Gun Rights, which was founded in 2000 with the mission to allow people the right to bear arms and to exercise their right to self-defense (nationalgunrights). The National Association for Gun Rights represents a large amount of people who are against and disagree with a stricter background check policy and gun control laws, as they believe that they are preventing them from their rights to own firearms. Since America is one of the countries that legalized the right to own firearms, many Americans appreciate and view gun ownership as their most cherished right of citizenship (Kocsis, 2015). Unlike other countries that do not have the legal rights to own firearms, some Americans see the need to carry handguns everywhere for protection and self-defense. However, because many people are able to carry guns with the reason of the risks of homicide, suicide and unintentional shootings increase as well which cause America to have a high death rate compared to other countries. Even though both stakeholders are seem to be in disagreement, they have the same common ground which is for safety and improvement however, just in different approach. The Brady Campaign believes that in order for America to reduce death rate due to gun violence, firearms need to be eliminated especially in households where homicides and suicides occur most. On the contrary, the National Association for Gun Rights believes that civilians should be given the right to own guns for self-defense following the Second Amendments, which is to let Americans own guns. A research stated that 63% of adults believe that having a gun in the house will make them feel safer (theweek.com) therefore, many Americans agree that carrying around a loaded weapon allows them to be prepared at any crime situations that might take place and it gives them a little bit of peace of mind. However, the American Journal of Epidemiology found that the people who keep guns in the home are 90% more likely to die by homicides as well as commit crimes than the people who do not own guns. But as different as these two stakeholders can be in the debate of gun control, there is hope for compromise. The compromise would still allows Americans to have the right to keep and bear arms however, in a much safer way which would decrease crime rates in the long run especially mass shootings. First of all, if both stakeholders agree that gun dealers who supply gun illegally to people should be eliminated, it would be the most effective way for America to decrease their crime and death rates especially due to mass shootings. From 1982 to 2012, it is said that US had roughly 62 mass shootings. Of those 62 mass shootings, 49 were using legal weapons according to a research done by Mother Jones (Follman, Aronsen, Pan, 2016). This suggests that even to this day, many people are still able to access firearms illegally from gun dealers despite the background checks law that the country has implied. We all know that from just 1 mass shooting incident, many lives are taken which causes America to be one of the countries with the highest crime rate. Therefore, if both stakeholders agree and compromise, they can propose America to establish a policy, which is to conduct a complete check of gun sales records from each gun dealers in America, it would help them identify and ban the gun dealers who were involved in illegal firearm sales before. Secondly, if both stakeholders agree that firearms are the cause of high suicide rate in the country, they can compromise and request the Department of Education to create a new education program of gun safety to be implemented in middle schools. Along with the First Amendment, which discusses how dangerous and impact of firearms are, America can conduct a gun safety education which explains the danger, impact of guns as well as what to do when in the environment where guns are presence. If the dangers of guns are taught since young, there will be decrease in suicide rate, which will also lead to a decrease in death rate in the long run. To conclude, both stakeholders: the Brady Campaign and the National Association of Gun Rights, have different views on the debate gun control. However, due to the common grounds that they both carry, there is hope for a compromise if both are willing to. Due to this shared interest and their compromise, new policies can be implied such as to conduct a complete check of gun sales record of the gun dealers in the country as well as to create a new education program of gun safety, mass shootings, homicide rates as well as suicide rates would decrease which would also decrease death rate in the long run. References: 1. Kocsis, M. (2015). Gun Ownership and Gun Culture in the United States of America. Essays In Philosophy, 16(2), 154. Doi:10.7710/1526-0569.1530 2. Bogus, C. T. (2008). Gun Control and Cities: Public Policy and Politics. Albany Government Law Review, 1(2), 463-465. 3. Price, M., & Norris, D. M. (2010). Firearm Laws: A Primer for Psychiatrists. Harvard Review Of Psychiatry (Taylor & Francis Ltd), 18(6), 326. doi:10.3109/10673229.2010.52750 4. Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun About Gun Violence Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. 5. The truth about guns and The Week - All you need to know about everything that matters. N.p., 01 Nov. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.