Valdez 1 Nichole Valdez ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Should We Further Educate Society on Organ Donation? Organ donation is an issue which has progressed over the past few years. Society has begun questioning whether donation should be mandatory upon the death of a person with viable organs. However, one must wonder if this act would be ethically acceptable after considering factors such as religious or personal belief and tradition. With one side of the situation having something major to gain from donation, the other must make a difficult decision after hearing such heartbreaking news. With the multiple stakeholders to consider, it is difficult to determine if there is a reasonable compromise as to whether organ donation should be made a mandatory procedure. In the process of organ donation currently, a patient must register as a donor, state in their will that they would like to donate, or have their family make the decision for them once they have passed away. If the person has clearly stated that they would like to donate their organs, there is nothing a family can do but respect their wishes regardless of their own beliefs. Though if people do not register to become donors, it is inevitably up to the families to make the decision for them. Worldwide society has different views and opinions when regarding organ donation. Malaysia is currently being affected by the fact that there are not enough people attempting to become donors. As stated in the article Attitudes Toward Organ Donation Among Different Ethnic Groups In , In Malaysia, less than 1% of the population pledge as organ Often times in developing countries society does not receive the Valdez 2 proper information regarding medical procedures which may explain why they do not agree in participating. addition to knowledge, negative beliefs and fears regarding organ donation may constitute a significant barrier to organ With this being said, a common reason for the public not willing to become donors often times is because they are uneducated on the matter and may be scared to agree in donation. As of 1997, it has been determined that over 90,000 people were waiting for an organ transplant (Amir & Haskell 29). As also stated in the article written by Amir and Haskell, of those 90,000 people, there are almost 60,000 patients who died while awaiting their transplant. Most of the recipients on the transplant list are determined to be minorities. Often times minorities are determined to have different health complications which may prolong or deny their chance at receiving an organ. In particularly, African Americans tend to suffer from various health conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease et al. 29). However, they are found to be the most abundant on the transplant list. Due to the lack of African American donors, this ethnic group does not always receive a fair chance at survival. After conducting a survey on 70 African Americans, researchers became aware that most of the decisions against donation are due to lack of knowledge and mistrust in the medical department (Brown 29). If society were more educated on the matter, there may be more people willing to donate if the opportunity arose. From a perspective, if the newly deceased patient is eligible for organ donation, they believe in informing the family of the potential donor to assist in possibly obtaining their agreement for donation. In a study conducted in Australia the majority of people surveyed decided that they would agree to being an organ donor if they were ever in the position of Valdez 3 needing to do so (Philpot, Steve John, et al. 2). This indicates that doctors must remain careful and unbiased when consulting a family about the benefits of organ donation. When informing the families, they must remain aware of not implying force to donate or seeming to care more about the recipient. As stated in the article written by Philpot, Steve John, et al., are more likely to donate if conversations include information about the rarity of the opportunity for If a family feels forced when having to make a decision about donating their loved ones organs, they will not feel as willing to agree in the donation. However, if they feel as though this opportunity is unique they may feel as though it is their in a sense to donate. In some cases, the family of the donor agrees to follow through with the donation after meeting the family of the recipient. This helps both parties since the family gets the chance to save the person who has saved their loved life, while the family of the donor receives closure in the sense that their loved one may in a sense through the person that has received their organ. is imperative that a family understand that adverse events are possible and that the family agree the benefits of enabling donation outweigh these (Morrison 5). With the family agreeing and determining that the benefits are more important to potential danger that could come, the life of a possibly fatally ill person is saved. In a published article the story of a woman who lost her mother is explained and her feelings after meeting the recipient that received her kidney. In this article 31 year old, Brenda Yepez, finally agrees to meet 35 year old Sunny Luna. meeting Luna, Brenda Yepez said: I feel blessed. It gives me more of a  For Luna, 35, it was a chance to thank the family of the woman who gave me a new  she Fresno 1). In situations like Valdez 4 these, society is able to see the end result and benefit of organ donation while the recipient is able to show their gratitude toward the family from which they received from. Over the past years organ donation has become a major ethical issue worldwide. For families and patients it seems to be a sensitive topic which requires careful consideration while being discussed. From perspective it could mean getting a second chance to live a normal and healthy life, while some may consider it to be an act completely against their beliefs. In most cases society has not been properly informed on the matter, meaning if asked to donate a loved organs they will likely deny. However, if there is a way to educated the people on the benefits, risks and procedures of donation, there would possibly be more of society willing to donate. Valdez 5 Work Cited Villiers-Tuthill, A., et al. Attitudes Toward Organ Donation Among Different Ethnic Groups In  Proceedings (2016): . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Morrison, Wynne. Organ Donation Prior To Benefits And  American Journal Of Bioethics 12.6 (2012): 14-15. . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Philpot, Steve John, et al. Randomised, Double Blind, Controlled Trial Of The Provision Of Information About The Benefits Of Organ Donation During A Family Donation  ONE 11.6 (2016): 1-14. Search Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tearful Fresno meeting joins organ recipient,  Bee [Fresno, 16 Dec. 2009. Insights: Essentials . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Brown, Esther R. African American Present Perceptions Of Organ Donation: A Pilot  ABNF Journal 23.2 (2012): 29-33. Search Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.