Sara Hannon James Josue ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Exposure of media violence has become an unavoidable factor in the lives of Americans as technology improves and the youth are not shielded from this hostility. As technology continues to advance, video games are becoming more and more realistic, allowing players to be first person shooters to innocent citizens walking around the town. This demonstrates how these games are conveying violence as an acceptable method to deal with aggression. However, many people believe allowing those to play these sort of games is a safe alternative way to deal with anger. In order to insure the safety of the children and future generations, we must research the short and long term effects that these video games are having on our children, and in this paper, I will do just that. In 2011, gamers spent almost 25 billion dollars on video games, which some would blame for flaring mass shootings by young men. For obvious reasons, we are led to speculate that committing violent crimes in video games directly correlates to acting out in the real world, however the evidence of this does not match up with that speculation. Psychology professor, Patrick Markey explained, Contrary to the claims that violent video games are linked to aggressive assaults and homicides, no evidence was found to suggest that this medium was a major (or minor) contributing cause of violence in the United States (Markey 1). Annual trends in video game sales for the past 33 years were unrelated to violent crime both concurrently and up to 4 years later. Unexpectedly, monthly sales of video games were related to concurrent decreases in aggravated assaults and were unrelated to If video games are contributing to youth violence, video games sales and aggravated assaults would be positively correlated. This changed my view I had before researching the topic. Many researchers, well-known news reporters, and lawmakers make similar assumptions, therefore skewing the views on the effects of violent video games (Markey 1). More specifically, researchers seem to jump to conclusions when analyzing school shooting such as the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in December of 2012. Researchers correlated this shooting with playing violent video games, implying the shooter did this because he played the video game Call of Duty , a first-person shooting war game (Markey 2). Monique Wonderly states in her work titled Humean approach to assessing the moral significance of ultra-violent video game , that this is a wrongful accusation because of the vast majority of youth who play violent video games and the slim percentage of those who have committed such crimes. We must look to the other variables that played a part in this situation, rather than jumping to conclusions and blaming video games for sparking the interest in committing a such violent crime. There are more likely more causally relevant factors that influenced his decision making (Wonderly 4). Wonderly also proposes the idea that, violent video game play could actually be a form of healthy escapism for some Contrary to these beliefs, many researchers find it contradicting that police departments and military are using stimulated videogame technology to train for tasks that are too dangerous to practice any other way (Wonderly 4). This proves that these games are realistic enough to stimulate real world scenarios such as war. Lieutenant Colonel David Grossman explained, is a natural aversion to killing own kind, so troops must be desensitized and conditioned in order to become willing and proficient 8). If these games are realistic enough to desensitize grown men to killing their own kind, they are having the same effect on the millions of children who are playing these games. As children become desensitized to such behavior, we are creating long term effects such as decreasing levels of empathy. Although research shows little direct correlation between violent video games and aggression levels, it is not the immediate effects that these games are having on gamers (Wonderly 9). The vulgarity of video games are unimaginable, leaving many parents in shock when finding out the extent of the profanity games their kids are playing include. In the popular game titled Grand Theft Auto (GTA), injured players can regain strength by paying to have sex with a prostitute. After doing so, players can murder the prostitute to steal back the cost of her services. In a game called of players must complete the task of sacrificing one of their own soldiers before they are able to advance in the game. They must do so by torching them to death while watching their own kind scream until they are incarnated (Wonderly 2). By not only allowing such behavior in these games, but making it a requirement to achieve any advancements, video game companies are diminishing the the strategic concept of the games, and replacing it with forced inhumane tasks. The long term effects of performing such tasks in the real world has resulted in being diagnosed with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and lowering interpersonal trust (Rothmund 127). Psychologist, Tobias Rothmund concluded, society-level impact of video game violence is not restricted to severe physical aggressiveness, but more generally to the formation and stabilization of mistrust and suspicious expectations towards other people. While not all players are affected to the same extent, the frequent confrontation with hostility and violence in virtual worlds still seems to transfer into a less trustful, less open, and less precarious way of thinking about people in the real By allowing children to continue partaking in virtual violent acts and exposing them to such cruelty, we are damaging their minds and potentially training them as the military train to be killers of their own kind. Nonetheless, both of these viewpoints on the topic have the same end goal: to reduce social violence. By spreading awareness of the potential dangers playing these video games could have on future generations to parents, we can emphasize the importance of monitoring what and how much children are playing. A recent study found that 87% of boys under the age of 17 have played games rated, intended for those above the age of 17 and 90% say their parents never check ratings before buying thier children games (Wonderly 9). Although this may not have been an issue in the past, due to technological advancements, parents need to understand the cruelty and realistic nature video games contain. Another way to increase parental involvement would be to require pediatricians to inform parents and children about the seriousness of this issue. Doctors should also push parents to put their children on where they limit and monitor what their children are being exposed to. Policy makers also need to push for more specific content descriptions of these games to inform parents of the extent of the violence on the packaging of video games (AAP Committee 3). Technology today is more realistic than ever, and the more the general public educates themselves on what is so readily available to children, the more parents can supervise and control the intake of these games, allowing parents to become more aware of both the short and long term effects these games have on their children. Work Cited Markey, Patrick M., Charlotte N. Markey, and Juliana E. French. Violent Video Games And Real-World Violence: Rhetoric Versus  Of Popular Media Culture 4.4 (2015): 277-295. . Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Rothmund, Tobias, et al. Short- And Long-Term Effects Of Video Game Violence On Interpersonal  Psychology 18.1 (2015): 106. Provided Full Text Searching File . Web. 30 Jan. 2017. ERRATA...AAP Council On Communications And Media. Virtual Violence. Pediatrics .  138.4 (2016): 1. . Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Wonderly, Monique. A Humean Approach To Assessing The Moral Significance Of Ultra-Violent Video  & Information Technology 10.1 (2008): 1-10. Science & Technology Source . Web. 30 Jan. 2017.