Chloe Schuetz James Josue ENC 1102 January 28, 2017 Environmental Impact of Eating Meat Most Americans include meat in each meal they have daily, typically being the main part of the meal. In a nation that praises meat, is there a cost of all the production needed to fulfill Americans stomachs? Many scientists agree that the large amount of meat production causes damage and pollution to the American land, water, and air. While other meat based companies disagree that their production of meat pollutes. According to the National Public Radio an average American consumes about 270 pounds of meat annually; this includes vegans and vegetarians as outliers. An average American weighs only around 160-170 pounds, meaning they almost double their weight in meat consumption a year. With such a high demand for meat, what are the costs, if any, of producing so much meat? Due to the rising population, the World Commission on Water predicted that are increase of water usage would lead to stress on the environment, causing loss of bio diversity. According to Soil and Water specialists from University of California Agricultural Extension it takes 5,214 gallons of water to produce one pound of beef. While one pound of carrots, lettuce, tomatoes, and potatoes take only 23-33 gallons of water to grow. half the water consumed in this country is used for livestock, mostly (Audubon, 1999) In 1999 Time Magazine wrote that over the past 500 years civilization has developed powerful tools to pump water from aquifers and deplete their resources in a matter of decades. More and more water is being devoted to livestock, instead of being used for crops which are directly consumed by humans. Millions of wells are going dry along with pumping more water out of aquifers than rainwater can replenish. The National Beef Association is one of the main supporters of meat production not affecting the environment in any negative way. They state that the water they use for their cows is not or but in fact recycled back into the hydrological cycle. They claim that an acre of corn puts back 4,000 gallons of water back into the hydrological cycle each day. When it comes to keeping the freshwater on Earth clean and safe for consumption everyone is on board. But according to the Union of Concerned Scientists, farm factories are polluting the Earths waters supplies. They state that tons of livestock manure produced for every household in the country With that they added that the government has strict has strict laws concerning the disposal of human waste, but when it comes to animal waste there are little to no laws. The National Pork Council pleaded that pork producers are indeed dedicated to preserving the environment. They also boast about how in the total of emissions let off by America, animal agriculture is only responsible for 2.5%, and in that pork farmers are less than 1% responsible (Pork Facts, nccp). When concerning dairies, Deltakeeper, an environmental group who are dedicated to monitor and keep waterways clean, state are the single largest source of water As well as 65% of the state of population whose drinking water is threatened from contamination due to dairies (Robbins, 2001). With that the NCBA stated all livestock and poultry manure winds up as a natural fertilizer on the without polluting water They also go on to talk about how cattle are recycling and protection In the debate of the environmental impact of eating meat both parties have facts and evidence to persuade one to believe either-or. From polluting the water systems through manure or consuming most of the fresh water in America, both sides had statements to back up each ones opinion on how eating/producing meat affects the environment. Bibliography National Public Radio. A Nation Of Meat Eaters: See How It All Adds  NPR. NPR, 27 June 2012. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Robbins, John. The food revolution: how your diet can help save your life and our world. Berkeley, CA: Conari Press, 2001. Print. and facts about Beef  How Fossil Fuels Are Used to Produce  One Green Planet. Kate Good, 05 Mar. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Pork Facts n.d.: n. pag. Print.