Trey Harrell 1/29/16 ENC Intro Without question, religion is one of the most controversial topics in public and in media. I am interested in studying religion and the impact it has on minds. Religion is a normal and an everyday part of a huge percentage of peoples lives. Different religions exist and provide many different lifestyles than what otherwise would exist. I am interested in examining what separates the actions and motives of someone who is religious versus someone who is not. Religion has been practiced for thousands of years. It has always been prevalent and very much an everyday part of life for many people. There should be a huge spectrum of people to examine, from extremely religious to completely secular. It should make for an interesting study. There are many different things that appear to be actions seeded in religion. Key historical points would include the involvement of religion in terrorism, politics and many other facets of everyday life. How does religion cause people to behave differently than they otherwise would? Do people who adhere to certain religions behave differently than those who at all? 1) Religion and  IEP. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article discusses how religion is evident in the public sphere, including in governing bodies. Certain countries allow for religious figures to be head of state. Many countries have very different procedures on separating church and state. Very liberal countries tend to completely try and remove government from having any role in religion. On the other end of the spectrum, there are counties that make religious figures the head of state. Very different situations exist all over the place. In America, the head of state is not a religious figure, but much of politics is very politically charged. This Internet piece serves as direct context toward the research question. This piece is a tool to examine how religious motives affect political policies and motives. People are often interested in pushing their agendas, and frequently it is based in religion. Issues in America such abortion rights and banning of certain religious groups are modern problems that are highly debated. It is no secret that religion fuels many politics. 2) Fine, Jonathan. Contrasting Secular and Religious  Middle East Forum. N.p., Winter 2008. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article compares the difference between religious and secular acts of terror. The article clearly states that there is a difference in secular and religious based acts of terror. Many of the secularly defined acts notably occurred because of monetary motives. In addition to seeking money, kidnapping/harming government officials were prevalent in secular acts of terror. In religious acts of terror, self-sacrifice was much more prevalent. After reading the article it became apparent that religious and secular acts of terror frequently came in different forms. This article should be a direct example of how religious vs non- religious behavior exists and differentiate. The research question is directly addressed and compares acts of terror between religion and non-religion. Terrorism is a subsection of comparing religious to non- religious. It is a subsection that garners a lot of news and is very focused on in modern day. 3) Gosden, Emily. How Religion Has Clashed with Secular  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 01 July 2011. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. This article provides, in list form, example of times in society that religion has created a controversial situation. There are many different controversies listed and they apply to many different areas of society. Areas such as education, legislation and workplace concerns are all addressed with examples of past incidences. There are many events from history that could be used to show discrimination/ ways that religion affects society. This article is direct context for comparing religious and secular society. Many people see things differently based on whether or not they are religious and this article provides numerous examples of civil conflict and disagreement in society. Religious based controversies arise occasionally in society and it represents the way religious vs non-religious people may think about the same subject. This article is very useful and provides direct examples of real life incidents that happened in society. 4) Zuckerman, Phil. Think Religion Makes Society Less Violent? Think  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 30 Oct. 2014. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. This article compares secular versus religious societies and considers which is more violent of the two. The article makes the case, that despite popular belief; societies with religious influence are actually the more violent of the two. On an international level, countries that tend to be secular appear to have lower rates of crime. This article makes a strong case for how it is advantageous as a society to lean towards secularization over religiousness. This is a comparison in many statistical categories from secular to religious societies. This article is useful because it provides details on international levels of the effectiveness of religion in society. This article addresses concerns about religion and secular society. This makes for a useful source to draw from when addressing the research question. Many details in the newspaper article directly provide evidence to how certain societies operate. The sources facts appear to be credible and makes for a useful source to draw from. The claim that secular societies operate better provides direct evidence from on side of the argument.