Julius Jackson Sara Roth Enc 1101 1/27/2017 Redlining, How the Practice of Segregation in the past still ripples through America today The roots of redlining in America can be traced back as far as segregation. Segregation was the goal and redlining was the tactic, the plan. Some argue that the practice began during the great migration and the great depression. Relators and the government had to find a place to put the displaced and growing black population, while also trying to figure out how to stimulate the housing market. Some blacks choose to live in black communities finding comfort in commonality, but others, regardless of their economic capability, were forced into certain communities with depreciating real estate value, high crime rates, and subpar education facilities. These injustices were brought to public discussion by academic research and journals. After this the government set in motion a series of laws with the intent to make the market fair and just. Today, serval decades after these laws were implemented, not much equality has been made. Hence the gap between approval ratings for minorities is still unequal to that of the white ethnicity. Why? To what extent does racial composition affect decision to give out loans. To what extent is redlining still present in society. PEARCY, MARK1, mpearcy@rider.edu. : Teaching About Racial Residential  Virginia Social Science Journal 50.(2015): 40-50. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article is editorial that seeks to inform the reader on redlining and racial segregation in America. It explains what redlining is and how banks and relators used it to dictate where a potential buyer could live. Redlining is essentially a map that shows the high valued, and the low valued real estate. In the early twentieth century minorities were encouraged and forced to live in the lower valued areas regardless of their credit. Also, it is important to mention that if minorities were to move into a highly-valued neighborhood, the neighborhoods market value would go down. The article mentions an interesting perspective where the real estate and banks were not the one encouraging redlining, but that the citizens were the enforcers would. Hence the market value of a neighborhood would go down because whites did not want to live in neighborhoods with minorities. The article speaks on the overreaching effects this serration has had on ethnic groups today. Mark Pearcy is a social studies professor at Rider University, he received his doctorate for social studies education at the University of south Florida. He has published numerous works under the interest of social studies. Kuthy, Diane1,2. Redlining And Greenlining: Olivia Robinson Investigates Root Causes Of Racial  Art Education 70.1 (2017): 50-57. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article argues that the recent uprisings and riots of blacks in the past years are consequences from the racist and discriminative polices of the generations before us. These riots can be usually being traced back to one event or catalyst, but the author argues that theses riots are sparked from numerous wrong doings. The article argues that the start of these wrong doings is segregation and most importantly systematic redlining varied out by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). The FHA was setup after the great depression to stimulate and grow the housing market. They did this in part by choosing areas to invest in, they took money out of black communities and put them into white communities. The author argues that this caused numerous disparities in healthcare, in the job market, in crime, and in politics. White communities were setup to flourish off the detriment of the minorities. Olivia Robinson is an artist who uses her art to bring attention to social topics. She is also a teacher at the Maryland Institute College of Art. Diane Kuthy is a well-recognized art professor at the Maryland Institute of College of Art. Diane has won awards and had her work featured in exhibits on numerous occasions. MENDEZ, DARA D., VIJAYA K. HOGAN, and JENNIFER CULHANE. Institutional Racism And Pregnancy Health: Using Home Mortgage Disclosure Act Data To Develop An Index For Mortgage Discrimination At The Community  Public Health Reports 126.(2011): 102. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. This study argues that redlining falls into the category of institutionalized racism, racism supported by government policies, and that it may also correlates with health-related disparities and inequalities found in different ethnic groups. The study states that racial residential segregation and redlining contribute to health inequalities due to the fact that these ethnic groups reside in different types of neighborhoods. Minorities seem to be more prone to certain illnesses and harmful behaviors insofar that the individuals tend to live in a more stressful environment. The study found that in Philadelphia in the years 1999-2004 black citizens were more likely to be denied a mortgage loan in contrast to white citizens. Blacks were denied twice as much as whites for a mortgage if they already lived in poor areas. The study also maps out redlining in Philadelphia by using the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and the census from 2000. The study found that the areas with high percentage of one ethnic group, and low mortgage approval ratings, had little interactions with other ethnic groups. Mendez, Dara D. has a Ph.D. from the university of North Carolina in Maternal and Child care, she has numerous publication on the public health report. Vijaya K. Hogan is a clinical associate professor in maternal and child health at UNC, she also has other publications in the public health report. Finally, Jennifer Culhane has a Ph.D. in public health from temple university, she has a wide range of publications in the field of health. Ross, Stephen L., and Geoffrey M.B. Tootell. Redlining, The Community Reinvestment Act, And Private Mortgage  Journal Of Urban Economics 55.(2004): 278- 297. ScienceDirect. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This study finds evidence that race is not the only factor lending to mortgage inequities. It finds that lenders tend to favor certain communities rather than certain ethnic groups. Wealthy communities and low income communities that hold Private Mortgage Insurance are more likely to be approved for a mortgage than low income communities that do not have Private insurance. Hence mortgage lenders do not discriminate against specific races or ethnic groups but rather the neighborhood as a whole. The mortgage lenders prefer that their applicants have Private Mortgage Insurance because if the borrower defaults on their mortgage the private insurance covers some of the loss. Lenders preferring their applicants to apply for PRI began with the enforcement of the Community Reinvestment ACT (CRA). This act forced lenders to loan out more mortgages in low income/minority neighborhoods by denying the company certain necessities. This can in my annotated bibliography to show that Mortgage lenders discriminate against entire geographic areas. These areas tend to be minority, low income communities. Ross, Stephen L has a Ph.D. in economics from the university of Syracuse, he is currently an economics professor at the university of Connecticut. He has many publications in scholarly journals, one of his areas of focus are housing mortgage discrimination. Geoffrey M.B. Tootell got his Ph.D. in economics from Harvard university. He is currently the Executive Vice President and Director of Research at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. He has also written other publications on the topic of race in mortgage lending. Silverman, Robert Mark1. Redlining In A Majority Black City?: Mortgage Lending And The Racial Composition Of Detroit  Western Journal Of Black Studies 29.1 (2005): 531-541. Humanities Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This study gives a very detailed description of the history of redlining, and the history of scholarly research about redlining. It tells how the practice was popular in the early twentieth century, it was made illegal at the same time segregation was made illegal. color of brought redlining into the public eye in 1988. After this redlining got much more attention in scholarly research. With this an argument began, does racial composition of a neighborhood matter, or do other characteristics determine the loan eligibility of the borrowers. This is still argued today will both sides having valid evidence and reasonable opinions. Hence redlining may not be a problem in all of America, but only in certain cities, just how racism was not equally as bad across America. The fact that redlining is still a problem in some communities is egregious, unjust and must be dealt with. Also, the study conducts its own experiment to find redlining in the city of Detroit, and it does. This article could be used to give historical context in my introduction and gave many other studies that could be used as evidence to support my thesis. Silverman, Robert Mark got his Ph.D. in public studies from the university of Wisconsin. He is currently a professor at the university of Buffalo in the department of urban and regional planning. One of his areas of focus, which he has many if publications, is inequality in inner city housing markets. Coffey, Brian, and J. Clarke Gocker. Racial Disparities in Mortgage Lending: The Example of Urban  Social Justice 1998: 115. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This study was performed to how the mortgage lending rates of different ethnic groups in urban Ohio has changed after the Community Reinvestment Act was established. It found that a higher percentage of white applicants are approved when compared to black applicants. It found that the white approval ratings were higher in every category when compared to blacks. Blacks living in a predominately white neighborhood are more likely to receive a loan then blacks who live in a predominately black neighborhood. The study concludes that 30 years after the Community Reinvestment Act was implemented in the American Housing Market, the gap between white approval and black approval are still vastly different. Also, the majority of loans approved for black applicants were for houses in predominantly black neighborhoods. Coffey, Brian has a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of California. He is currently an assistant philosophy professor at Grand Valley State University. J. Clarke Gocker is currently attaining his Ph.D. in sociology at the University of Buffalo.