Dylan Peterle Professor Ricketts Composition 1 01/25/2017 How effectively does the NFL prevent CTE? Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is the term used to describe a neurodegenerative disease, is an emerging condition that has been found commonly in the National Football League (NFL). Such as Mike Webb, Frank Gifford, and many others. CTE is becoming the signature football disease, affecting players after they retire from the NFL. The symptoms include aggression, depression, anxiety, suicidality, parkinsonism, and, eventually, progressive dementia. This predicament is a serious one; multiple retired players who have suffered from CTE have gone on to suffer further physical injury, mental hazard, and in the most extreme cases, suicide. One would think that a professional sports organization would take this matter extremely seriously, but in a disconcerting move, the NFL initially attempted to clear themselves of all responsibility in the matter. It was only after the suicide of Terry Long in 2005, a 45-year-old NFL veteran, that the controversy surrounding CTE began. Dr. Bennet Omalu a Nigerian-American physician who was the first to discover and publish findings of CTE in 2002. It has taken years for the NFL to acknowledge the fact that the sport they regulate is linked to a deadly brain disease. While countermeasures and precautionary steps have been taken to protect players, the question remains as to whether the NFL is doing enough to prevent CTE. The NFL recently created new rules, designed to limit head injuries, all players are prohibited to strike a player in a defenseless position in the head or neck and the NFL is also investing in new helmets such as the Zero1. These small changes are helping players stay concussion free but is it enough? WORKS CITED Bailes, Julian. What Is  What Is CTE? Brain Injury Research Institute. BIRI, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The Brain Injury Research Institute (BIRI) designed this webpage to inform the readers about CTE, symptoms, and how they diagnose patients. CTE affects the brain of people who have suffered from multiple concussions throughout their life. Over time patients suffering from CTE will lose brain mass and remaining tissue will deteriorate. Symptoms include loss of memory, difficultly controlling erratic behavior, and dementia. Bennet I. Omalu, M.D. and Julian Bailes, M.D were the first doctors to diagnose CTE in 2002 to professional football players. They have been conducting studies with athletes to see if they can detect CTE earlier on in their athletic career. This article is credible because it comes from the Brain Injury Research Institute. This is a Research Institution that studies the short and long term impact of brain injurie. It was established in 1966 by a group of doctors and made headlines in 2002 while evaluating a former athlete Mike Webb who died from CTE. They now work with football, hockey, boxers, rugby athletes, and military personal on studying more in-depth about CTE. This source is essential to my paper because it goes into detail about what CTE is, what its effects are, and how it can be treated. Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) in a National Football League Player: Case Report and Emerging Medicolegal Practice  Omalu - 2010 - Journal of Forensic Nursing - Wiley Online Library. Wiley Online Library, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article includes a timeline starting from 1994 and ending in 2013. It gives a few examples of some bad hits including Tory Aikman, Mike Webb, and a career ending hit on Steve Young. Then in 2002, Dr. Bennet Omalu discovers CTE in the brain of deceased Mike brain. By 2003 the NFL is trying to cover up the scandal by disclaiming Dr. Bennet Omalu research. After more incidents of CTE occurred and more studies were put into place. People started to believe Dr. Bennet Omalu and by 2012-2013 the NFL is trying to prevent the amount of concussions players receive. This source provides the basis of what my research question is based on: the way the National Football League handles a mental disease that is directly correlated with the sport they regulate. The article provides a timeline of discovery, the initial findings of its effects, and most importantly, documents how the NFL has responded to the disease over the course of nearly two decades. I have chosen this source specifically for its direct relevance to my research topic. This source is credible because it comes from PBS.org. PBS is a private nonprofit corporation that was founded in 1969. Their goal is to inform their audience about everyday events in life. They are ranked number one in educational media brand and are number one in public trust. Gibeaut, John. Thrown For A Loss: Retired Players Sue, Claim NFL Hid Brain Damage  ABA Journal 97.11 (2011): 29. Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This article was about retired NFL players suing the NFL because of hiding brain damage information. It starts out by mentioning a tight end that died at the age of 69 and who suffered from dementia for over ten years. Since then many other retired players have sued the NFL hoping for a collective bargaining agreement. All the complaints alleged that the NFL ignored studies of brain injury information. The NFL claimed to be studying the effects of brain damage, since the but it was not until 2010 they released information they knew serious blows to the head could cause dementia, encephalopathy, memory loss and related conditions. This article is useful because it provides actual court cases to build my paper. These cases show how retired NFL players had problems from concussions they received. Finally, it ends by saying the NFL knew it was a problem and now are working with players and officials to make it a safer game. The author John Gibeaut is more than credible he was a reporter for The Tampa Tribune, Sarasota Herald-Tribune, the Niagara Gazette, and the City News Bureau of Chicago. He earned his J.D. and B.A. in journalism and French from Florida State University and Ohio State. Foster, Tom. The helmet wars: athletes in the U.S. suffer 3.8 million sports-related concussions each year. While helmet makers dither with small improvements, Swedish scientists have built something that could protect us  Popular Science 2013: 50. Academic OneFile. Web. 4 Feb. 2017 This article begins with stories from the NFL and how players were receiving season and career ending hits. Then leads into explaining what exactly a concussion is and how it affects the players. It then goes into the different helmets scientist and engineers have been working on including the Riddell 360, Schutt Ion 4D, and many others. Scientist explain why these new helmets are more evolved then others mainly because of the lining, extra padding, and light weight more protective shell. They hope to improve safety throughout the NFL reducing the number of concussions in a regular season. This article is crucial for my paper because about new helmets engineers are making to protect NFL players. They have a list of helmets designed to protect the head in a more effective way. Scientist and engineers have paired up together to create the safest helmet the NFL has ever had. This source is credible because it comes from Popular Science a bi monthly magazine. Their articles are generally about science and technology subjects, they have won over 58 awards including American Society of Magazine Editors.