Draft Jordan Reed There are a lot of pros and cons on the subject of if teachers should be armed in schools or not. These articles explain how some people view teachers with guns. But my question is if some schools do allow teachers to be armed in school then who else in the staff should be armed? Principals, janitors, athletic coaches? Some people view this situation as a problem because teachers as well as anyone from off the street can open fire in a school setting without any warning because they just want to. Frederick, Jennifer. CHALK TALK: Do As I Say, Not As I Do: Why Teachers Should Not Be Allowed To Carry Guns On School  Journal Of Law & Education 28.(1999): 139. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Using this source is effective because it proves that if teachers bring guns to school then students will be more likely to do the same, leading to even more school violence incidents. This article explains a couple of events of school shootings by students and suggests that if the government allows teachers to carry guns in school it will not set a good example and maybe cause students to bring guns to school as well. They explain methods on how to make sure students do not bring guns to school such as using metal detectors and searching of lockers and backpacks, and having security guards or police officers to make sure students are protected and do not bring guns to school. These are all alternatives to teachers bringing guns to school. This may be a good idea because there could also be over eager teachers willing to use their weapons when it may not be necessary, which would lead to increase shootings. This source is credible because it offers real life examples of school shootings that actually happened in America and also provides information about court cases that actually occurred regarding the legality of teachers carrying guns in school. It is also a Draft Jordan Reed peer reviewed academic journal. Gereluk, Dianne T., , J. Kent Donlevy, and Merlin B. Thompson. Normative Considerations In The Aftermath Of Gun Violence In  Educational Theory 65.4 (2015): 459-474. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article provides a different outlook on guns in school and that teachers in schools should not be armed and the schools just should amp up security and gives 8 ways to boost of security so guns and things like that can not be brought in schools. WEATHERBY, DANIELLE. Opening The Arming Teachers In The War Against School Violence And The Government-Created Risk  Connecticut Law Review 48.(2015): 119. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article explains how teachers could bear arms because of the recent shootings at Sandy Hook and Virginia Tech. This states that if teachers bear arms in schools that they will be more of a risk factor to the students in the school. Also that teachers would be more at risk of getting hurt during an event of an in school shooting. This article also talks about how these teachers that are training to bear arms in school have not actually been in a live shooting event. Having more teachers armed than officers in the school may cause a huge problem because of the amount of training required to safely operate a weapon. Out of the 30 states who wanted teachers to be armed only 11 of the 30 states passed for letting teachers to have guns. Teachers also carrying guns in school would make them both a security guard and a teacher instead of just being a teacher and this gives them liability to protect the students at all times. If a teacher is armed and does not act properly in the case of a school shooting, then Draft Jordan Reed the teachers as well as the school could get sued, and this article suggests that the solution is not arming teachers but having law enforcement or security do that job. Pratt, Tyler. The Fourth Shortcomings For Police During School Shootings. This article suggests a safer alternative to arming teachers who are under trained and explains how instead, police can have more training and different procedures for a school shooting and get there before anyone gets hurt. Some proposals they have come forth with to improve shooting procedures is that they will practice many different scenarios and situations involving active shooter in schools. This article is giving a way to protect teachers and students by increasing security and having more officers with more training in the building.