Mack 1 Elijah Mack Professor Name ENC 1101 5 February 2017 Intermediate Draft An important discussion in America today, and has been for many years, involves the correlation between economic status and success. It is undoubtedly true that in America there is a huge gap between rich and poor. With that being said, do teens with higher socioeconomic status have a better chance at being successful than teens with lower socioeconomic status? People with a higher economic status tend to live a healthier and luxurious lifestyle. Impoverished neighborhoods and bad environments also invite risky or deviant behaviors which result from the lack of being able to live decently. Schools in wealthier neighborhoods also tend to have better textbooks and materials, so they receive a better education than their counterparts. The combination of these three factors contribute to the culture of poverty, and are the main components that might make it tougher for the lower class to escape the bounds society has placed on them. Cattell, Vicky. Poor People, Poor Places, and Poor Health: the Mediating Role of Social Networks and Social  Social Science & Medicine, vol.52, no.10, (2001): 1501-516. Web. This source analyzes the link between socioeconomic status and affects on the well-being of people in society. Vicky Cattell, the author of this source, is a honorary senior lecturer at Queen Mary, University of London. She has taught about sociology and her research mostly focuses on Mack 2 poverty and how society works as a whole. I chose this source because, it is rich in information and really explores several different factors of success and how related to socioeconomic status. Some factors this source analyzes are social exclusion and enjoyment of life. It also contains good qualitative research as it includes interviews and an in-depth analysis of two very impoverished areas, which provides me with firsthand experiences of people who have low socioeconomic status. The author also covers other domains pertaining to the issue of socioeconomic status and how it affects teen success, such as neighborhood characteristics and perceptions of inequality. Cattell provides an explanation of some deleterious effects of poverty and low socioeconomic status. Diener, Ed, and Robert Biswas-Diener. Will Money Increase Subjective Well-Being?: A Literature Review and Guide to Needed  Social Indicators Research Series The Science of Well-Being 2009, pp. 119-54. Web. This source talks about the relationship surrounding the amount of money a person makes and their well-being. The article also reports that poorer nations have larger correlations between income and subjective well-being. Ed Diener, the author of this source, is also the president of the International Society of Quality of Life Studies, and he has published over 300 documents. I chose this source because, it is highly credible, as Professor Diener is one of the most decorated psychologists in the field of poverty. This source does a good job of connecting quality of life to income. What really caught my interest in this article was that it talked about how people have a greater chance of being unhappy in poorer countries. Mack 3 Lombe, Margaret, Von Eugene Nebbitt, Aakanksha Sinha, and Andrew Reynolds. Examining Effects of Food Insecurity and Food Choices on Health Outcomes in Households in  Social Work in Health Care Vol.55, No.6, 2016, pp. 440-60. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This article talks about socioeconomic status and how it affects the health of poorer people in poverty. This article also includes data from the 2007-2008 National Health Examination Survey. It examines household food insecurity, food stamp take-up, and use of informal food supports are associated with health risk among low-income (Lombe et al) Margaret Lombe, the author, is an Associate Professor at Boston College School of Social Work, and is highly credible on the topic because she specializes in the field. I chose this article because it does a good job analyzing the relationship between nutritional health and income. Browning, Christopher R., and Kathleen A. Cagney. Moving Beyond Poverty: Neighborhood Structure, Social Processes, and  Journal of Health and Social Behavior Vol.44.No.4 (2003): Pp.552. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This source examines the relationship that the average neighborhood income and residential stability has on health. The authors discuss their findings of the relationship between socioeconomic status and adult outcomes, including but not limited to mortality, heart disease, a number of chronic conditions, and self-rated health (Browning and Cagney) Christopher Browning is an American historian and has written multiple publications on Nazi Germany. Kathleen A. Cagney is a professor at the University of Chicago, she has a Degree in Public Policy, a degree from Western Michigan University, and a Ph.D from Johns Hopkins University. She is highly creditable on this topic because she specializes in sociology. I Mack 4 chose this source because it provides me with information on how neighborhood structure affects subjective well-being. Kubrin, Charis E., and Ronald Weitzer. New Directions in Social Disorganization  Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency Vol.40.No.4 (2003): Pp.374--402. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This source examines how impoverished neighborhoods, structure of neighborhoods, and income affects crime rate. This is a good source because, it evaluates how different types of environments or neighborhoods produces various outcomes. This article focuses less on individuals and more on what types of settings are created, and whether these settings invite deviance. The authors talk about social disorganization theory, and define it as the between neighborhood structure, social control, and (Kubrin and Weitzer) I chose this source because it includes case studies done in impoverished neighborhoods and that is highly useful in my topic. Charis E. Kubrin is a professor of criminology, law and society at the University of Washington. Kubrin mainly focuses her studies on the effects of different neighborhoods, race, and violence. Kubrin also has her Ph.D. Ronald Weitzer is a professor of sociology and has a Ph.D from the University of California. He is also a criminologist, and has done many studies on minorities.