Engel 1 Daniel Engel Professor Ricketts English Composition 1 25 January 2017 The United States military is a very diverse and complex community with people from all over the U.S. and the world. Within these military communities, most, if not all, families experience either one or two parents being deployed overseas for over a year at a time. Along with deployment, most families are stationed at different military bases and forced to move every two to four years, which can be highly stressful when picking up and moving so often. When this happens, children need to adjust to a new school, a new neighborhood, and the family, as a whole, may have to live in a foreign country and have to learn to local language. One can see how with constant environmental changes along with deployment, as well as many other factors could induce extreme stress and might possibly contribute to mental illness. Those affected by this stress more often than not are the parents, but the children of military families can also experience extreme stress that leads to mental illness as well. What factors contribute to mental illness within military families, and how does this correlate with either higher or lower mental illness rates or all that encompasses the military lifestyle? Lucier-Greer, Mallory, Amy Laura Arnold, Rebecca Neilann Grimsley, James L. Ford, Chalandra Bryant, and Jay A. Mancini. Parental Military Service and Adolescent Well-being: Mental Health, Social Connections and Coping among Youth in the  Child & Family Social Work 21.4, 2014; pp. 421-32. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Engel 2 This article primarily focuses on the influence a parents profession can have on their entire family as well as coping strategies. This piece directly relates to my topic again because my topic deals with mental illness in the military, and a parents profession and the influence it has on their childrens well being is exactly that. Depending on the amount of stress within the family, and at work, excessive and prolonged deployments, as well as other personal stressors can all be leading factors to mental illness within military families, especially adolescents. The audience of this article would be primarily for military families but also a basis for parental employment and the effects on the family, which can be aimed at any family. This article connects directly to my research question because it deals with the stressors in the parents profession as well as the outcome on the family. Mallory Lucier-Greer has a PhD in Philosophy, as well as a PhD in Human Development and Family Studies, from the University of Georgia and currently teaches at Florida State. Laura Arnold has a PhD in Family Science from the University of Georgia as well and continues to teach there currently. James L. Ford works within the Athens-Clarke County Courts with experience in qualitative social research. Chalandra Bryant received her PhD in Child Development and Family Sciences from the Univeristy of Texas and currently teaches at the University of Georgia. Jay A. Mancini received his PhD in Child Development and Family Relations from the University of North Carolina and currently teaches at the University of Gerogia. Okafor, Ebony, Mallory Lucier-Greer, and Jay A. Mancini. Social Stressors, Coping Behaviors, and Depressive Symptoms: A Latent Profile Analysis of Adolescents in Military  Journal of Adolescence, vol. 51, 2016; pp. 133- 43. ScienceDirect. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Engel 3 This article deals with the studies of stressors and depressive symptoms among adolescents in military families. This piece involves plenty of information on the topic such as the variety of coping techniques, specific stressors like parental deployment or periodic moving, and severe change. The audience for this article would be directed toward adolescents as it directly relates to the mental health of adolescents within military families. The only author that has not been mentioned is Ebony Okafor who received her PhD in Marriage and Family Therapy from Florida State University and currently teaches at Towson University. This article pertains directly to the topic because I am focusing on mental illness within military families and what the causes are. Karney, Benjamin R., and John S. Crown. Families Under Stress: An Assessment of Data, Theory, and Research on Marriage and Divorce in the  PsycEXTRA Dataset (2007): n. pag. USF Library . Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This article deals with marriage and divorce within military families and the correlation between deployment and divorce. Focusing on the extensive deployment we see today and militaristic events currently, the rate between one spouse being deployed for extended periods of time and the divorce rate is closely connected. The audience for this piece would be military families who have experienced a divorce or even those within the military who struggle keeping a marriage together. This article connects to my research question because this focuses on the relationship between the spouse and the one employed in the military and the effects that can follow. Benjamin Karney received his PhD in Social Psychology from the UCLA in Los Angeles where he continues to teach. Alfano, Candice A., Simon Lau, Jessica Balderas, Brian E. Bunnell, and Deborah C. Beidel. The impact of military deployment on children: Placing developmental Engel 4 risk in  Clinical Psychology Review 43. 2016; pp. 17-29. ScienceDirect. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This article deals with, specifically, the effect of deployment on children, rather than focusing on the one deployed. Again, this article focuses on the increased deployment by the U.S. miltary with recent conflicts in the middle east, and the correlation between higher deployment rates and children who are affected negatively by this. The article focuses on the different stages within deployment, such as the preparation, the initial time apart, as well as the adjustment of one returning for years at a time. The audience that this article is based towards would be military families but also specifically military families who have experienced deployment. The main point of this article would be the correlation between increased deployment and increased mental health issues with children, including cognitive and developmental disorders. This article connects with my research question because it focuses on the childrens mental health, instead of the one deployed, or the spouse. Each article will hopefully be focusing on different areas within the family unit. Candace A. Alfano received her PhD in Clinical Psychology from the University of Houston and continues to teach and conduct research there. Simon Lau studies developmental psychology at the University of Houston as well as Doctor Alfano. Jessica Balderas studies in the Department of Psychology at the University as well. Brian E. Burnell studies Clinical Psychology at the Medical University of South Carolina, and Deborah C. Beidel received her PhD in Clinical Psychology from the University of Central Florida in Orlando where she continues to teach and do research currently.