Billy Harris Ms. Changamire Composition 2 Project 2 intermediate draft 2 February 2016 Medical Marijuana: A huge mistake or the future of medicine? Whether or whether not to legalize marijuana for medicinal purposes has been a topic debated in the United States for years. For decades, many have thought of Marijuana as a gateway drug and a way to ruin your life; but it has also been used in eastern medicine practices for more than 500 years. Are there possible medicinal benefits in consuming marijuana? Of the many parties arguing about this topic stands the Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana (CALM) which is an Political Action Committee dedicated to defeating any effort to legalize marijuana on any (CALM USA) On the other side of this very complex and highly debated topic stands the Americans for Safe Access (ASA), which according to their website, mission of Americans for Safe Access is to ensure safe and legal to Cannabis (Marijuana) for therapeutic use and (ASA) These (for lack of a better term) have many different opinions yet also some similarities. As you can see, their main difference is that one party does not believe there is any medicinal benefit to consuming marijuana; and the other party believes otherwise. Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana states (marijuana) industry has been selling a false narrative that marijuana is not harmful nor Sources from CALM state that long term use or marijuana can form a terrible condition called stating very much like being in a car accident where you have a traumatic brain On the other hand, the ASA states Marijuana, in its natural form, is one of the safest therapeutically active substances One of the main sources, the Institute Of Medicine, stated back in 1990 that cannabis is a safe and effective medicine, patients should have access, and the government should expand avenues for research and drug CALM places emphasis on the theory that marijuana has no medical benefits while ASA thinks just the opposite, stating has immense medical value; we have collected research on cannabinoids and the therapeutic use of cannabis. Though both these organizations differ in their opinions on whether or not they should legalize marijuana for medical purposes, they do have several likenesses. For example, though they are fighting for complete opposite causes, they are fighting for the same reason: that they want to protect those around them and keep them safe. CALM believes that the best way to keep those around them safe is to prevent the U.S Government and State Legislatures from legalizing marijuana on any level. And ASA believes that marijuana holds great medicinal benefit and potential and can help save those around them affected by diseases. So, who is right and who is wrong? Both parties have substantial scientific research to back up their claims, and both have also spent many years fighting for what they believe. It is paramount that both parties come together to find a compromise because this is a very important topic and there needs to be more solidification between the stakeholders. Both stakeholders are alike also in that they are All- Volunteer Organizations, meaning people join as they please, and do not receive fixed income for their services to the organization. Both of these stakeholder groups are comprised of everyday people that have the same struggles, desires, and even shop at the grocery stores, these stakeholder groups are without a doubt more similar than they are different. If both parties met in the middle, having CALM lend support to the research and technological advancement in the field of Cannabis-based 1 for medicinal purpose; then that will benefit both parties tremendously. For the ASA, they must also provide feedback on the possible side effects that can occur from both short-term and long-term uses of marijuana. CALM will benefit from this compromise in that they will gain more followers in the medical community for supporting research. Also on the other side of the argument, the ASA, will have helped CALM by helping their cause in raising awareness for the possible side effects in cannabis; and the ASA will benefit from this compromise because CALM will be helping them spread awareness on the medicinal benefits of marijuana. Both of these parties need to come to a compromise because the topic of legalizing marijuana for medicinal purposes is too important to be separated down the middle. Though the Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana and the Americans for Safe Access stakeholder groups may not completely see eye to eye when it comes to the topic of medicinal marijuana, they do share common likenesses such as why they are fighting for their cause. Both parties will benefit greatly if they can come to a compromise and meet in the middle, having CALM lend support to the research and technological advancement in medical marijuana and ASA they must also provide feedback on the possible side effects that can occur from both short- term and long-term uses of marijuana. It is paramount that both of these parties reach a compromise because the topic of legalizing marijuana for medicinal purposes is too important to be separated down the middle. 1 Companies that are working to find medicinal uses for marijuana Works Cited  CALM USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. National study finds little proof of medical  CALM USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Scientific History of Medical  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. What the Science  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017.  PharmaCyte Biotech, Inc. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017.