The topic of illegal immigrants grows increasingly hot considering the United States new administration under Donald Trump. Many Americans feel threatened and upset as the watch illegal immigrants reside in their communities much like Mothers Against Illegal Aliens (MAIA) who are particularly focused on illegal children going to school with their American born children and possibly corrupting their concept of an American family. Many other Americans however, believe that immigrants should be allowed into the country and that the United States should open its borders to all, a stakeholder on this end of the immigrant argument is the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (NNIRR) who as stated on their website fight for immigrants of immigration to have constitutional rights. MAIA believes that all illegal immigrants should be kicked out of the country immediately (mothers against illegal aliens) which is a difficult and expensive process for the government, solution to just house the illegal immigrants is also not very feasible because these immigrants are undocumented which can pose as a threat to the American people as these immigrants can get away with many illegal things such as drug trade and human trafficking which are arising issues many connect to immigration with no traces to them. I believe a good solution would be for the NNIRR as an organization that provides many opportunities for immigrants to create a program that would walk illegal immigrants through the steps of becoming a legal resident in the United states by providing things like English classes, classes on American history or American government, assistance in applying for amnesty as the NNIRR is a partner to US amnesty (us amnesty), and once granted citizenship be offered help to find a job and a home to support their family. This solution will bring peace the the MAIA who are fearful of their families integrity due to the amount of illegal immigrants coming into the country every year, illegal aliens and their families would be sorted out and documented if proven worthy of American citizenship therefore the fear of criminal activity would decrease and their children will be attending school with other americans. Mothers Against Illegal Immigrants is a group founded on January 1st, 2006 by Michelle Dallacroce who has appeared on FOX News, and gone to D.C and lobbies to many Congressmen about the issue of illegal immigrants with the motive of protecting legal American families (mothers against illegal aliens). The main concerns are illegal immigrants causing crime and illegal children being granted citizenship through DACA and DREAM allowing them to study in the united states as proclaimed on their mission statement is no birthright citizenship to illegal alien (mothers against illegal aliens) vocalizing the fact that the mothers are enraged at the fact that DACA allows illegal children citizenship in the United States so that they can study in public schools(Zong, Botalova). It is not surprising that MAIA is alarmed due to these statistics found from the Migration Policy Institute that state in 2015 714,266 DACA applicants were granted approval for legal residency in the United States (migration policy) which means that illegal children were now allowed to live in the United States legally to study at any public school. The goal of the organization is to remove all illegal immigrants from the country to protect the sanctity of their American families (mothers against illegal aliens). In opposition to MAIA the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights which was established in 1986 has spent the past 31 years fighting for immigrant rights in the government and the courtrooms, They seem to proudly claim on their website to have fought for and just immigration policies since its (nnirr). They focus on building programs and tools for immigrants much like one of their programs called HURRICANE which stands for human rights immigrant community action network and acts as an accountability service to report any kind of human rights violation against an immigrant living in the United States (nnirr). They are devoted to the establishment of the legal rights of any immigrant, legal or illegal wanting to bring back the feeling of safety for immigrants and refugees (nnirr). My proposal is to keep both organizations satisfied while also providing a feasible and realistic resolution to the issue of illegal immigration by introducing a new type of program that the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee rights can control, fund and back up. The program would essentially have 3 tiers to it, assimilation, which would involve providing classes on American government, history, and providing English courses for immigrants so that they can grow to be better integrated with the American Amnesty support, this would involve helping the illegal immigrants learn how to apply for amnesty assuming that they qualify with the support of volunteers and the immigrants newly improved English speaking Lastly rehabilitation, which entails job hunting help, home ownership help, and financial planning help so that they can support themselves and their families in an efficient manner. The once illegal aliens will now be law abiding citizens equipped with tools for success in the American dream, Mothers against Illegal Aliens will no longer have to worry about their safety as the selective Amnesty process would have weeded out any criminals living here illegally and now has granted a new and legal lifestyle for men women and children to contribute into education and the work force. Obviously this type of program be cheap and as the federal government would probably refuse to fund it especially in the Trump administration, however, there are millions of people in the United states who would like to contribute money or even volunteer their time to support the idea of immigrants coming to the United States legally as many support legal immigration as an American value as well as several companies who have histories of helping immigrants and refugees in the past. For instance, a CNN Money article highlighted generous donation of 1.1 million dollars in contribution to helping syrian refugees (Kattasova), perhaps Google or a company similar to it would consider making a hefty donation to help the immigrants of this country affecting our American people to become successful and law abiding Americans. In conclusion the proposal of the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, an organization that is for the protection of all immigrants and refugees, creating a program that will help illegal immigrants take steps towards becoming legal citizens would surely ease the minds of the mothers involved in Mothers Against Illegal Aliens who are worried about the sanctity of their own American dream as illegal immigrants push their ways into their communities. With this proposal the only thing lost is the fact that MAIA really just wants these immigrants out, however the time and expenses this would put on American taxpayers is just not feasible, the mothers will have to give this up in order to at least only be surrounded by newly legalized immigrants who are attempting to assimilate through the program. WORKS CITED About  About Us National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Kottasova, Ivana. Google, Goldman Sachs donate millions to help  CNNMoney . Cable News Network, 11 Sept. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Our  MOTHERS AGAINST ILLEGAL ALIENS (MAIA) . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. US Immigration  Immigration Amnesty in USA Help For Illegal Immigrants . N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Zong, Jie, and Jeanne Batalova. Frequently Requested Statistics on Immigrants and Immigration in the United  Migrationpolicy.org . N.p., 14 Apr. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.