Alhail 1 Abdulla Alhail Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 01/31/17 Marijuana Legislation Marijuana legalization is a very important topic for the United States. About the half of Americans stand for the absolute legalization of marijuana, not for medical purposes, but also for personal use, or for the so-called entertainment. The other half of US citizens has a rather dismissive and cautious attitude towards the drug because it has not yet been studied by the scientists (Caulkins, Jonathan P. et al.). Despite the fact that there is no proof of any deadly harm of marijuana, its harmlessness has not been proved either. There are only a few research scientists who claim that marijuana is useful, for example, for people with AIDS, leukemia, migraines, insomnia, loss of appetite, nausea, and a number of other ailments. However, is it really enough to carry out radical reforms on the topic? To begin with, the authorities banned marijuana to take strict control of its production and consumption. However, the plan has failed. Despite the fact that the legislation of marijuana was provided by criminal penalties, each year about 25 million people in the United States consume marijuana (Caulkins, Jonathan P. et al.). Cannabis was the largest cash crop in the United States, grown throughout the country. According to the statistics, people arrested on charges related to marijuana are primarily African- American and Hispanic population. Thus, it contributes to a negative opinion on national minorities of the US citizens. First and foremost, legalization of marijuana should significantly reduce the outflow of capital from the economy. Moreover, the illegal status of cannabis allows people to get benefits from its cultivation for subsequent smuggling into the Alhail 2 United States. The plant itself is cultivated in other countries. However, the shadow economy of these countries promotes the development of own production in the United States (Hall, Wayne and Megan Weier). On the one hand, there are the organizations, such as NORML (National Organization for the Reform of the Marijuana Laws), standing for the legalization of marijuana since 1970. It is the most known marijuana legislation group nowadays. On the other hand, there is a stakeholder organization SAM (Smart Approaches to Marijuana), standing for the so-called smart approaches to marijuana policy. However, there are also many organizations involved in the topic, such as the Marijuana Policy Project, ENCOD, Drug Policy Alliance, as well as the Drug-Free America and Partnership for Drug-Free Kids. Therefore, each of the organization mentioned above has different aims. The main goal of NORML is to sufficiently change the opinion of public regarding the issue of marijuana legalization, as well as to legalize the use of marijuana for adults. SAM, on the other hand, aims to stop the legalization of marijuana. Moreover, the main objective of SAM is to improve the public education on marijuana and its connection with commercialism. Furthermore, the Marijuana Policy, or the so-called MPP, is a well- known US organization fighting for the marijuana prohibition since 1995. Thus, it is a credible stakeholder. However, the Drug-Free America is a drug prevention organization, aiming to reduce the illegal spread of marijuana. In addition to this, it is of great importance to note that legalization will not only eliminate the cost of different investigations, arrests, and imprisonment on charges related to marijuana, but also will allow the state to earn additional income in the form of tax revenues from derivatives trading of cannabis. Instead, each year about 750 thousand people get arrested because of marijuana, which makes the justice system more costly and less effective (Caulkins, Jonathan P. et al.). Hence, all prisons all over Alhail 3 the state are crowded, and prosecutors are diverted from more serious offenses. Activists for the legalization of marijuana are determined to achieve their goal despite all circumstances. Furthermore, their efforts are definitely not in vain: every day more and more people (including politicians and public officials) change their attitude to the issue of marijuana legislation. Thus, these shareholders do believe that the legalization of marijuana is a matter of time only. However, there seem to be a number of confrontations between the stakeholders. For instance, the Drug-Free America and SAM have a shared aim: both of them are fighting for prevention of marijuana legalization, because of its harmful effect on human health. NORM and MPP, on the other hand, both stand for the marijuana legalization for US adults. Moreover, NORM and MPP stakeholders are sure that adults will use the drug safely, with no impact on the society and no influence on behavior. Furthermore, these two organizations aim to make a number of reforms in the US legal system with regard to the legislation of marijuana. Thus, their goal is to make the drug legal and accessible to each US citizen. The major argument of NORM and MPP is that marijuana is not as toxic as alcohol and other drugs, and its use does not lead to a behavior dangerous for the society and does not cause harm to the human health. In addition, they believe that drug overdose is not possible when smoking marijuana. Moreover, NORM and MPP believe that the legalization of marijuana could bring the United States up to 17.4 billion dollars of new tax deductions. Their major arguments on the issue are that everyone has the right to decide whether to use marijuana or not. Moreover, NORM and MPP claim that Americans deserve to live in a free society, where everyone should have the right to make own choices. Furthermore, they state that the harm from marijuana is much less than from the tobacco or alcohol. Thus, the doubtful fact is that the consumption of cigarettes and alcohol should also be Alhail 4 banned, with regard to their beliefs. Hence, the prohibition of marijuana use does not lead to a decrease in consumption, but rather to the formation of organized crime and smuggling, imprisonment of harmless smokers. Nevertheless, the other organizations, such as the SAM and Drug-Free America are convinced that marijuana is equal to other drugs, leading to the substantial abuse. Moreover, these stakeholders share the common ground on the issue that marijuana is dangerous for human health, especially for teenagers and children. In accordance with their shared opinion, the long-term marijuana use leads to partial impairment of cognitive function, learning ability and memory, the perception of space, motivation, coordination and pain. Furthermore, smoking marijuana at a regular base can cause cognitive impairment, and varying degrees of isolation from the community, family and school life (Hall, Wayne, and Megan Weier). Hence, due to the shared interest in the topic, these two organizations could easily work together. All in all, there is a fair question, regarding the issue, whether it is better for the state to take control of drugs and to or to make it cheaper and to sell for the drugs addicts to ease their suffering? However, despite all arguments, the situation should be changed. In order to change the political and economic situation in the country, marijuana might be legalized, however with a great number of restrictions. People should remember that marijuana is a drug and should be responsible for their own deeds. Alhail 5 Works Cited Caulkins, Jonathan P. et al. Marijuana Legalization: Lessons From The 2012 State . World Medical & Health Policy, vol 4, no. 3-4, 2012, pp. 4-34. Wiley-Blackwell, doi:10.1002/wmh3.2. Hall, Wayne and Megan Weier. Has Marijuana Legalization Increased Marijuana Use Among US . JAMA Pediatrics, 2016, American Medical Association (AMA), doi:10.1001/jamapediatrics.2016.3917. Medical Marijuana Saves Health System . Clinical Pharmacist, 2016, Royal Pharmaceutical Society, doi:10.1211/cp.2016.20201455. NORML.Org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.Org - Working to Reform Marijuana . Norml.Org, 2017, http://norml.org/. Smart Approaches to Marijuana - . SAM, 2017, https://learnaboutsam.org/.