Crews 1 Zackery K. Crews Professor Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 105 Evolution and Creationism in the Classroom: The National Center for Science and Education & Answers in Genesis The National Center for Science Education, NCSE for short, seeks to uphold evolution in the classroom and defend its stance against any ideology. They work with people from the local to the national level to make sure topics on evolution and climate change are taught to the upmost accuracy (NCSE About). Meanwhile, the group Answers in Genesis, AIS for short, is a Christian ran apologetics ministry that has the focus on providing answers to the biblical book of Genesis and the beginning of humanity and the world. They wish to train others to develop a biblical worldview, and seek to expose the bankruptcy of evolutionary ideas, and its bedfellow, a of years earth (and even older (AIS About). It is obvious that these two organizations seek to defend themselves, and maybe even try to engage against one another, in their ideals on whether not Creationism and/or Evolution should be taught in the classroom. It would be better for the school system and the students nationwide to have both of these subjects taught to some capacity in the classroom. This will allow the students to understand the world around to a broader depth and to allow free thinking individuals to have a conversation about these subjects, not an argument. Both the NCSE and AIG would have to push for teachers to take evolution and creationist classes during their time in college to better understand both sides, and be able to incorporate them in the classroom. Crews 2 Bryan R. Warnick from the Philosophy of Education Yearbook conducted a report on an opinion poll from the Pew Forum on Religion in Public Life, stating that nearly two-thirds of Americans believe that creationism, in some form, should be taught alongside (Warnick). If there is this much support for both of them in the classroom, then why both creationism and evolution taught to some capacity? It falls in line with how ingrained evolution is to most of the national school system. The National Academy of Sciences considers evolution to be integral to the concept of biology (Berkman), and the NCSE states that it is very important to the foundations of modern biomedical, life, and earth sciences; even going as far as declaring is no scientific debate about the fundamentals of evolution. Life evolves; species descend with modification from other (NCES Evolution). Because of these declarations, the theory of evolution starts to be perceived as undeniable fact. Teachers begin to believe that declaring evolution is a theory, and stating things such as it continues to be tested as new evidence is discovered. The theory is not a breaches their ethical obligation as a teacher to provide scientific knowledge (Berkman). Evolution should be considered by both sides as merely a theory that is supported by scientific evidence. There may be holes in the theory here and there, but ultimately the evolutionary theory is being updated as more evidence is presented through the observations of our world. The other side of the spectrum, being those who believe in creationism, also kind of play a role in why creationism taught in schools. Many Americans, up to 38% of them, would prefer that evolution taught in schools at all and that creationism was taught in its place (Berkman). Organizations such as Answers in Genesis even state that they wish to expose the bankruptcy of evolutionary (AIS About). These notions are, in a way, toxic in a conversation when regarding whether or not Evolution or Creationism is taught in school. It is Crews 3 the ideal is obviously better than yours because I said mentality that brings down the creationist idea into a state that gets disregarded by scientists when talking about the origins of the world. Now this to say that all creationists think this way, or that only creationists think this way. Answers in Genesis has several webpages that provide thoughtful, well written debates against the evolutionary theory, quite a few even provide scientific evidence to back their claims. Meanwhile in the classroom, biology teachers where asked how much time was spent on creationism, and 25% of biology teachers stated they spend at least one or two classroom hours to creationism. This can be misleading though because there may be teachers that use creationism as an alternative view point to the evolutionary theory, while other teachers may bring up creationism to criticize it or only as a response to student questions (Berkman). In conclusion on his article in Volume 6 of the Public Library of Science Biology webpage, he states that teachers who develop a way to devote class time to talk about creationism in a positive light, must definitely convey to students that these theories, both evolution and creationism, should be respected as scientific perspectives (Berkman). It is through this respect of both theories that healthy debates and conversations can be held instead of arguments back and forth. Both the National Center for Science Education and Answers in Genesis come to a resolution that benefits both for multiple reasons. One reason could be the fact that once creationism gains an equal footing with evolution in the amount of time it is presented in the classroom, then the criticisms will then be able to go both ways. Most of the time it is creationism trying to prove evolution wrong, and scientists trying to prove evolution right; not evolution trying to prove creationism wrong. Once equal ground is made in the classroom, evolutionists can then criticize religious texts, and things like the book of Genesis would become Crews 4 a legitimate target of criticism by the scientific community (Warnick). Another reason is from all of this depending on the teachers. It is the education and religious beliefs that create the desire to teach evolution over creationism, creationism alongside evolution, or no evolution at all in their classrooms. Biology teachers who have had post-secondary education on evolutionary biology devote 60% more class time to evolution than those who Also, teachers who have religious beliefs on creationism are more likely to devote class time to creationism, and in the most extreme cases exclude evolution entirely (Berkman). The possibility for creationism and evolution to be taught alongside each other in the classroom is possible as long as the NCSE and AIG come together to accept each other as both advocates for their theories. Instead of trying to claim the other one is wrong, accept the other as a scientific perspective and an interpretation of the world around us. This solely relies on the teachers though, as both of these groups would have to push teachers to pursue evolutionary biology and creationism in their post-secondary educations to ensure they ultimately understand both sides and are comfortable with devoting some class time to both theories. In conclusion, it is possible for evolution and creationism to be taught in the classroom as long as organizations such as the National Center for Science Education and Answers in Genesis encourage teachers to accept and respect both sides, instead of condemning one theory or the other. This can be done by educating those pursuing Education degrees to become teachers in evolutionary biology, and in creationism, so that they understand both sides of the spectrum. This will allow teachers to be more comfortable with devoting class time to both evolution and creationism, without arguing which one is fact or not. Crews 5 Works Cited National Center for Science Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. <https://ncseweb.org/about>. National Center for Science Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. <https://ncseweb.org/node/16774>. AIG  Answers in Genesis. N.p., n.d. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. <https://answersingenesis.org/about/>. Berkman, Micheal B., Julianna Sandell Pacheco, and Eric Plutzer. Evolution and Creationism in Classrooms: A National  PLoS Biology 124th ser. 6.5 (2008): n. pag. PLoS Biology. Public Library of Science (PLoS), 20 May 2008. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. <http://journals.plos.org/plosbiology/article?id=10.1371/journal.pbio.0060124#s4>. Warnick, Bryan R. Evolution, Creationism, and Fairness: Equal Time in the Biology  Philosophy of Education Yearbook (2009): 305-13. Print.