Yang Li Lorie Jewell ENC1101 24 Jan 2017 Violent video implications on youth Nowadays, video games have already become the most popular entertainment for people, especially youth. Almost every youth will take a lot of times to play video game at every day. Some parents think that their children can relax and develop interest by playing some video game, such as study game, music game, paint game and sport game. However, these parents know that video can develop interest to youth, these parents realize that video game have negative influence to youth, especially violent video game. Violent game includes bloodiness, kill, sexual and so on. Therefore, the major problem is how to prevent youth to play violent video game. Rowsell, Jennifer, Isabel Pedersen, and Douglas Trueman. Playing As A Mutant In A Virtual World: Understanding Overlapping Story Worlds In Popular Culture Video  Literacy 48.1 (2014): 47-53. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The article talks about why video game became popular. There is a very important reason from the article. The reason is that producer will add popular culture and stories when they design a new video game. For example, World of Warcraft is a very famous video game. In the game, there are a lot of stories and virtual history. When people play the game, they hope to get more information about stories and history in the game. Therefore, people will play the game day by day, because these stories and histories attract people. Hence, world of Warcraft is very popular. Due to the popularity of video games, more people will engage in playing video games, so more people will be influenced when they play video game. Because of the reason, the article supports my research. At the same time, this article has strong credibility because it came from Education Source; and author is Dr. Jennifer Rowsell, she is Professor (PhD) Canada Research Chair in Multiliteracies. Tulupman, Peter. Video Games: The School Of Hard Knocks, Knives And  Business And Society Review 87 (1993): 41. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The article explains why more youths will play video game, especially violent game. Author analysis some reasons that youth like violent game in this article. These reasons are important, such as youth people have strong curiosity, it leads youth to play violent game. Another reason is that youth would like to release pressure by playing video game, but traditional video game is not a good way to release pressure. Therefore, youth will choose violent game, and get excited by violent game. why more youth will play violent games and violent video games will influence more people that before. According to the article, people could know youth play violent video game, and more youth will choose to play violent video game in the future. It gives a lot of information for my research, this information includes the reasons that why youth like violent video game and more violent video games will be produced. This information is very important and credible, because the article from Academic OneFile. Hasan, Youssef. Violent Video Games Increase Voice Stress: An Experimental  Psychology Of Popular Media Culture 6.1 (2017): 74-81. PsycARTICLES. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. According to the article, people know video violent games that cannot make people feel relax, because it make people feel street by voice. Traditional video games have beautiful music, fancy picture and pleasant story, these things will make people relax and happy, especially beautiful music. Beautiful music makes people feel better on mentally, it is very important. Violent game is very bad on the music, because usual violent music makes people street, such as heart rate, blood pressure, and skin conductance. However recent research shows that violent game already reduce horrific music to decrease people street, influence is not good. In the article, writer shows some research and his opinions, these opinions are important for my research; because some youth disagree my opinion on the reason that violent video game can make people relax. The article gives a batter opposite opinion, it is that violent video game would make people street. The article is from PsycARTICLES, the author is Youssef Hasan, he is Assistant Professor of Social & Psychology at Qatar university. Therefore, the article is credible. Hanson, Gayle M.B. The Violent World of Video  Insight on the News 1999: Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 The news shows some facts that people would be crime ease by playing violent video game. For example, on Dec. 7, 1997, a student killed three his classmates at Ky. high-school. Due to the student be addicted to playing violent video game. When the student opened fire at classroom, he thought that he belong to world of violent video game. In the world, the student thought that he can do every thing, but he forgot the world of video is not truth. Therefore, violent video game has bad influence to youth, The news shows that youth get bad influence by playing violent game. The opinion is very important for me, it supports my main idea. Because my main idea is youth should stop to touch violent game. The news from Academic OneFile; and it include a lot of facts things and news. Therefore the source is credible and useful.