Jade Geftman January 29, 2017 ENC 1102 The Purpose of Life In time, there are an astonishing number of religions throughout the world, all in which have a belief unique to its own. According to David Barrett, editor of World Christian Encyclopedia, there are a of 270 large religious groups, and many smaller ones. 34,000 separate Christian groups have been identified in the This statistic shows us that there is a vast quantity of unknown and so much to learn and discover about countless other religions throughout the world. Religion has always been a controversial subject in every part of the globe but in time, opinions cause uproars and riots, disasters, and tragic events. There are in fact specific religions that are in which more of a disagreement than others. Two of these religions include Christianity and Judaism. These two religions or groups of common beliefs have been a strong controversy for decades and will continue to be for generations to come without finding the middle ground in which the groups can compromise. Christians are known to believe in one true God, Jesus. Simply discussing the creation of the world, in order to understand each view on the subject, people must first interpret the basic believes of each. To Christians, the creation of the world was in fact, credited to God, the supreme Lord and Creator of the universe. As presented in the Bible (the sacred text for Christian believers), in the book of Genesis, it states, created the Heavens and the Earth, and it was In order to understand that text in scripture, it is necessary to recognize that most Christians believe all scripture is Therefore, they believe every word in The Bible is truth. A significant concept of this religion and unique to its own is the belief of the trinity. Which is that God is all of three things, the Father, Son (Jesus), and the Holy Spirit. As R.C. Sproul Jr., a Pastor and credited author expressed it chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy Him This clearly states the mission and goal of the life of a Christian is to glorify God. This includes another purpose of a Christian life of sharing The Gospel or, the good news of Jesus Christ with all nations. Also, sharing the love God has commanded us to in His word. By following what God has stated in The Bible, a Christian can live a life glorifying to God. On the contrary, the religion of Judaism is another common religion around the world. Followers of this religion believe most of that was mentioned with Christianity. Jews believe in one true God but in this, they do not believe in the Trinity as Christians do. They do in fact agree with Christians in the concept of the creation of the world. According to research of BBC, believe that there is a single God who not only created the universe, but with whom every Jew can have an individual and personal This demonstrates the basis of which Judaism centers on. They believe the purpose of life is to simply live life. Jews believe in salvation but through good deeds. The life of a Jew centers around loving God and doing what is good and right. Judaism also focuses on actions alone. As Christians virtue is love, Jews virtue in Justice. As demonstrated in the comparison of these two religions, researchers state strict adherence to law. Reading the Holy Books, and following the This becomes a controversial part of these religions. Although Christianity and Judaism have travelled most of the world, there continues to be places in which the faiths have not ventured. But even with this, these two religions have been in conflict since the creation. Most commonly known in the tragic event of the Holocaust, Judaism has been prosecuted in various accounts. Christianity has also been ridiculed in multiple instances throughout history, beginning with the death of Jesus Christ. Christianity and Judaism have been in a sense, rivalries. With what started in each as simple, straight-forward beliefs, multiple other religions have extended from these, creating religions and believers in some beliefs and values of both. Both of these religions share the same values and beliefs while also bumping heads in some ways. For example, both Christians and Jews agree with the creation of the world, one true God, God is present in all things, Jesus will return etc. But along with these similarities, they have obviously disagreed, especially on the topic of the purpose of life. In this way, although both groups have thought long about their decisions in their faith, there is still a percentage of people that change their religion. In reference to a USA Today survey, of people change their religion within their This shows just how much a different perspective, or experience can impact an individual in any part of the world. As a compromise, these religions can lean on that they both believe in the creation of the world by one true God and the belief in a personal, individual relationship with God. When sharing their faith, they can both be open minded to other groups and perspectives. Being open minded and respectful can be the key to accomplishing the peace that the world looks for. Being in agreement does not mean each religious group must believe what the other does, but knowing that anyone they encounter may have their own opinion can be a very successful compromise for all religions. With this, each member can continue to share their faith and experiences and views, without making the other feel uncomfortable or wrong in the opinion in which they already have. Religion is defined as the belief in and worship of a superhuman controlling power, especially a personal God or gods (Webster.com). When reflecting on this, people can clearly identify that the simplest criteria can mean creating a religion. Looking back at the statistic, people can see the diversity of the world and the universe they live in. Christianity and Judaism are just two religions in which people have been questioned or disagreed with in some way or another. But recognizing these two stakeholders, the impact they have both made on the society and the compromise they can settle on will significantly increase the unity and peace in which every American and citizen of any country desires. Being knowledgeable about a variety of religions and world views would help anyone fully grasp the concept of most religions and be able to make a decision for themselves about what, and/or who they wish to believe in, if anything. The purpose of life becomes a question of everyday life for so many people and will most likely continue to be for generations to come. Works Cited David B. Barrett, et al., World Christian Encyclopedia: A Comparative Survey of Churches and Religions in the Modern  Oxford University Press, (2001). Sproul R.C.  What Is the Goal of Becoming a Christian? Ligonier Ministries. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Christianity vs  Diffen.com. Diffen LLC, n.d. Web. 24 Jan 2017. Grossman, Cathy Lynn. USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 27 Apr. 2009. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.