Student Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 29 January 2017 Many college students experience anxiety and depression throughout their college years, especially their freshmen year. Some students start missing their parents, while other students face some difficulties transitioning from High School to University. Depression can cause students to give up, drop out of college, or commit suicide. In fact, many students drop out of college after their sophomore year, or change their major to an easier major after their freshmen year. Many researches have been conducted to determine the main reason behind depression among college students. Some researchers have approved by conducting experiments that social media affects students, while other researchers believe that social media makes easier. Other researchers believe that the pressure of studying, and fear of failure is what causes students to become depressed. Also, researchers are trying to find ways to limit the symptoms of depression and new treatment methods. Fortunately, some colleges and universities offer many ways to help their students whether it was extracurricular activities, or therapy. It has also been mentioned that the location and distance between your house and college affects your college career. Relationship problems, social life, and money problems also has an effect on health and anxiety. There are many different reasons behind depression and anxiety; however, what leads college students to become depressed? Storch, Eric A., Jonathan W. Roberti, and Deborah A. Roth. FACTOR STRUCTURE, CONCURRENT VALIDITY, AND INTERNAL CONSISTENCY OF THE BECK DEPRESSION INVENTORY SECOND EDITION IN A SAMPLE OF COLLEGE 1 Student  Depression and Anxiety 19. (2004): 187-189. Web. Beck Depression Inventory is a self- report system that measures the amount of depressive symptoms a person has. A sample of 576 college students have taken this test for researchers to understand the causes of depression and anxiety among college students. (Storch 187) Another test was given to different college students in order to measure the tendency of people to experience anxiety and depression, this test is called the State- Trait Anxiety Inventory- Trait version. According to the results, the reasons behind anxiety and depression for college students are loss of pleasure, loss of interest, past failure, irritability, and agitation. (Storch 188) No major errors were conducted; however, students may have responded in a biased way which might have limited the results of this research. (Storch 189). According to the article, college students experience depression due to their fear of failure and exams pressure. This article answers a part of the research question and discusses the reasons behind depression and anxiety among college students. This article was published in a journal called Depression and Anxiety in 2004. Multiple authors have written this article, however Eric A. Storch was the main author. Storch is a professor at the College of Medicine at the University of South Florida. Tandoc, Edson C., Patrick Ferrucci, and Margaret Duffy. Facebook use, envy, and depression among college students: Is facebooking  Computers in Human Behavior 43.(2015): 139-146. Web. Many research experiments have been conducted in order to find whether Facebook and depression among college students is positively correlated. This hypothesis was proved by some research experiments, however denied by other experiments. (Ferrucci 139) An online survey has been made for college students to conduct a statistical analysis that determines whether 2 Student Facebook and depression are related. 736 students have participated out of 854 invited students, and the participation rate was 86%. (Ferrucci 142) The results showed that heavy Facebook users experience higher levels of Facebook envy. Also, those who reported higher feelings of Facebook envy also showed more symptoms of depression, however Facebook on own cannot lead to depression. (Ferrucci 143) This article explains that Facebook and social Media might cause depression if used excessively. The article answers a part of the research question and explains how Facebook might effect college students negatively. Facebook envy is what causes college students to become depressed, since they start believing that all their friends are happy except them. This article was published in a journal called Computers in Human Behaviors. The article has multiple authors, however Patrick Ferrucci is the main author. Patrick Ferrucci is an Assistant Professor at the University of Colorado, and majoring in Journalism. Westefeld, John S., and Susan R. Furr. Suicide and depression among college  Professional Psychology 18.2 (April, 2013): 119-23. USF library. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. This article explains the results of a questionnaire taken by 962 students at three different colleges and universities. 81% identified themselves as students who have experienced depression throughout their college career. The main tackled reasons for the causes of depression were grade problems, relationship problems, loneliness, money problems. One of the questions considers whether the students thought about committing suicide, and 32% of the students have answered yes. The answers for the question about treatment methods were making people more aware of the situation, more understanding faculty, individual counseling, be more concerned about students, more activities that brings people together and not just partying, study groups, and educating people about the signs of depression. 3 Student The article explains and discusses the reasons behind depression which answers the research question. The major reasons are grade problems, relationship problems, loneliness, and money problems. This article was published in 2013 by the American Psychological Association. There are multiple authors for this article, and they are John Westefeld, and Susan Furr. John Westefeld is a professor of counseling psychology at the University of Lowa College of Education. He earned his PhD in counseling Psychology from the University of Carolina. Susan Furr has 20 years of experience as a full-time counselor, and 19 years of experience as a counselor educator. most recent publication is in the Journal of Addictions and Greif Counseling. Beiter, R., R. Nash, M. Mccrady, D. Rhoades, M. Linscomb, M. Clarahan, and S. Sammut. The prevalence and correlates of depression, anxiety, and stress in a sample of college  Journal of Affective Disorders 173 (2015): 90-96. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article is about a survey distributed among college students to explain the reasons behind depression and anxiety. The reason why this survey was conducted is due to the increase in yearly visits to Franciscan University Counseling Center. 374 college students between the ages of eighteen to twenty-four have taken this survey. The survey consists of demographic questions, questions related to the level of concern related to daily life situations, and twenty-one questions related to the Depression Anxiety Stress scale. The top three concerns for students were academic performance, pressure to succeed, and plans after graduation. The demographic question helped the researchers know who were the most depressed students among all. Mostly depressed students were transfer students, upperclassmen students, and students living off campus. 4 Student The main objective is to find the reasons why college students experience depression throughout their college careers. Several authors have contributed in this article such as: R. Nash is a researcher who have published more than seven articles. He works in Texas A&M University, College Station. Also, M. MCcrady is a professor at University of New Mexico, Albuquerque teaching clinical psychology. In addition, D. Rhoades is a professor at the University of Arizona teaching Educational Policy Studies and Practice. These are the main authors in the article and most of the other authors are also professors at different universities in other states. 5