Jackson 1 Christian Jackson Lorie Jewell ENC1101.21 5 February 2017 The Electoral College The electoral college is a tool that has been around since the birth of our nation. Within the electoral college, electors meet to vote for the president and vice president and the counting of the electoral votes is done by Congress. There are 530 electors in total and it takes a majority of 270 electoral votes to elect the president. This unique tool was designed to operate like a system for it gives all states equal voting power for every state has a pre-set number of votes depending on their current population size and the electors have the final say for who will become the president. Over the years, people have questioned the effectiveness of the electoral college for some believe the popular vote should be the only vote needed to determine who the future president and vice president will be. Others believe the electoral college is far too powerful and simple needs to be reformed so that its power will be reduced. Frankly, you still have a large number of people who believe the electoral college is a fundamental part of our country and that it is still a necessary to too for determining the next president and vice president. This long, complex conversation has led me to develop this research question: is the electoral college still a necessary tool for determining the president and vice president in the modern era. While expanding upon my research, I have discovered that the scholarly conversation has changed over the years in relatively minor ways. The article Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New is a perfect example for how long this debate has been raging on Jackson 2 for it was written in 1962, but also how the same ideas that were proposed in previous generations are still appearing in primarily the same manners. For example, the article College (the one written in December 12, 2014), brings up the proposal that the direct popular election should replace the current electoral college altogether. The article, Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New (which was written in 1962), also supports the direct popular election proposal, which is referred to as the direct national election solution in Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New article. Both Electoral College (the one written in 2014) and Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New which also proposes some of the major proposals some people believe should fix or replace the current voting system, discuss the standing state of the current electoral college system and they analyze where it is successful and where it has its faults. For instance, the article, Electoral College (the one written in 2014) says that, few exceptions, Congress has largely it since that (Electoral College Reform p.10) (when the article says it they are referring to the current electoral college system) and Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New says that: It is safe to say that the pragmatic objections are a concern of all proponents of change. The uncertainties and dangers inherent in the present system have no vocal defenders although there is disagreement as to whether these defects alone merit correction by constitutional amendment. (The Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New pg. 193) Many of the proposals that have were established decades ago on both sides of the conversation are still being refined and brought up to this very day. Jackson 3 College From the Library of Congress, Congressional Research Service report, Volume 96 Issue 1, December 12, 2014, p8-32.5p. The College piece proposes several different topics that revolve around ending, mending or replacing the current electoral college voting system. For instance, one of the most popular proposals is that the direct popular election should replace the current electoral college altogether. According to the article, the people who want to end the electoral college altogether feel this way: As their core argument, they assert that the process would be simple, national, democratic. They maintain that direct popular election would provide for a single, democratic, choice, allowing all the voters to choose the President and Vice President directly, with no intermediaries. (Electoral College Reform pg.8) Some believe the electoral college simply needs to be reformed. Some of the core elements to this idea revolve around the concept of eliminating office of presidential elector while retaining electoral votes; award electoral votes (Electoral College Reform pg. 9). Others believe the electoral college is fine the way it is. The College article strongly analyzes my research question from the anti-electoral college standpoint for it forms many effective arguments as to why the current electoral college system needs to change or end altogether. This article is credible for it originates from a scholarly publication known as www.CongressionalDigest.com. This publication has been around since 1921 and it is dedicated to promoting impartial information and making sure audiences are well informed. Jackson 4 Lampert, Richard, Honorable Barbara Boxer, Michael W. McConnell, Public Interest Institute (John Hendrickson), Jack Rakove, Bob Barr. Pros and Cons of the Electoral College Congressional Digest, Volume 96, Issue 1, January 2017, p18- 31.14p. The Pros and Cons of the Electoral College article discusses both sides of the conversation on whether the electoral college is still necessary. For the people who do not support the electoral college, Richard Lampert, a professor at the University of Michigan, beliefs most likely summarize the way they view the electoral college for he said this, democracy means the majority rules, the Electoral College is an undemocratic (The Pros and Cons of the Electoral College System pg. 18). For the people who do support the electoral college system, Michael W. McConnell, a professor at the University of Law School, beliefs most likely summarize the way he views the electoral college for he said this, Electoral College is not going to be changed, and there are far more urgent and promising topics for reform of our presidential selection (The Pros and Cons of the Electoral College pg. 24). The and Cons of the Electoral article strongly analyzes my research question from both stands in the current conversation. This article is a credible source for it uses information and well respected opinions from those who stand on the anti-Electoral College conversation and the voices that appear on this side of the conversation are: Professor Richard Lempert and Honorable Barbara Boxer (a U.S Senator). This article is credible because it uses information and opinions from those who fully support the current Electoral College and some of the voices that appear on this side of the conversation are: Professor Michael W. McConnell and John Hendrickson (a research analyst). Jackson 5 Kefauver, Estes. Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New Law and Contemporary Problems, Volume 96 No.2, The Electoral Process: Part 1, Spring,1962, pp.188-212< http://www.jstor.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/stable/1190543>. In the article, Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New the author Estes Kefauver proposes several different ways the electoral college can be reformed, but he also discusses the issues with these proposals, as well. One of the major proposals he introduces is the direct national election solution. The primary idea of the direct national solution is to eliminate the electoral vote for each state so that the individual vote will be the only deciding factor in getting the President and Vice President elected. One of the main issues he states for this theory is this: The most frequent argument made against direct national election in the Congress is that it would be futile for Congress to submit such an amendment to the states; that it would have no chance of ramification by three-fourths of the states because thirty-six of them have added weight in the election of the President by reason of the electoral college system. (The Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New Look p.195) The article, Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New analyzes my research question from both stands in the current conversation. This article provides a particularly unique viewpoint on the conversation because it was written in 1962, so this article is a testament to how long this interesting debate has been going on. This article also does a good job of stating the many issues that come along with each proposal for electoral college reform. Colquitt, Bryce. College Policy Studies Journal, Vol. 36 Issue 4, November 2008, p693, 2 p. Jackson 6 In the article, College Bryce Colquitt, the author, talks about how uneven voter representation is within the current voting system. Colquitt focuses in on the fact that voters and their issues in certain states that are referred to as states (Electoral College Reform p1), which are states in which the can assume who will receive the electoral (Electoral College Reform p1), are largely overlooked in the overall current electoral college process, but the issues of voters swing states like (Electoral College Reform p1) are focused on too much. Bryce proposes the idea that attempting to a constitutional amendment reforming the Electoral College, one which awards elected votes proportionally, removes the majority mandate, and replaces it with a (Electoral College Reform p2) would be the best remedy for fixing the issues within the current electoral college system. The article, College (written by Bryce Colquitt), analyzes my research question from an anti-current electoral college system for the author wants major reformation take place within our voting system so that all voters will be represented equally. This article provides a unique perspective because it was written in 2008 after President Barack Obama received the votes needed to become the President of the United States of America. This article was written eight years ago, so it is a testament to how long this debate has been stirring throughout the country. Jackson 7 Works Cited College From the Library of Congress, Congressional Research Service report, Volume 69, Issue 1, December 12, 2014, p8- 32.5p. Lampert, Richard, Honorable Barbara Boxer, Michael W. McConnell, Public Interest Institute (John Hendrickson), Jack Rakove, Bob Barr. Pros and Cons of the Electoral College Congressional Digest, Volume 96, Issue 1, January 2017, p18- 31.14p. Kefauver, Estes. Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New Law and Contemporary Problems, Volume 27 No.2, The Electoral Process: Part 1, Spring,1962, pp.188-212< http://www.jstor.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/stable/1190543>. Colquitt, Bryce. College Policy Studies Journal, Vol. 36, Issue 4, November 2008, p693, 2 p.