Kelsey Lay Lay 1 Instructor: Emil Smith Composition 1101/002 February 5, 2017 Adderall and the College Student Adderall is a combination of and dextroamphetamine which are central nervous system stimulants that affect chemicals in the brain and nerves that contribute to hyperactivity and impulse Psychiatrists prescribe this drug to treat people with Attention Deficit Disorder with or without hyperactivity (ADHD or ADD). These conditions make a person either unable to focus or unable to control his impulses. It is prescribed to over 2.5 million people in the United States each year. As this may be an alarming number of people who use Adderall, the number of people who use Adderall and do not need it is alarmingly higher. The most common abusers are those of college students. Students who are prescribed Adderall can make a profit by selling their unused drugs to other college students who have not been diagnosed with ADD or ADHD. College students especially around final exam time seek these pills to help them study and pull all-nighters to get those ends of the year projects done. Other students who are normally shy want to use the pills because they feel they make them more talkative and likeable amongst their fellow students. These students do not feel they are doing anything wrong taking these pills and feel they can do no harm to themselves. Is Adderall and its illegal use out of control on college campuses in the United States and is it harmful to the students and ethically right to use? Lay 2 Aberg, Simon Essig. Study  abuse by college students: What you need to  2016. National Center for Health Research. Web. 23 January 2017. This article Abuse by College Students: What You Need to is a current document that talks about Adderall and why this drug is so popular amongst college students and how easy the drug is to get whether prescribed or not. It goes on to tell how college students justify taking the drug illegally. Students take Adderall for several different reasons and they feel they are not doing any harm to themselves or anyone else. They are helping themselves and their behaviors while helping a fellow student make money who may be short on cash. The article goes on to explain the possible dangers of the drug and how it can affect someone who is not diagnosed with ADD/ADHD. The author concludes that administrators and professors on college campus are dealing with the overuse of the nonprescribed stimulant drug. This article is related to the research topic because it explains the overuse and dangers of Adderall by college students. It gives statistics that were obtained by research and sample study groups by the author on several different college campuses. It also has research to back up his claim on the dangers of the drug for someone who is not prescribed the medication. This source is credible because it is sanctioned by the National Center for Health Research and all claims had to be verified before it was published. The article contains statistics and certified research on the subject. Nauert, Rick, PhD. Use of ADHD Meds as Study  2 May 2014. PsychCentral. Web. 23 January 2017. The article of ADHD Meds as Study discusses the use of Adderall amongst college students and whether it is ethical or whether it is just another form of cheating. Lay 3 It looks at highly selective colleges such as Yale and Harvard and surveys students as to whether their illegal use of Adderall is cheating. It also breaks down its research as far as which year of study the drug is misused the most and for what reasons students at Ivy League schools take the drug. It also performed a study and found that it is most illegally used by athletes and Greek society members. It also discusses what schools are doing to stop this problem on campuses. The author also conducts surveys of students who take the drug illegally along with those who take it legally, asking them if they feel it is ethical to take Adderall without a prescription. This article is relevant to the topic because it statistically describes the use of Adderall in highly competitive colleges and discusses how students view taking the drug without a prescription. It has statistics and studies to back up the stated information. This article is credible because it was performed by a well-known psychologist who has numerous years of education and experience in this area. The article is also approved and sanctioned by the American Academy of Pediatrics. Kroutil, Larry A., et al. Nonmedical Use of Prescription Stimulants in The United  Drug and Alcohol Dependence 84 (2006): 135-143. ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. The journal article Use of Prescription Stimulants in the United details the demographics of the abuser of Adderall. The author breaks down statistically what types of students are more likely to misuse the drug without a prescription or by a student who falsely obtains a prescription. He also further categorizes misuse by age groups and race. The author also gives documented cases that show that side effects that have been caused by the overuse of this drug when it is used by individuals who do not truly have a chemical imbalance and have ADD or ADHD. Lay 4 This journal article is relevant to the research question because it gives verified statistics that show the classes of people misusing the drug and shows the demographics including age, race, and college students. It confirms that most overuse of Adderall is by college students. It further gives data that outlines the risks associated with taking Adderall for a prolonged amount of time. This article is credible as it was found in the University of South Florida library research database. The statistics in the article were verified and confirmed by the National Survey on Drug Use and Health. The statistics and article were both peer reviewed. Fenton, Ann P., and John M. Wunderlich. Mental Doping: The Untold Story of Modern Law School  Student Lawyer 2010: 16. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. The article Doping: The Untold Story of Modern Law goes in depth on the overuse of Adderall on college students who take Adderall as an aid to take college exams and law school entrance exams. The article explains the benefits of taking Adderall and outlines the risks. The study group for this statistical analysis by the author is those students preparing for the law school entrance exam and those in law school. It goes on to weigh both sides to the question on whether Adderall gives a student an unfair advantage and whether the use is morally and ethically correct. The author explains how the drug affects the brain, thus how it affects the student and their classwork. This is a valuable article to the research as it looks at Adderall and use from a legal standpoint. It states case law on using a stimulant drug such as Adderall to assist in taking tests and whether it should be legal or illegal. This article and research will help in determining if the use of Adderall without a documented illness by college students should be considered cheating and unethical. This article is credible as it was taken from the University of South Florida library research database. The study outlined in the article was performed by law students and overseen Lay 5 by legal experts. Data was collected from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration.