1 Daniela Quiroga Instructor Harley Campbell English Composition 2 30 January 2017 Intermediate Draft Project 1 The fur trade has been around in our society for a long time and it has always caused conflict between animal lovers, and fashion lovers. A prime example that represents the animal lovers side is PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals). PETA is an animal defending organization which promotes animal rights and attempts to eliminate any type of unjust treatment towards animals such as the use of their fur. On the other side, is MKF (Marc Kaufman Furs NYC) which is a brand in the fashion industry that promotes the use of fur in creating clothing to make fashionable, and glamorous statements. PETA and MKF are in conflict with one another about eliminating the use of animal furs for fashion purposes as opposed to promoting fur clothing as a high-quality statement for clothing and accessories, however, there is a way these two opposing sides could reach an agreement since they both share the common goal of animal welfare. By coming together with alternatives to using real fur, both groups can achieve their goals. mission its attention on four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (PETA). This organization was founded in 1980 by Ingrid Newkirk and ever since they fight with the purpose of helping animals and defending their rights. With more than 5 million members and supporters throughout the 2 years, PETA has made major accomplishments such as Mobil, Texaco, Pennzoil, Shell, and other oil companies to cover their exhaust stacks after showing how millions of birds and bats had become trapped in the shafts and been burned to (PETA), and in 1991, this organization launched its anti-fur campaign with its slogan rather go naked than wear (PETA). This campaign has been one of their most memorable one with over twenty celebrities as contributors including Khloe Kardashian, Eva Mendes, and Christy Turlington. Norm Phelps, the author of Longest Struggle: Animal Advocacy from Pythagoras to supports cause in his book about the long history and battle of animal injustice in which he shares the development of the multiple movements and journey of animal rights activists including Ingrid Newkirk, the founder of PETA. (Phelps) They believe it is unethical to kill and mistreat animals for their fur, especially if it is used for the creation of clothing and as a critical organization of the defense of animal rights, they stand strong in their position. MKF NYC was created in 1870 , Marc Kaufman Fur family has been designing quality fur coats, fur jackets and creating designer fur wear in (kaufmans fur) This brand encourages the use of animal fur for clothing and fashion; their program obtains fur from Kopenhagen Fur Farms and they that the animals on Kopenhagen Fur farms are treated well, with fresh food, regular vaccination programmes and housing in open (kaufmans fur) This stakeholder promotes the idea of the luxury-market that provides fur as a fashion statement and intends to expand since it provides great economic income in a economic (kaufmans fur). Also, fur in fashion is beautiful according to this brand, and other organizations such as the IFF (International Fur Federation) encourages the use of these furs allowing customers to express their freedom of choice. (Oaten) 3 These two stakeholders have not worked together in any way in the past, however, MKF has mentioned ideas on their website an expressed their thoughts. has influenced the fur consumers in the United States and abroad since 1980. With over 3 million members world wide, they continue harassing, picketing, and trying to shame people into not wearing fur. Despite their efforts and strategies, the fur industry has overcome (kaufmans fur) PETA wants to ban fur completely from the fashion industry while MKF wants to expand it. Even though it seems that these two stakeholders are completely opposite, they in fact share a common goal; both sides agree that animals should not be tortured or harmed in any way. The proposed compromise is the following: since the fur trade, focusing in fashion, is such a significant economic contributor to our society it should not be banned completely, however, in order to guarantee an increase in animal protection there could be an alternative to utilizing real furs. Many high-end brands such as Prada and Chanel, use faux furs (synthetic fur) as an alternative to real furs to avoid harming any animals in the process, while still embracing the beauty of fur for all of its consumers. I propose that a meeting be held at a convenient time and place for both stakeholders with all board members present as well as other brands who have replaced real fur to faux fur in their fashion lines such as Tommy Hilfiger who even worked with PETA themselves. Stella McCartney is another prime example of a fashion brand who switched from real fur to faux fur and has had great success ever since, she even states that it looks like real fur. (Stella McCartney) when the meeting takes place an official agreement can be made in which PETA offers a financial contribution to MKF in order for them to make any changes needed to their current system that will allow the new use of synthetic fur. With this compromise each stakeholder will give and receive, PETA will be satisfied with a significant increase in animals rights and protection by financially contributing to MKF; MKF will receive funds to 4 create new alternatives to fur, which will be the use of faux furs, but still having the chance to embrace the beauty of furs in their clothing line. Once the terms of the agreement have been made official the plan can be set in motion and each organization will promote the other on their website, this will broaden the spectrum of clients. The fashion world and the animal supporters will be more unified and willing to approach each cause with a more open mind. These two stakeholders thought to be in complete opposition from one another as well as having millions of supporters who disagree with each other, however, they fail to realize that they actually share something in common which will bring them together to have an even more successful outcome. If this compromise is executed properly and effectively both stakeholders will have come closer to their goals and in addition, a larger, more significant number of supporters and clients. Instead of arguing over who is in the right and who is in the wrong, PETA can now be a step closer to the end of animal injustice, and MKF will have new funds that will allow the expansion of their product and still embrace the high-quality and glamour that faux fur comes to offer. 5 Works Cited kaufmans fur. kaufmanfur.com. 2016. web. 2017. Oaten, Mark. International Fur Federation . n.d. web. PETA. peta.org. n.d. 30 january 2017. Phelps, Norm. The Longest Struggle: Animal Advocacy from Pythagoras to  Phelps, Norm. The Longest Struggle: Animal Advocacy from Pythagoras to PETA. Lantern Books, 2007. Stella McCartney. stellamccartney.com. n.d. web. 30 january 2017.