Kelsey Byerly Ms. Campbell ENC 1102.097 January 30, 2017 The National Education Association (NEA) is in support of Common Core State Standards (CCSS) but is opposition of the implementation of the policy due to lack of proper training and resources. The NEA is a teacher union committed to providing successful futures in public education. The CCSS is a voluntary state initiative that seeks to ensure preparedness for the future after high school by requiring the fulfillment of specific standards set at each grade level. Both organizations share a common ground that of which is providing students with a strong academic foundation to promote a successful post-secondary education and career. It is evident there is a disconnect between the standards set forth and the process of implementation. The CCSS allows for flexibility in the classroom by means of curriculum on one condition- the fulfillment of the state standards. The NEA acknowledges the standards accordingly but voices their concern with uncertainty of how meet the standards if there is a lack of concrete curriculum to follow. Teachers are passionate about their careers and students and are reaching out to CCSS to develop a feasible compromise that suits the requests of teachers as well as the standard requirements. In doing so, a third party is introduced, BetterLesson. The organization is composed of teachers from all across the country that come together to collaborate Common Core-focused lesson plans consisting of narratives, videos, and classroom resources. It is imperative the NEA and CCSS communicate in order to ensure the success of students after high school. The NEA strongly declares its support of the Common Core State Standards because the NEA sees the potential it has to advance education in America. The formation of the 2 organization is based upon the principle that the voices of teachers be heard in order to use constructive thoughts and ideas that will enhance the education process. The National Education Association withholds an ongoing commitment to bridge the gap between implementation and standards through curriculum, training, and support. In doing so, they constantly revisit and revise the standards in order to adapt to the changes in education quality. The NEA applauds, yet criticizes, the allows teachers to exercise professional judgment in planning instruction that promotes student (NEA). In light, it allows teachers to use their experience to best ensure the academic achievement of students, but on the other hand there is a lack of certainty if the standards will be met come time for the administration of the assessment. There is a demand for policymakers to implement the recommendations made by educator of the NEA in order to start building a foundation for an implementation policy. The American Federation of Teachers (AFT), a teacher union, has introduced teacher leadership to education that the NEA has adopted. The program encourages teachers to collaborate to furthermore build a learning community that supports academic success for students (AFT). Accountability is held in various positions from elected officials to school administrators; all must take into account their personal responsibility to push for the CCSS to get implementation right so children will be provided with a proper education (NEA). Overall, the NEA encourages the development of an implementation plan, the voices of teachers be accounted for, various measures of academic level, and proper resources in order to fulfill the standards. It is the common ground, student success post-high school, that motivates the NEA to push for quality education. The Common Core consists of learning goals at each grade level that outline specific concepts students should be able to know and identify. Before the establishment of Common Core, the country as a whole had plateaued in academic success in comparison to other countries. In order 3 to be competitive with the rest of the world, the country introduced Common Core, a blueprint for the K-12 academic career that more rigorous and established a higher bar than did most traditional state (Jochim and Mcguinn). A group of people including teachers, school chiefs, administrators, and other experts, came together to collaborate on the criteria of the standards so they would be clear and concise for all educators (CCSS). The CCSS has laid in place a developmental process that highlights two separate standards- the college- and career- readiness standards and the K-12 standards. Both sets of standards aid in shaping the overarching vision of CCSS, student success after high school. The goals are consistent across all the states and the program is voluntary, meaning that not all states have to commit to the program but it is highly suggested. standards are informed by: the best state standards already in existence; the experience of teachers, content experts, states, and leading thinkers; and, feedback form the (CCSS). Completing the standards successful will provide students with an education that prepares them for postsecondary education and a career. Common Core impacts teachers by setting consistent goals in the form of benchmarks, allowing for collaboration of curriculum, and helping colleges prepare prospective teachers. The standards establish what students need to learn rather than demanding what how the teachers should teach. The CCSS seeks high academic achievement within young students to ensure students have the proper skill set and knowledge necessary to succeed in college and careers. Both organizations seek to enrich the lives of students through quality education in order to provide a strong foundation for postsecondary education and careers. The NEA consistently claims its support for CCSS but hopes to develop a relationship that allows for open communication for ideas regarding implementation. It is evident that both organizations are currently working together to dissolve the issue out of the best interest of students. The NEA 4 appreciates the flexibility of Common Core, which allows them to develop their own curriculum, but it hinders the learning process because teachers are unsure if their professional judgement is correct. Once both organizations layout a plan of action that will clear up the confusion, the NEA can confidently go forth in educating children to their fullest potential without uncertainty. After further communication between the organizations, the NEA has partnered with a third party known as BetterLesson. BetterLesson is a creative and collaborative implementation processes that allows educators to connect and share curriculum. The organization has undergone recent development that now includes the Master Teacher Project, revolutionary effort to highlight and share the best teaching practices around the Common (BetterLesson). The Master Teacher Project includes personal stories from the best teachers in the country of what worked in the classroom and what did not when teaching the standards. The Common Core- focused lessons are developed by brilliant teachers of grades K-12 who provide content that is accessible and classroom-ready. Teachers are able to browse and pick from thousands of lessons according to standard, grade, or subject. The site is interactive and allows teachers to provide feedback on the lessons uploaded by Master Teachers. Master Teachers can reply and elaborate more on the implementation process if needed or whatever else may need clearing up. The collaborative feature of the website is what is appealing to teachers. Regular teachers can also contribute their work and lesson plans to the Community page for all to see. The best feature of BetterLesson is that it is free. This interactive, collaborative site is pivotal for the educational system in bridging the gap between standards and the implementation process. Although the NEA is in support of CCSS, it is opposition of the implementation of the policy due to lack of proper training and resources. A disconnect is evident due to a lack of communication among the organizations. Implementation is vital in order for Common Core 5 standards to be met and the NEA is requesting guidance. After further communication, a third party is being introduced, BetterLesson. The site provides endless collaboration of lesson plans among teachers in order to identify what works best when teaching the standards. The ultimate goal of both organizations is the success of students after high school in postsecondary education and careers. With this compromise, the prospect of success for students is unlimited. 6 Works Cited American Federation of  American Federation of Teachers. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://www.aft.org/>.  BetterLesson. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Common Core State  NEA. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://www.nea.org/home/46653.htm>. Development  Development Process Common Core State Standards Initiative. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://www.corestandards.org/about-the- standards/development-process/>. JOCHIM, ASHLEY1, and PATRICK2,3 MCGUINN. The Politics Of The Common Core  Education Next 16.4 (2016): 44-52. Education Source. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.