It is a known fact that there are essential nutrients and interactions babies need in order to develop properly. It has been an ongoing debate whether or not it is better to breast or formula feed babies. is the feeding of a baby with the milk from his/her (Cambridge Dictionary). A lot of mothers formula feed but it is seen that today breastfeeding is becoming more popular once again. According to the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, in 2011, 79% of new-born infants started to breastfeed, however breastfeeding does not continue for as long as it is recommend to continue. (Centre for Disease Control and Prevention) This indicates that although mothers will start with breastfeeding they still formula feed babies while they are still quite young. Statistics show that breastfeeding rates declined significantly by the time babies are 6 months old and only 40.7% of US Nationals exclusively breastfeed up until 3 months.(Centre for Disease Control and Prevention). Companies such as Enfamil market their baby formulas in a way that convinces mothers to buy them because it seems like the more convenient option. However there are organizations such as Breastfeeding USA who are trying to get mothers to breastfeed and to breastfeed as long as it is recommended they should. Enfamil is a company that makes formulas for children from baby stage up until age 5. Enfamil is most recommended brand by paediatricians. Enfamil also says that everything they do involves around nourishing babies and children for happy homecomings. Enfamil infant is also said to have DHA shown to foster learning ability from infancy through age 5. Enfamil also has a staged nutrition product line that helps to support new-born, infant and toddler milestones. Enfamil states, commitment to providing the very best infant and toddler nutrition products has made Enfamil the number 1 brand that paediatricians recommend to their (Enfamil). Enfamil is trying to make their products better as they now have products that are non-GMO. Enfamil also tries to create formula that is as close to breast milk as possible however it is not as good as breast milk. Also their products are not organic, although they are trying with the non GMO line, the still have more to do. Breastfeeding USA is an organization that supports breastfeeding. mission of Breastfeeding USA is to provide evidence-based breastfeeding information and support, and to promote breastfeeding as the biological and cultural (Breastfeeding USA) Breastfeeding USA was incorporated in the state of New York on November 17,2010. By October 2014 breastfeeding USA reached 500 members and in December 2015 Breastfeeding USA celebrated its 5 th anniversary. Breastfeeding USA provides information so that mothers can make the best decisions as it relates to birth infancy and growing up. Breastfeeding USA also provides a lot of information including the benefits of breastfeeding for mothers to be aware. They also provide counsellors and professionals to help guide mothers. The counsellors they provide are experienced mothers who completed a breastfeeding education program. Breastfeeding USA and Enfamil are separate entities and have no relation to one another. Their only connection is that they both have views on the way babies are to be fed. Enfamil tries to create a product that has all the nutrients babies need and is trying to be as good for babies as possible. Breastfeeding USA promotes breastfeeding for babies to get the best nutrients they can to develop properly, lowering the risk of complications and allergies. Although both stakeholders have different views, they both want babies to receive the proper nutrition for development. Since both stakeholders want to provide proper nutrition for babies, they could collaborate and come up with the best option possible. They both understand that mothers need to provide the best food possible (breastmilk) but they also recognize there may be circumstances that mothers may not be able to breastfeed which is where formula becomes necessary. They can come together to develop the best formula for babies using organic products which are healthier and lowers health risk. They can develop a formula that is as close to breast milk as possible. They can also identify when both methods are necessary and advertise formula as an alternative to breastmilk when breast milk is unavailable. They can advertise that both methods can be used simultaneously. They should not advertise one being better than the other but both as good methods but should be used hand in hand with each other. In conclusion, both Breastfeeding USA and Enfamil can come together to ensure the best nutrition for babies using both methods and help mothers to have healthy babies by benefitting from both methods with the convenience of both. Works Cited Cambridge Dictionary. Cambridge University Press 2016, dictionary.cambridge.org/us. Accessed 29 January, 2017. Knorr, Sharon. Statement on Breastfeeding. Breastfeeding USA https://breastfeedingusa.org/node/145/ 29, January 2017 Enfamil https://www.enfamil.com/nonGMO 29, January 2017 Breastfeeding Report Card United States 2014. Centre for Disease Control and Prevention https://www.cdc.gov/breastfeeding/pdf/2014breastfeedingreportcard.pdf 29, January 2017