1 Brooke Leistl Professor Emil Smith Composition 1 28 January 2017 Tommy John: The road to recovery is just a little bump in the road. You will be back in no That is a line that almost every athlete hears when they get injured. Not all recoveries are that quick and easy. The one that is most common is an injury called Tommy John. It is called Tommy John because it is named after the first pitcher, to have had the procedure done. Tommy John is primarily an injury in baseball pitchers caused by the motion of an overhand throw. It is also known as ulnar collateral ligament reconstruction (UCL). It is where they must replace the ligament in the elbow with a tendon from another part of your body. This surgery puts pitchers at the risk of returning to pitch at 1 in 100. So, with all this said, what are the chances of a baseball player getting Tommy John and returning from rehab? Cole, Brian J., et al. Rate Of Return To Pitching And Performance After Tommy John Surgery In Major League Baseball  The American Journal Of Sports Medicine 3 (2014): 536. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. It is about what causes Tommy John and the rate of recovering from it. It gives us inside stories on MLB players who have gotten the surgery. It quotes, 2014 study published in The American Journal of Sports Medicine concluded that only 67% of pitchers return to the same level of proficiency as they had before the This just shows that this is a risky surgery to have and the chances of making a Leistl 2 full recovery is not 100%. It also runs us through the process of the surgery and how it affects different people. This is a good article to use because it gives a lot of facts. It also is published and sited, so it is safe to use. This article is going to help give the reader background information on what tommy john is and how it happens. It uses real like scenarios and stories to help get the message across and show the different affects it has had on MLB players. This source was found on USF library so it is credible information to use. Liu, Joseph N., et al. Elbow: Outcomes In Revision Tommy John Surgery In Major League Baseball  Journal Of Shoulder And Elbow Surgery 25.(2016): 90-97. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article is going to help with the facts and statistics of players who had the surgery and how many come back and how many It also tells us that 1999, 235 MLB pitchers have undergone Tommy John surgeries; 31 pitchers (13.2%) underwent revision The author also gives us information on average how many games they could pitch after the surgery. 26 MLB pitchers remained for return to play analysis. Seventeen pitchers (65.4%) returned to pitch at least 1 MLB It shows us a bar graph and a chart of the time it took for the recovery process. This graph shows us the exponential rise in Tommy John surgeries in the past 13 years. This article is relevant to the topic because it tells us the chances of being able to return to pitching a baseball after Tommy John surgery. It tells about the performance outcomes before and after revision story. That way we know how much a pitcher has changed. It tells us on average how long they are out for, which is 20 months. That is a long recovery time for being a starter in the MLB. Leistl 3 Erickson, Brandon J., et al. Rate Of Return To Pitching And Performance After Tommy John Surgery In Major League Baseball  American Journal Of Sports Medicine 42.3 (2014): 536-543. SPORTDiscus. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This article is very important and useful in this paper because it gives a lot of information on how many players got surgery and how many came back. The purpose of this article is to determine the rate of return to pitching in the MLB after UCL reconstruction, the RTP rate in either the MLB and minor league combined, performance after RTP, and the difference in the RTP rate and performance between pitchers who underwent UCL reconstruction and matched controls without UCL injuries. It states, these, 148 pitchers (83%) were able to RTP in the MLB, and 174 pitchers were able to RTP in the MLB and minor league combined (97.2%), while only 5 pitchers (2.8%) were never able to RTP in either the MLB or minor In this article, it is saying that performance declined before the surgery and increased after surgery, which means the surgery can be very successful. Before technology improved this surgery went from being to performance increased. This article is safe to use because it is sited and found on the USF library under peer reviewed sources. This is going to help in the essay because it gives a lot of facts about Tommy John and it will help answer the research question. This will help answer any unanswered questions about what is Tommy John too. Makhni, Eric C., et al. Performance, Return To Competition, And Reinjury After Tommy John Surgery In Major League Baseball Pitchers: A Review Of 147  American Journal Of Sports Medicine 42.6 (2014): 1323-1332. SPORTDiscus. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Leistl 4 This article is counter arguing the article above because this one is saying that your performance declines after surgery. They say that because you cannot do everything that you could do before after getting the surgery. Players performance declines with the number of strikes thrown (51.9%-49.6%), ERA (4.23-4.63), average fastball velocity (91.2-90.8), etc. These numbers may not seem like a big difference but when it comes to baseball that is a difference between a win and a loss. The factor of this could also be age. It shows a chart and that chart shows the return to active major league competition. Of the 147 pitchers included in this assessment, 118 (80%) could return to major league competition after surgery, while 20% did not return to major league play. MLB, Major League Baseball. This is a chance to take because odds are on your side. The frequency of elbow injury was higher in the players with TJ surgery compared to players with non-elbow injuries. With all these facts, it will be very important to put in the paper. These are reliable facts because they came from a study performed on MLB baseball players. This journal was found on USF peer reviewed library.