Leslie 1 Amanda Leslie Emil Smith Composition 1 29 January 2017 College Athletes While college athletes are in school to earn a degree, most of their time is spent on their sport. It is a widely talked about topic among ex-college athletes, coaches and current players how college athletes spend the same amount of time playing their sport as people do at their job. It is easy to forget that college athletes are not just athletes; they are students first. Their lives are always non-stop from schoolwork to practices to workouts. They often work as strenuously as those who are employed full-time, yet receive none of the benefits. Some argue that college athletes should be paid for the amount of time and effort they put in to their sport and because they make money for their schools and promote the school to the community. On the other hand, some people believe that college athletes should not get paid because of the free schooling and tutoring they receive. Though both sides have valid perspectives, it is crucial to explore the different arguments in order for the reader to form an unbiased opinion. I will investigate why some people think college athletes should get paid. Cooper, Kenneth J. Should College Athletes Be Paid To Play?. Diverse: Issues In Higher Education 28.10 (2011): 12.Biography Reference Bank (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This article informs readers of arguments as to why college athletes should get paid and why they should not get paid. It gives multiple perspectives on this issue. The Leslie 2 author of this article advised the reader on the official NCAA rule and some reasons behind why that rule exists. The NCAA rule is that college athletes cannot be paid to play because their job is to be a student. They are limited to annual scholarships that can be renewed for four years. The author interviews many different people about their opinions on this topic. Donald Remy, who is the general counsel and vice president for legal affairs, says court precedents and tax laws have upheld the status of college athletes as students, not as employees. On the other hand, Robert McCormick, who was an attorney for the National Labor Relations Board under President Jimmy Carter, believes that college athletes are under very tough, strict conditions and that they are in terms of the physical demands on Remy and McCormick both give excellent reasons for their beliefs. Kenneth J. Cooper has been a journalist for more than 30 years. He is a Pulitzer Prize winner. He is the youngest African American to win a Pulitzer Prize for journalism. Cooper reported on the campaign of Michael Dukakis. This article is helpful for understanding why some people believe college athletes should get paid because it explores many different sides and opinions to this topic. Zissou, Rebecca. Fair play: should college athletes get  Junior Scholastic/Current Events 2013: 15. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. This article offers two different perspectives on why college athletes should or should not be paid. The author argues that athletes bring a lot of money into the school. and the average athletic scholarship is less than $11,000 a year. The author, Zissou, then informs readers that some colleges cannot afford to pay athletes. Although athletes bring in a lot of money, colleges use that money for tuition, books, tutoring, housing, meals, Leslie 3 clothing, coaching, medical care, travel expenses and more. Thus, they would not have the money to spare to pay wages. Rebecca Zissou works for Junior Scholastic. She has written many cover stories for Scholastic. She has significant accomplishments for only being in her 20s. This article is relevant to understanding why some people believe college athletes should get paid because Zissou gives the two points of view on this topic. Karaim, Reed. Paying College Athletes: Are Players School  CQ Researcher 24.25 (2014): 577.Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article discusses a movement, for private school, to make college athletes unionized. The vote was in favor of doing so. However, Northwestern, in Evanston, Ill., appealed the ruling to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), so no action will be taken until the NLRB has made their ruling. Reed Karaim graduated from North Dakota State University. He is a writer in Tucson, Arizona. Karaim has written for multiple outlets. These include The Washington Post, U.S. News & World Report, Smithsonian, American Scholar and the USA Weekend. Also, he has written novels. He is the author of If Men Were Angels, which was recognized by Barnes & Noble. Karaim has won several other awards for his writings. Sack, Allen. Should college athletes be  The Christian Science Monitor 2008: General OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This is article discusses the belief that college athletes should not be paid. However, based on the volume of the money generated and the fact that it is a huge business, college athletes should receive additional rights and benefits. The author is Leslie 4 upset how scholarships are no longer guaranteed for four years and whether or not they renew, depends on the performance. The author, himself, was a college athlete when scholarships were guaranteed for four years. Allen Sack has his Ph.D. in sociology at Pennsylvania State University. Sack is the current President of the Drake Group. The Drake mission is to defend academic integrity in college sports. He has published many articles and written two books. He is also a guest columnist for newspapers, including the New York Times.