Blondino-Pine 1 Sarah Blondino-Pine Professor Harley Campbell English1102 29 January 2017 Animal Liberation Animals have been everything from a source of food to a beloved house pet. However, it has been proven that the cruelest of all is when animals are used for entertainment. As a six year old watches a circus show he is in awe at how cool the animals are. What he does not know is how the animals are being treated on the road and even at events. This is what People of the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is trying to bring to light. Now imagine if that six-year-old grows to be sixteen years old and starts to get bored at circuses. Luckily his dad is involved in dog fighting so he takes him and it becomes a chain reaction of buying dogs to fight and win money. One of American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) priorities is to find these dog fighting rings and try to rescue by stealing them. It would be beneficial if both PETA and ASPCA work together to make stricter laws against animal cruelty so that they can shut down groups like The Ringling Brothers and dog fighting rings where animals are treated horribly and often end up dying. PETA strives to bring to light the ugly truth to what is behind the animal entertainment industry. thousands of these animals are forced to perform silly, confusing tricks under the threat of physical punishment; are carted across the country in cramped and stuffy boxcars or semi-truck trailers; are kept chained or caged in barren, boring, filthy PETA states on their website under the issues tab (Animals used for entertainment). Many animals used in circuses suffer from a lot of the same problems as humans Blondino-Pine 2 when they are mistreated such as anxiety, stress, and other emotional issues. They are not being treated as beings rather they get used likes objects needed for money. matter what the nature of the being, the principle of equality requires that its suffering be counted equally with the like Peter Singer in the Animal Liberation Movement (Singer, page four). Getting rid of the indescribable cruelty the animals in circuses go through is an incentive for PETA to join forces with ASPCA and end all types of animal entertainment. Dog fighting is one of the most heinous forms of animal entertainment and beyond illegal yet still found in many countries and all over America. ASPCA investigates different dog fighting rings and will go to the ones they can find and rescue as many of the dogs they can. they spend most of their lives on short, heavy chains. They are regularly conditioned for fighting through the use of drugs, including anabolic steroids to enhance muscle mass and encourage states ASPCA in their article called The Criminal, Underground World of Dog Fighting (Animal Cruelty). The way these dogs are treated is insane and completely inhumane. Owners of these dogs will starve them as punishment and occasionally if the dog loses a fight and embarrasses the owner he will execute the dog as entertainment. Encyclopedia of American Law said the where laws provided heightened protection for animals against abuse, the animals are still treated as a special form of (The Gale Group, Inc). It is crucial to get these dogs out of these abusive situations and with the help of PETA they can put together their resources to make a strong law against animal cruelty for all animals. There is a very beneficial common ground here that could help get more recognition for both the work of PETA and ASPCA. Each organizations basic focus is stopping animal cruelty within the entertainment industry just with different species. century English Blondino-Pine 3 philosopher Jeremy Bentham had placed animals within his utilitarian calculus of pleasure and pain, stating, Question is not, Can they reason? Nor Can they talk? but, Can they said David Walls (Animal Rights Movement). If an animal can feel happiness, stress, enjoyment, and sadness then they have more than the capability to suffer just as much as humans do. This is the common ground that PETA and ASPCA have, the end to suffering for animals in entertainment cruelty. The compromise that these two organizations can have is if PETA gives up working on trying to convince people to become vegans and ASPCA sacrifices putting effort into rescuing animals off the street then they can both spend more times on working to end all animal entertainment with even harsher laws and investigative teams. This will save so many abused dogs, elephants, pigs, monkeys, and other species in the animal entertainment industry. Putting investigative task forces together to go behind the scenes in dog fighting rings and circuses to get the truth about the punishment and suffering these animals endure. If more people are aware of how serious these shows are then maybe they will help donate to fund these investigations and laws getting passed. Although these organizations have not joined forces before, their interests and goals are very similar and can only benefit one another in a positive light. To put these successful organizations together could be the beginning of an era of animal rights movements. The amount of volunteers that would help out or donate funds so they are able to carry out the necessary actions to get rid of these awful shows that are put on is beyond belief. They will have the power to end all of the underground dog fights and illegal fighting rings that cause dogs to be injured and usually die from their injuries. Also, if they combined forces they could put a stop to all circuses and let the animals within them free. If all of this happens then we Blondino-Pine 4 as humanity can prove that we are not all evil beings that have no care for other species whom they believe to be of lower class. The most beneficial part to PETA and ASPCA joining forces would be that they could end shows such as The Ringling Brothers and underground illegal dog fighting. (1025) Blondino-Pine 5 Works Cited The Criminal, Underground World of Dog ASPCA, 2017 , www.aspca.org/animal- cruelty/dog-fighting. PETA. Used for PETA, 2017 , www.peta.org/issues/animals-in- entertainment/. Walls, David. Rights Sonoma State University, 9 Nov. 2014, www.sonoma.edu/users/w/wallsd/animal-rights-movement.shtml Encyclopedia.com, 2016, www.enclyclopedia.com/social-sciences-and- law/sociology-and-social-reform/social-reform/animal-rights-movement. Singer, Peter. Animal Liberation Nwveg.com, 1985,