Maynard 1 Matthias Maynard Ms. Emil Composition 1 January 29, 2017 Student Athletes on NCAA payroll The NCAA is a non-profit organization that controls over 400,000 athletes in more than 1,000 institutions. The NCAA values itself on being an organization for the student athlete and its well-being, but there has been some concerns regarding this core value. These concerns are a result of the NCAA primary sources of revenues being through its student athletes. These revenues stem from various sources such as, TV contracts worth billions of dollars, jersey sales, brand name contracts, the use college names, likenesses and images without their permission (Baysinger #4) in video games, posters and other types of memorabilia, and the student athletes do not receive compensations from any of these sources. Some argue that they receive these profits in an indirect form of compensation, such as scholarships and new sports facilities for their respective schools. Also some argue that the revenues would vary depending on the sport the student plays, or the school they play for, and it would be unfair to pay a football player more than a baseball player, or a student athlete that goes to a more popular school. One college sport that brings in a lot of money in for the NCAA, and in the middle of this controversy is basketball. For this reason this research will solely focus on the NCAA division I basketball on the issue of, should student athletes get paid? Baysinger, Tim. College Fight For Pay Finally Targets Tv  Broadcasting & Cable 144.37 (2014): 4. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Maynard 2 The article athletes fight for pay finally targets TV is about how the controversial issue of student athletes getting paid has progressed to lawsuits against the biggest winners of exploiting the student athletes, which are TV networks. The lawsuit the article talks about is against ESPN, FOX, NBC, CBS, and ABC. The article also talks about a previous lawsuit that was filed by a former UCLA basketball player against the NCAA that ruled in favor of the basketball player, and his lawsuit helped this issue gain popularity. This article also describes the big difference in compensation from TV contracts in professional sports and college sports. This article is applicable to the topic in multiple ways. It covers how the first lawsuit against the NCAA and the issue of student compensations came from a former NCAA college basketball, which is the sport that is covered in this paper. It also tells us that the NCAA has big contracts with some of the biggest most popular TV networks, and this issue will also be discussed throughout this research paper. This is a credible source as it was found through the search engine of the USF library system and it is a peer reviewed article. This article was also written by Tim Baysinger who is now a writer for Reuters, and previously worked for adweek. Pay to play: Full OU  Tulsa World (Tulsa, OK) 2013: General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Article to is about how different college athletes from different sports feel about the question of should student athletes get paid? One student is a football player from Tulsa, and he describes how bigger schools would be compensated way more than a smaller school like Tulsa would. He also states that it be fair to other sports that as popular as football or basketball, because other sports put in the same amount of work. Maynard 3 This article is relevant to the topic in various ways. It talks about the different arguments that arise from the issue of should student athletes get paid. It shows that there are people that are opposed to this idea of student athletes getting paid because of the unfairness it would have with students that attend bigger schools, and students that play more popular sports, which is an area that it will be covered in this topic. It also has arguments about how students are already getting compensated with scholarships, housing, and new sports facilities which is also an argument in this topic. This is a credible source as it was found through the search engine of the USF library system and it is a peer reviewed article. Mitchell, Horace, and Marc Edelman. Should College Student-Athletes Be  U.S. News Digital Weekly 5.52 (2013): 17. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article Student-Athletes Be gives two different viewpoints on the matter of, if the NCAA should start compensating student athletes. The first argument is about how they be compensated, because of the fact that not all Universities have a profitable athletics program, and that some school are even operating at Loss. It also argues that for student athletes playing a sport in college is the way to a higher education, and that it will not leave them with the burden of being in debt from student loans unlike many other students. The second argument is that student athletes should be compensated because college sports industry generates 11 billon (Edelman #1). It also argues that argument in favor of allowing colleges to pay their student-athletes comes down to economic (Edelman#1), and that argument against allowing pay to student-athletes arises mainly from greed and (Edelman #1), to show you that this argument could be about ethics and morals. The article relates to the topic because it is not a bias article and it does not only give you one argument on the matter. It gives two very valid arguments for this research topic, it describes why Maynard 4 student athletes should get paid and also why they Both arguments make good points and they both have good counter arguments. This is a credible source as it was found through the search engine of the USF library system and it is a peer reviewed article. It was also written by Horace Mitchel the president of Cal State and a NCAA Division I board directors, and by Marc Edelman a professor of law. David Iaconangelo, Staff. Is a new era for college-athlete compensation on the  Christian Science Monitor 04 Oct. 2016: N.PAG. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The Article a new era for college-athlete compensation on the describes some of the legal aspect of the research topic. It states how the NCAA is violating antitrust laws barring athletes from claiming compensation for the use of their image, names, and (Iaconangelo#1). It also states that the NCAA lost an antitrust lawsuit, and it was the first lawsuit they lost about the student athlete compensation issue. The NCAA legal argument about this issue is amateurism is foundational to college (Iaconangelo#1). This article also describes how the northwestern football team was trying to form a labor union because they were spending over 60 hours a week on football related activity. This article is relevant to the research topic because it dives into some of the legal aspect of it. It describes the type of lawsuits that have been filed against the NCAA, and the NCAA arguments agains t those lawsuits. It also describes the lawsuit which was one of the very first antitrust law suits against the NCAA. This is a credible source as it was found through the search engine of the USF library system and it is a peer reviewed article. It was also written for the Christian Science Monitor, which is an international news organization. Maynard 5