Edison Lopez Emil Smith ENC 1101 01-23-2017 stipulations of electric cars As time progresses, technology becomes more complex and humans become a more influential force on the planet. Throughout the years , mankind has polluted and abused the earth with no remorse or acknowledgment for the consequences. However, recently we have begun to convert to technology that is environmentally  at the cost of an extra dollar. Some believe that this change is greatly beneficial to the environment. However, others believe that these technologies are arguably as damaging to the environment. So, what are the environmental and economical stipulations of electric cars? Miret, Santiago. the electric car really helping the berc.berkeley.edu. University of California, Berkeley. 23 September 2013. This article narrows on the facts behind the use of electric cars in regards to the environment. Within this article, both, pros and cons of electric effects on the environment are evaluated and compared to the environmental effects of the common internal combustion engine vehicles. Miret reveals that electric vehicles are actually more environmentally damaging to make than regular vehicles due to the complicated nature of batteries and other extraneous parts exclusive to electric cars. This article also concluded that both Electric vehicles and Regular cars both contribute equal amounts of environmental damage in their disposal processes. Miret however, did acknowledge that throughout the life cycles, electric cars produce a smaller GHG footprint. 2 This article is highly relevant to my bibliography because it displays both pros and cons of electric vehicles. This article was a beneficial source because the writing seemed rather unbiased and came from a renowned website. Santiago Miret is a PHD materials science and engineering student with an emphasis on future energy technologies. He runs the BERC website for energy, constantly explores and reports energy issues and has posted over 12 articles on energy matters. As a well known editor and energy conservation enthusiast, Miret is well qualified as a source for my research. Wade, Lizzie. electric cars as green as you might wired.com. Conde Nast. 31 March 2016 This article generally investigates the truth behind so called Zero emission electric cars. Throughout the article Wade takes a deep look into the environmentally damaging processes required to construct and associated with vehicles. Wade unveils that most Tesla factories are coal fired power plants that produce ridiculous amounts of emissions to produce these vehicles. Wade then attacks the use of rare metals required to manufacture Tesla lights, batteries and other components of the vehicles. The author shares the environmental process and destruction necessary to acquire these metals from the ground. However, the author does shine some light on efforts to recycle their batteries after death. This article provides a deeper look into electric cars that the first source could not provide. This article provided information both for and against electric cars, much like the first article. However, Wade narrowed in on one specific company which allowed the readers to realize real life examples of the benefits and detriments of electric cars instead of the issue as a whole. Lizzie Wade is a phenomenal source for information on the topic of electric cars and other science technology related topics because she is the 2016 winner of the Walter Sullivan award for 3 science journalism, has published tons of renowned articles online and is a contributing correspondent for science. Mattila, Matt & Bellew, Justin Lowell. Do EVs Create Jobs and Improve the  Rmi.org. Rocky Mountain Institute. This article gathered information on the economic benefits and detriments of electric cars. Mattila and Bellew reveal gathered information and surveyed large electric vehicle related companies on the economic stipulations of electric cars. One large company called The Electric Coalition predicts that 1.9 million additional American jobs would be created by 2030. Another company called EnerDel has already added 1,400 jobs at Indiana based EV battery plant and plans on adding another 3,000 soon. However, Mattila and Bellew were not blind to the economic burdens these vehicles produce as well. They exposed the fact that however economically beneficial these unique vehicles are, they are still only an option to those that can afford the inflated upfront cost. This article is relevant and effective in the case of this research because it provides hard evidence on the economic benefits and detriments of electric vehicles. It provides unique information on the stipulations of electric vehicles because it tackles a different aspect of electric vehicles, how they effect pocket. Matt Mattilla is a phenomenal and proper source for this research. He has been the project manager to Rocky Mountain project Get Ready, a project solely dedicated to helping the world seamlessly convert to electric vehicles since 2012. Biello, David. Electric cars are not necessarily  Scientificamerican.com.Scientific American, a division of nature America, Inc. 11 May 2016 4 In this article, Biello attacks the idea that electric vehicles are always the greener option. This article evaluates and provides hard evidence as to why this is not always the case. Biello reveals that most electricity, dependent on the area, is produced through coal fired power plants that in turn produce greenhouse gas emissions. He unveils that in some states, dependent on their dependency on coal fired power plants, would benefit more from driving hybrids due to the amount of emissions a power plant would have to do to charge electric vehicles. However, Biello also acknowledges that regular cars are the source of 24% of all greenhouse gas emissions in the US. This article has useful information regarding the research question because it investigates the true effects of electric vehicles relevant to state or area. It provides unique information that the other sources do not because of its emphasis on statics comparing hybrids to electric vehicles in terms of environmental pollution. Biello is an accredited author, who has covered energy and the environment for over a decade. He is a graduate from Yale University and is now a science curator for TED.