Benrube 1 Jared Benrube Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102: Composition II 12 February 2017 Fixing the United States Presidential Election Since 1787, the President of the United States has been elected using the Electoral College. Historically the candidate that wins the election receives a majority in both the Electoral College and the popular vote. The recent 2016 election exemplified a rare occasion when Donald Trump won with a majority of electoral votes even though Hillary Clinton received the majority of popular votes. A group of people who oppose the Electoral College system created the National Popular Vote compact. The supporters of the National Popular Vote compact feel that the Electoral College is an outdated method of determining our election. They believe that the voice of the voters is going unheard because of it. One the other hand, Save Our States is an organization that is against what the NPV compact would do as they feel that abolishing the Electoral College would undermine the established federalism in the United States. They also believe that it would cause our presidential candidates to focus on bigger regions in order to get votes. While they have different views on the Electoral College, the goal of both sides is to have the voice of the voters heard. By having the election determined by both the electoral and popular vote, we can make sure that we will hear voice in future elections. The National Popular Vote is an interstate compact that is opposed to the Electoral College. The creators of the compact believe that the Electoral College is undemocratic and that determining the winner of the election by popular vote would increase democracy in the United States. According to the NPV website, 11 states have already enacted the bill into law. If enacted Benrube 2 in enough states to have at least 270 of the electoral votes, the bill will take effect and the presidency would go to the candidate that wins the popular vote (National Popular Vote). In his article, the Electoral College with Interstate Robert Richie says, reform, the Electoral College system is nearly certain to relegate two-thirds of the population to the sidelines during highly contested presidential elections for years to (Richie 38). Richie, along with others that oppose the Electoral College, believe that presidential candidates put more focus on campaigning and advertising in battleground states in order to get their votes so that they win the election. He supports this by saying, of our ten largest cities by population, only Philadelphia was in a state that garnered attention in 2006. The other nine cities were in states (Arizona, California, Illinois, New York, and Texas) that collectively had only ninety-six presidential campaign television ad buys in the 2004 peak season (ninety-five of them in Arizona), as compared to 44,131 ads in Ohio (Richie 38). As the Executive Director of FairVote, Richie supports the NPV plan and states that it would not abolish the Electoral College, but instead give states the power to make it work for all Americans (Richie 45). Save Our States, is a project created by the Freedom Foundation, which supports the concept of constitutional federalism and maintaining the Electoral College. They believe that abolishing the Electoral College and determining our president through popular vote would make it so that the voices of people in smaller states would go unheard. Save Our States is against the National Popular Vote, as they feel that it misinforms people about how federalism and the Electoral College works in the United States (Save Our States). Some also question the constitutionality of the NPV because according Article 1, Section 10 of the Constitution, State shall, without the consent of Congress... enter into any Agreement or Compact with another Benrube 3 Ian J. Drake states in his article Roadblocks: The Constitution and the National Popular Vote Interstate that while the NPV compact would indeed need to be submitted to Congress for approval, another problem may arise as to if Congress actually has the ability to approve the compact. According to Drake, states must submit the NPV to Congress for approval, but Congress is constitutionally constrained from granting (Drake 697). This is because the NPV plan requires an alteration in the constitution for the compact to go into effect. Drake states that, Congress nor the states can use the Compact Clause as a backdoor method of amending the Constitution to change the Electoral College (Drake 698). Today with the fifty states and District of Colombia there are 538 electors, and the president is determined by the candidate that gets at least 270 of the electoral votes. The number of electors each state has is determined by the number of house and senate members they have. The intention of the Electoral College was to give smaller states the opportunity to have their voices heard as well in the elections, rather than having the results of the election determined by the more populous states. While each stakeholder has a valid argument for their point of view, a compromise must take place in order to appease both stakeholders. In order to appeal to both stakeholders, the winner of the presidential election should be the candidate that wins both the electoral votes and the popular votes. With this compromise enacted it would make sure that the voice of every voter is heard because if neither candidate wins both votes, a run-off vote would be held in order to determine the winner of the election. The run-off vote would be a revised version of the electoral vote but rather than there being a winner-takes-all situation, each state would be split into district regions based on their number of congressional representatives. Two of the electoral votes in each state would automatically go to the winner of the popular vote, while the remaining Benrube 4 votes would go to the candidate that won each individual district. A similar reform plan was mentioned in Robert F Weinhagen article The Electoral College Be He states a district plan where the Electoral College system would continue, but each elector would make a decision of his choice rather than all the electoral votes for a state going to one candidate. If no candidate receives the majority of the electoral votes, then Congress would hold a session where they select the president from the three candidates with the highest number of electoral votes (Weinhagen Jr. 855). While Weinhagen plan is almost identical to the compromise idea of this paper, there will be no involvement of Congress in the compromise. Although Congress is not involved in the results of the election, they would be required to approve of a bill that every state would need to enact for the compromise to go into effect. While the compromise may need approval from Congress, the situation is entirely different from the process that the NPV would be required to go through because the ideas in this compromise do not require any changes to the current Electoral College system. Instead of changing the system that is already in place, they would be giving the system an update so that we are all heard in future elections. Even though both sides may not agree on how we should elect the president, this compromise would be the perfect middle ground because it would fairly distribute the electoral votes in each state based on the results of the votes in each district. Since both stakeholders want to have the voice of the voters heard in the election, this is the best way possible to do so since we would not be relying on a winner-takes-all situation to determine the winner in each state. As the compromise involves using both the electoral and popular vote to determine the winner of the election, the voters would be able to get the candidate they truly want. The compromise would give every district in each state a chance to have their say in the presidential election. While it Benrube 5 may be often times rare for a candidate to win the electoral vote and not the popular vote, it has happened twice in the past five presidential elections. With the compromise in place, there would be no chance of that happening again in future elections. This plan would take into account the voices of the voters in every state district, and will make sure the candidate that the citizens of the United States want will become the President. Benrube 6 Works Cited Drake, Ian J. Federal Roadblocks: The Constitution And The National Popular Vote Interstate  Publius: The Journal Of Federalism 44.4 (2014): 681-701. Academic Search Premier. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Popular National Popular Vote. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Richie, Robert. Reforming The Electoral College With Interstate  National Civic Review 96.1 (2007): 38-46. Academic Search Premier. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Our Freedom Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Weinhagen Jr., Robert F. Should The Electoral College Be  American Bar Association Journal 67.7 (1981): 852. Academic Search Premier. Web. 10 Feb. 2017.