Bearor 1 Elizabeth Bearor ENC 1102.22 Adam Phillips 12 February 2016 Standardized Testing, Improve or Stay the Same? Standardized tests are something that every student has had to take at one point or another in their public school days. These tests can provide a good basis for how well schools and curriculum are doing in educating students but can also cause immense amounts of stress for children taking the test because of the fear of failure. The American Evaluation Association (AEA) is an organization that sets out to provide more tests throughout the school year and improve the quality of many different evaluations (AEA). The AEA not only promotes the use of standardized tests but also encourages the use of more high stakes tests throughout a school year believing that they provide a good basis of state or nationwide standards (AEA). Fair Test on the other hand is an organization that denotes the use of standardized tests, believing that they damage schooling experience because in essence they are learning all year for one test. FairTest also promotes of these tests (Schaeffer). Both organizations may seem like they have completely opposite views on standardized tests but a compromise is possible. The use of standardized tests in schools is beneficial but using them to judge students is not and both organizations can agree on that. If standardized tests are used as a judgement for how well curriculum is working in school systems and not what class students should be in next year or how much funding a school should receive both the AEA and Fair Test will be satisfied. Bearor 2 The American Evaluation main goal is to improve the quality of every aspect of standardized tests, such as, the personnel proctoring tests, the type of questions that are asked and how these tests are given (AEA). Looking into the flaws of standardized tests and setting out to improve them can help students year to year allowing them to take more fair and accurate tests. The AEA also greatly supports the use of standardized tests, feeling that they benefit not only schools but students as well, allowing them to be more prepared for college and teaching students valuable life skills. According to Malinda Lloyd, standardized tests also provide an indication on how effective the teachers are doing in educating their students and also measure the academic growth (Lloyd 21). If a students continuously score poorly on a subject the school can step in and do what they feel necessary. This allows bad teachers to be let go for better, more qualified teachers allowing students to receive a better education. Students and their parents can also get a better understanding of what subjects they excel in and the ones that they can use improvement in based on their test scores. On the other side of that benefit standardized tests also allow schools to easily see which students to place in honors classes and which to put in modified classes based on their test grades. As the AEA sets out to improve and encourage the use of standardized tests there are organizations, such as FairTest, that do not. On the other side of the argument FairTest is an organization that is against standardized tests and believes that they are harmful for students. FairTest sets out to improve the education and equal opportunity by promoting fair, open, valid and educationally beneficial evaluations of students, teachers and (Schaeffer). FairTest believes that standardized tests only benefit schools in high income areas and intelligent students because the students get Bearor 3 put in honors or advanced classes and schools get more federal funding. On the other hand, schools in low income areas run the risk of losing their funding and getting shut down because of a low average test score. This creates a great divide between schools across the state because they are competing for federal or state funding. Students are also asked a lot during these tests. In Scott Levey and Jonah article they stated, 2010 to 2014, the length of the 3rd-grade ELA and math tests grew by 163 percent, and 4th graders were required to sit for seven (partial) days of state assessments. In 2015, some elementary school students took up to 540 minutes of standardized tests in (Levey and Edelman 4). The amount of tests students are required to take in combination with their next year of school at stake can be extremely draining for many students, resulting in inaccurate test scores. FairTest also promotes opting out. That can be a problem for students in states that require schools to gives students who opt-out a zero but, FairTest say so that the schools can factor in their grades (Crowder and Konle 287). This can not only impact the overall test average but also impact the student depending on how the school uses their test scores. Legislation has tried to deter parents and students who decide to opt-out by giving them zeros or completely not giving them the choice, like Florida for example (Crowder and Konle 286). It seems to be a catch twenty-two between both schools and parents believing they both know what is best for their students/ children and can really cause an issue. A compromise needs to be made between FairTest and those believing that standardized tests are beneficial and it is possible. Both the AEA and Fair Test can agree on one thing. That standardized tests can and should be improved. Standardized tests do serve a purpose in examining the effectiveness of already established curriculum. The main argument against standardized tests does not lie within Bearor 4 the examination itself but how they affect students. If standardized tests were not used to penalize students for receiving below average scores but were still used to judge how well a curriculum is doing in educating students and how well they are learning the material then both organizations would be satisfied. The American Evaluation Association will be satisfied because there will still be tests given and they will still serve a purpose in seeing which concepts are understood by students and which are not. FairTest will be satisfied because the tests will no longer negatively or positively affect students and will actually improve their schooling quality by altering the curriculum that they are learning based on what was commonly understood and what In Dylan article, Standardized Testing and School Accountability, his main argument is that these tests do much for students but, do help to evaluate teachers and schools. He goes on to state that, was no evidence of improved test scores on other related measures, such as the College SAT and Advanced Placement tests the ACT [after taking standardized (Wiliam 117). If a standardized test does not help a student to improve their scores on other important examinations then why should it be used as the only judgement of school can be judged based on their overall report card grades to decide which classes they should be in next year which can be a better judgement of how well they are doing rather than one state mandated test. Dylan Wiliam looks into this idea in his article and found that standardized tests were a very good way of judging schools and teachers and less than 10% of the time is it inaccurate (Wiliam 120). This allows for state school boards to judge how well teachers are implementing the material and how schools are doing compared to others in the area. Wiliams also argues that these tests should be anonymous so that students can not be judged indirectly by schools or teachers (Wiliams 119). The United States Bearor 5 had testing that was considered for students for a number of years until No Child Left Behind was passed believing these tests would provide a good basis for students but, it has done the opposite (Wiliam 109). It is very possible for a good student to score poorly on one test because of multiple factors just as it is possible for an average student to score highly. If this initiative is put in place both the AEA and FairTest will be satisfied and their missions will become more similar. As it stands both the American Evaluation Association and FairTest seem to have completely different goals, one promoting the use of more standardized tests and the other encouraging opting-out. If the use of standardized tests were altered slightly to no longer penalize students based on one test both organizations would be satisfied. Standardized tests can still be used to see where schools and teachers fall based on the state average students just be penalized based on their grade anymore. We all have taken a standardized test at one point or another and have seen the effects they can have on some of our classmates. High amounts of stress leading some students to tears because of the stakes of being put into an honors or modified class based on one test. The fate of our younger siblings, cousins, or our children are at stake and only we can change it. Bearor 6 Works Cited AEA - American Evaluation Association : About  AEA - American Evaluation Association : About Us. N.p., 13 Apr. 2010. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Crowder, Zan, and Konle Stephanie. Gumbo Ya-Ya or, What Pearson Hear: Opt-Out, Standardized Testing, and Student  The High School Journal 98.4 (2015): 285-89. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Levy, Scott, and Edelman, Jonah. Making Sense Of The Opt-Out  Next 16.4 (2016): 55-64. Source . Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Lloyd, Malinda. Achievement And Growth On Standardized Tests: Commonalities Among Exemplary  Practice & Research 41.3 (2016): 17-22. Education Source . Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Schaeffer, Robert. Just Say No to the  Just Say No to the Test FairTest. N.p., 1 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Wiliam, Dylan. Standardized Testing And School  Psychologist 45.2 (2010): 107-122. Search Premier . Web. 12 Feb. 2017.