Haynes1 Yohance Haynes Professor Phillips Composition 1102 12 February 2017 Can Tasty be Healthy Everyone loves a good burger and fries to brighten up their day. But no one loves the extra pounds they put on or the feeling they might have afterwards. So how do you get the tasty with the healthy. Well that is what fast food companies and the health community have been fighting over for years. The fast food industry and the health community have a long history of bumping heads because of conflicting ideals. Obesity and overweight related illnesses play a gigantic factor in the conflict between these two worlds. The Department of Human Nutrition try to find solutions to these health problems in society. They have zeroed in on fast food restaurants and their menus and found that major consumption is unhealthy. Even with all the talk about nutritious options on the menu it is still not safe. For example, food from major chains in most countries still contains unacceptably high levels of industrially produced -fatty (Stender al . 2007). And because of this continued unhealthy fact, the Department of Human Nutrition is not budging on their side in the argument. for the other side is who claims to have and will continue to implement healthy items to their menu. Two sides fighting for the common interest in the people. just have different interests and ways of serving the public. By talking about what has to say about their product and what Dietitians have to counter with, the two sides can come to a cease fire by working together in the splitting of healthy options to half of the menu. Haynes2 The Mcdonalds menu is made and specialized for the customers. Their goal is to make good food for the consumer so that they continue to dine there. They want what is best for their customer so that they get the best results. even states on their website making changes based on what hearing from all of you. why we work hard to make tasty food with a is 2017). They aim to please their customers and bring society together with good tasting fresh foods. This new world order of healthy being the way to go, has caught eye over the years. Slowly but surely transitioning their menu to more healthy choices because of this new wave. They are taking it very seriously so that they stay ahead of this curve. Adding great tactics like its own healthy eating logo as it continues the fight back against allegation that it is fueling dietary 2003). Operations like this shows long strides to combat the bad stigma of being the cause of obesity and other health problems. They are even targeting parents and their children to promote their healthy menu. Making fruits and vegetables more appealing to the child. is obviously working hard to meet the healthy standards that its customers are looking for. Logos, advertisements and the addition fruit and vegetable options show the effort that they are putting in the be considered healthy. But is that enough for The Department of Human Nutrition? Obviously progress is not enough to support the healthy movement because there are still organisations like DHN. The Department of Human Nutrition still has problems with the menu. Problems such as quality and serving sizes are main concerns as explained by the company food quality and portion size need to be improved before it is safe Haynes3 to eat frequently at most fast-food ( Stender al. 2007). These two issues among others are places that fast food companies need to pay more attention to. The Department even talks of the experiment Size where the participant ate mcdonalds 3 times a day for 30 days and gained 11kg. Documentaries like this give validity to health concerns that many consumers are worried about. They also prove to health organisations that their job is needed even more than previously thought. The Department does research on the links between fast food and obesity American population study Cardia suggests that frequent fast-food consumption is positively associated with weight gain and risk of insulin resistance over 15 (Stender al. 2007). Studies like this show the difference in weight gain and diabetes between individuals who eat fast meals and those who The numbers between both are significantly different as shown by the company who had meals at fast-food restaurants more than two times a week gained 4.5 kg more weight and had a 104% greater increase in insulin (Stender et al, 2007). These numbers are shocking and show the real health risks of those who consume these fast food meals, which is a lot. There are many issues that prevent these two opposing sides from reaching common ground. First off, they do not share the same values. has the stance of making good food and getting it out to the consumer. Whether that food is criticized or not, it works for their customers and business is good. As for The Department of Human Health, their goal is to orchestrate the best healthy options in society, for it to become a healthier one. And that is by evaluating the menus of fast food companies like In that aspect it is easy to see why they do not get along. But to find a solution we must look at the customer and their preferences. Consumers want to be healthier the beginnings of post-war nutrition policy in the UK, Haynes4 food manufacturers have responded to calls for healthier products to some (Scholder et al. 2005). In this fact you see that their is a call to action being made by society for healthier products. Not a overall annihilation of fast food products but a better job of incorporating them into the list. To further these claims the British food journal handed out a questionnaire to college students to find out their stance on food options at and KFC. One of the more interesting points was that total of 61 per cent of respondents stated that they intended to buy only healthy (Scholder et al. 2005). So if more that half are wanting healthy foods, then give them more. A solution that will bring both sides to agreement might be splitting the menu in half. should get rid of half the items off their menu and replace them with healthy choices. This way both sides healthy and fast food get their exposure to the community. In doing this both sides also lose something. loses half of their menu and the health side has no say over what healthy choices or fast food items stay on the menu. A collective solution for the common goal of serving the community. Bringing all the information together, both sides have supported their claims and defended their arguments. is a great company looking to expand their brand on the world. And by doing so they may be spreading obesity and diabetes and other health related problems. This is what The Department of Human Health are looking to prevent. Not saying they have not attempted to incorporate healthy items on their menu. But to solve the fund between the two they must try and put many more options on the menu. The Department of Human Health just wants to help society with these health problems and attacking fast food menus is how they get it done. Their part in making this solution happen is to allow to replace half its menu with items that are healthy and trust that they will make the right healthy choices. They have many Haynes5 opposing viewpoints on the same subjects and do not agree most of the time, but they both have a common goal that brought upon this idea for a solution. It can and will work if both sides agree to play their part. Healthy can be tasty and the world will be a lot better for figuring this out. By looking at both sides we see that by splitting the menu down the middle we satisfied both groups but most importantly the community. Works cited Our Variety of Ingredients: Quality Foods  Our Variety of Ingredients: Quality Foods Mcdonalds, 2016-2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 set to introduce tips on healthy  2003: OneFile . Web. 31 Jan. 2017. M.J.A. and McEachern, M.G. (2005) foods and ethical consumer value: A focus on and Food Journal , 107(4), pp. doi: 10.1108/00070700510589503. Stender, S., J. Dyerberg, and A. Astrup. Fast Food: Unfriendly and . Macmillan Publishers, 2007. Web. 31 Jan. 2017 U S Food and Drug Administration Home  S Food and Drug Administration Home Page . Food and Drug Administration, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017