Tkach !1 Daria Tkach Adam Phillips ENC 1102 12 February 2017 The Popularity of The Genre of Horror and Impact on Human Psychology For centuries, the popularity of the genre of horror has been increasing. The interest in this kind of production actively began to flourish in the middle of the 20th century. Eventually, horror became an important part of pop culture. Unfortunately, the rise of horror films and fiction led to broad practice of deep-seated commercially viable plot schemes. According to psychological studies, modern horror movies and literature promote the formation of stereotypical phobias as constant fear of darkness and steady associations related to which places and situations lead to disturbing and deadly events. Suchlike propaganda has a huge impact on teenagers and children and may cause the emergence of paranoia and anxiety. Obvious dangers associated with horror provoked the nascency of anti-horror movements. One of the most influential prime time watchdogs is non-profit a conservative censorship advocacy group denominated as Parents Television Council (PTC). mission of the PTC is to protect children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the media, because of their proven long-term harmful effects. Our vision is to provide a safe and sound entertainment media environment for children and families across (Parents Television Council, 10 Feb. 2017, http://w2.parentstv.org/ Main/). The organization protrudes against all depictions of disturbing content during and overall reduction of negative material on TV in order to prevent negatory impact of Tkach !2 mass media on the youth. On the other hand, there is a position of the admirers of thrilling products of medias which contain elements of violence, threat, and anxiety. Especially huge influence is possessed by Horror Writers Association (HWA), a worldwide non-profit organization of professional writers and publishing professionals dedicated to promoting availability and popularization of the horror works. is to encourage public interest in and foster an appreciation of quality horror and dark fantasy literature, supplying qualitative creations to the audience, promoting good educational base oriented on the formation of the taste in horror and dark fiction (video lectures, books and articles). Despite lots of controversies, both sides rely on psychological studies. While the anti-horror party articulates negative aftermaths of interest in fear and cruelty, the pro-horror group presents new-found evidences which state that experiencing negative emotions has a lot of benefits and contributes emotional control and learning. The main question leads to whether advantages of horror culture overweight disadvantages or vice versa and how the results of related studies can affect the attitude towards horror industry and admirers. By combining ideas of both of positions it is possible to find a compromise which could equally satisfy all parties of the conflict. As HWA admits the growth of stereos related to the definition of horror in society and takes measures with regard to the improvement of the taste, in the aggregate with campaign against propagation of formulaic fears among children there is a good alternative such as an inducement to development and complication of horror production among screenwriters and authors. Competition in the environment of horror industry will be profitable for both stakeholders. On the side, parents assistance during acquaintance with scary fiction or Tkach !3 movie will prevent children intimidation and will help youngsters to observe the products of this genre carefully. First of all, mental and physical health of the young generation is one of the most important issues for parents. Present ready approachability of information allows anyone to become familiar with any type of content. The youngsters could be characterized by high level of curiosity, especially when it comes to so-called  topics, and the horror industry fits this definition. As an element of pop culture, horror proclaims some kinds of standards of what exactly should instill unconditional fear in humans. The speculation on popular themes for horror movies and literature quickly led to the formation of common stereotypes since the majority of them appeals to primitive animal instincts. According to Bodo Winter and his article Horror Movies and the Cognitive Ecology of Primary , stereotypical thinking provokes sustainable association in relation to the position in space and the overall state of the environment. For instance, there are various vertical metaphors, which also include IS UP/SAD IS IS UP/SICK IS IS UP/SUBMISSION IS and IS UP/LACK OF VIRTUE IS One important similarity among these metaphors is that all of them contribute the emergence of concrete associations directed to the ratio of the position and perception. With reference to horror movies, it causes expectations of the presence of potential source of danger and aggression in dark remote places (Winter 152). Surely, children and teenagers are most susceptible to suggestions and manipulations. Suchlike receptivity helps to develop sustained fear of primitive things in masses from an early age. Notwithstanding, the susceptibility of the mind naturally instigate the hypertrophy of the features of learned material. While adults are able to cope with shock , Tkach !4 children are likely to be traumatized by the event and develop confirming associations based on their experience which is grounded on simple instincts. Additionally, repetitive evictions of violence ad cruelty naturally lead to adaptation and ignoring. occurs when an individual experiences a reduction in responsiveness to a stimulus - in this case, violence portrayals as a result of repeated exposure. Desensitization to televised violence is evident on a physiological level through reduced arousal and emotional distress while witnessing violence. It also exists on an interpersonal level and is exhibited by less sympathy for the victims of violence and a decreased willingness to intervene in a conflict even if only to summon an adult for (Schulenberg 3). Nevertheless, the others claim that experiencing horror could be considered as enjoyable activity with healthy tendencies for human psychology. This belief is based on various scientific researches and is actively distributed by the members of HWA. According to Katerina article The Paradox of Horror: Fear as a Positive , the pleasure derived from horror fiction is cognitive. Usual antagonists of horror novels and movies are usually our standing conceptual Since people are trying to find a logical definition for the nature of unknown creature, along with fear goes curiosity. The most accurate explanation of attraction to the subject of fear is given in the work of Stephen Asma Monsters on the Brain: An Evolutionary Epistemology of . The study presents an examination of a woman with an impairment of amygdala, the brain part responsible for fear. Respectively, the woman was defined as absolutely fearless. During experiment the subject had contacts with frightening materials as horror movies, venomous species, objects of common human phobias, etc. However, the woman showed extreme interest in horrific matter and strong desire to touch and observe Tkach !5 provided material ( Asma 951). According to the results of the experiment, interactions with frightening materials cause controversial emotions in humans: abruption, fear, and strong intention to study the reason for terror for the sake learning and understanding of how to avoid negative consequences of the meeting, how to protect themselves and others, and how to fight back. Familiarization with products of the genre of horror could be claimed to be an important part of emotional learning. Via observing unknown creatures and situations, people replay various scenes in their mind in order to find out how to act efficiently. Studying dangers of outer world could be safe and graphic by means of art and fiction. has once again become primarily about emotion. It is once again writing that delves deep inside and forces us to confront who we are, to examine what we are afraid of, and to wonder what lies ahead down the road of (Morton 2). As all opinions are based on psychological response to cognitive confusion, there is a suitable way to find a compromise. Due to the fact that there are conventional stereos in horror industries related to darkness and downward direction, people are got affected by primal animal instincts. Children are able to understand the simplest methods to scare as they are still in process of getting to know the world. An interesting alternative could be an opportunity to hold a regular competition oriented on fresh and unusual ideas among horror filmmakers. Screenwriters with most extraordinary and intriguing finds will be rewarded by budget and equipment provision. This method will provide the arrival of new employees to the industry and help to move away from bored stereotypes. Moreover, as scenarists will look for completely new concept of dread, they have to give up previous primitive fears of humanity and choose alternative recipe based on psychological horror, strained life situations, and grave sullen atmosphere. Basically, the Tkach !6 supported evolution of the genre of horror is one of the goals of HWA. As horror scenario will progress in accordance with new standards, innovated content will be complicated for children and even if they are aquatinted with the source they will not understand the meaning and will not be scared. Furthermore, parents may take roles of guides and start their familiarization with horror genre under appropriate control. The leading role of a parent will protect children from experiencing frights which are too harsh for their age, but will let them try some sources which are not fully horrific but contain only few elements of frightening. With parental control children may have a slight introduction to the concept of the genre and allow them to avoid traumatizing practices. To sum it up, modern horror products mostly rely on basic human fears. Primitivism of contemporary dreads is too understandable for young minds, and they usually end up traumatized with formed concepts of what must frighten them. At the same time, experiencing fear is an important part of emotional learning and finding best ways to cope with stressful situations. As horror is inevitable piece of life, exploring possible and impossible situations supplies practically useful information. The best way to prevent the ones who are too young for extreme fear from emotional trauma is parental control and gradual introduction to the genre with the help of parental assistance. Though, for global progress of the genre it is necessary to hold regular competitions on behalf of new ideas from scenarists. Searching for new concept will help to give up typical horror standards and discover new opportunities for filmmakers. Furthermore, plot complication will make horror products more interesting for adults and less understandable for children. Tkach !7 Works cited Asma, Stephen T. on the Brain: An Evolutionary Epistemology of Social Research, Winter 2014, Vol. 81 Issue 4, p941-968. 28p. Bantinaki, Katerina. Paradox of Horror: Fear as a Positive Journal of Aesthetics & Art Criticism, Fall 2012, Vol. 70 Issue 4, p383-392, 10p. Morton, Lisa. is Horror Horror Writers Association, http://horror.org/horror-is. Accessed 10 February 2017. Schulenberg, Caroline. TO ENTERTAIN Violence on Prime Time Broadcast TV 1998 to , Parents Television Council, 10 Jan. 2007, http://w2.parentstv.org/Main/ MediaFiles/PDF/Studies/PTC-DyingtoEnt-Jan07.pdf, Accessed 10 February 2017. Winter, Bodo. Movies and the Cognitive Ecology of Primary Metaphor & Symbol, 2014, Vol. 29 Issue 3, p151-170, 20p.