1 Sandra Estrada Adam Phillips ENC 1102 29 February 2017 Women in Society Throughout history, society has always been characterized by being sexist. Giving priority to men, generally considering women inferior to men and even considering women as objects that did not have any value were seeing frequently in society. Through the history of human beings, the position of women in the world has been changing, while the society is evolving and accepting the equality between men and women. Many years ago, women were considered an object; women were expected to be at home, taking care of the family, the house, and the kids. However, with the industrial revolution and the two world wars, women started to have more importance in the society and started to be an actual part of the society. Although women started to integrate, and serving in public positions, they were never considered completely equal to men. Many organizations and foundations such as Natural Organization for Women Foundation and National Coalition for Men are starting to support people in need. The first organization is an international feminist group, and the second one, supports men stating that women are already equal to men, being against any feminist organization. Even though both organizations are helping people in need from two very different groups, both organizations are helping vulnerable gender groups, and should start working together for a better society rather than being one against the other. Nowadays many different ideas and revolutionary organizations are trying to change the idea of women in society. Feminist women are working together to be considered equal to men 2 such as; be respected as a person and not only categorized by gender, having the same opportunities as men and not be rejected for being women. Natural Organization for Women Foundation is an international feminist organization that is ready to help women, fighting for the respect of human rights and trying to make society as equal as possible. As it is mentioned on its website, focuses on a broad range of rights issues, including economic justice, pay equity, racial discrimination, health and body image, women with disabilities, reproductive rights and justice, family law, marriage and family formation rights of same-sex couples, representation of women in the media, and global feminist the 2). This foundation focuses on women, giving them an opportunity to be a valid part of the society, helping to defend their rights and their position in the society. If women fight together they are going to succeed together. These are the core values of the now foundation, that is ready to help every woman in need. On the other hand, some organizations agree that men and women are already equal and that they are being treated equally. National Coalition for Men is a perfect example of this kind of organization; this is not a sexist organization nor a gender associated organization. On this organization, men and women are working together against stereotypes and inequality, trying to make society as equal as possible. As the NCFM web page mentions, they are not only working for segregated or vulnerable groups of people they are working together for everyone, against stereotypes and inequality us This foundation believes that society is already equal, and the real problem is that nobody accepts equality as part of their daily life, because they are already used to a sexist society full of stereotyped ideas and behaviors. Even though many people consider that society is already equal, that women are not a minority, that women are not inferior nor weaker than men. Surveys and investigations show the 3 opposite. According to the article written by Natalia Sianko National Family Violence Survey showed that 1 in 4 women in the United States will be physically or sexually assaulted by a partner at some point in her lifetime. Nearly 5 million violent victimizations are experienced by females over the age of 12 every (169). Such surveys and documents show that society remains sexist, that there is no equality between men and women and that women are weaker than men for most of the societies. These kinds of studies are the perfect proof that we need organizations and foundations like Natural Organization for Women Foundation, that are ready to help women as a group of minorities and a vulnerable part of the society. Although many feminist groups are ready to help any vulnerable group and are trying to fight for human rights especially defending rights. Some other groups are trying to prove that men and women are already equal. These groups believe that society only is judging by stereotypes and inequalities made up by the society rather than real differences between men and women. As Dominic Abrams mentioned in his article, interpret human rights relative to their in-group, and so the interpretation is affected by the status position within the societal (29). Men and women are already equal, so organizations and foundations need to work together to eliminate every stereotype and unequal idea that exist in every person as an individual rather than working for gender inequality. Every organization and foundation that works for the society should be working to help everyone rather than helping a specific group of people. Even though organizations such as and are very specific and concentrated in the group of people that they are working for, they are helping to make a better society in their own way, but they are being one against the other. Those organizations are helping specific groups of people because they consider that those groups are the most vulnerable of the society. However, as it is mentioned in 4 the article Trusts Local Human Rights every organization that helps the society should work together with the human rights and be guided by those principals. These rights should be respected by all humans, every organization and every foundation. and are two very useful organizations that are helping society, however, they are working separately and one against the other. They should start working together, concentrating their help in women and men respectively giving up the ideas of rejection for the rest of the organizations. In conclusion, everyone should work for a better society, human beings have gone through many events that have made society evolve and changed its reality. Many people consider society unequal, that men and women are being treated differently. That many stereotypes are guiding the actual society and that women are considered inferior to men and they do not have the same importance in the society. Most organizations are helping vulnerable groups of people empowering men and women. However, if organizations such as Natural Organization for Women Foundation and National Coalition for Men work together instead of one against the other, society would improve faster and stronger. 5 Works Cited Abrams, Dominic, et al. Equality Hypocrisy, Inconsistency, And Prejudice: The Unequal Application Of The Universal Human Right To  Peace And Conflict: Journal Of Peace Psychology 21.1 (2015): 28-46. PsycARTICLES. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. National Coalition for Men  National Coalition for Men (NCFM). N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Rich, Alex K. Walker, Katherine. Gender Equality:  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Ron, James, and David Crow. Who Trusts Local Human Rights Organizations: Evidence From Three World Regions  Human Rights Quarterly 1 (2015): 188. HeinOnline. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sianko, Natallia. Gender Equality And Mental Health: On The  American Journal Of Orthopsychiatry 81.2 (2011): 167-171. PsycARTICLES. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The NOW  National Organization for Women. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.