1 Jenna Snodgrass Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102.025 29 January 2017 Legal or Illegal Assisted Suicide For most of the United States it is illegal to commit assisted suicide. However, assisted suicide can be justified under the circumstances that the patient is terminally ill, chronically ill , but with sound mind to be allowed to ask for assisted suicide as a treatment option. This can become complicated situation when dealing with a treatment option that is essentially asking your doctor to take your life. The organization Not Dead Yet(NDY) has concerns about people with disabilities being taken advantage of. This can cause controversy with the families of the patients, however ultimately in the end it is the decision if they would like to choose assisted suicide as a treatment is theirs to make. Meanwhile, on the other side of this issue the organizations Death with Dignity(DWD) and, dignity in dying(DID) believe that it should be the right to choose what their treatment should be, assisted suicide included. This is mainly due to everyone having control on their lives and they have the right to decide if they want to end their pain and distress with assisted suicide.Though both sides of the argument disagree it is possible for them to come to a compromise on the issue if assisted suicide could be made a legal treatment option with the proper guidelines in place it could satisfy the needs of all organizations involved. 2 Assisted suicide can be a controversial topic as many do not like the idea of someone taking their own life and, like the idea of someone else taking life much less. However while some believe it can be justified, there are still some who argue it is not right. Not Dead Yet advocates for assisted suicide to be considered illegal. The organization is concerned that with the legalization of assisted suicide will set up a double standard legally for health status being the deciding factor of whether they will get suicide prevention or assistance in suicide. The main concerns are protecting the rights of patients who may not have the ability to protect themselves. NDY wants to keep assisted suicide illegal in order to prevent disabled individuals from being Dead Yet 1), preventing a legal double standard for how to deal with suicidal patients, and preventing healthcare physicians from becoming suicide Dead Yet 1). On the opposing side of the argument is the Death with Dignity and, dignity in dying organizations. DWD and main goals conflict with that of NDY in arguing assisted suicide should be legalized for patients who want to no longer suffer in pain and distress or for patients who would rather die on their own terms rather than the terms of their illness. DWD and DID want to make assisted suicide legal and allow for patients to have the right to die. DWD as well as DID believe that it should be up to the patient and have it be their own choice if they would like for their treatment option to be assisted suicide. The right to die as seen by DWD and DID is seen as right that every severely ill person should have, being able to choose how a person dies should be a choice made by the person themselves. Not the family or spouse. If a woman is diagnosed with 3 lung cancer and that woman does not want to die due to her cancer and would rather die by lethal injection, she should have the right to make that decision. In the end it is her life and her right to decide if she rather continue on with the pain or pass in peace. DWD and main goals are the right to choose how you as an individual would would like to die. According to the beliefs of DWD and DID if a patient is a consenting adult they are capable of choosing whether or not they want to keep going with treatments or if they would rather pull the plug an end their lives there. Patients should have the right to a humane death of a lethal prescription rather than using any of the traditional methods of suicide that may leave a messy and gruesome scene for their family to uncover. Both sides of the assisted suicide argument have valid points and are concerned about patients health and wellbeing as well as their treatments while in the care of doctors. Though the stakeholders beliefs conflict with one another their main goals of people feeling safe protected, and feeling like they are free to make the decisions they feel are best for themselves are relatively similar and should make it easy to come up with a compromise that should meet the goals of all stakeholders. The compromise being proposed to solve the issue of assisted suicide being legal or illegal is that Assisted suicide should be legal if specific criteria is met. The criteria that needs to be met is the following: is the patient ill with a chronic illness? Is the patient ill with a terminal illness? Is the patient a legal adult? Is the patient of sound mind? When questioning is the patient is of sound mind it means in order to make the decision of 4 having assisted suicide as their treatment they should be high that would meet standards of whether they are competent enough to stand trial, and if the patient has any diagnosis that would maybe cause them to feel suicidal such as PTSD or depression that it is being treated and that it is not the reason for wanting assisted suicide to be the treatment they receive for their medical condition.the compromise allows for DWD and DID to accomplish their goal of assisted suicide being legal and NDY accomplishes their main goals of protecting disabled patients rights and not allowing the Dead Yet 1) of disabled patients. The criteria for assisted suicide to be an option of treatment puts safeguards in the way to prevent any family members or friends of the patient making the choice for them when it is not something they actually want and cannot express that for themselves, the safeguards are also meant to prevent patients with mental illnesses such as depression from letting their mental illness be their deciding factor in having assisted suicide as their treatment.This compromise can be carried out by first diagnosing if the patient is chronically ill or terminally ill and is 18 year or older, second giving the patient their treatment options including assisted suicide, third allowing the patient time to process the information given to them and allowing them time to choose the treatment option they deem best for themselves fourth, if the patient has chosen assisted suicide having their mental health extensively check, fith having the patient sign a document saying they are of sound mind as well as of age and that they are choosing assisted suicide as their 5 treatment of their own free will, then sixth having their healthcare professional carry out their chosen of a request for physician- assisted suicide,vol 27 issue 1) The compromise is meant to fulfill the goals of all organizations and over all making sure that the option of assisted suicide is available as a treatment while still protecting all patients rights and not allowing for assisted suicide to be used as a means of murder. At the end of it all organizations are making attempts to advocate for the right to choose their own death and still feel safe in the care of their doctors and are not made to feel like assisted suicide is their only treatment options. People who have been diagnosed with a chronic illness, terminal illnesses or have lost control of their bodily functions and need help doing simple everyday things. These everyday things can include bathing and just getting out of bed. If they believe they no longer want to go through the daily struggles they face. Patients should have the right to choose how they die while still feeling safe and protected by their doctors.It is their right to decide to no longer go through their life in pain and distress just as much as it is their choice to continue their treatments. We Not Dead Yet, 5 Apr. 2012, notdeadyet.org/about. 6 Management of a request for physician- assisted suicide,Davila, Sandra L. Rodriguez. American Journal of Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Feb 2010, 27 (1). 63-65. (3) (Journal Article), Database: AgeLine Death With Dignity, www.deathwithdignity.org/about/. the Dignity in Dying, www.dignityindying.org.uk/.