Suarez 1 Jouline Suarez Mr. Phillips ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Censorship in School Many people argue about the importance of censorship in school. Some people believe that censorship is necessary in school because it avoids the discussion of controversial topics that might offend other students. Others, however, believe that censorship is not necessary in school because it stops students from learning about important controversial topics and also violates the right of freedom of speech. The National Coalition Against Censorship (NCAC) is an organization opposing censorship. It supports freedom of speech in school and promotes the teaching of important controversial topics like religion, sex, and racism. A journal, such as Intellectual Freedom for Young Adolescents by Katherine Butcher and Lee Manning is also against censorship in school. The article and the First Amendment in Schools: A Resource by the NCAC in WebJunction.org also supports this argument. Even the American Library Association (ALA) has articles against censorship in schools. On the other hand, the American Family Association (AFA) is an organization in favor of censorship in school. It is known for being pro-censorship and boycotting companies because of not censoring controversial or inappropriate material. The article Censorship: Freedom Versus by Irum Abbasi and Laila Al- Sharqi in the Journal of Law and Conflict Resolution also agrees with the point of view in favor of censorship. There is also a journal article in favor of censorship supporting this argument, such as Role of Censorship in Suarez 2 in The Journal of Instructional Psychology by Ken Petress. However, even though censorship in school is a controversial topic, the book review of Lessons in Censorship: How Schools and Court Subvert First Amendment Rights by Naomi Cahn helps find a compromise to this argument. It talks about the pros and cons of censorship in school and suggests actions that schools should take in order to alleviate the controversy in this topic. The National Coalition Against Censorship (NCAC) and the American Family Association (AFA) should compromise to allow students to learn about controversial topics without violating the moral values, feelings, and racial status of one another by having professors and students sign and implement a strict policy of human rights and censorship in school. The National Coalition Against Censorship (NCAC) opposes the strict censorship policies schools have. It is against the limitation of teaching students about racial or controversial topics. It is also in favor of freedom of speech in school. The journal Intellectual Freedom for Young Adolescents by Katherine Butcher and Lee Manning encourages freedom of speech and students to be able to express themselves in school. It mentions that adolescents need to be aware of the problems caused by censorship and must support and protect intellectual They mention how students should be able to learn about things that are typically censored in society, such as sex and racism. Also, they encourage students to support others and the freedom in the country. Another article that is against censorship in school is Censorship and the First Amendment in Schools: A Resource Guide by the National Coalition Against Censorship. It emphasizes the need for students to have freedom of speech in school and be taught about important things that should not be censored. The article states that, public schools must not only provide knowledge of many subject areas and essential skills, but must also educate students on core American values such as fairness, equality, justice, respect for Suarez 3 others, and the right to (NCAC). It mentions how schools should teach about equal rights more and not avoid certain controversial topics in that subject area. This article also mentions that due to religious and moral views, some people are against the teaching of theory of evolution and sex education. Even though there are people against the teaching of those topics, knowledge about the topics is essential and necessary for a student. The American Library Association (ALA) is another organization that is about the negativities of censorship in school. In one of their articles, they state that Freedom is the right of every individual to both seek and receive information from all points of view without (ala.org). This statement stresses that people should be able to know about different points of views from different sources. Therefore, students should be allowed to find information from any source even if it is censored. When things are not censored in school, it allows students to have a better understanding of different subjects and point of views of important topics. Even though they may be controversial, it is necessary for students to learn about subjects like sex, the theory of evolution, human rights, and equality. Even though learning and speaking freely about controversial topics in school is important, it is also important to avoid the chances of students offending others by violating their moral values or point of views. The American Family Association (AFA) is an organization in favor of censorship. They are significantly known for boycotting companies for not censoring inappropriate material such as things related to sex. They encourage the censoring of racial or sexual words in products or movies. The article Censorship: Freedom Versus in the Journal of Law and Conflict Resolution supports the argument in favor of censorship in school. It talks about the different Acts and laws that have been put in favor of censorship in the environment. It mentions how The Espionage Act was to include Suarez 4 any disloyal, profane, scurrilous, or abusive language concerning the United States (Abbasi and Al-Sharqi, 23). It mentions that laws are against censorship in order to promote peace in society and also to maintain the country in favor of the government. This article also mentions how it is against people posting things on social media can potentially harm people, sets, races, and religions, (Abbasi and Al-Sharqi). This article about censorship in the environment promotes people to censor words that are against the moral values of other people. The journal article Censorship: Freedom Versus is therefore in favor of students censoring their material and words in order to have a safe learning environment without being against other morals or beliefs. Just like the Journal of Law and Conflict Resolution, the article Role of Censorship in in the Journal of Instructional Psychology is in favor of censorship in schools and the learning environment. The of Censorship in states that is argued here that censorship is only valid, ethical, and required when it appears to be the only way to provable physical, social, emotional, or intellectual harmful outcomes for students, teachers, or the school (Petress, Ken). This article therefore provides a list of exact things that should be censored in school and gives an explanation of why they should be censored. It want students to feel excluded or offended by racist comments against their morals. Therefore, both journal articles support censorship in school to avoid offensive language and actions against morals and beliefs. The topic of censorship in school is very controversial, but the National Coalition Against Censorship (NCAC) and The American Family Association (AFA) should find a compromise in this topic. The book review of Lessons in Censorship: How Schools and Court Subvert First Amendment Rights by Naomi Cahn helps find an agreement to this argument. It states that Suarez 5 than speech, schools might offer sensitivity courses and implement proactive efforts that encourage student (Cahn, Naomi). Naomi talks about how schools should promote students to tolerate the opinions of others in order to have a safe learning environment. She encourages students to accept the points of views of others. She also mentions that and the courts use an infringement  to evaluate whether speech has interfered substantially with a access to education, (Cahn, Naomi). Schools should have a strict policy regarding censorship. Schools and colleges need to have an agreement for professors and students to sign allowing students to learn about controversial topics without violating the moral values, feelings, and racial status of one another. It is important for students to learn about and accept the points of views of others. It is also important for them to learn about controversial topics without violating the moral values or views of others. Overall, the topic of censorship is very controversial, but the National Coalition Against Censorship and the American Family Association need to find an agreement within this topic. They should take into consideration having schools implement a strict policy regarding censoring important subjects for students. The National Coalition Against Censorship (NCAC) and the American Family Association (AFA) should compromise to allow students to learn about controversial topics without violating the moral values, feelings, and racial status of one another by having professors and students sign and implement a strict policy of human rights and censorship in school. Suarez 6 Works Cited Abbasi, Irum S., and Laila Al-Sharqi.  Media Censorship: Freedom Versus  Journal of Law and Conflict Resolution, vol. 7, pp. 21-25, 29 July 2015. Web. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Butcher, Katherine, and Lee Manning. Intellectual Freedom For Young  ERIC - Intellectual Freedom for Young Adolescents. Association for Childhood Education, 2007. Web. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Cahn, Naomi R. Lessons in Censorship: How Schools and Courts Subvert First Amendment  Family Law Quarterly 2015: 535. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Censorship in Schools: Learning, Speaking, and Thinking Freely: The First Amendment in  Censorship in Schools: Learning, Speaking, and Thinking Freely: The First Amendment in Schools. Online Computer Library Center, 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Censorship in the  Advocacy, Legislation & Issues. American Library Association, 22 Sept. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Petress, Ken. The role of censorship in  Journal of Instructional Psychology, vol. 32, no. 3, pp. 248-252, 2005. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017.