Ananya C. Williams Adam Phillips 12 February 2017 ENC 1102 Global Warming: The Beginning of the end of an Ongoing Debate The topic of Global Warming has caused great controversy throughout the nation, as well as the world, in terms of politics. Global Warming has become such a huge factor within our political system because many people believe that the climate is rapidly changing. On one hand, these issues have been presented because of the way americans live their daily lives. While other groups believe that climate change is not a force that can be prevented. Groups like Heritage Foundation are strong believers that enforcing policy on a contribution of emissions to the atmosphere make little to no difference to the Earth. By coming to this conclusion, other organizations like the NRDC (Natural Resources Defense Council) often find themselves at odds with agencies structured like the Heritage Foundation. The NRDC has strong belief that the current human lifestyle is detrimental to the life of the Earth and all of diversity. These two groups have taken opposing positions on properly rectifying how humans interact with the Earth. However, the solution is one that is needed for the sustainability of the human race. to ensure that the provision is for the generations to come in the future. Both the NRDC and the Heritage Foundation must put aside all differences led by profit or namesake, and understand the impact global warming is having in our world wide community. By doing so, this initiative will be the beginning to the reconstruction of how Americans go through their daily life. The fight for what is right can not be won by one man, or council- but as a people who must stand alongside one another to do best. A resolution to the ongoing dispute is to join together as allies and bring forth the option to solidify other means of energy use. In specific, these changes start with the adaptation of the reduction of carbon emissions and sacrifice of some unrealistic demands. The Heritage Foundation is an institution that promotes the ideas of the conservative view; its goal is to America by promoting policies based on their research. Their opposition of enforcing public policies in the name of global warming has gained them a spotlight for openly denying contribution to the issue. However, the goals for conservative policies are to Americans build a better life for (Heritage.org). The focus Global Warming is that the policies that are being enforced will not improve fluctuating climate. They believe policies set in place are putting unnecessary prohibitions on companies that are trying to gain profit, as well as the American family. By setting forth such invasive policies that regulate the emissions of natural resources, they believe administration is stunting the potential of the economy. According to David Kreutzer et they have waged heavy costs on American families and businesses for decades. It is important that policymakers understand the full scope of the scientific debate on global warming and the appropriate role of government in The State of Climate Science: No Justification for Extreme Policies, The Heritage Foundation). As expressed from this quote by members of the Heritage Foundations, it is their belief that policies, and reform have affected the average American household. Their position of reform for Global Warming comes from concern of the the weight on the average family. In opposition to the Heritage Foundation, The Natural Resource Defense main goal is to defend the Earth and all that it encompasses. This movement has focused specifically on rapid change in climate and increase of temperature. By promoting the prevention of companies emitting natural resources into the atmosphere, NRDC believes that it is saving the environment and ultimately ensuring sustainability. Issues like rising sea levels, droughts, and melting glaciers all bring forth concern on the debate. Byre et al. express a lot of the same points that the NRDC does, weighing the effects of the contribution to climate. expressed, actions in total have fueled global perceptions that the US is not acting in substantial ways to address climate change. Nevertheless, action within the US is indeed moving forward, with states, cities and regional partnerships filling the federal leadership vacuum The council has recognized improvements on behalf of the US, but to prevent mass wipeouts of the Human race NRDC believes so much more work has to be done and set in place. As stated by the NRDC, the United States, the burning of fossil fuels to make electricity is the largest source of heat-trapping pollution, producing about two billion tons of CO2 every year. Coal-burning power plants are by far the biggest polluters. The second-largest source of carbon pollution is the transportation sector, which generates about 1.7 billion tons of CO2 emissions a Their plans for reform include cutting out the emission of all fossil fuels due the fact that they all aid in so much pollution. The solution to this ongoing issue will not be simple to accomplish because there are so many demands that both parties feel must be met. Nonetheless, what each party wants must come second to the greater good of society to preserve the resources that may be depleted in the near future. Common ground has not yet been reached because of the lack of ability to understand the views of on the controversial topic, both stakeholders believe their view is absolute and superior to the other. Also, money has played a huge role in the defense against Climate Change provisions, the Heritage foundation makes argument that carbon taxing will simply dig into the hands of the poor, as stated by author J. Shanahan of the Heritage foundation the tax were phased in gradually, an estimated 700,000 jobs would be lost as a direct result of the carbon tax by 1997, according to the CBO (Congressional Budget quote expresses the worries of the Heritage foundation, there is the belief that including taxes will bear more weight on one class more than another. To propose that both the NRDC, and the Heritage Foundation set aside thoughts powered by profit, credit, and power will only be the first step in the process. The proposed solution to the issue will be the creation of a contract binding committee composed of both institutions to guarantee joint effort. The sole purpose for this committee will be to ensure that solutions presented will be upheld by both parties equally for the sustainability of the Earth and the market of business. mission will be reached by first limiting carbon emission, causing a gradual conversion to alternate, yet location-efficient, energy sources. For example states like Florida, who are known for abundance of sun will cut down electricity use and convert to solar powered energy. By instituting new energy methods, the decrease of emissions by producers will satisfy the needs of the NRDC. While as for The Heritage foundation, money toward these issues will be funded by big producers and the NRDC, through whatever means necessary. Seeing that the NRDC is adamant about provisions within big companies all new equipment, and labor needed will also be provided by the council.. By using both institutions to fund reform, consumers like middle class family directly affected. The adaptation of relying on other, more efficient forms of energy will come into play. The heritage foundation will advocate for the reform of energy supply. Whereas the National Resource Defense Council, the original advocate for this reform, will find methods for its funding without directly reaching into the pockets of Americans. Funding options will come from other foundations, corporation, and/or fundraising. As this transition continues, fossil fuel plant will be lessened but not completely depleted. By taking on the steps, the beginning of reform will be put into action. According to the Mark Review of solutions to global warming, air pollution, and energy security, there many other forms of energy-related solutions; nine of these other proposed solutions are electricity based options (148). However, methods for this construction are not limited solely to electricity, but has proposed in forms of liquid fuel. With either of these methods being put into effect carbon emissions will deplete due to other forms of energy use. of existing fossil fuels are generally increasing, making it difficult to estimate the competitiveness of new technologies in the short or long (150). This quote expresses that whether there is a conversion or not there will still be high costs to be paid, but if there is a more a efficient way that will pay off in the future being energy efficient is the best way. The conversion of our lives into this process will be costly but sacrifice must be made to ensure our survival as a race. Investing in methods that will inevitably destroy what both parties are working towards defeats the purpose of what both stakeholders are fighting so hard for. The separation of these groups allow room for them to target one another instead work toward the one common goal of sustainability and preparing the earth to be better living environment for all of inhabitants. While posing against one another, there will be the ongoing notion that reconstruction will never reach potential. However, by including one another and forming an alliance to create a system where both parties benefit, the world will be in a much healthier state. With the proposition of reform through lessening the amount of carbon emissions and converting to more concentrated solar power systems there is room for so much more improvement. These improvements are all possible upon recognizing that this battle is not one that can be fought alone, but alongside each other as Americans and beings of the human race that want to protect those things that are held dear. The fight of one against another only prolong the effects of the Global warming and will only be detrimental to the existence of life here on earth. Works Cited Byrne, John, et al. American policy conflict in the greenhouse: Divergent trends in federal, regional, state, and local green energy and climate change  Policy 35.9 (2007): 4555-4573. Dunlap, Riley E., and Aaron M. McCright. A widening gap: Republican and Democratic views on climate  Science and Policy for Sustainable Development 50.5 (2008):26-35. Jacobson, Mark Z. Review of solutions to global warming, air pollution, and energy  Energy & Environmental Science 2.2 (2009): 148-173. Kreutzer, David W., Nicolas Loris, Katie Tubb, and Kevin D. Dayaratna. The State of Climate Science: No Justification for Extreme  Heritage Foundation . Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. MacMillan, Amanda. Global Warming  Resource Defense Council , 11 Mar. 2016. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Shanahan, John. A guide to the global warming  Foundation Backgrounder 896 (1992).