Yost !1 Mike Yost Professor Heiser ENC 1102 12 February, 2017 Gun laws in Florida vs California Over the last couple years, different states in the United States have been fighting for and against harsher gun laws. While some states are more lenient with their gun laws, others The state of Florida is an example of a state with lenient with gun laws, while California is one of the most strict states in the country when it comes to guns. Each state has different types of laws which the other lacks or require. Each state has these laws in place so there will be less violent crimes and the amount of casualties caused by firearms can be reduced, while still letting citizens keep their second amendment rights. Both states have their reasons why they have their certain views on this topic, but there is also a compromise to both of these stakeholders. The state of Florida has laws against guns but are very lenient compared to those of other states. government believes that there should be a certain amount of gun control, but not enough to where the state is taking away the second amendment right to bear arms from the citizens within the state. In the state of Florida in order to carry a gun a person would have to have a license to carry. Which according to the NRA costs about $70 the first time someone one was to get the license and that person would have to annually renew it for $60. While a person does need a license to carry they need a license if the owner wanted to keep it somewhere like there house or another private place of conveyance. So keeping a gun hidden away in a box Yost !2 somewhere in the owners home is acceptable without a license. But that means that the owner leave the house with said gun without a license. Another huge law that Florida has, is that any citizen of the United States that enters Florida from another state is allowed to carry a gun on them if they are at least 21 years of age and if they have there license from the state where they are from (NRA). Meaning that if a person was to visit from Georgia, they could carry a gun if they had their Georgia carry license with them. This protects people who are traveling throughout Florida. It is also illegal to have a firearm somewhere accessible to a person who is minor. The firearm has to be locked away in a safe of some sort or something similar. Florida also does not regulate the number of firearms purchased at one time. So a person would be able to walk into a shop and buy as many handguns as they would want to as long as they are cleared. Another huge thing that Florida have, is firearm dealers have to have a state license to sell firearms to people. This could lead to many people who supposed to have guns to get a gun. It also could lead to the sale of automatic weapons being sold, and other types of guns like machine guns that require special permission to have. While on the other side of the country, the state of California is been said to be one of the most strictest states for gun laws in the whole country. The state government thinks the best way to protect their people is by approving these laws which make it hard or impossible to have a firearm. The state believes in passing these laws that the number of firearm or gun related crimes and violence will go down because of it (NRA-ILA). In other states there are licenses someone can have where a person is allowed to carry firearms like handguns, but in the state of California the open carry of any handgun is completely banned even if the gun loaded. Which means Yost !3 when a person was to go out in public, that person have a gun hidden under their shirt or on the person even if it loaded. But when talking about machine guns, the only way to gain possession of one/ transport one is if the person was to get a permit from the Department of Justice. Reports show now that the department of justice no longer have these permits for machine guns. The state of California also does not allow any convicted felon even after being released from prison to get possession of a gun (NRA-ILA). This goes for people who are also proven to be drug addicts, and mental patients. Some of reasonings for the major gun reforms come because of attacks in society. A yc ear after the attack on Sandy Hook elementary school that killed a total of 27 children and adults (NY Daily News), many states decided to rethink their gun laws and make a reform. California was one of the many states. The point behind all these gun laws for both states is too lessen casualties caused by firearms while letting people keep their second amendment rights, both these stakeholders have valid reasons why they have strict or not so strict laws on society. California believes stricter gun laws will help cause less violence, while a state like Florida are more lenient so people can have guns to protect themselves and so they can keep their second amendment right to bear arms. The compromise between these two states would be to toughen up laws against guns while also lowering harsh laws. This could be accomplished if the states both banned firearms for ex felons, and other people of mental disorders. But they could make carrying guns legal, thorough background checks and other precautions to citizens who have clean backgrounds and are mentally healthy. This would cause more people who need protection to have guns, while lowering the amount of gun violence. Meeting in the middle would also mean for Florida to start making firearm dealers to carry and have state licenses. There is a huge lack Yost !4 in strictness in law when it comes to dealer, so if Florida would compromise and get tougher on those laws the state would have less gun violence. California need to change their laws for this because of how they are already strict on how they even allowed to have sellers. Both states have similar laws when it comes to the possession of machine guns. So the compromise for the machine guns change for either state, since they seem to be unlawful. In conclusion, both Florida and California do have their reasoning for having either lenient or harsh laws against firearms. While both stakeholders do hold viable reasons there is definitely room where both parties could compromise and meet in the middle with some of their laws. Making a compromise between both states will help stop gun violence, but also let the average citizen be able to stand by their second amendment rights while being able to protect themselves. This will also provide more insurance to people, while giving people peace at mind to that they are safe and necessarily have to worry about their safety. Yost !5 Works Cited NRA-ILA. Florida Gun  NRA-ILA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Glazer-Esh, Esther. Law: Why It Has Employers Up In Arms And What The Florida Legislature Should Do About  University Of Miami Law Review 64.(2010): 663. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. NRA-ILA. California Gun  NRA-ILA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.  Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Ferris, Alexander Bolton and Sarah. Moderate Republican offers compromise on gun  TheHill. N.p., 17 June 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Chase Kowalski - Photos - Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting  NY Daily News. N.p., 15 Dec. 2012. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.