Katherine Roeder E. Smith ENC 1101-002 01-28-2017 Is deep brain stimulation (DBS) the cure to disease is described by James Parkinson as tremulous It normally occurs if someone is fifty or older, and have had polio. A new research has begun where a lead implant is surgically put in place, that will use neuromodulation networks to control groups of neurons that produce the tremor-like reaction. The signals sent by the lead implant will be tracked consistently by the Research Electronic Data Capture, or REDCap, this way certain cycles and trends can be followed and the implant can reduce them before they begin. Patients being treated have the option to have a passive, active, or collaborative approach to controlling the motor system. The patients who choose to have an active treatment had a shorter sickness time, but all groups claimed that there is size fits approach for DBS. Deep brain stimula- tion has also been known to cause depression, so while the active group decreased the effects of they could have possibly increased their depression levels, also those who are intro- duced to a life without continuous seizures may suffer from Burden of Normality, or BoN, which is the phenomenon that when a patient is to they do not know how to behave in common society, and there is little thought of those who are suffering in their transition into reg- ular life. Which leads most doctors and researchers asking if DBS is a beneficial treatment of Dewey, R. B., P. E., Sanghera, M., Patel, N., Khemani, P., Lacritz, L. H., . . . Dewey, R. B. (2016). Developing a Deep Brain Stimulation Neuromodulation Network for Parkinson Disease, Essential Tremor, and Dystonia: Report of a Quality Improvement Project. Plos One, 11(10). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0164154 The article explains the process of deep brain stimulation, and how the implant uses REDCap, or Research Electronic Data Capture, to track motor and non-motor outcomes that the implant produces. It addresses the Plan-Do-Study-Act cycle, meaning that when tremors are sensed the implant will track it as well as decrease it. This will also create a new pattern in the system so that it is easier to detect if another patient has similar tremor patterns. The tracking system has to be as close to perfect as possible for the process to work to its full ability, and REDCap will be designed for storing the outcome data for later monitoring. Patients are selected after many tests that differentiate the symptoms of Then as the treatments are done, researchers will do clinical scoring by rating movement on the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale, and then following one round of treatment patients will do 12 hours off of treatment and the entire process is recorded, then patients will take a self report, a questionnaire on their Par- and an inventory of their depressive symptoms. All scoring is kept in REDCap data- base. A MRI is given, to prepare and avoid damaging anything while inserting the DBS lead im- plant. Two to three weeks after the implant is in place, thresholds are discovered by testing pulse voltages. In minor cases the voltage is set to whenever the patients tremble is no longer happen- ing, but in cases with severe dystonia, which is muscle spasms, and other Disease symptoms it can take month to reduce the effects. Six to eight weeks after the device is placed any necessary adjustments are made, and if needed another monopolar setting can be added in, so that two separate charges from one lead implant correct one symptom. After this monthly meetings occur to improve the outcome of DBS. This article is relevant because it lays out how the technique of deep brain stimulation works, and also how the data is contained and kept up with. However this article does not ex- plain any of the side effects, it is simply on the method. But it gives great detail on how the tracking of information as well as the system used for tracking the cycles is used. All of the au- thors who conducted the experiment work at UT Southwestern Medical Center and everyday work on movement disorders. Five of the authors specialize in neurosurgery and neurology in a whole and the other four specialize in movement disorders and psychology. Weernink, M. G., Til, J. A., Vugt, J. P., Movig, K. L., Groothuis-Oudshoorn, C. G., & Ijzerman, M. J. (2016). Involving Patients in Weighting Benefits and Harms of Treatment in Disease. Plos One, 11(8). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0160771 The main purpose of this second article is to show perspective of the side in the process of deep brain stimulation, in most cases that deep brain stimulation is used the patients can choose how aggressive the treatment can be. Most pick the most aggressive process but as other articles prove that can produce multiple negative or harmful side effects later in their life. This article shines light on the patients point of view, and they classify the three types of treat- ment in groups, most aggressive called to passive to collaborative which is the weak- est treatment. A large flaw in the study is that disease varies as well as the patients, and the neuromodulation networks which control the tremors, and they understand that it is not size fits when choosing the style of treatments. Within the groups undergoing deep brain stimulation there also seemed to be a trend of patients who focused on the technique of care while the other group focused on their motor symptoms. This article is useful for the research because it balances out the first article used for re- search and also gives another perspective of the treatment. It is easy to only think of the scientific side of the process of curing or helping the effects of a disease but this article proves that you also have to take in to consideration the type of treatment, the level of aggressiveness and the re- lationship between doctor and patient. Gilbert, F. (2012). The burden of normality: from to New ethi- cal challenges for deep brain stimulation postoperative treatment. Journal of Medical Ethics, 38(7), 408-412. doi:10.1136/medethics-2011-100044 The third article discusses the ethics behind patients who go from a life that is labeled to After Deep Brian Stimulation is used most symptoms are alleviated and there is a psychosocial adjustment that is abruptly introduced to the patients. DBS is used mostly on patients that have physical or cosmetic differences, and after DBS there is psy- chological, behavioral, affective, sociological changes. Most patients claim feel like my- self and effects their self image. Even though patients lost the symptom they do not understand how to be when they have always identified as or ill. The article concludes by stating that when patients are introduced to the idea of DBS that doctors and re- searchers should prepare them fully by informing patients that Burden of Normality, or BoN, syndrome is most likely going to occur afterwards. Also with DBS increasing life expectancy ac- knowledgment of BoN will positively change health care systems. The author, F. Gilbert is an expert in invasive brain technologies, and neuro-ethics. He does extensive reassert for Disease as well as disease, he has a MA and PhD, also he has published a book, many journal articles, and chapters in books. Currently he is teaching neuroethics,and medical ethics. Feldman, D. A., Pulliam, C. L., Urrea Mendoza, E., Gartner, M., Giuffrida, J. P., Montgomery, E. B., Jr., . . . Revilla, F. J. (2016). Computer-Guided Deep Brain Stimulation Programming for Disease. Neuromodulation, 19(2), 127-132. Retrieved February 05, 2017, from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=471d5e04- cfb8-4f7e-8d45-07e046b6bc8f%40sessionmgr4010&vid=0&hid=4108&bdata=Jn NpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=113138318&db=aph The fourth article focused on the programming of DBS for PD. Seven people where used in this research, who had all recently gotten a DBS implant. First they were monitored while pa- tients were on the general pulse voltage setting, then using a temporary controller voltage was increased by 0.3 and arms and hands were monitored. There is a graph to understand the next step, as in, if the general setting is enough voltage, or if more is needed. After discovering the steps needed to decrease the tremble, an algorithm was made to control the DBS implant 24/7. It was successful in all 7 patients, average improvement percent was 35.7% and programming time took an average of 89 minutes. This technique could help patients who have DBS program- ing centers near, and they could control their symptoms all day, everyday and have their implants adjusted more frequently, if needed. The authors who produced this article consist of biomedical researchers, biomedical product managers, and president of Great Lakes NeuroTechnologies Inc., one author is a neurol- ogist, another an associate professor of neurology, and a movement disorders and deep brain stimulation programming specialist all from University of Cincinnati, one is from University of Cincinnati and Greenville Health System, University of South Carolina School of Medicine- Greenville, and specializes in neurology,.