Nguyen 1 Alan Nguyen Emil Smith Composition 1 February 1 st , 2017 Effects of Medical Marijuana on Children with Seizures Medical marijuana has been a huge controversial issue for many years throughout the United States. Although the use of marijuana for medical purposes has not been a new phenomenon, with new knowledge and new medical techniques, many contemplate that medical marijuana is a miracle drug that aid with multitudes of ailments. One of these ailments is children that suffer from seizures. Does medical marijuana truly aid children who suffer from seizures? Many experiments have been conducted and results have varied from every spectrum. Source: Soloman, D. (n.d.). Put to the test: how a clinical trial in Fort Worth could lead the FDA to approve medical marijuana for patients who desperately need the drug: children debilitating epilepsy. Retrieved February 2, 2017, from http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=1&sid=179d586a-0ca0-4770-8557- 4313e897e009%40sessionmgr101&hid=111&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=eds gcl.443368164&db=edsgao Summary: Medical marijuana meant to be used to treat children with epilepsy was very heavily guarded on the way to Fort Worth. Those possessing the drug had to go through many checkpoints until the drug arrived at a special clinic at Children. Just this one was essential to marijuana advocates, however, without FDA approval, companies will have a hard time trying to make any claims about the potential of their products that contain THC. However, Nguyen 2 Children is participating in one of the only FDA approved trials of using medical marijuana to help treat children who suffer from debilitating forms of epilepsy. Analysis: The article provides me with an FDA approved study that is being conducted to aid children who suffer from a severe form of epilepsy. The transfer of a FDA approved study to a public hospital will present my essay with an intricate case of one of the view instances when the government is aiding scientific research on human subjects. Source: Smeltz, A. (2016, June 1). Pennsylvania youth could have medical marijuana by this summer. Retrieved February 02, 2017, from http://www.post- gazette.com/news/health/2016/06/01/Sick-children-in-Pa-could-have-medical-marijuana-by-this- summer/stories/201606010171 Summary: Children in Pennsylvania could have access to medical marijuana much sooner than adults in the state. Health secretary Karen Murphy wants to help families whose children that are deemed in the battle to legalize medical marijuana to treat epilepsy. Although many believe the drug will aid children who suffer from severe forms of epilepsy, scientists preview that there may be some risks due to the undeveloped brain of a child. Nevertheless, many families take the risks due to the potential effect of helping their child. Analysis: This article presents a case in which the health of a child takes precedent over an adult. The use of medical marijuana will aid both, but children in Pennsylvania have This presents a case where morality will skew the law a bit to aid those in need. Source: Malleis, D. (2012, May). Litigation Essentials-THE HIGH PRICE OF PARENTING HIGH: MEDICAL MARIJUANA AND ITS EFFECTS ON CHILD CUSTODY Nguyen 3 MATTERS. Retrieved February 02, 2017, from https://litigation- essentials.lexisnexis.com/webcd/app?action=DocumentDisplay&crawlid=1&doctype=cite&doci d=33%2BU.%2BLa%2BVerne%2BL.%2BRev.%2B357&srctype=smi&srcid=3B15&key=edd3 645f7a8214548a3cd7cb703d1ecb Summary: The use of medical marijuana before legalization in some states have provided a basis of law breaking. One such instance, a man named Nicholas Pouch illegally grew marijuana in his house in order to help his children. However, a drug raid occurred and he was arrested. Later on, Washington voters approved the use of medical marijuana, so all charges were dropped against him. Although he was let off the hook, he lost custody of his children shortly after. Analysis: The article provides me with a basis when medical marijuana was very much illegal and could cause huge repercussions on an individual. Drastic measure were taken place in order to seize the marijuana, but opinions changed once Washington approved the use of medical marijuana. Source: Rollins, J. (n.d.). Medscape Log In. Retrieved February 02, 2017, from Summary: Although the use of medical marijuana can be very beneficial to children who suffer from some form of epilepsy, there are many who can misuse the system in order to legally obtain marijuana for their own profit. Although many truly use medical marijuana to aid their child with epilepsy, some use the legally obtained marijuana in order to create edibles. The edibles can be curated towards children, and many do consume the edibles. This presents a huge controversy as it negates the purpose of using medical marijuana to treat illnesses. Nguyen 4 Analysis: The article creates an instance where the system of legally of obtaining medical marijuana can cause drastic measures. The use of not using medical marijuana to treat epilepsy, but instead for own profit can cause many law makers to decline the push for medical marijuana. The article presents many examples of how one may misuse medical marijuana and this can influence many who either support or not support it.