Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Soldiers, Regardless of Gender The U.S. Army was formed in June of 1775 by the Continental Congress to fight the British. Even then, as it was just being formed, served the U.S. Army in traditional roles as nurses, seamstresses and cooks for troops in (Women in the U.S. Army) and since then women have only been offered more roles to fulfill in their ranks. In the realm of progression and equalization between genders, the U.S. Army has been on the vanguard of implementing policies that move towards those goals. They do this by using an image of women from the in proper uniforms saluting in solidarity, hence inflicting upon the viewer the same emotions of respect and patriotism that is accompanied any service member one sees. Furthermore, they use of women in different roles of the Army today to communicating their point that women and men are equal in the eyes of the Army. The Army puts women in masculine roles in their images to convey the message that men and women are equal from their point of view. Figure 1 is the background image that the viewer sees when entering the web page dedicated to women. The first thing the viewer notices is the fact that these women are wearing different uniforms, saluting towards the horizon a very typical scene usually reserved for the masculine. The uniforms, haircuts, and general tint of the image indicates that it was taken some time in the most likely to appeal to women considering service in war time. The American flag is working as the background and is whitened in the shape of a halo around the women, putting the focus on them. you use dark shading and close-up shots of a downward eyes, you are using pathos to evoke an emotional response from your Student 2 (Gerdes 341). Here this technique is used in a clever manner; the Army darkened the corners and edges of the image while still having the women smile, signaling that even though darkness is around them, they are hopeful. Furthermore, the picture is taken from a lower angle, forcing the viewer to look up at the image, signifying the determination and professionalism demanded by the figures in the image. These characteristics of the image force the emotions that we correlate with service including respect, admiration, and courtesy. Skeptics would argue that these women are all wearing different uniforms, giving base to the assumption that women in the military is so rare that you cannot even find enough to stage a photo without crossing branches and uniforms. This assumption would be ambitious at most, since it is far more likely that the people who took the image made that design on purpose. Making all the women wear distinctly different uniforms signifies that women are not limited to a certain path in the Army, but are rather free to pursue a multitude of fields and goals. The range of uniforms is also a testimony to the equality given by the Army, that the thought of women in the military is not just a cheap, perfunctory idea, but a fully implemented pillar of the Army, with all the uniforms and distinctions that follow. Complimentary to this trend, the artists have used timeliness to embed the understanding that the Army is not estranged to the thought of women within its ranks. The use of a historical tint on the image hits us in the back of the head, communicating that women have been in the services longer than images can document. Women have been in service with the military for a long time, and the image does well to reflect this stance by making the women salute towards the horizon the unknown, instilling a sense of urgency and resolve in the viewer. They stand ready to tackle whatever task may lie ahead, a trait that most would find favorable, and helps normalize the tread of women in the military. Student 3 Figure 2 is one of many images that come from a full spectrum of women who serve the military in a multitude of ways. The woman in the picture is Cpt. Shaye Haver, one of two women who were caught in the political forum when they completed Ranger School a few years ago, being the first two women to ever do so (Associated Press). The use of Pathos and Kairos are modernized, but still reminiscent of the first image. Words that comes to mind when seeing this image are words usually reserved for men: action, force, haste, etc., and like the previous picture, the viewer is forced to correlate these trends with women as they do with men. This goes to show that women, just like men, can easily shave their heads and down in the mud. Another theme that keeps reappearing is that Shaye, like the women in the previous image, is facing the horizon and is standing upright, and is not behind a desk or in an office somewhere. This helps augment the trait of readiness and professionalism, while taking the focus away from the multitude of uniforms and opportunities, and focusing on determination and strife. The woman here is ready, she is engaged in her role, and most of all she is not staged up for the photo, she is at face-value. In this image, timeliness is used as a polar opposite of the other image. Whereas the previous image had trends of stability, duration, and would read like a metaphorical marathon for women, this image reads as a sprint. The last 100-meter dash to the finish, being caught up with the action and ready to go, running into the horizon the unknown. Cpt. Shaye is proof that women serve in the military just like men do, and that they serve an integral part that cannot be replaced. The image is also unaltered, instantly making the viewer perceive it as modern and current, which it is. This face-value path draws a line between the previous image which portrayed history and antiquity, while this one represents the recent and the future. Those opposed would argue that this image has no appeal to timeliness, but they forget to take into account that the first image on the page is a historical one, and all those after are current an Student 4 intentional design meant to sweep us right up to our own times, and remember that the military is moving in the direction of equality. The Army uses appeals Pathos and Kairos to convince their viewers that women have a place in the Army and that trend is not about to change. They convey this message by showing us images of women in situations usually reserved for men, sparking emotions such as patriotism, determination, and respect to cement their point. They draw a metaphorical line between the past and the present by having one image be historical and one be recent. The emotion that truly persuades the viewer is our sense of patriotism, and the Army did well in appealing to that emotion. (WC: 1007) Student 5 Works Cited Women in the United States  Women in the U.S. Army The United States Army. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Janechek, Jennifer. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 255-259. E-text. Cheng, Ryan. Diction for Academic Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 268-271. E-text. Gerdes, Julie. Visual Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 338-342. E-text. The Associated Press, and Meghann Myers.  Army Times. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1: https://www.army.mil/women/index.html Student 7 Figure 2: https://www.army.mil/women/profiles/