Anoosh Mohsin Professor Carr 2/4/2016 Child Sexual Abuse Around the world everyone knows and celebrates the innocence of children, but little thought is given to what happens when that innocence is mutilated. With time after time man has proved his capability of the monsters he can unleash on society. Children in our world are more vulnerable to sexual violence than adults, as they are weak and can easily be threatened to settle back in shadows of silence. In this essay I will mention the situations and conditions children go through after they are abused and what factors contribute to them dulling down into the darkness and what can be done to help them out of their haunting experience. I would also take my stance on what responsibilities does we as a society have. In my discussion I will be including the difference in developed countries and underdeveloped countries in dealing with this issue. Annotated bibliography B. k., & Berger, A. (2017). Gendered pathways from child sexual abuse to sexual aggression victimization and perpetration in adolescence and young adulthood. Child Abuse & Neglect, 63261-272. Krahe wrote an article based on the sexual abuse of children and how their youth revolves around that tragedy. This article concludes its findings from the study 2251 college students in Germany regarding their childhood sexual abuse. It was a longitudinal study with follow up. The article focuses on how the experience affects the genders differently. This article was very well written, a study such as this carried out in Germany, a well developed country provided an insight into how big this issue is. The responses of students regarding the life they live still dominated by their haunting experience establishes grounds to prepare for prevention and treatment. The study could prove to be very important for my article as I can use the study to explain the prevention and treatment. I can also use this article as a representation for the developed country. This study should help me get facts and figures for my essay. Minto, K., Hornsey, M. J., Gillespie, N., Healy, K., & Jetten, J. (2016). A Social Identity Approach to Understanding Responses to Child Sexual Abuse Allegations. Plos ONE, 11(4), 1-15. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0153205 This article focuses on the failure to accommodate the sexually abuse cry for help. The article basically revolves around 2 studies prove that in closed groups or when the accused is highly regarded how people disregard the allegations against him. Often disregarding the a accusation makes the child suffer far more than he/she is already going to. Their confidence is not only shattered but they know that their perpetrator is free doubles the agony and fear. The article shows how important it is to believe the child and take the steps to advance the investigation. The article is very well and neatly written with details into the study that is carried out. The main focus of the study is Catholic churches and it provides an insight into how and where perpetrators could be from. The article highlighted a very important part of the sexual abuse of children and that is never disbelieve the child without investigation no matter how well respected the person is. I will use this article to represent some of the underdeveloped countries as societies there are more packed and closer so they should have this example of Catholic priest fit perfectly. Through this article I would mention in my essay that how not believing the child contributes to increased mental trauma in the child and worsen the situation. Cyr, M., Frappier, J., M., Tourigny, M., McDuff, P., & Turcotte, M. (2016). Psychological and Physical Health of Non Offending Parents After Disclosure of Sexual Abuse of Their Child. Journal Of Child Sexual Abuse, 25(7), 757-776. doi:10.1080/10538712.2016.1228726 This article sheds light into the large impact of the sexual abuse of children on parents of victim. In this article a study was carried out on 109 mothers and 43 fathers of victims ages 6- 13 years old. The parents reported noticeable decline in their health after they got to know about their sexual abuse. Mother in comparison to father suffer most with psychological distress and depression and seeked professional services while fathers prefered seeking health services and took medications for depression. This article was written into depth with how far can the sexual abuse of one child can go. It is very well written with details into the lives of the people who are very closely attached to the child. This article takes the perspective of the parents and shows how hard it is for them to live through this knowledge and how much it all disturbs the whole family. This article is essential to my paper as it includes the parents of the victim and their suffering. It includes how the whole family suffer due to one individual falling prey to such horrors. I will be mentioning these important details while explaining how horrifying and huge the act of child sexual abuse is. Maikovich, A. K., Koenen, K. C., & Jaffee, S. R. (2009). Posttraumatic Stress Symptoms and Trajectories in Child Sexual Abuse Victims: An Analysis of Sex Differences Using the National Survey of Child and Adolescent Well-Being. Journal Of Abnormal Child Psychology, 37(5), 727-737. doi:10.1007/s10802-009-9300-x This article discusses the stress and trauma a child carries till his/her youth after the sexual abuse. It uses various statistical methods and data from Child Protective Services to figure out the differences between boys and girls. The studies also proved that stress and depression persists after the traumatic experience till later youth of the child. The article is very well written with loads of statistical data and analysis of information it gathered from Child Protective Services and National Survey of Child and Adolescent Well- being. The article goes into detail describing the conditions and symptoms of psychological traumas in sexually abused children, enough to teach one how deeply infectious such event can get. I will be using this article to explain in details the horror of child sexual abuse. It will contribute to my explanation of how badly the sexual abuse of children affect them and they carry the burden of their experience for years to come. The authenticity of this study will support my claim. Wilson, D. R. (2010). Health consequences of childhood sexual abuse. Perspectives In Psychiatric Care, 46(1), 56-63. doi:10.1111/j.1744-6163.2009.00238.x This article summarises all the psychological conditions a child goes through after being sexually abused. It shares tips and ways to prevent sexual abuse and how to avoid it. This article also contains the information for the treatment of sexually abused children and ways to combat depression and other psychological problems. This article was very well summarised as it tried to gather information from several different directions shrinking it down to the effects it causes in the long run. The article focused more on preventions and treatment rather than causes of sexual abuse. I would use this article throughout my paper as I will be using it to explain causes and effects. Most importantly I will be using this article to write about preventions and treatment of sexual abuse. I will definitely be needing to quote the article in my conclusion. Stoltenborgh, M., van IJzendoorn, M. v., Euser, E. M., & Bakermans-Kranenburg, M. J. (2011). A Global Perspective on Child Sexual Abuse: Meta-Analysis of Prevalence Around the World. Child Maltreatment, 16(2), 79-101. doi:10.1177/1077559511403920 This article collects data from participants around the world. The victims of childhood sexual abuse participated through self report method in this study. In the study more female reported than males. This article proved that people are less likely to report sexual abuse in Asia than they are in other continents. This study proved that childhood sexual abuse is a global issue as people from around the world shared their experience and many reported similar incidents. This article is very well as it uses tables and graphs to illustrate the responses of participants around the world, this made it easier to comprehend and understand the results. The article explains the complexity of the situation by using statistical data and proves to swiftly make one understand the importance of the issue. This article is very important for my paper as I will use it to compare between the developed countries and underdeveloped countries and how the issue of child sexual abuse is dealt with when it comes to such countries.