Shelby Merrell Merrell 1 Karen Hanson ENC 1102 1.29.17 A topic of discussion viewed as an immediate concern that needs an address and possible reformation is the progression of STEM education, which is an acronym for technology, engineering, and (STEM AmeriCorps) STEM education is directed towards the future necessity of those skilled in these fields, and has progressed to a national level, with the direct focus by former President Barack Obama, and his input into the development of this program. Some, such as the Department of Education, feel that STEM education is a great step in the right direction, moving society even deeper into a technology driven world and furthering education of science, technology, engineering and math. However, many others, like the National Girls Collaborative Project, feel the current path is lacking in some departments, such as art and design or moral judgement in real-life situations. The main topic of discussion is the question; Does STEM education drive students too far into the realm of science and technology that it forces them away from the arts? This question will be evaluated and reviewed as the compromise of expansion of STEM education and putting the power of choice in the hands of students is reached, accomplishing aspects of what both sides feel is better for the students and educators of these students. The US Department of Education has been regulated towards the bettering of students in K-12 education systems, and has the goal to move from the middle to the top of the pack in science and  Per the US Department of Education, the projected amount of jobs centered in the STEM areas is set to expand anywhere from Most of this growth increase is from the area of Biomedical Engineers. This career field is defined as application of the principles and problem-solving techniques of engineering to biology and (What is Biomedical Engineering?) This field has gained steam in the past twenty years due to the growing demand for advancements in science and medicine. Biomedical science has been Merrell 2 making advancements in medicine and technology in major ways, such as the IVF treatments for those who have trouble conceiving a child on their own, the constant development of better performing prosthetics, and of course, the never-ending fight against worldwide disease and illness. Through STEM education, these careers can be made feasible to students across the world. This is made possible by the enormous contributions and donations made by organizations and projects everywhere, and the US has dedicated itself to the promotion of this type of education through federal funding from programs such as and the STEM Master Teacher Corps Math Science (Green Strides) These programs help fund classroom necessities and online programs students in STEM need to succeed and begin to explore different career areas. The focus is growing more and more in the possibility of STEM education, and it is being shown in investment and the outreach into more rural areas, and an increase in teaching teachers curriculum is seen, as stated by the Corporation for National and Community Service, VISTAS in members in six southern states connect thousands of at-risk students in low-performing schools to STEM opportunities. . . will serve with community groups, educational institutions, and corporate sponsors that are committed to sharing their (STEM Americorps) However, it can be seen that the Department of Education has its own lacking in reaching out, and shows this through statistic, 16 percent of American high school seniors are proficient in math and interested in a STEM career. . . only 81 percent of Asian-American high school students and 71 percent of white high school students attend high schools where the full range of math and science courses are offered. . . access to these courses for American Indian, Native-Alaskan, black, and Hispanic high school students are significantly (US Department of Education) This shows that so far, STEM education has Merrell 3 lacked in the department of striving out towards underdeveloped areas and lacks in diversity. The path STEM education has taken thus far has led to success in certain areas, and lacking in others. For the side opposing this, the stakeholders feel the need to add in the aspects of art and design, along with diversity and moral consideration. The National Girls Collaborative Project is geared towards the increasing of young women and more diverse ethnicity into STEM careers; selected to host local Collaboratives are impressive in their knowledge, experience, and diversity. . . all work to increase gender equity in STEM fields. Currently, 33 Collaboratives, serving 41 states, facilitate collaboration between 22,800 organizations who serve 16.35 million girls and 8.5 million (About NGCP) The NGCP also supports the advancement of using different methods for teaching STEM fields as well, such as The main concern with the idea of purely being STEM geared is by parents and educators, as some believe that students are being rushed into making decisions about their futures being decided prior to them being able to choose them themselves. Currently, in the Office of Government Relations a group of research assistants are working towards making the outreach of STEM reach even further, and possibly even branch into new areas to lessen the concern of parents and educators, a movement known as STEAM. STEAM is an acronym for the movement of STEM subjects, with the A standing for Art and Design. They plan on pushing the idea and going as far to implement the mentality for With this approach, it is a way to get even more students interested in a possible STEM career field. Sami Kahn, PhD, veteran science educator, feels students should also appreciate and learn moral contemplations in situations where moral and ethical questions are brought into play in further advancements in science and technology. Kahn categorizes possible evaluations of students to appearing a teaching plan she designed, one field in particular being Engineering Design, and she brings Merrell 4 around the potential grading rubric and key points to address when teaching in this format; a solution to a complex real-world problem based on prioritized criteria and trade-offs that account for a range of constraints, including cost, safety, reliability, and aesthetics as well as possible social, cultural, and environmental (Kahn) This is the first of many real-world topics that can be discussed with students to open the mindset of future advancements and how it can affect others around the world and their beliefs. With the expansion of critical thinking and diversity, along with equality across the globe, this side of the argument hopes to achieve a more compassionate world along with well-educated and well balanced individuals. Both stakeholders do happen to agree on one area of growth; increasing diversity of students within the STEM programs currently and giving teachers the tools necessary to better he students and the education. The Department of Education even shows support towards the possibility of integrating design into STEM as a science field, with the its Ready-to-Learn Television grant competition would include a priority to promote the development of television and digital media focused on For the STEAM movement, one objective from the beginning to increase diversity in the education and for better learning is influence employers to hire artists and designers to drive For the increasing of diversity among all students, whether it be zip code, or socioeconomic status, should never determine STEM (US Dep. Of Education) For the opposing side, diversity is a way to overall influence decisions on future innovation and ethical and moral choices being made with an understanding of other cultures and beliefs. A way that has been developed and has worked thus far to include even students with disabilities, has been the UDL, which translates to Universal Design for Learning. (Kahn) UDL is a variety of teaching methods to remove any barriers to learning and give all students equal opportunities to Merrell 5 (Morin) It uses a combination of different learning strategies to help every child succeed, even those with learning disabilities. This can range from multiple different methods, such as programs on smartphones that use pictures for communication with children who are deaf or have trouble communicating due to a disability, such as autism or cerebral palsy, or something every day and common as closed captioning. With these in mind, a compromise consisting of increase of diversity among students and a baseline for teaching the STEM material along with giving students the option of choosing their classes for their desired future, could enhance the learning experience for students while fulfilling both the need for science and future innovation while keeping the student interested in creativity and keeps them in a real-world perspective. In conclusion, both those who support STEM and its accomplishments, being the US Department of Education, and those who would like to have changes, being those in the National Girls Collaborative Project, can both come to an agreement of wanting a better education for tomorrows future leaders and innovators. With a similar goal being shared by such large, passionate organizations and departments, this goal can be achieved on both a federal level and a more local level. Giving the students the option to choose their education, this gives more freedom to the student, while preserving the natural art and curiosity within us all and not wanting this to be lost completely while having a direct focus on science and engineering. Works Cited Merrell 6  STEM to STEAM. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 About  About NGCP National Girls Collaborative Project. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Kahn, Sami. K-12  Another  for STEM? Moral Considerations for Advancing STEM Literacy 1.4 (October-December 2015): 149-56. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Morin, Amanda. Understanding Universal Design for Learning: What It Is and How It . Understood.org. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Technology, Engineering and Math: Education for Global U.S. Department of Education. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. STEM  Corporation for National and Community Service. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. U.S. Department of Education Green  Home. US Department of Education (ED), Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Is Biomedical Michigan Tech. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Merrell 7