Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Women in Combat Women in combat positions in the United States military face prejudice and exclusion due to the military being a male dominated field. These women seek for inclusion and a sense of belonging from groups such as The Service Action Network (SWAN). The Service Action Network fights for the voices of military women to be heard; mission is to be the most influential and effective network of service women, acting as their champion, advocate and best information SWAN uses their website to reach out to people and make them understand their mission not only through their words and ideas, but their actions and images. The Service Action Network uses images to help give a clear understanding of how SWAN helps women in combat in the force get their voices heard, create a safe space for women in a male dominated field, and how they get this accomplished. The Service Action Network portrays their goals and mission on their website not only through words, but through imagery as well. The first image displayed in Figure 1 below is on the SWAN website as their logo and is used to grab the attention. The Service Action Networks logo uses rhetorical appeals to get its message across. The rhetorical appeals it uses to convey its message are logos, kairos, ethos, and pathos. Kairos an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman 23). The image of the megaphone speaks to the Student 2 viewers and lets them know that the time is now to speak up and let their voices be heard. Ethos is method of persuasion in which the speaker or the writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Hoffman 27). The image expresses ethos, because it is the symbol for the organization itself which makes it credible and trustworthy. Logos the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Hoffman 32). Logos can be seen in the statement below the image, it shows that the organization will do what it says and amplify the voices. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal that be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Hoffman 37). Pathos is evident in the megaphone and quote at the bottom, because they both show the values of this organization. The image specifically speaks to the viewers who want their voice to be heard when it says The logo itself truly embodies the goals and aspirations of SWAN and speaks to their targeted audience. The second photo from the SWAN website is a demonstration and example of what the logo and the organization strive to achieve. Figure 1: The second photo (Figure 2) displayed below is of service women smiling surrounded by women not in uniform showing their support for them. This photo gives off a positive feel to the viewer, because the women in uniform are surrounded by other women and they all look happy Student 3 to be together. It provides a visual example of what the first photo and logo state in words about the Service Action Network. This image, like the first, uses rhetorical appeals as well. Logos is shown in this image by the Service Action Network demonstrating their mission and purpose to support service women at an event. Ethos speaks to credibility and this picture expresses its trustworthiness by including the women in uniform, who SWAN supports. It also shows a real life example of the Service Action Network in action striving closer to their mission to make women feel equal in a male dominated field. Pathos is shown in the glowing smiles and overall happiness of these women. It validates that the Service Action Network makes women in these combat positions have the best experience by offering them support. Kairos is shown by the looks on the civilians faces while they are helping these service women. It may spark something in the reader and make them want to help these service women and get involved with SWAN if they are in the military. To some, seeing this image may make them want to join the military, which is another one of the Service Action Networks goals Figure 2: The Service Action Network was founded in 2007. They represent voice of all military women- past, present, and The organization strives to help women in the service succeed in and out of the work force. They wish to see the service women they provide aid to flourish in all aspects of their lives, both personal and professional. Student 4 Some of their past goals that they are most proud of are, all military jobs to service women, holding sex offenders accountable in the military justice system, eliminating barriers to disability claims for those who have experienced military sexual trauma, and expanding access to services for a broad range of reproductive healthcare This organization seeks to service all women in the military no matter what they are having an issue with, which can be seen in the history of the Service Action Networks achieved goals. These voices are hard to hear in such a male dominated profession and this organization helps these women be heard. The Service Action Network truly cares about their women they support, it is evident not only in their mission statement, but in their actions. The Service Action Network uses their website to demonstrate their goals and mission through words and imagery. They convey a resilient message that they want to give women a voice, beginning with their logo containing a megaphone. The group uses images on their website to demonstrate how they help women and the effects they have on the service women they provide aid to. The Service Action Network truly portrays a group of people that work to better the lives of women in the military both during and long after their service in combat. (WC: 1045) Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Service Action  Service Action Network. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://www.servicewomen.org/>. Service Action Network. N.d. Service Action Network. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.servicewomen.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/Untitled-3.png>. Sheffield, Written By Jenna Pack. Jenna Pack  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://writingcommons.org/index.php/open-text/information literacy/visual- literacy/breaking-down-an-image/399-breaking-down-an-image>. What We  Service Action Network. N.p., 18 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.servicewomen.org/what-we-do/>.