Reyes 1 Steven Reyes Professor Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 2 February 2017 Drones are used every day in war for surveillance and precision air strikes. The CIA demands the use of these next generation machines to eliminate valued The Human Rights Watch organization is concerned that using drones for targeted killing is endangering civil liberties of innocent lives. This steady increase in drone strikes is adding fuel to the already fiery debate. Although these two organizations have conflicting views, the outcomes of their mission preserve human life. The CIA (Central Intelligence Agency) controls all United States drone strikes. Their mission is to threats and further U.S. national security objectives by collecting intelligence that matters, producing objective all-source analysis, conducting effective covert action as directed by the President, and safeguarding the secrets that help keep our nation (CIA, 1). The CIA uses various tactics to tactics to ensure the safety of American lives. This includes the use of drones in the battlefield. Drones are used to kill specific targets and are considered to have more compared to manned aircraft. This means that drones are more likely to prevent threats directed towards the United States. The use of drones in the past 15 years has increased national security. Post 9/11 the Bush administration shifted its focus to the on This did not come into full effect until Reyes 2 around 2008 when drones were used to target Al-Qaeda leaders in Pakistan. Under George Bush, there was 48 drone strikes. This changed under the Obama administration as the president signed off on more than 400 drone strikes; most notably in Pakistan and Yemen (Drone Wars, 8). It was only five years into time in office and had already authorized 309 strikes in (8). The public and organizations, such as the Human Rights Watch organization, were open with their negative opinions on strategy. However, Obama responded by stating that, strikes are only used in in which we capture the individual before they moved forward on some sort of operational plot against the United (10). Not only does this strategy ensure the safety of the country, but it also saves United militants that are deployed oversea. Likewise, civilian casualty rate of drone strikes began to drop in under the Obama administration (15). Although drones have led to civilian casualties, the increase in strikes ensures the direct safety of millions of American lives. The Human Rights Watch is one of the many organizations that opposes the drone strikes in the eastern world. The Human Rights Watch is an independent organization located in the United States. Their objective is to abuses, expose the facts widely, and pressure those with power to respect rights and secure (About, 1). There are many organizations that advocate for human rights but Human Rights Watch is considered as one of the most influential and persistent organizations. The organization has lobbied against drone strikes for years which is evident through their joint letters with other human rights advocates. In a joint letter to President Obama, Human Rights Watch reported 4 of the 10 strikes that were attached to their argument (Joint letter to President Obama, 1). This organization is passionate about their mission to expose what they believe to be injustice, in this case drone strikes. Reyes 3 The Human Rights argument against drone strikes is that civilian lives are being destroyed in the process. On October 6, 2016, a letter was written by human rights organizations, including the Human Rights Watch, to President Obama about the loss of civilian life through forceful operations. The letter specifically stated that the investigate ten past drone strikes as well as other strikes where there are credible allegations of harm to The letter included an example when on May 13, 2015 the United States released a public statement apologizing for the death of Giovanni Lo Porto. This Italian family was compensated for his death. Attached with the letter was ten specific drone strikes containing details. An example of another strike is one that occurred on December 12, 2013. In this incident, a drone missed its intended targeted and the missile killed 12 civilians wounded at least 15 others. The Human Rights Watch, along with some independent journalists, concluded that convoy was a wedding (Joint letter to Obama, 1). The Human Rights Watch also contributed in a joint letter to the Human Rights Council of the UN in 2014. One of the highlights of the letter states that the organizations are that civilian victims of unlawful attacks are denied the right to access to effective (Joint letter to UN Human Rights Council, 1). This statement urges the UN and the CIA to enforce judicial review of strikes that affect the lives of victims that survive untimely drone strikes. Although the organization acknowledges the harm of civilians in the future, it does not stop imply that they are accepting of the strikes that the CIA carries out. The CIA and Human Rights Watch are on opposite ends of the spectrum when it comes to drone strikes, but it does not completely disqualify room for a compromise. The CIA has increased its number of strikes over the course of three presidential terms. It is crucial that the number of strikes plateaus or at least decreases to satisfy Human Rights Watch. This will appeal Reyes 4 to both organizations because if the number of strikes do not increase then it is likely that the number of civilian deaths will continue to decline. Also, the number of strikes will still be over the 200 range which will still ensure safety for the United States. Another proposal would be for the CIA to be more transparent. To achieve this the CIA will provide disclosure of legal and policy standards, and procedural (Joint letter to the UN Human Rights Council). This includes which specific domestic, international, and articles of the Constitution are used for an attack (specifically Article II of the Constitution). The CIA will disclose this information to Human Rights Watch for justification of its actions (Joint letter to President Obama, 1) There is no denying that civilian life will be lost in war. However, it will satisfy Human Rights Watch if the CIA and the United States government report their faults before an organization presses them to release information. The Human Rights Watch cannot force the CIA to disclose information prior to an attack as that may result in a breach in secret offensive strategy. The CIA will acknowledge deaths of civilians but are not bonded to direct compensation of the victims because there is no intent to harm civilians. This is something that the Human Rights Watch will have to accept because in war there will always be loss of civilian life. The government can regulate drone attacks but there is no statistical evidence to support that the use of unmanned air vehicles will decline in the future. War is only becoming more technologically advanced which is why it is necessary for the CIA to collaborate with organizations like Human Rights Watch. Predator and Reaper drones can only be built with the money of taxpayers. For this reason it is in the best interest of both stakeholders to compromise to keep national security and expand transparency. As a new presidential term unfolds, this modern debate will be in the spotlight of the public eye for many years to come. Reyes 5 Works Cited  Human Rights Watch. N.p., 17 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Vision, Mission, Ethos & Central Intelligence Agency. Central Intelligence CAgency, 24 Mar. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. letter to President Obama on implementation of Executive Order on targeted Human Rights Watch. N.p.m 06 Oct. 2016. Web. 01. Feb. 2017. Letter to the UN Human Rights Council on Targeted Killings and the Use of Armed Human Rights Watch. N.p., 23 June 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Taylor & Francis. Drone Wars. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?vid=2&sid=8c2eb0b8-e666- 4aa5-b686- 116b411724e7@sessionmgr4010&hid=4208&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU=#AN=91674 302&db=ahl>. Ten Steps the Administration Can Take to Improve Transparence and Accountability for Drone Strikes and Targeted Killing. Sept. 2016. Human Rights First.