1 Jorge Prof. M. Heiser ENC 1102.069 1 st February 2017 Should Animals be used for Commercial Testing The topic of animal testing for commercial use has been a controversial issue in the United States for a long time. Not all products require animal testing; many of them even need animals to ensure the safety of the product in human use, but still there are companies that test their products for commercial use on animals. There are many organizations in the United States of America that debate on whether it is good or bad to test products on animals for commercial purposes. There are organizations that practice pro-animal testing like the Research Defense Society, the Royal Society, and the Foundation for Biomedical Research. These organizations (stakeholders) aim to keep continuing animal testing so they test their products on humans. Other organizations like the Coalition for Consumer Information on Cosmetics (CCIC), and PETA (People for Ethical Treatment of Animals) aim to eliminate animal testing for commercial use by creating laws in favor of animals and against animal cruelty. Even though these stakeholders have different points of view, they both share a common ground. My compromise between these two stakeholders is that using alternative test methods, like the Vitro method and the computer base research, promises a cheaper outcome that involve animal use. PETA the biggest organization for animal protection and rights in the world focuses on the elimination of animal testing for commercial use. The slogan goes, are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other (PETA organization). These animals that get tested are forced to inhale and ingest toxic substances that make them suffer before their deaths. At the end, these animals are either killed, dissected or thrown away. For these reasons the director of the U.S. National Institute of Health Dr. Elias Zerhouni stated during a government meeting: problem is that animal testing worked, and time we stopped dancing around the problem. We need to refocus and adapt new methodologies for use in humans to understand disease biology in (online article). Therefore, to end the suffering of animals for commercial use, the organization aims to use a less expensive and non-animal testing alternatives like: the Vitro testing (Harvard Wyss Institute), computer modeling and research with human volunteers. 2 The Vitro testing consists of an artificial computer based chip that imitates the organs and tissues of humans that can be used when testing chemicals, drugs and cosmetics. It is a more effective and accurate representation of testing that does not need the use of animals. The computer modeling research is a computer based technique that simulates how the drugs will react with the human body by using applications. Lastly, the human volunteers research focuses on injecting micro doses of the substance to the human volunteer, not causing any harm with accurate test results. These methods are not the only ways that PETA has contributed to the animal world. PETA has also worked on campaigns which have reduced animal testing, sparing thousands of animal lives, and also enlightened the people by providing eye-opening information on their websites. While this stakeholder (PETA) is against animal testing, there is another stakeholder (Research Defense Society) that is in favor of animal testing for commercial use. The Research Defense Society is an organization that promotes the use of testing on animals for commercial use. The organization believes in the use of animal testing to find cures and resolutions for diseases. They also believe that not all artificial testing is accurate for human use. For example, the organization thinks that the Vitro testing research is not a 100% accurate because it is a machine that bases its results with artificial objects. That is why scientists from this organization provide many points on why animals should be tested. One example is the fact that genes are 95% similar to humans. This makes them a perfect model for testing products. Modern products still rely on animal testing for complete and accurate results (Understanding Animal Research, online news article). Thanks to animal research cancer survival rates have increased significantly, because animals suffer from same diseases as us like TB, flu, asthma, etc. Lastly, these scientists do not want to risk humans lives by exposing them to chemicals and other toxic objects. Despite these stakeholders having opposing views, there is still a way that both of these stakeholders can work together. Since there is common ground between these two stakeholders, a compromise can be achieved if these two unite. As the Chief Executive of the BIA, Aisling Burnand stated: this stage, the view of research represents a balanced proposal that considers both animal welfare and research The statement made by Aisling proposes a compromise from both sides that benefits both stakeholders, by saving the animals from commercial testing and using new research alternatives that costs less money. So, even though PETA concentrates on protecting animal rights and the Royal Research Society encourages animal testing for commercial products, 3 both of these stakeholders believe in the usage of alternative testing for commercial use not involving animals. The compromise would involve the use of artificial testing which will cost less money like the Vitro testing and the computer model research. Even though one stakeholder encourages the use of animal testing for commercial purposes and the other defends animal rights, they can both reach a compromise and benefit from it. Both of the stakeholders can benefit from the compromise because new alternatives costs less money. Purchasing animals can be costly, different materials have to be used every time to test them, and using different resources costs too much money. However, using artificial methods like the Vitro method, and the computer based research is cheaper because it requires less materials for the research. Animal laws can be ignored since animals are not suffering from testing, (there were various laws and campaigns against animal testing because of the suffering the animals endure) and are not dying from testing. With the unity of both organizations, animal suffering can end and new, cheaper methods not involving the use of animals can be created, ultimately ending a controversial issue that has been present for years in the United States. 4 Works Cited About  Forty reasons why we need animals in research Understanding Animal Research.Understanding Animal Research, 11 Sept. 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Alternatives to Animal  PETA. n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Murnaghan, Ian. Organisations that Support or Regulate Animal  Organisations that Support or Regulate Animal Testing. About Animal Testing, 20 Nov. 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Pharmaceutical Technology Editors. Animal Testing: an acceptable  Pardon Our Interruption. UBM, 14 May 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Regulatory Testing  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Sindidich, Stephanie . 5 Awesome Organizations Fighting to End Animal  One Green Planet. N.p., 07 Apr. 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.