Roger Vassell Carr ENC 1101-321 Feb. 5, 2017 impact on education no secret that technology has been advancing at a tremendous rate and be stopping anytime soon. The education system has been impacted with these advances, students now have massive amounts of information at their fingertips with smartphones and tablets. Also, it uncommon to find universities that have adopted online classes. Online classes where students can watch the lectures online and learn on their own time is becoming the norm in universities. There has been controversy on this topic debating whether influence of technology in education is good or bad for ability to learn. The article, Direct vs. Anonymous Feedback: Teacher Behavior in Higher Education, with Focus on Technology Advances, states positive effects of technology is two-fold and impact on both learning in specific content areas, as well as on the learning how to use technology (Corelli 54). The integration of technology can expand the capacity of the students learning ability. This shifts the way students learn new material and improves problem solving skills. However, the ability to adapt will be an obstacle. Teachers and professors will have to adapt to the new teaching interfaces that come with the digital age, this can be challenging for some who are older and have the luxury to grow up with technology. My research question is whether the impact of technology in the education system is good or bad. Corelli, Angelo (2015). Direct vs. Anonymous Feedback: Teacher Behavior in Higher Education, with Focus on Technology  Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences The article aims to inform the reader on the impacts of technology on ability to learn. It gives examples on how technology has expanded the ability to learn because now not just learning the specific content but also how to use the advancing technology. This allows for greater capacity for the student and shifts the way they perceive school and learning new information. The article also talks about the shift in teaching methods and how the old methods are being optimized for better learning. With the new resources like the tablet, smartphones and computers, teachers have a wide range of teaching tools available for better teaching approaches. This is a learning opportunity for teachers as well, they have the luxury to grow up with technology and have to adapt. This article will serve as a perfect source for my research paper on how technology has impacted education. The article provides information on how technology is modernizing teaching methods and improving the way students learn new information. Teaching is leading in the direction of everything being online. It talks about how going online would impact the institution, teachers and their methods. The article provides good pros and cons of that happening, which is perfect for my paper because I want to see what the future of education will become. Turgut, Gokben, Yeliz Tunga, and Dr. Tarik Kisla.(2016) TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION IN PRESCHOOL: AN APPLIED SAMPLE  International Journal on New Trends in Education and Their Implication. The article is showing the reader the importance of integrating technology into kids starting as early as preschool. The fact is, that the world is becoming more and more technologically advanced and companies and professions are aiming to find someone with advanced technological skills. Since technology is advancing at an exponential rate, integrating the use of technology in preschool aged kids will make them more comfortable with it and how it works. The article also states that it is a long term investment to implement more technology in young kids; companies and corporations are more inclined to hire somebody with more technological skills. This article has insightful information for my research paper on impact on education. The idea of integrating more technology into kids in grades K-12 so prepared for the professional world means there will be a big impact on the education system in the future. There will need to be many changes to the tools used for learning. The integration of computerized tools and online learning would change the dynamic of the household and a shift in how students learn material. The information in this article provides good conversation for my research paper. Neil P. Morris (2014). How Digital Technologies Blended Learning and MOOCS will Impact the Future of Higher Education. International Conference e-Learning. The article, HOW DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES, BLENDED LEARNING AND MOOCS WILL IMPACT THE FUTURE OF HIGHER EDUCATION, talks about the possible outcomes of technology being integrated into higher learning facilities. The author, Neil P. Morris, offers the idea of blended learning for the future of education. Blended learning is when the classroom is meaning the lectures and traditional in-class information is available online. The lecture class is replaced with a tutorial style session where students are able to discuss, collaborate, reinforce their understanding of the topic and clear up any misconceptions they have. Morris is adamant that blended learning is the future of education. This article is a perfect source for my research paper. It offers information and ideas about the future of education that is valuable for my research. The idea of a blended classroom would have a huge impact on the education system and change the way students learn new information. The author, Neil P. Morris, is Chair of Education Technology, Innovation and Change at the University of Leeds, he also has numerous national awards for teaching excellence. He is a credible source when on this topic because he has been dedicated his time and research into it. (2010). Professional Journal on Education The article, talks about the consequences of the integration of new technology in education. The author, is adamant about the new and rapidly advancing technology is bad for students in and outside the classroom. He believes that the new technologies will require an additional learning curve for the teachers and students and since it is advancing so fast they be able to adapt as quickly. He is also worried about the well-being of students outside of school; the technology is diminishing human interaction and causing students to be lonely and lose empathy for one another. This article is good for my research paper because it offers a different perspective on the way technology is impacting education. has made good points as to why the new technology is bad for the education system and for students in general. Having a different perspective is good when analyzing the topic as a whole and allows me to write this research paper more objectively. has a Ph.D and is an associate professor at Masaryk University in the technology education department. He has several publications on how technology has impacted education and is a credible source for my research paper. Hernando Bustos, Miguel Nussbau (2007). An Experimental Study of the Inclusion of Technology in Higher Education. The article, An Experimental Study of the Inclusion of Technology in Higher Education, written by Hernando Bustos Andreu and Miguel Nussbaum is an experimental study of the use of technology in higher education. The experiment aimed to get results of the inclusion of technology in a higher learning atmosphere. The experiment granted a few professors with Portable Pocket in order to do collaborative activities in the classroom. The results show that students achieved improvements in communication and knowledge levels. However, there were complications in implementing the technology such as, professors had to dedicate more hours into learning how to use the devices and the compatibility of the new technology with what was already there reliable either. This article is perfect for my research paper because it offers experimental information on how impactful technology is for education and gives an insight as to how it will be impacted in the near future. Having experimental information is key for my research paper because it allows me to make a more accurate inference about the future of technologies effect on education. Hernando Bustos works as the head of ICT and in the department of Computer Science at the Universidad de Tarapaca, Arica, Chile. Miguel Nussbaum works as a professor of Computer Science at the Universidad Catholica de Chile. Both the authors have backgrounds in computer sciences and is using that background to do research in technology education. Paula Warnken (2004). The Impact of Technology on Information Literacy Education in Libraries. Managing technology. The article, MANAGING TECHNOLOGY the Impact of Technology on Information Literacy Education in Libraries, talks about the impacts technology has on the way students perceive learning and do research. This article gives the impact of technology on education from the perspective of a librarian. Librarians traditionally have been responsible for how students do effective research and managing the resources available to the students. With the internet, students have become over confident in research, clicking every link as if they are all credible and reliable sources, this changes how students perceive researching. This impacts a job because they have too adapt to the ever-advancing technology so they can show the students the right way to research for credible sources. This article is perfect for my research paper. It is relevant because it has helped me in my own research and makes a good argument for my research paper. Warnken, talks about the librarians roll and how the new technology has impacted that part of the education process. Warnken believes librarians have a big role to play in the way students learn because they are in charge of the resources available to the students. Technology has impacted the instructional role of a traditional librarian, they no longer have control of the resources students are exposed to and that challenges them. This information is a good and gives depth for my research paper.