Hall 1 Samantha Hall Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 1 February 2017 College Athletes: To be Paid or to not be Paid The topic of college athletes receiving a salary has been debated for many years yet still seems to be a topic of discussion in current news. Organizations like the NCAA (National Collegiate Athletic Association) has protesting organizations, such as NCPA claiming that college athletes deserve more rights when it comes to playing for a university team. The NCAA and various journalists believe that paying college athletes should be banned because of not only the many financial drawbacks but also how it reduces the quality of the education. However, stakeholders like the NCPA (National College Players Association) and CAPA (College Athletes Player Association) debate that paying or giving financial benefits will in the long run set them up for a higher success rates for their future. When on a college team, a player is not only an athlete but also a student-athlete. There are a lot of responsibilities they have to uphold on and off the field and both sides understand that. Having this understanding, a compromise can be formed to set every college athlete up for their greatest success. The NCAA does not approve of college athletes receiving salary along with various other journalists to back them up. A lot of the controversy comes from the fact that after taxes are cut from each salary, the student-athlete ends up with very little or even less than what a scholarship was offering. John R. Sterlin, a journalist for Times, laid out the differences between what an athlete would receive with a $100,000 salary versus a $65,000 scholarship. Because it is a salary, Hall 2 federal and state taxes are cut from it while tuition and college expenses would have nothing deducted from it. He found that after all of the required taxes (income tax, employee payroll, Social Security, etc.) it would equal out to $34,900 and the athlete would be left with $65,100. After paying their tuition of $65,000 they are left with only $100. Yes, this is $100 a profit but the school is losing so much more money paying the salary and the athlete is gaining only a little. A concern for recruiting costs has been amongst the NCAA since 1950, 40 years after they were established. According to Sanderson and Siegfried, NCAA members agree to abide by a limiting compensation to players and setting limits on escalating recruitment (117). Sanderson and Siegfried report for the American Economic Association, publishing one of the most prestigious academic journals in the economy, where they studied research on an ongoing project of paying college athletes. They further explain that this was to make sure every athlete felt equal and it kept colleges from exceeding limits to what they could afford on scholarships. The NCAA still holds these standards today. On their website, they state their regulations which include the rule of any incoming or current college athlete must be an This simply means to make the experience of all student-athletes competing equitably by not allowing them to have some of the following: contracts with professional teams, salaries, prize money, and play with professionals, etc. If some athletes were to be given a salary, it would drive their attention towards their sport and only their sport. This coincides with another of goals of making a quality education any student-athletes first priority. In the point of view from NCAA and various experts, providing a salary for college athletes can take away from the educational experience and in the long run cost the organizations more money than needed. Hall 3 With all of the talk about why athletes should not be paid, there are plenty of reasons why they deserve to be. Stakeholders, such as the NCPA and the CAPA, were formed to ensure athletes the rights they deserve which includes being paid but not necessarily in the form of a salary. As stated on their official websites, some of the goals CAPA and NCPA share include the following: guaranteed coverage for sports related injuries, establishing educational trust fund to ensure players complete their degree and reward those who graduate on time, establish safety guidelines and prohibiting universities from eliminating scholarships because of a permanent injury to a player. These organizations, as said before, focus on paying college athletes through ways other than a salary that the NCAA refuse to allow them. Giving them these benefits such as the education fund or even covering medical bills for sports related injuries assures them the rights they have as student-athletes putting time towards their school. All of the time put in between practices, workouts and games can add up to about 40-60 hours a week. Vardaan Gupta, a Scholastic journalist, debated this side by claiming that a college sport can be like working a full-time (7). That is a lot of time and effort for someone who also has to keep up with their education. Speaking of education again, it is believed that paying the student- athletes a salary could motivate them not only in the game but also in the classroom. If they are getting money for playing in college it may encourage them to stay in college, and finish their degree instead of being drafted their junior year the never going back to school. This can set them up for a higher success and ensure them for whatever their future holds. Various journalists have also voiced their opinions on why these students should be paid including Michael Wilbon for ESPN College Sports. Wilbon has been an analyst on College Sports since 2001 and his angle on this position comes from the fact of how much money college sports bring in for each university. According to Wilbon, there is an $11 billion dollar deal Hall 4 between NCAA and CBS for March Madness between the years 2011 and 2024. This means for three weekends each year, they are paid $11 billion dollars. This happen without the athletes themselves. This even include the numerous other deals NCAA and colleges make with various major companies. Justin Garda is a writer for a research database that has a focus on college and university education. He conducted research on college athletics where he explains that and basketball coaches at Division 1 colleges regularly earn an annual salary in excess of $1 million, making them higher paid than professors, administrators or even college (5). All of this money going towards the organizations and coaches but only scholarship money going towards the athletes ends up being a very small portion of it. So, after looking over the viewpoints that come from each stakeholder, there is a compromise that can be made. Even though they have different ideas on whether or not to give salaries, they have one thing in common: the success of their athletes. Both the NCAA and NCPA main priority is the well-being of the college athletes across America. Both want them to succeed in not just their sports but also in school, and both want to give this the best possible experience during their college years. A proposed compromise would be giving a salary and paying for sport-related injury medical bills based specifically on performance in sport and in classroom. This means the athlete would have to keep up in both his schoolwork and work dedicated to his sport. These conditions give the athlete something to work for not just on the field and also assures them the rights they deserve from their university. They give so much to these organizations and schools, and they could use these new regulations in return. Both of these opinions and the compromise is something to talk about in the modern day. College athletes are a huge focus in the United States. Millions of people watch college football, route for their favorite team in March Madness, and hope for their child to get Hall 5 that scholarship to their dream school. College sports make upcoming generations. They bring people together to cheer on one team. Treating our student-athletes right and making sure they uphold the part in their role sets up how college sports work. It is a very important discussion and continues to be so when it comes to the best interest and how to treat them financially. College-athletes are major aspect to what we know and what they lead on to be in the major leagues. Hall 6 Works Cited The Official Site of the NCAA Cross, Harry M. College Athlete and the Law and Contemporary Problems, vol. 38, no. 1, 1973, pp. Garda, Justin D. College Research Starters: Education (online edition) Gupta. Vardaan, and Bennett, Mia College Athletes be Scholastic News Reader Edition, vol. 83, issue 16, pp. 7 Nocera, Joe. Way to Start Paying College The New York Times, 8 Jan. 2016 Sanderson, Allen R., and John J. Siegfried. Case for Paying College The Journal of Economic Perspectives, vol. 29, no. 1, 2015, pp. Thelin, John R., Why We Pay College Money, College Sports Walch, Jared, and Marshall, Blake., athletes be paid to USA Today College. Wilbon, Michael, Athletes deserve to be ESPN College Sports, 18 Jul. 2011