Leguizamon 1 Sebastian Leguizamon Adam Phillip ENC1102-022 12 February 2017 The Quest for a Compromise: Immigration From the days of Caesar to the Obama administration, immigration has always been a major part of political life. It is a rather large elephant in the room and seems to be a point of partisan and divisiveness discussion. The two ideas in which people can relate to when speaking about the rights of illegal immigrants in this country could be represented by two specific organizations. The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) which advocates for a decrease in immigration and an end to rights that illegal immigrants can benefit from. MALDEF is the largest legal civil rights organization that focuses on Latinos. They aim to bring the issues of immigrants from Latin America to the fore front of American politics. However different these two organizations are with their almost incompatible world views; a compromise can be achieved. Improving the native countries of the immigrants that come illegally would take away the necessity to emigrate from their respective home lands. FAIR is a non-profit organization started in 1979 by John Tanton. Since then, they have grown in numbers and in influence. It is estimated that between 1998 and 2011, the Federation for American Immigration Reform spent over 3 million dollars on lobbying. Currently they stand as one of the most well-funded, and thus, powerful organization which advocates an anti- immigration agenda in the nation. They believe that immigration has hit a point in history in which if it keeps following its trend, it will be detrimental to major aspects of life such Leguizamon 2 as the environment and even American culture as a whole. According to their mission statement, one million immigrants are led into the United States every single year. If that number is reduced to three hundred thousand, it will have a vastly positive affect in the way of life. Such as improving the environment by controlling population growth, and increasing the quality of life for all Americans. In order for the country to achieve great social causes, the immigration into the United States needs to be more restrictive. A policy which will do without discrimination against race, religion, gender or nationality. Their claims are fair and their goal is admirable. However, the premise of a decrease in diversity through the controlling of immigration can call for the unity of people who share xenophobic world views and intolerance. Some of the board directors for FAIR have been on record saying some less than friendly comments about immigrants. There was a recent ad campaign funded and ran by FAIR in Virginia that blamed immigrants for traffic and sprawl in the state. In 1997, John Tanton told the Detroit Free Press that unless the border were sealed and secured, the country would be overrun by people and creating garbage and looking for Which should give anyone a pretty good idea about the extreme sentiments about immigration that John Tanton and some people within the FAIR organization share with each other. On the other side of the coin, is MALDEF. Founded in 1968 by Pete Tijerina, the organization has been leading the way in advocating for rights and improvement of life for thousands of Latino immigrants that come to this country. From humble beginnings, MALDEF has now expanded their offices into cities like Chicago, Atlanta, and Washington D.C. MALDEF prides itself in promoting for social change through its litigation and education of the population in the areas of rights for immigrants, education, etc. On their website, they have different tabs for an area in which they would like to improve the rights given to immigrants (i.e. employment, Leguizamon 3 voting rights, rights ext). Each of these tabs has a litigation link in which it lists specific legal cases that relate to that area. MALDEF has been called the firm of the Latino as it represents and defends hundreds of Latino Americans in the courts of law of this country each year. Through the years, they have gained an impress line up of directors ranging from Harvard graduates, to executives in fortune 500 companies. With all these connections and money comes influence. MALDEF has had their hand in several land mark U.S Supreme Court cases. Including Plyer v. Doe, which banned a Texas law which made parents of undocumented children pay tuition for public education. Amongst other cases, including some which deal with the redrawing of congressional districts in order to help Latino voters elect their congressmen in Texas as seen in 2006. With their extend of influence they have built a large following and developed deep trust among the Latino immigration community. Immigration is a very complex issue. Success for one of these stakeholders means the failure of the other one, so to achieve a compromise between them, to some may seem like a daunting task. Which it is. However, there have been some solutions proposed that might make these two radically different organizations come together. One of the most promising of them seems to be the one which suggests that in order to decrease the number of immigrants that come to the country, one must not just implement bans or witch hunts against them. In many cases, those immigrants who come here illegally come to this country out of desperation. So how do you keep someone who is desperate to leave their country, to not immigrate to the United States? By improving their quality of life. Specifically, there should be an effort to focus mostly on improving the access of education and in cracking down on corruption. Around the world millions of young men and women do not have access to basic education. If the United States helps fund and advocates world leaders to join us in this massive philanthropic effort, alongside Leguizamon 4 the expulsion and replacement of corrupt leaders through a democratic process, the need to leave these countries will decrease. With an educated population, not only will the quality of life improve but the likelihood of a nation having corrupt leaders will decrease. As a well-informed population is less likely to let corrupt people into power. Unfortunately, there is a great sentiment in the united states that revolves around that idea that should come as if to ignore all the problems which occur outside of our borders. Alongside that, there are Americans who are struggling to get by in our country. Why should hard earned tax payer money be invested in the development of other nations? In the grand scheme of things, reducing the number of immigrants that are allowed inside the US by improving the lives of millions of people around the world through making education more accessible and governments less corrupt seems like a small price to pay. Both stakeholders can find something they like with this compromise. The fact that it will decrease the need to immigrate to the united states will please FAIR and the philanthropic side of it will attract MALDEF. It seems as if today, the topic of immigration has created a huge divide in this country. Two organizations that show the difference in ideologies that are present in the United States today are FAIR, which has an anti-immigrant agenda and MALDEF, which advocates for the fair treatment of both legal and illegal immigrants. Trying to come up with a compromise that may be accepted by these two organizations may seem impossible, however there are several solutions that seem like they could please both sides. One of them is to make emigration unnecessary for immigrants. If we focused less on putting a lot of our efforts into building walls or deporting people, and more on improving the quality of life of other people outside of our own borders, there would be a decrease of immigration, both legal and illegal in this country, attracting organizations like FAIR. While the humanitarian side of it would attract organizations Leguizamon 5 like MALDEF. The solution is not a simple one, in fact it is extremely complex. But this may be a building block into a better, and safer world for generations to come. Works Cited JULIANNE. How To Make AMERICA WHITE  Nation 304.3 (2017): 24- 25. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Immigration Federation for American Immigration Illegal Immigration Federation for American Immigration Reform, Olivas, Michael A. From A Organization Of Into A Firm For The Latino : MALDEF And The Purposive Cases Of Keyes, Rodriguez, And  Denver University Law Review 90.(2013): 1151. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Protecting MALDEF: Protecting Rights, 2009 Should We Do Fundraising Consultants, 2012, pp. Fox, Stephen. the Causes of Mass Migrations: Leapfrog Solutions for Mutual Prosperity Growth between Regions of Emigration and Regions of Science Direct