Okpor 1 Favour Lucky Okpor Ms. Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Wildlife Animals in Captivity Animals are being kept in captivity in places like zoos for various reasons that include keeping them safe or using them as a means of income in terms of entertainment for tourists. Although not everyone is in support of this idea of animal captivity, some organizations such as The World Association of Zoo and Aquarium which is well known for receiving over 600 million visitors annually and setting standards for increased achievements of conservation. Basically, they believe that animals should be kept in captivity in order to be cared for. Another organization that disagrees with this animal captivity act is the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, which is the largest animal rights organization in the world with more than five million members and supporters. These organizations focus on animal rights and they are totally against animal captivity. They believe that animals should be set free and not kept in bondage in places such as zoos where they are being kept for entertainment. Now, in order to solve the problem of animal captivity, both stakeholders will have to come to an agreement that will be beneficial to both parties. A good idea of a compromise would be to have a rehabilitation center that involves the treatment and care of sick, injured, and orphaned wild animals with the goal of releasing healed animals back to their natural habitats. The first (The World Association of Zoo and Aquarium) goal is to encourage and support the zoos, aquariums, and like-minded organizations of the world in animal care and welfare, environmental education, and global conservation. They promote Okpor 2 cooperation between zoological gardens and aquariums with regards to the conservation, management, and breeding of animals in human care as well as encouraging the highest standards of animal welfare and husbandry (WAZA). Again, they assist in representing zoological gardens and aquariums in other international organizations and assemblies (WAZA). Furthermore, they desire to achieve the potential of zoos and aquariums globally to make a real difference for animals, species, and habitat conservation and sustainability (WAZA). The Association of Zoos and Aquariums, which is another organization that supports animal captivity, whereby they offer similar services to animals as the WAZA organization. They also developed a program called the survival program where animal management, breeding, and conservation efforts work to ensure genetically diverse and self-sustaining populations of more than 500 species of animals (AZA). Basically, what these organizations are trying to prove is that animals are not kept in captivity for any negative reasons, but rather they are kept in zoos for their protection and welfare. Organizations like this want to make sure that animals are not in the wild alone without being supervised, they feel like most of the wild animals need to be put under control in order for them not to be a threat to people living around in the society. The second which is the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals goal is to fight for animal rights. They focus their attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment industry (PETA). Again, they work on a variety of issues, especially the cruel killing of rodents, birds, and other animals who are often considered as as well as cruelty against domesticated animals. PETA works through public education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescues, legislations, special events, Okpor 3 celebrity involvements, and protest campaigns (PETA). Basically, this aim is to look out for animals and to prevent the abuse they believe animals face in this society. Animals behind cages, starving and dying, is an awful sight. It is an image that underlines the callousness which involves other creatures and indeed themselves (Moosa). The philosopher, Immanuel Kant said in his lectures on ethics: who is cruel to animals become hard also in his dealings with However true this is, it does highlight that causing suffering in general should be viewed as a bad thing, irrespective of whether we are causing the suffering of a human or an animal. In this 21th Century, animals are being denied their rights as living things, and organizations like these are increasing in order to fight for such acts to stop. They see the situation as inhuman for people to only care about themselves and to use animals as they please, and this is the kind of human mentality these organizations are trying to correct and to create awareness for. One thing that these two stakeholders have in common is that they want to care for animals and to provide for them as much as they can though they have different ways of showing that care. For the first stakeholder, they feel that taking care of animals and looking out for them is done by putting them in zoos where they can be provided with the things they need, not only so that they can be treated when sick. The second stakeholder believes that caring for animals means not putting them in captivity, also known as a zoo. They want animals to be in their various habitants and be given the necessary things they need to be happy and healthy. Now, in order for these two stakeholders to achieve their goals, a rehabilitation program will be helpful whereby animals that are in desperate need of care and attention can be taken to rehabilitation centers. It will be of great benefit to the first stakeholder because the animals will be taken to zoos where they can be taken care of until they are fit enough to go back to their Okpor 4 natural habitats. It will also be beneficial to the second stakeholder because animals will be allowed to go back to their habitants when they are strong enough to survive on their own. Another benefit for both stakeholders would be to have the opportunity to support the welfare of disabled animals and to publish good science to advance our understanding of wildlife population (Michael Moore). This compromise can be put into practice when the two stakeholders come together to raise funds for the rehabilitation center. Despite the fact that both stakeholders will be benefiting from this compromise, they will also be losing some things as well. For the first stakeholder, they would not have the chance to keep the animals for as long as they want. For the second stakeholder, animals will have to be kept in a certain place, which means that they will be denied their freedom of movement. Finally, the situation of animal captivity is a serious one because there are people who just want to see animals happy and to be free to do what they want as living things. However, at the same time, other people will prefer them to be kept in a secure area where they would not be able to harm anyone. The two stakeholders represent both sides of the problem, where one side is in support of animal captivity and the other is not, and that is why this compromise is a good idea because it satisfies what both stakeholders believe in. Okpor 5 Work Cited Moore, Michael, et al. and Release of Marine Mammals in the United States: Risks and Marine Mammal Science 23.4 (2007): 731. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 12 Sept. 2016. Moosa, Tauriq. Animal Captivity Big Think. The Big Think, Inc., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. PETA. Are Not Ours to Eat, Wear, Experiment On, Use for Entertainment, or Abuse in Any Other Blog post. About PETA: Our Mission Statement. PETA: People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Waza. is the Unifying Organisation for the World Zoo and Aquarium WAZA : World Association of Zoos and Aquariums. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Believe in a Better Future for All Living Association of Zoos & Aquariums: AZA.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.