Miller !1 Noah Miller Instructor Heiser ENC 1102-069 1 February 2017 Private Prisons in America Private prisons were introduced to America in the early 1980s as a solution to the overcrowding in correctional facilities and lack of federal funding. However, with the rapid growth of this billion dollar industry, many questioned the moral grey area of for-profit prisoners. With massive companies like the Corrections Corporations of America continuing to grow, many organizations like the American Civil Liberties Union have stepped up to oppose the private prison industry. Although many organizations like the ACLU wish to completely abolish private prisons, there is a compromise that can satisfy both sides. Private prisons were a result of Nixon declaring a war on drugs the late 1960s. This initiative sought to combat the production, distribution, and the usage of drugs in the United States. By the late 70s, the war on drugs increased incarceration rates by 5-fold (Moore and Elkavich 782). Not only was there an increase in incarcerations but there were minimum and increased sentences now for drug users (Mason 4). The drastic increase of extended incarcerations meant that both state level and federal level prisons were being overcrowded and could not hold anymore prisoners. Opportunistic companies such as the Corrections Corporation of America saw a chance and claimed to offer federal-level quality in their rehabilitation facilities. The government decided that allowing third party corporations to run their own prisons could be a cheap alternative to building more government facilities. This resulted in the CCA Miller !2 getting their first prison in 1983. Since then, the CCA has dominated the private prison industry with nearly 50% of all private prisons (CCA.com). The CCA wants to improve a federal and state justice system that has received a lot of flak. They aim to better rehabilitate prisoners and help them integrate back into society once their sentence is over. CCA also offers numerous programs for prisoners such as alcoholics anonymous, employment readiness, and therapy for the abused. Since they are private they are not restrained to a federal or state budget and can afford to get more equipment, utilities, and staff compared to the government counterparts. They also create a large amount of jobs employing over 13,000 people across all platforms of their company from security guards to health professionals. Some have even argued that private run better than their federal equivalent. Dr. Tabarrok is a economic professor and academic author who recently interviewed the Head director of the United Kingdom prisons for his book about the private prison industry. The director of prison services in the UK says corporations like the CCA the most progressive in the country at controlling bullying, health care, and suicide (Tabarrok 2). However, some people do not think these benefits outweigh the cons of private prisons. The rise of privatized, for-profit prisons did not settle well with everyone. Many people see for-profit prisons as immoral, essentially making money off of misfortune. Organizations such as the American Civil Liberties Union have been fighting the privatized prison industry to oppose unjust arrests and unfair treatment towards inmates. With just under 50% of inmates in private prisons on drug charges, the ACLU believes that this industry is targeting the homeless and addicted (ACLU.org). The ACLU also argues that there is no data to back up the notion that private facilities are a cheaper alternative to their federal and state level Miller !3 counterparts. Without any substantial data to back it up, they believe it is a dangerous to keep circulating this idea as a fact. What the ACLU is doing to fight against this massive multi-billion dollar industry is collect donations which allows them to lobby in legislature. Although it does not seem like a very effective method, the Department of Justice has heard many voices and is looking into whether private prisons can be a useful asset (Zapotosky and Harlan). At first glance, it seems like there could be no compromise between these two stakeholders. One side wants to continue to doing business and help people rehabilitate while the other side wants to completely eliminate the other. However, the root of the problem started with the war on drugs in the late sixties. The war on drugs not only targeted drug users, dealers, producers, and growers, but it increased the severity of their sentences. Drug offenses became even longer and the government also implemented minimum sentences (Dolovich 440). This caused the overcrowding and it is how private prisons came to be. There a few compromises that could satisfy both stakeholders. One option could be to stop the war on drugs in general. Since Nixon declared this crack down on drugs, it has been supported and carried out by every president to date. By eliminating the war on drugs, law enforcement can focus on other crimes that are more violent in nature. This does not mean that the government will allow drugs to be legal. Before the war on drugs, sentences were not as harsh and drugs were not a main priority for law enforcement. In fact, the Drug Enforcement Agency also know as the DEA, was founded in 1973 by Nixon because of the newly declared war on drugs (DEA.gov). If the war on drugs was called off, this would allow for private prisons to still operate with prisoners incarcerated because of other crimes and the ACLU would not have to worry about the sheer size of citizens lives being ruined. A second option could be that instead of ending the war on drugs entirely, the Miller !4 government could change their approach. Rather than incarcerating drug users, which make up 50% of private prisons, they could send them to rehabilitation facilities where their focus is to help overcome their addiction. Although private prisons offer these services, it is not the main focus. What the private prison industry could do is focus on rehabilitating and reintegrating addicts rather than insuring they see out prison sentences. This would ensure that private prisons industry do not lose business while also helping the users, which the ACLU would have no issue with. Since its inception, the for-profit private prison industry has been shrouded in controversy. Although prison companies like the CCA have been the front runner in rehabilitating and reintegrating inmates, the ACLU still feels that it is morally wrong to make money by incarcerating citizens for trivial things such as drug use. So many lives are being ruined by the justice system for crimes that for the most part are harmless. Completely abolishing private prisons is not an option at this point because of how many states depend on them and the jobs that they create. But filling these prisons up with drug users is not acceptable. If both sides worked together to change the war on drugs so it does not ruin someones entire life, not only can each side benefit but so can the American people. Miller !5 Work Cited DEA.gov /  DEA.gov / History. Drug Enforcement Agency, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Dolovich, Sharon. State punishment and private  Duke Law Journal (2005): 437-546. Mason, Cody. Too Good to Be  The Sentencing Project 29.4 (1992): 848. Research and Advocacy Reform. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Moore, Lisa D., and Amy Elkavich. Using and Doing Time: Incarceration, the War on Drugs, and Public American Journal of Public Health 98.5 (2008): 786. PMC. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Private  ACLU. American Civil Liberties Union, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Tabarrok, Alexander T. Private Prisons Have Public Benefits - Alexander T.  The Independent Institute. Pasadena News, 24 Oct. 2004. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. We  CCA. Corrections Corporation of America, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.