Annis 1 Nicholas Wayne Annis Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 31 January 2017 Green Energy/Infrastructure The IEA Clean Coal Centre want to start making more widespread use of clean coal, they do recognise that alternatives are a potential and viable option while preferring to push more towards the use of clean coal. The EPA wants to push more in the direction of alternatives, but they are willing to see the use of cleaning less destructive fossil fuels be put into action. I believe that a mix of clean coal and alternatives could satisfy both parties on this issue, it would result in less pollutants being put out while also still allowing for the existence of the already established coal industries across the globe. Realistically this is a solution that I believe could bring both sides together to start working towards more compromises, this one being a sort of gateway for those types of conversations to take place. The EPA helps to ensure that United States plays a leadership role in working with other nations to protect the global which involves pushing the nation towards the goals set forward by the EPA. According to the website they define their purpose as to ensure the protection of American from significant risk to human health, risks to the environment, the enforcement of federal laws dealing with federal health and the environment The EPA wants to protect the environment and one of the ways in which this can be accomplished is to move away from fossil fuels and more towards the use of alternative energy sources. Some of these alternative sources include, solar, wind, hydroelectric, Annis 2 geothermal, and natural gas as sources of energy that will result in the release of less pollutants than that of the current fossil fuels that are so widely used. One of the main issues is that the current infrastructure that is currently established is on the more so supports that of fossil fuels which is why to push towards alternatives their is going to be push back from organizations such as the previously mentioned IEA CCC, but their are others such as OPEC, the FFF, and IEA that will also lean more on the side of supporting the use of fossil fuels. Although biodiesel is a renewable source of energy, ... some disadvantages such as high NOx emissions, high viscosity, problems related to low temperatures, and low oxidative (Amaral 156) and because of this they are still not the most viable solution from the perspective of the EPA, a step in the right direction since they do put out a lower amount of pollutants than say commercial diesel. But as mentioned before, although things like biofuels are a step closer to things such as wind, solar, geothermal, and hydroelectric, their are other issues that come up. The main issue with biofuel being the shelf life of the fuel and potential unknown risk to human health, the EPA has established on of its main goals as the protection of human health from significant threats to health. Because of this biofuels and fossil fuels, being that both are damaging to human health as well as the health of the environment it goes against the mission set forth by the EPA. There is however still a want by the EPA to use clean renewable sources and if anything these are a step in the right direction since they may still be a better alternative to fossil fuels due to the lower levels of pollutants they produce. This could be a starting point that could lead to a compromise to start a dialogue to get both sides working together to find common ground on the issue of alternatives energy. Annis 3 In Poland choose to maintain fossil fuels as a central part of their energy strategies for purposes that may be at odds with environmental sustainability, but which align with socio-economic and eco-socio (LaBelle 33) and economically it makes much more sense to stick with fossil fuels, fracking being another way to obtain shale gas which is a lower grade oil. The IEA CCC wants to form cleaner fuel, but they differ from the EPA in the sense that they are pushing for clean coal rather than that of alternatives. Typically, that which is environmentally sustainable is usually not economically stable and requires adjustments to the current way in which our modern society functions. These kinds of changes that would be made to lives and the potential loss of the coal industries and those jobs would be met with much push back. of 46% can now be achieved by implementing Best Available Technology (BAT) for power plant applications. With further research, efficiencies above 50% are envisaged in the near to medium term future (Minchener 2) making clean coal a viable way to move forward as it offers a push towards a more environmentally friendly fuel that does not have the same economical risks as some of the alternatives fuels that are out their. There is currently not shortages on coal, the same could be said for alternatives but some of those can be affected by different weather conditions. Coal can provide a more consistent flow of energy and with improvements in technologies it may be able to get closer to the viability of alternatives energy sources. The IEA CCC does not want the idea of alternatives to be pursued, they want more money to be put towards that of clean coal. From their perspective it is a much more economically sound solution to a cleaner energy source and one that would be much easier to adapt to our current modern society. Annis 4 To find a compromise that will work for both sides in this issue with moving towards green energy alternatives what I think would work best would be a mix of alternatives with fossil fuels such as clean coal and biofuels. Essentially using both side by sides rather than using one alone, this would cut down on the pollutants since alternatives would be taking care of a portion of the demand for energy. coal-based power generation is not compatible with international climate targets 1172) which means to satisfy the goals set forth by the EPA there has to be a change to this, but removing them entirely will not work for both sides. in the future low-carbon power system, it is reasonable to place future efficient, environment friendly and flexible coal-based power plants serving as one of alternatives for the baseload and secure 1173) meaning alternatives will be the main supplier of power while coal will be able to function as a sort of safety net. Alternatively to this it could also be flipped or done a more unison with both operating in tandem resulting in less coal required and what being used will be used in a much cleaner environmentally safe way. The EPA wants to push more towards that of alternatives and green energies to meet their goals of protecting the health of both humans and the environment. The IEA CCC wants to produce more environmentally friendly fuels but they want to do so in the form of clean coal rather than pushing towards the use of alternatives. Creating clean coal plants that also make use of alternative energy such as wind, solar, hydroelectric, and geothermal to help meet energy demands may be a way to support both perspectives of each stakeholder. It would result in the continued use of coal that is wanted by the IEA CCC as well as lower total emission produced that would be seen as a step in the right direction by the EPA. Annis 5 Works Cited Mission and what we 2 February 2017. Minchener, McMullan. achievements of European Coal and Steel Community R&D programmes in the development of clean coal power generation technology, IEA Coal Research Ltd, Gemini House, 10-18 Putney Hill London SW15 6AA United Kingdom 26 February 2007 Nihad, Izet, Anes. OF CO-FIRING COAL WITH BIOMASS AND NATURAL GAS - ON TRACK OF SUSTAINABLE SOLUTION FOR FUTURE THERMAL POWER PLANTS. Science; 2016, Vol. 20 Issue 4, p1171-1184, 14p LaBelle, Michael. state of fracking : Building Poland national innovation capacity for shale gas , Elsevier Ltd, Energy Research & Social Science January 2017 23:26-35 Amaral, Beatriz Silva, Novaes, Moreira, Ramos, Maria da Klaus V., Neto, Francisco Radler de Aquino, Gioda, Adriana, profile of pollutants generated by a stationary engine fueled with diesel, biodiesel, and ethanol, Elsevier Ltd, Journal of Aerosol Science October 2016 100:155-163