Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Analysis on Preserving Arts in Schools Art is visualized and appreciated in various and unique ways. Art is expressed in a variety of different forms. It can be expressed though music, where lyrics, melodies and instruments combine to form a grand song. Art is also shown through live performances, ranging from ballet to hip-hop, which not only show art in a visual form, but also express it through the art of dancing. These critical aspects are important in enhancing the mind through learning how to play instruments or memorizing dance routines. This essential experience promotes growth and learning not only in schools in the U.S., but also from a global and nation-wide perspective. The Americans for the Arts organization aim their focus on showing how opportunities are vast in the world of arts and how ready to be conquered and established. This or who have a vested interest in the topic at (Browning and Rea 371), main goal states, mission is to serve, advance, and lead the network of organizations and individuals who cultivate, promote, sustain, and support the arts in (americansforthearts.org). Established in 1960, the organization started out as the leading nonprofit organization for advancing the arts and arts (americansforthearts.org). This website aims to further expand and support the cultivation of arts by working together in that they can that every American has access to the transformative power of the Student 2 Figure number one expresses a colorful logo with pictures of different art forms around it. The design stands with large letters that spell out, we are Americans for the which is the main message conveyed in the picture, urging others to join and encourage people to get involved in the Americans for the Arts organization. Just as Sheffield expresses, when breaking down an image its essential to analyze the main situations: the audience, context, and 1), to best understand the message of a picture at hand. The target audience for this picture consists of any art lover, enthusiast, expressionist, and supporter looking to join an organization that follows its instincts on encouraging the arts around the United States. Additionally, the context includes a ray of colors raging from yellow and green, to blue and purple, which makes this picture lively and exciting, emitting happiness and lightness. The big white bold letters express the tone of the picture by giving it a sense of urgency and how important it is for people to join. Other visual cues include the small, but interesting, pictures backing up the text, which show different artistically drawn forms that once again convey the arts as something beautiful that deserves support and recognition. Following the visual appeals of this picture comes the rhetorical appeals and analysis, which is conformed by ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos (Mckee and Mclntyre 20-26). This picture appeals to credibility vicariously through the webpage itself, given that Americans for the Arts is the main and most recognized arts organization in the U.S, where they represent over 7000 individuals and 1,500 organizations across the nation, bringing them together through the power of the arts (americansforthearts.org/becomeamember). The logic behind this is in the wording itself, which clearly states that together Americans for the arts are a strong, loyal organization Student 3 and that by joining it gets even stronger. Furthermore, it appeals to emotion by giving out a message that makes people feel like they can be part of something bigger than themselves if they join. Lastly, encouraging art enthusiasts by reminding them that they can join as soon as possible (being that an organization and movement that gets stronger each year) shows the aspect of kairos. The second figure shown is more complex, where a tree lies with leaves and different icons branching out of it. The icons include a heart that suggests healthcare, a plant that suggests environment, a small business, a piggy bank suggesting financial stability, a film which suggests innovation, and a handshake and leaves that show cast the message the picture is trying to set. Additionally the text states, 10 Reasons to support the in a white simple font, which convey a tone of firmness yet warmness. Within this picture is an article written by Randy I. Cohen, which explicitly states all 10 reasons why he believes the arts are to be advocated. The intended audience this picture is trying to attract are those got an invested invested in economics, tourism, business, and most of all those who drive for creativity and innovation, given that, as written by Cohen, are the ones that can benefit from the arts and should support it (Cohen 1). The background colors include mostly blue and yellow, which give out a feel of warm and happiness and encourages the viewer to check these reasons that are casted for the crowd. As stated before, the clear and absolute message of this picture is to bring together those who love the arts by giving them 10 reasons that sway to support the arts. The appeal to logos for this picture is in the icons and wordings itself, which visually state the purpose of the picture. Its appeal to credibility lies in the URL at the bottom of the page, which shows readers that their reasons are credible and are supported Student 4 by the stakeholder itself. It also conveys emotion by displaying leaves that in writing say community, jobs, engagement, etc. which are all part of day to day lives and take on a crucial role and makes people more attracted to the idea trying to showcase. Ultimately the picture appeals to timeliness since what the picture is trying to support is a well talked about topic around the U.S. In conclusion, both of these pictures presented by the Americans for the Arts organization showcase how the arts are part of lives both through visual and rhetorical appeals. People are encouraged to help and promote the arts by joining in organizations that support them as a part of American culture and lifestyle. They are also several visually and artistically given reasons why supporting the arts can lead to good academics, good economy, good social impacts, improving healthcare, good business and tourism and prosperity (Cohen 1). With this said, schools all around America are to benefit from these artistically inclined subjects that help people transform the life around them. Student 5 Figure 1 http://www.americansforthearts.org/become-a-member Figure 2 http://www.americansforthearts.org/research Student 6 Work Cited Become a  Americans for the Arts. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.americansforthearts.org/become-a-member>. Cohen, Randy I. 10 Reasons to Support the Arts in  ARTS Blog. Americans for the Arts, 4 Mar. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://blog.americansforthearts.org/2016/03/04/10-reasons-to-support-the-arts- in-2016>. Ella Browning and Joshua M. Rea. Understanding Stakeholders. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 371. E-text. Emily Lane, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan Mclnttyre and Kate Pantelides. Rhetoric Matters: The Rhetorical Appeals. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E- text.  Americans for the Arts. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.americansforthearts.org/research>. Sheffield, Jenna Pack. Breaking Down an  Writing Commons. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. 99%3 breaking-down-an-image&catid=434%3Abreaking-down-an- image&Itemid=289>.