Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC1102 10 February 2017 Rescuing Leftover Cuisine While there may not be physical bullets whizzing by heads, the war on hunger is a very real war that many people work to fight against on a daily basis. Two such people- Robert Lee and Louisa Chen- have been very passionate about helping those in need since they were in college, where they were in an organization named Birds One (Ma). This club strived to reach two main goals: decrease food waste and help the hungry. By combining these goals, they developed their main strategy of two birds with one and redistributed leftover food to those in need (Ma). Being a part of this club inspired Lee and Chen to start Leftover a company with the same goals as the club they were once a part of. Food waste is a topic that is dealt with in the website Leftover which presents the audience with shocking facts about food waste, creates sympathy by emotionally connecting them to those in need, and shows those who are willing to help how they can solve this problem. The first figure (see Fig. 1) from Leftover communicates a paradox that impacts a large portion of Americans every single day- while many people and companies in the United States are throwing away food, there are still Americans unable to gain access to food. The purpose of this image is to shock viewers by informing them of alarming statistics that most people are not aware of. One visual cue that the image includes to aid its purpose is the use of color, or rather, the lack of color. The color impacts the audience by making the small use Student 2 of blue stand out greatly in comparison to the muted tones of gray surrounding it. This color contrast makes the statistics seem even more shocking to the viewer. Since the author is a stakeholder, or someone a vested interest in the topic at it is easy to see their motives for creating this figure for their website (Browning 371). In addition to a striking visual image, the author of figure one includes rhetorical appeals to further strengthen their argument. The primary and most obvious rhetoric used is logos. Logos is defined as appeal to the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and which authors use to appeal to the rational and intellectual part of their audiences (Lane et al 32). In this image logos is clear through the presentation of statistics about food waste and hunger in the US. Another rhetorical appeal used is pathos, which is appeal to used to help an audience connect with the argument or shown through the inserted text mentioning the number of people in America who are food insecure and hungry to make the audience feel sympathetic and connected to the people who are facing this problem (Lane et al 37). These appeals work together by both shocking readers with new information and then making them feel emotionally connected to those in need, which allows this striking image to fulfill its purpose while supporting the main goals. The second image (see Fig. 2) communicates the idea that volunteering for the company by transporting food is easy and will help many people in need, which coincides with the purpose of getting people to volunteer. Some visual cues used in the image to convey the intended message are the picture in the background of people delivering packed food and the texts encouraging people to volunteer. The lighting and varying colors in the background draw the eyes to the background of people volunteering, setting an example of what the stakeholder wants them to do. Another key component of this image is that the people in the Student 3 picture doing hands-on work are the leaders and founders of the company. The intended audience is anyone who is willing to help and has some free time. However, the embedded text communicates that volunteering does not require a huge commitment, which will increase the number of people who may be willing to volunteer. This image, like the previous one, uses rhetorical appeals to strengthen the main gosld, however the rhetorical appeals in this image are much more obvious to the viewer. Ethos is used in this image by the addition of the sign and logo that boast, Featured on The Ethos is the to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or which makes it logical that they would include this logo since is a reputable website that has committed to launching undiscovered products and technologies to help boost their success (Lane et al 27). Using the credibility from this site, Leftover can boost their own credibility. Ethos is also used in the picture itself, which captures the founders and leaders of the company doing hands-on work, showing that even the founders are still very involved and down-to-earth which raises their credibility. Another appeal used is kairos, which is the to knowing when to say something to get the desired effect (Lane et al 41). Kairos is used in this image because of the statement involved which motivates viewers to start getting involved and volunteering with this company immediately. These appeals directly relate back to the main goals by connecting the reader not only to those in need, but to this specific company, and through this company they are provided with a way to help those in need. The goals of Leftover to inform people about food waste, connect them to those in need, and motivate them to help are all part of their larger goal to eliminate food waste by redistributing leftover food to those in need (Ma). It is obvious that the author carefully Student 4 selected their images and arranged them to have a balanced appeal. Both images chosen work together to promote the goals by both informing and motivating their audience to action. The images are very informative and present the reader with facts, but do not contain the same facts, which allows them each to have a different impact on the reader. While the impact is subtly different, both ultimately work together in harmony to promote the message and goals of Leftover It is extremely important that these images help further the message because food waste is one of the biggest disgraces of the United States. Every day that people throw away food there are still people starving. If this website can impact just one person, that person can continue impacting others and the effects will ripple outward like a stone dropped in a pond. Student 5 Works Cited Browning, Ella, et al. 08 Advanced Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016, pp 363-379. E-text. Lane, Emily, et al. 01 Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016, pp 20-63. E-text. Ma, Runbai. Rescuing Leftover Cuisine. http://www.rescuingleftovercuisine.org. Accessed 23 January 2017. Rescuing Leftover Cuisine. http://www.rescuingleftovercuisine.org. Accessed 24 January 2017. Get Involved Rescuing Leftover Cuisine. http://www.rescuingleftovercuisine.org. Accessed 25 January 2017. Student 6 Figure 1. http://www.rescuingleftovercuisine.org Student 7 Figure 2. http://www.rescuingleftovercuisine.org/volunteer