Alshabnan 1 Yousef Alshabnan Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 February 12th, 2017 Is The Recycling System In The U.S Like What Most People Think? When a householder throw his waste in the blue recycling can, he might think that he is protecting the environment or supporting the local economy, but is he? Currently, the pure image of the recycling is in most mind and that because of what the recycling companies advertise in the media about the positive impacts of the curbside recycling programs toward the environment and the economy. However, only 34.3 percent of the Americans waste got recycled in 2013 (EPA). This low rate of recycling questioning the truth of the recycling system in the United States. John Tierney, a journalist of the New York Times, wrote an article on the New York Times titled The Reign of  which arguing the truth of the curbside recycling programs and illustrating that people are wasting their time by doing recycling. However, the Sustainable Brands (SB) association published an article that explained seven reasons of why the recycling system is not a waste. Therefore, it is important for John Tierney and the Sustainable Brands association to join forces, in order to find a compromise regarding the best recycling method for a better environment and economy. John Tierney is a critic of environmentalism who has worked for the New York Times. He criticised the recycling system in his article The Reign of  by claiming that recycling is not doing what the people want to do for the environment or the economy. He explained how the recycling system has not achieved what the people are assuming economically by saying that it is typically more expensive for municipalities to recycle household waste than to send it to a  (Tierney). For example, according to Tierney,  Alshabnan 2 In New York City, the net cost of recycling a ton of trash is now $300 more than it would cost to bury the trash  (Tierney). For the environmental side effect of the recycling, Tierney illustrated that even though recycling can reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases, just a few materials such as paper, cardboard, and the aluminium in soda cans can achieve the recycling environmental benefits. Other materials like plastics, food, and yard waste can not save many tonnes of carbon dioxide (Tierney). Moreover, he pointed out some recycling issues for the environment such as the extra recycling trucks and the pollution from the recycling operations. Also, he gave an example of a composting facility in New York and how they annoyed the people in Delaware, after sending the food waste to places close to their homes. According to Tierney,  Composting facilities around the country have inspired complaints about nauseating odours, swarming rats and defecating sea  ( Tierney). John Tierney believes that the recycling system in the U.S. is environmentally unnecessary, fiscally burdensome, and ideologically shameful. On the other hand, the Sustainable Brands (SB) association, which is a supportive association for any sustainable brand leaders and business, has denied what John Tierney believes about the recycling system by publishing an article wrote by Tom Szaky titled 7 Reasons Why Recycling Is Not a  On this article, Tom explains how recycled materials can build the supply chain security through the waste in the United States. He thinks that recycling exemplifies a social imperative, just like the education and the health care. Also, he added that recycling is a sustainable strategy which can secure the supply chain and claims that what John proposed about using landfills for the waste instead of recycling is just a short-term strategy that can not be useful in the future. Tom proved that recycling can build the supply chain security by giving an example of his own company of recycling. He said that recycling can  reduces waste and costs, and gives the company a competitive edge in the  (Szaky). Moreover, Tom mentioned that there are other environment cases that Alshabnan 3 John did not say it when he was proving that landfills are better place for the waste than the recycling plants. For instance, the trillions of pieces of plastics that volatilize from landfills and then end up on the top and the bottom of the oceans, which can cause health risks. According to Szaky,  Recycled plastics can be a great way for manufacturers to avoid these volatile costs, do something environmentally beneficial, and strengthen supply chain  (Szaky). Sustainable Brands (SB) association, with the writer Tom Szaky made it clear that if there is any long-term method for the waste management it will be recycling. As a compromise, finding a way to satisfy the both sides would be what the Packaging Digest company suggested for a better recycling system and restructuring the recycling facilities. The Packaging Digest company is a private entity that helps people understand the packaging process through publishing articles on their website, events, and on the social media. The Packaging Digest published an article wrote by Tom Szaky titled Which Side of The Recycling Debate Are You  which gave a clue for an appropriate compromise of weather recycle or use the landfills for the waste. Szaky suggested that improving the packaging quality of the products by making them easy to be recycled, and cheaper when recycling would make the recycling better environmentally and economically (Szaky). Improving the packaging quality of the products would solve many of the recycling issues, in which it make the recycling effective with no fiscally burdensome. Therefore, it is important to focus on the base of the issue, which is the waste materials itself, in order to avoid the negative consequences of the recycling process or the landfills. Moreover, set rules of quality qualifications for the packaging and force the big companies to follow these rules. The Economist magazine said that some big companies such as Walmart and Coca-cola invested in recycling plans but the outcome of these investments was not successful and that was because of the old recycling facilities in the U.S., which need restructuration to do a better job when recycling (In The Bin). Restructuring the recycling faculties in the U.S. Alshabnan 4 would help to have a high-quality packaging that can be easy and cheap to be recycled, without any financial or environmental problems. To sum up, John Tierney and the Sustainable Brands (SB) association have been arguing whether the recycling system in U.S. is effective or ineffective for the environment and the economy. The journalist John Tierney believes that the current recycling system is simply a waste of time and money. However, the Sustainable Brands (SB) association disagreed with John and thinks that recycling is the best wat to build the supply chain security for the waste. Both of them need to join forces and find out the best way to manage the waste in the United States. This could be done by solving the recycling issues which mostly caused by recycling facilities, which are old and need to be restructured. This would convince the big companies to have more recyclable materials on their products which will lead to end the waste management issue, in which the recycling system will be the long-term method for the waste the U.S. without fiscally burdensome or environmental side effects. Word Count: 1200 Alshabnan 5 Woks cited: EPA, US, OSWER, and Office of Resource Conservation. Municipal solid waste. n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Economist, The. In the bin. The Economist, 22 Apr. 2015. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Szaky, Tom, Sustainable Life Media. 7 reasons why recycling is not a waste: A response to reign of sustainablebrands.com, 13 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Szaky, Tom. Side of the Recycling Debate Are You Packaging Digest, 15 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tierney, John. Reign of SundayReview. The New York Times, 12 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.