Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 11 February 2017 Project 1 intermediate draft The topic of keeping musical arts in schools is one that is discussed heavily on the Music for All website (Musicforall.org). The site discusses how keeping musical programs in schools helps improve students ability to succeed in school and how to help make musical programs available to all students. Their use of rhetorical appeals in their ads demonstrates how Musical programs in school help promote academic success, provide and outlet for self-expression, and teach an appreciation of the arts. According to the Organizations history page, Music for all started in 1975, when they founded both the Bands of America and Orchestra America programs (Our History). Based in Indianapolis, Indiana, the organizations main goal is to focus on music and arts education promotion within education and a life .The idea was to sponsor and provide music education for students across the country while heightening the appreciation of the arts. for vision is to be a catalyst to ensure that every child across America has access and opportunity to participate in active music making in his or her scholastic (Our History). They have served more than 1.75 million music students through their founded programs, and aids more than 450,000 music students and their families, and music teachers each year, (Our History). They accomplish this goal by sponsoring musical events across the country while also providing online services; but continue to support musical education in schools for the benefits of the students. Student 2 The ad starts out using pathos as means to connect directly to its intended audience (1.1 rhetorical appeals), which would be students interested in music education and their parents. The dialogue in the ad starts with which is meant to evoke a personal connection between the reader and the student in the photo. By supporting the organization you are stating that you believe in the ability to succeed as a student and a performer. also meant to make the audience think that could be or could be my if they participated and/or supported the organizations many programs. The ads displays a sense of urgency by providing a link directly on the ad. By giving a direct connection to supporting the program through an easy access button, shown prominently on the page, it motivates the audience to donate now so that they make an immediate difference. This creates a greater impact rather than having a cell phone number or website link which takes audiences more time to start participating and is easier to forget. Their sense of urgency show their seriousness as an organization that wants to make music available for all and a part of a everyday education. Ethos is present in the ad by use of the student. The ads intended message is that students succeed when they are given the option to participate in musical arts. The student is supposed to represent the evidence that the organizations programs work and truly do help students thrive in their musical aspirations. By featuring a student that is actively participating in a musical program sponsored by the organization it enhances their credibility by showcasing the positive effect it had on the success. The student in the photo, paired with the for quote, demonstrations their validity in a program to make a difference in schools with the Student 3 addition of musical programs and the encouragement for students to practice what they believe in. An emotional appeal is established in this ad by highlighting the joy in being a part of a musical program. The audience is meant to feel a sense of happiness that will motivate them to want to contribute to the organization so they can make more students, like the girl in the photo, experience the joys of being in a musical program. In addition, it relates to parents whose child may want to express themselves through their musical talents, and creates an emotional tie between music in education and the support these students receive. This ties back to the programs goals of spreading music education in schools by making a positive connection between music, students, and their education. The ad also helps create a logical relationship between supporting the organization and the mindset when it comes to music in a education. The girl in the photo is shown to be elated when playing an instrument, which connects to other students as they are made to form a logical opinion on the benefits of music. The cheerfulness displayed makes students question whether or not they want to gain that same experience that this program is offering through music education. It also creates a link between parents as they are made to make inferences about their own participation in the musical arts, and whether or not they support the dreams of students to express their abilities through music. The effect Kairos creates within the ad is that the thank you message is meant to motivate others who have not joined to sign up by showing people that this is what you could be part of if you join now. It connects with the audience by showing them a result of the contributions their program has received and how its lasting effects are positive and encouraging to their students. Student 4 This motivates viewers to participate as well, as they are able to make a difference, and that they should donate to a dream of contributing in musical education. (7.7 breaking down an image) The Music for all Organizations goal is to keep musical arts in schools as it can help students succeed in their general education as well as their musical education. These ideas are demonstrated in their advertisements by use of various rhetorical appeals that can motivate its audience to trust in its credibility and highlighting the supportive and cheerful aspect that musical participation gives students. It also connects with parents who may question effect on a education through positive logic based ideas and the ability for easy access donation opportunities followed by an encouraging message. The organization thoroughly allows for audiences to believe in its ability to promote Music education and encourage creativity and expression as well as appreciation of the arts. Student 5 Works Cited Media, Mango Tree. Our  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. 1.1 The Rhetorical Appeals; 1.2 Ethos; 1.3 Logos; 1.4 Pathos; 1.5 Kairos; 1.6 Recognzing Rhetorical  Https://usflearn.instructure.com/courses/1193980/quizzes. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. 7.5 Visual Rhetoric; 7.6 Understanding Visual Arguements; 7.7 Breaking Down an  Https://usflearn.instructure.com/courses/1193980/quizzes. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1 http://www.musicforall.org/images/images/Advocacy/IBelieve.jpg Student 7 Figure 2