Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 5 February 2017 Non-English Speaker Education Nowadays, more and more international students who are Non-English speakers choose to go aboard to study in English speaking countries, like United States, Canada and Australia. However, language barrier becomes one of the biggest problems for them when studying aboard. Some students choose to learn the English in their own country and pass the language test, like TOEFL and IELFS, before study in the English speaking countries. Some students prefer to take the language class in the English speaking University. As we all known, Non-English speakers will face a lot of difficulties when they are learning the English. For example, Arab have to be familiar with the writing order because they write the Arabic from right to left. Thus, University and country provide a lot different organizations and course to help non-English speakers learning English and adapt to the culture. Finally, my research question is helps and support Non-English Speaker to adapt culture during learning language in English speaking countries? Cruickshank, Ken, Sandra1 Newell, and Stephanie2 Cole. Meeting English Language Needs In Teacher Education: A Flexible Support Model For Non-English Speaking Background  Asia-Pacific Journal Of Teacher Education 31.3 (2003): 239-247. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Student 2 This article pay attention to explore the question of what constitutes effective English language support for students. During the Exploring, they investigated for a group of 110 overseas-trained teachers undertaking teacher education at University of Sydney between 1999 and 2001(Ken, Newell & Cole). The data from the article focus on interviewing the group of 110 teachers, their students and staff, checking student-learning journals as well. In order to help them exploring the English language support for students, the writers propose an integrated and flexible model of English language support including content-based units, tutoring program and self- directed study, which were the foundation of supporting for English language separately. Then they use it for different groups of English studying students, like English as a second language (ESL) student, to see what will happen for them. According to the article, it gives real and specific data of using the model of English language support, which helps me to research into the elements that influence non-English speakers learning English. The three Authors Affiliate with University of Sydney and American Association of Higher Education. The article is published by Asia-Pacific Journal of Teacher Education, which is a famous academic source as well. Rudy. English As A Second  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article introduces the history and the development of the English as a Second Language program (ESL). The English-language education for non-English speaker has developed since the early twentieth century. Because an increasing number of non-English- speaking immigrants in United States, and they do not have enough ability to help language- minority children to succeed in school that acquire the necessary English literacy skills. The Student 3 early ESL program was born in the late to help change the English-language education problems. The ESL program support accommodating the various needs of immigrant and US- born second-language learners. And the ESL program has several new forms now. However, the original aim of ESL teaching program is to help students develop and consolidate four majors in speaking, reading, and writing. ESL program are an important part for non-English speakers to learning English. And this article explains the reason why the ESL produces and the development of it. The program even changes the culture and promotes the atmosphere of studying aboard as well. The ESL program gives the chance for more students studying aboard. The article is from the Salem Press Encyclopedia, which is a really famous academic journal. The Salem Press was founded in 1949 and has a long history. The products of Salem Press include traditional print products, e-books, and online databases designed for use at public, school, and college and university libraries. Thus Salem Press was used in lots of academic occasions. Fox, Janna, Liying Cheng, and Bruno D. Zumbo. Do They Make A Difference? The Impact Of English Language Programs On Second Language Students In Canadian  TESOL Quarterly 1 (2014): 57. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The main object of this article is investigating the impact of English language programs on second language students studying in Canadian universities. According to this article, it collected questionnaire responses of 641second language students studying in 36 English language programs in 26 Canadian universities. The researchers focus on investigating and researching both the English as second language (ESL) and English for academic purpose (EAP). The researchers used structural equation modeling procedures to examine the network of Student 4 relationships between language program emphasis and background characteristics in influencing academic and social engagement (Fox, Cheng & Zumbo). This study gives out and helps us understanding the positive impact of ESL and EAP programs on second language programs academic and social engagement. The most attractive part of this source is showing large amount of data. In this article, the authors sort out and analyze the data for each part that they give the questionnaire. The data are clearly showed by table in this article, which helps me to understand the research and do better on my paper. I also take the EAP programs before as well. Thus I will be more interested and pay more attention to read the article. Furthermore, Social engagement is a important research part in this article, which relevant to my topic. This article is published by TESOL Quarterly, which is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of TESOL international Association. This association is specialized institution for English language as a second dialect. It published lots of professional and academic articles as well. Yang, Wenhui, and Linhan Chen. Cultural Continuity In EFL Teaching In International Higher Education: From A Discourse Perspective Of Chinese  English Language Teaching 8.2 (2015): 196-205. ERIC. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This paper presents an ethnographic study of the application of cultural continuity in English as Foreign Language (EFL) teaching in International College, GDUFS China. The authors compare the native EFL teachers (NEFLTs) with Local Chinese EFL teachers (LEFLTs) on how they discourse on cultural continuity to Chinese university learners. They also find the different preferences and patterns both are essential feature of cooperative teaching for international higher education. adaptation to local learning environment and Student 5 application of foreign teaching modes may present an integrated mode which displays both cultural continuity and discontinuity of English and local learning culture at the same time. (Yang & Chen) The major objective of this article is to investigate how to adapt the cultural continuity in EFL. The comparison of NEFLTs and LEFLTs helps realize the different way of adapt culture while learning English. Moreover, the study occurred in China, where I am really familiar with it. Then I can understand more and know the cultural diversity immediately. This article use 21 academic references and is copyrighted by Canadian Center of Science and Education (CCSE), which is a professional and regular association. CCSE is organization, which published scholarly journals in wide range of academic fields, including the social sciences, the humanities, the natural sciences as well. (WC: 1208)