Napoliello 1 Dylan Napoliello Adam Phillips ENC 1102.022 28 January 2017 Burying Fossil Fuels In recent times, there has been a battle between legislators and politicians over the use of solar and other renewable energy sources versus the traditional fossil-fuel methods. Such organizations, such as the Solar Energy Industries Association have been produced in efforts to move towards cleaner energy. However, this has been met with those such as the Koch Brothers, who seek to continue making profit from oil drilling and other related fossil fuel activities, setting back goals. There is a viable compromise between these two, however. If the Koch brothers were to begin conversion from supporting fossil fuels to owning solar panel rigs and wind power, they could make even greater profit by selling the energy produced. In exchange for using cleaner energy as SEIA desires, SEIA would be directing the transition to the new power plants by providing workers, transport vehicles, and funds to go towards building the new rigs. Alternative energy sources have long been a subject of controversy over American history. Wind power had been the predominating clean energy source until the birth of solar power. Solar power has only recently become a prominent idea in American history, arising around the late It was exalted due to its ability to produce copious levels of power while remaining ecofriendly. In addition, the energy cannot be simply made it a perfect source of power. With the arise of solar panel usage came organizations that sought to accelerate the Napoliello 2 integration of solar power in world. One of these organizations is the Solar Energy Industries Association. SEIA has been working since 1974 as a non-profit trade association with its sister organization, The Solar Foundation (Solar Energy Industries Association). SEIA works primarily to help the integration of solar power through means of helping citizens find jobs (Solar Energy Industries Association). By helping people find jobs in the solar field, they speed the process of bringing solar power to higher rates of use in America. The organization also partners itself with other organizations to host promotional events across the country (Solar Energy Industries Association). In fact, SEIA has recently taken an interest in powering water heaters and coolers with solar energy, and are taking steps toward it today (Solar Energy Industries Association). SEIA and associates aside, not all were happy with the harnessing of solar power. Many corporations had already been so invested in oil and coal type products that they began working against those like the people in SEIA. Among the ranks of this group are the Koch Brothers. In present day, they are especially influential in anti-ecofriendly legislative activity, and are one of the chief reasons renewable energy has not taken hold. The previously mentioned Koch Brothers are the head of Koch Industries, one of the most powerful American business dynasties today. Koch industries is responsible for a great variety of products, ranging from farmland produce to asphalt for roads. However, one of their main production focuses is fossil based fuel (Koch Industries). Fossil fuels have been in place for quite some time, fueling our cars, factories, and more for decades. However, what has only recently come to light is the effects on the environment. With the evolution of the environmental science field came the ability to determine the levels of carbon-13 and other harmful pollutants in the atmosphere. By using this technology, it has become apparent that as humans have been burning fossil fuels, they have slowly been releasing large levels of pollutants into the Napoliello 3 atmosphere, contributing to what we now refer to as climate change. Koch Industries has disregarded the climate change theory, however, and the brothers have been very active in keeping environmental legislation at bay. By denouncing climate change theory and taking political action against environmental protection laws, the brothers can continue making profit from their fossil fuel related activities. It is because of this profit seeking that fossil fuel advocates and environmental activists have not yet come to a compromise. All things considered, alternative power is the way to go, whether it be solar alone or in combination with wind. Wind is a surprisingly valuable resource, as nearly two thirds of the energy Denmark produced in 2014 was wind based. The wind energy during the year had gone as far to produce 62% of their total energy production (Brown 8-12). Solar energy, however, is even more efficient than wind power. Australia has recently entered a stage of renovations, with which they are beginning to produce most of their energy by means of solar power (Brown 15- 17). There, the cost of producing energy by solar power has dropped so far below classic coal based energy that it would still cost less even if the coal itself was free (Brown 29-30). Cost is not the only advantage solar power holds over traditional fossil fuels. At times, such as September 30 of 2014, solar energy in South Australia had surpassed the energy demand itself, creating a surplus (Brown 15-17). The Koch Brothers of course recognize this, but continue to influence legislation against the progression of renewable energy and environmental laws. This is most likely due to their billions of dollars in revenue received by their actions with fossil fuels, though there is common ground between the brothers and SEIA. If the brothers were to make profit off of cleaner energy, it would destroy the tension between the two. It is no secret that the Koch Brothers make billions through fossil fuels, but I suggest a transfer to solar power instead. Solar power can be much less costly in the long run, saving Napoliello 4 millions of dollars that would have been spent on more oil by instead using solar panels. Solar panels only require maintenance every so often, which could either be done personally by the consumer or by a repair company. This would save the Koch Brothers millions or even billions of dollars, as they would only require the initial purchases to begin energy production. Not only would using solar plants and selling solar panels save them money, but in certain areas, the solar power production would outclass that of fossil fuel plants. Saving money and making more is certainly an attractive call to business leaders like the Koch Brothers, however, the transition from fossil fuels to solar power is certainly not an easy one. This part of the compromise is where SEIA comes in. In exchange for satisfying part of thirst for cleaner energy in the world, they would be assisting the transition being made by Koch Industries. SEIA would help to provide workers for constructing solar plants and connecting them to homes. They would ensure that the proper placement of the power plants be made, as to avoid any environmental harm and satisfy both sides of the conversation. This transition would likely take several years, if not more, however. Therefore, SEIA would need to dedicate much of their time and resources to making the compromise a reality. They would take the bulk of the work, in exchange for the change in industry. All the while, the Koch Brothers make their income from their fossil fuel plants until the project is complete, and they may begin switching over, creating a near-seamless transition. Once the transition is complete, the Brothers may begin making increased income from selling their solar power. In conclusion, the Koch brothers and SEIA should make the proposed compromise. Solar power plants are able to generate a larger income than fossil fuel based power and would also save the Koch brothers a rather large sum of money. To this end, I think that the Koch brothers should look away from fossil fuel based energy and look towards making profit off solar power. Napoliello 5 In exchange for progressing hopes for a cleaner energy future, they would be assisting with most of the transition from oil rigs to solar panels. This compromise would allow the Koch Brothers to produce a large profit, and satisfy environmental activists like those at SEIA. Napoliello 6 Works Cited Energy Industries SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association, www.seia.org/. Koch Industries, www.kochind.com/. Brown, Lester R., et al. Excerpt: The Great Transition: Shifting from Fossil Fuels to Solar and Wind TheHumanist.com, 22 Dec. 2015, SEIA Launches National Solar Photovoltaic Recycling  Waste360 (Online) 2016: General OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Koch Brothers: Sons of Wichita: How The Koch Brothers Became Most Powerful And Private  Biography 1 (2014): 347. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.