Sahadath 1 Shari Sahadath Karen Hanson ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Animal Testing on Cosmetic Companies Controversy has always been associated with animal testing. The majority of cosmetic companies perform animal testing on their products with some people against this act, and some who have no interest or want to continue with testing. Most of the academic research done on animal testing shows that cosmetic companies are trying to decrease tests done on animals, and exploration to find alternative methods to animal testing is evident. However, the problem is whether or not to cease the testing on animals for cosmetic products. The Humane Society of the United States(HSUS), a non-profit organization that fights for rights, believes that animal testing should be prohibited, as they are committed to protecting and helping animals in laboratories. Johnson & Johnson, a multinational pharmaceutical and cosmetic company, believes that the testing of animals is sometimes needed to assure safety and effectiveness on their cosmetic products. With Johnson & belief in animal testing, they do try to decrease the percentage of animals used. However, despite this controversy between these two organizations, they do have a common goal, which is to decrease animal testing. In order to consolidate this issue, animal testing should be diminished until alternative methods are found. Although this would be a suitable compromise, this may be easier said than done. Sahadath 2 The Humane Society of the United States is an organization that promotes and is in the lead for animal advocacy. They are devoted to helping animals in laboratories, as well as pets at home (Animals HSUS). The goal of this organization is to protect animals and battle animal cruelty. The Humane Society tries their best to make more humane place for (About Us HSUS). This organization believes that animal testing should not be conducted. They believe animals should have a fair chance at life, attain the best care and not have to face any sort of cruelty (Animal Care Centers HSUS). They believe this can be done by taking more interest in the issue of animal cruelty and by learning more about their care centers. This non-profit organization provides a list on how people can act to help animals used in experiments. In regards to animal testing, they are currently working on decreasing and eventually abolishing testing on animals. Developing alternative testing methods is their mission to promote. They would like to make animal testing illegal but not by the means of any violent or harmful acts (Cosmetic and Product Testing HSUS). Johnson & intentions are identical when it comes to animal testing. This cosmetic company believes in testing animals for the safety of humans using their products. Even though they believe in animal use, their policy is to strive to decrease and minimize testing on animals. They have mentioned they have decreased animal testing on their products by over sixty percent in the last twenty-seven years (Animal Testing J&J). They state that in order to bring their new products on the market, they need governmental agencies approval. However, in aid to stop testing on animals, they resort to trying alternative methods such as vitro methods (tests using human cells and tissues) (Garattini and Grignaschi 3), but this method does not bring in all the pre-clinical data that is needed for consent. Hence, they continue testing on animals. Continuous stress as to why they test on animals remains strictly for the safety of humans, Sahadath 3 especially when it comes to certain medical products. They state that the current non-animal alternative methods simply just do not meet their needs; the safety of the products. They also state that they keep on common ground with the Animal Welfare Act and the international regulatory requirements to assure they are following the instructions of the law. They clearly state that their experiments are not done illegally and are accredited or in the process of accreditation, and that when animals are used they have the approval and license from Institutional Animal Care and Use and regional government agencies (Animal Testing J&J). The Humane Society of the United States and Johnson & Johnson both share a common objective, to decrease animal testing as much as possible. Both of these stakeholders show clear evidence on this goal by doing their best, striving to lessen the use of animals for cosmetic products. However, in reality, though they may not be able to abrogate the use of animals completely, they both have ideas of trying to decrease this act as much as possible. Another interest that they both believe in is trying to source alternative methods to animal testing. The difference between the two is that The Humane Society of the United States believes that animal testing should be completely abolished while Johnson & Johnson believes that the use of animals is sometimes essential for the safety of their products. However, as much as The Humane Society of the United States wants animal testing banned or illegal, they face with the conflict, trying their best to make the issue known and also trying their best to decrease the problem. Many people have their own opinions on this topic, but these two stakeholders are a great insight on the controversy correlating animal testing. With this conflict of interest, a solution can be made by decreasing animal testing to a great extent until the alternative techniques or methods are properly effective. Scientists have been working on alternate methods to animal testing (Doke and Dhawale 224). However, progress has been slow and an alternative to animal testing Sahadath 4 is set to be in production by 2022 (Ezendam et al. 3). An example of an alternative approach is the use of a skin sensitizer creation. (Ezendam et al 1). With this solution, both of these stakeholders can come to an accord. Johnson & Johnson would have to try to find an alternative approach in order to ensure that their product is safe, without the use of animals. This solution can be a benefit to society as the reduction in the use of animals would cease all conflict and campaigning of this controversial issue. It would also cease the arguments organizations have against animal cruelty. Animal Testing arises many conflicts with people, whether it being right or wrong. According to article published by Gregory Mone, vitro and silico testing will play a much larger part in how we assess chemicals in the (Mone 21). This means that animal testing can eventually be abolished when further research is done to complete these alternative methods. This is where both stakeholders can come to a compromise. Both The Humane Society of the United States and Johnson & Johnson want similar approaches, which is decreasing animal testing and to source for alternative methods. The development of these different approaches can benefit not only society but animals as well. To alleviate any conflict between the two stakeholders, a common ground would be decreasing the use of animals greatly, until alternative methods or techniques are readily available for use. This compromise is reasonable and both stakeholders can come to a common ground by the reduction in animal testing. This is beneficial as it can also be considered an acceptable and positive approach. In the future, with the decrease of animal testing and the application of alternative methods to animal testing, we can be one step closer to a harmonious society. Sahadath 5 Works Cited The Humane Society of the United States. N.p, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Care The Humane Society of the United States. N.p, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Humane Society of the United States. N.p, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Johnson & Johnson. N.p, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. and Product The Humane Society of the United States. N.p, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Doke, Sonali K., and Shashikant C. Dhawale. Review: Alternatives To Animal Testing: A  Saudi Pharmaceutical Journal 23. (2015): 223-229. ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Ezendam, Janine, Hedwig M. Braakhuis, and Rob J. Vandebriel. Of The Art In Non- Animal Approaches For Skin Sensitization Testing: From Individual Test Methods Towards Testing Archives of Toxicology 12 (2016): 2861. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Garattini, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi. Article: Animal Testing Is Still The Best Way To Find New Treatments For Patients. Journal Of Internal Medicine (2016): ScienceDirect. Web 29. Jan 2017. Mone, Gregory. Models In Cosmetics Replacing Animal Communications Of The ACM 57.4 (2014): 20-21. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.