Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 28 January 2017 The Facts about persuasion strategies or genetically modified organisms, are defined by dictionary.com as organism or microorganism whose genetic material has been altered by means of genetic The world is consumed with GMO fever, and discussions are still going on as to the safety of them. These crops are featured in a number of studies and have been talked about in depth on several fronts, but the issue remains very divided. Both sides use telling imagery to try to convince a viewer that their side is the correct side. The website The Facts about sides with the positive side of the argument, citing research study after research study in order to prove their point. They use a variety of background images to convince the reader of their points, with the first two being dew on a leaf and the second being a child picking out vegetables with her mother. is a topic discussed by the website The Facts about which lays claim that are safe, can help starving people around the globe, and that provide just the same, if not more, benefits as normal organisms. The first image, the picture of the dew on the leaves, uses a mixture of both ethos and pathos in order to convince the reader of the point the website is trying to make. Ethos, defined by the text book Rhetoric really matters, is way of establishing trust with his or her (Lane et all, 27). Pathos is defined as experience of or sensitivity toward (Lane et all, 37). The author of the first image uses dew drops to for both beauty and to show just how natural are, giving us the feeling that something so natural could not be that bad for Student 2 us. This shows an appeal to pathos, giving us the scene of beauty and feeling emotional connection that we have felt previously when in nature, and ethos, making us trust that the author knows something about nature and life. Both of these combine to sort of lull the reader into a sense that the author knows what they are talking about, and allows for the audience to better understand the message the author is trying to achieve: are good for humans, and should be cultivated and used. The website is siding with the GMO positive side, and thus will use imagery to make them look more natural and positive, rather than unnatural abominations on nature that should never be used outside of a lab. This image also appeals to logos, which is defined as to logic and (Lane et all, 32). The use of such natural imagery and colors gives the reader precedent that a natural fruit or vegetable is the same as the other fruits and vegetables, just with a few added benefits that the other organisms might not have. Since the added benefits would come at no real cost to the user, logic says that people should use these benefits to the full advantage they are offered. Figure two is that of a woman and a little girl looking over a number of fruits and vegetables. This image also offers a glimpse of logos, since it suggests that are no different than regular vegetables and fruits. The audience is drawn in to all the colorful fruits and vegetables, and give the impression that any one of them could be genetically modified, but that they look no different than any other organism. The addition of the child gives the audience a sense of trust and is slightly calming, since no parent would ever dare feed their child something that might hinder the growth and development of their child. This plays into both the ethos, pathos and logos of the audience, since it hits both the logical, emotional, and ethical standpoints of how to raise a child in modern day, and even in past society. Parents would never intentionally harm their children, and thus would never intentionally feed their child something that might hurt Student 3 them, and thus must not be bad since this mother is letting her daughter pick out some vegetables that might be a GMO. People generally view parents as wanting the best for their children, so a mother allowing her daughter to consume something that has been genetically modified makes the reader trust that they must be safe, since a mother would not hurt the child. The website The Facts about takes the stance that are safe, can feed people who are hungry, and are just as beneficial, if not more than, regular organisms. The use of ethos, pathos, and logos combined to both attempt to help the audience and viewer understand the studies and readings the website provides, and give a visual to the words used. The dew leaf (figure one) brings about a sense of natural and fresh, while the child and the mother image (figure two) brings about a sense of trust, that the audience can take heart in the fact that people use so much so that a mother would trust feeding them to her child. Both images give a sense that an organism that has been genetically modified is safe to use, and thus the world should embrace rather than turn away from them. The efforts in using these images, the website persuades viewers to trust the sources and such that they provided, and draw them into the notion that some genetics play can actually help the world solve many different problems at once, and that the viewer should allows to be safely added into food. By playing on the logic, emotions, and ethics of the viewer, The Facts about uses every form of persuasion to get the audience on their side of the topic, ranging from projecting about the how natural genetically modified organisms may be to how parents trust them to feed and grow their children. Student 4 Works Cited The Facts About  The Facts About GMO. The Grocery Manufacturers Association, n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily, et al. 01 Rhetoric Rhetoric (Really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, Edited by Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs, XanEdu, Acton, MA, 2016, pp. Student 5 Figure 1 lH Student 6 Figure 2 D7R6