Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 5 February 2017 Project One - Intermediate Draft Discussions surrounding the topic of prostitution, or what has been termed: oldest tend to be quite divided over what is perceived to be oppression of women by some, or expressions of sexual autonomy and agency by others, particularly within the realm of feminist discourse. Perhaps no undercurrent or historical period has seen as much division as the present-day, or third-wave feminism, a section of feminist history that has only emerged and begun to influence feminist analysis within the past twenty to thirty years. As part of my research, I will apply an understanding of feminist interpretations to determine whether or not a coherent position affirming the agency (or social mobility beyond systems of oppression) of those who engage in prostitution is a possibility. For the purpose of this examination, a leaning towards the affirmative, or in favor of the perspective that those who work within the field of prostitution are able to do so while still maintaining their agency, will be evaluated in greater detail. In addition, through this application I will ultimately address the following research question: how have the various emerging strands of feminist research continued to influence perceptions of prostitution over time (with particular emphasis on third-wave feminism)? Student 2 Comte, Jacqueline. of sex work: Feminist discourses in light of Sexuality & Culture: An Interdisciplinary Quarterly , vol. 18, no. 1, 2014, pp. 196-217, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=10dc75c7-15ce-43d6 -9d11-5abb3c0f1f01%40sessionmgr104&vid=0&hid=121&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLW xpdmU%3d#AN=2014-03245-013&db=psyh. Accessed 5 Feb. 2017. This research essay examines three primary stances that occur towards prostitution, from the perspective of modern, or third-wave feminism: abolitionism, sex-positive feminism, and decriminalization. Abolitionism is often associated with the school of radical feminist thought, and as its name suggests, advocates for complete abolition of prostitution as a system of oppression equal to rape, as well as the perception of sex workers as victims that are to be aided in escaping this oppression. Sex-positive feminism takes an understandably positive approach towards prostitution, viewing it as a process by which sexuality can be destigmatized. Decriminalization argues that the majority of those who engage in prostitution do so of their own accord, and that further destigmatization is necessary. This essay is unique in that it also includes information from the perspective of male sex workers, and argues against the noted observation that the sexual experiences a woman has have become part of her identity, and utilized in the social degradation of her. However, the author concludes that that is certainly not the case, as she postulates that neither sex work nor sexual activity are inherently demeaning. In response to my research question, all three above categories could be seen as historical trends towards the perceptions of prostitution over time. This article served as primary motivation for the development of my research question, especially in regard to the destigmatization of female sexuality. I was additionally influenced particularly by Student 3 conception of the social construction of female sexuality, and the implications that this has for attitudes towards prostitution as a whole. The credibility of arguments is aided by her profession as a Sexologist, as well as her notable work as a Ph.D. student in the Sociology of Sexuality. Furthermore, her credibility is established by her extensive review of cited academic literature. Kesler, Kari. a Feminist Stance in Support of Prostitution Possible? An Exploration of Current , vol. 5, no. 2, 2002, pp. 219-235, http://journals.sagepub.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/abs/10.1177/1363460702005002005. Accessed 5 Feb. 2017. Similar to my first source, this essay examines five theoretical frameworks through which modern feminists critique the practice of prostitution: from an economic/Marxist perspective, in terms of free choice/consent, from an approach, from what is termed an approach, and finally from an perspective. The Marxist/economic perspective views prostitution as one of the only professions in which women receive higher pay, and as a whole, this system tends to condemn capitalism as a perpetrator of sexism. Free choice/consent critiques whether or not prostitution is freely chosen. The approach considers prostitution as a form of harm, because it equates sexuality with the self, and prostitution with exerting control over sexuality. The approach is described by Kesler as a theory developed by Debra Satz, in a 1995 article entitled, in Sexual in which Satz argues that the sale of sex remains distinct from the sale of other goods, and that the commodification of sex is one of the worst possible forms of commodification. Finally, the perspective was additionally developed by Satz, and Student 4 includes the conclusion that prostitution positions women as servants to the sexual desires of men that seek them out. Kesler argues, however, that a feminist stance supporting prostitution is possible, because what certain feminists critique as prostitution does not accurately reflect the realities of prostitution in its totality. This second source served as the perfect follow-up source to my first, and was equally influential towards developing my research question. I was especially enthused by the notion within article that some sex workers simultaneously identify as feminists, and through their own individual expressions of agency can even be considered role models. Kesler holds a degree in Studies, which gives her arguments credibility through her experience within the field. Anderson, Scott A. and Sexual Autonomy: Making Sense of the Prohibition of , vol. 112, no. 4, 2002, pp. 748-780, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=453a80c7- b917-48b7-9735-93ff7c0222972%40sessionmgr102&vid=0&hid=121&bdata=JnNpd GU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=edsjsr.10.1086.339672&db=edsjsr. Accessed 5 Feb. 2017. In this article, Scott Anderson takes a non-biased approach to reporting the modern ethical considerations of prostitution, from both the perspectives of radical, and more liberal strands of (third-wave) feminism. Rather than making a justification on whether or not prostitution should be prohibited, Anderson examines arguments from both sides of the spectrum, including a synthesis of viewpoints, although he does display a certain opposition to what he describes as the of prostitution (750). From a radical feminist point Student 5 of view, which is staunchly opposed to the practice of prostitution in its entirety, Anderson identifies three general claims that are made against the implementation of the practice: that the good purchased from a prostitute is frequently, in part, her own degradation; (2) that the existence of prostitution depends on the existence of an inequality in social or economic power between prostitutes and their customers; and (3) that prostitution contributes to the perpetuation of the inequalities that underlie the (752). Similarly, Anderson also notes three reconciliations within the liberal feminist response, including: the fact that prostitution can still provide some economic benefit for the women that engage in it; the diversity of individual identities of those that work within prostitution, which he relays as a characteristic that refutes the notion of prostitution comprising a singular institution; and finally, that the harms directed at the women who work as sex workers are not extensions of their voluntary participation, but rather extenuating circumstances (756-757). Though this article does not explicitly support my individual outlook: that prostitution, agency, and sexual autonomy can be reconciled with a feminist identity, I chose to include it for its all-encompassing yet impartial analysis of contemporary feminist discourse. Scott Anderson is affiliated with the University of Chicago, and his many footnotes here attest to his academic credibility. Davidson, Julia Rights and Wrongs of , vol. 17, no. 2, 2002, pp. 84-98, http://www.jstor.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/stable/3810752?seq=1#page Accessed 5 Feb. 2017. Julia Davidson takes a similar approach to Scott Anderson, in that she acknowledges a divide in modern feminist theory between sex work, or affirming points of view Student 6 often taken by liberal feminists, and abolitionism, or radical feminist advocacy for abolishing all forms of prostitution entirely. In her research, which has involved personal interviews with prostitutes themselves, as well as their clients from all walks of life, from affluence to poverty, she has deduced a correlation between prostitution and human rights abuses, while still advocating for the rights of sex workers as a whole. Like Anderson, she identifies certain economic reasons that have provided the impetus for the voluntary participation of some of the workers, although she personally sympathizes with abolitionists in terms of whether or not the commodification of sexual commerce should be permitted (84). As part of the ethical considerations behind enabling prostitution as a form of labor, Davidson also argues that in order to examine the debate more fully, one must look beyond mere interpretations and examine prostitution as it occurs in communities, where a division of labor is much more pronounced (96). I chose to include article as part of my sources because I believe that her interpretation provides a much needed extension to Scott text. Specifically, though she has her own personal standpoint, she examines all sides of modern arguments surrounding prostitution, especially a Marxist/economic interpretation. Many articles or sources of research explicitly examine prostitution from the perspective of communities, but she reminds us of the necessity of examining the subject in all contexts in which it occurs. Davidson received her Ph.D. in Sociology from the University of Bristol, accounting for her credibility, and cites an ample amount of resources in the disclosure of her references.