Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 22 January 2017 Take Refuge The Refuge is a residential program in which people with illnesses are treated for at least thirty days to one year to The Refuge believes that dependency, trauma/PTSD, mood disorders and process addictions are treatable illnesses and that recovery and remission can occur with proper to Their treatment program includes approaches such as yoga, hypnotherapy, meditation, and other techniques to The Refuge presents specific locations, staff, and external resources under their category located on their home page. Also on The Refuges home page are two video testimonies (one from a male, one from a female) that stand out in order to capture the attention. On their main menu, each category is displayed in an identical matter so that they match the same level of importance and are easily accessible. The primary goal, message, and purpose is provide lasting recovery through healing the mind, body and to Through the images and information provided by The website, depression is an illness that is treatable through guidance, nurture, and proper treatment. Located directly on their home page is an image (see Fig. 1) that contains a statement laid over a photo to The statement says us guide and nurture you back to a healthy state of and is placed on a photo of a bridge to The primary visual message the stakeholder is communicating is that The Refuge creates a path to healthy Student 2 state of to Text is used in the image to convey the intended message and is what grabs the attention. The text actually blocks the photo, making the image just a background and the text the main focus. The use of color (the green and tan colors) impacts the viewer by creating a sense of calmness and relaxation. The text communicates that The Refuge is a calming and welcoming place that will aid people in their path to overcoming mental illness. The text and picture combined give the overall image the purpose of encouraging people to get treatment and become healthy again through The Refuge. When analyzing an image, it is pertinent to consider not only the audience but the context of the image (Gerdes 340). Logos can be seen through the use of the bridge in the photo as it is an to (Lane, Lee & Mckee 21). The bridge symbolizes the journey in which the person will go on with The Refuge in order to get back to a healthy life. Ethos is the way in which the image with the audience (Lane, Lee & McKee 18). In this case, it is used through the fact that the audience is able to see the down a far length of the bridge. The long path represents freedom, a symbol that is viewed with a large amount of importance to many people. Pathos is an to and can be seen through the use of the word healthy (Lane, Lee & McKee 20). By using the word healthy, it implies that the person needing the help is not healthy, playing on the emotions of that person. Kairos is a of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right and is used in the image through the concern that the person who needs guiding is unhealthy (Lane, Lee & McKee 23). They are stating that without the guidance of The Refuge, the targeted audience is living in an unhealthy state. Through these rhetorical devices, the audience is able to see a clear connection between the image and The main goal: that they are able to treat depression through guidance and nurture. Student 3 Located on their webpage regarding depression and their treatments for it is another image (see Fig. 2). Figure 2 shows two women sitting on a bench that appear to be having a conversation The primary visual message the stakeholder is communicating through this image is that talking to someone may help the way the targeted audience has been feeling. The serious face that the woman on the right is portraying and the smile on the woman on the left are visual cues that convey the intended message. The facial expressions indicate that these two women are having a serious conversation. The placement of the woman in the purple arm is what stands out the most in this image. Its placement shows that woman is open and welcoming of the other woman and how she may be feeling. The image uses colors that are solid, creating a casual and calm impact on the audience. Rhetorical devices are also used in Figure 2 in order to aid the idea that nurture and guidance are necessary in the road to recovery from depression. Logos is created through the sense of community that is portrayed through the friendship presented by the two women. Ethos is also portrayed through the friendship in Figure 2. The friendship expresses life experience, appealing to the credibility of The Refuge. Pathos is used through the portrayed conversation that is occurring. Since it appears that one woman is opening up to the other, this plays on the empathy of the audience. Kairos is used through the position of both females in Figure 2. One woman looks welcoming and inviting by the way she is sitting while the other looks as if she is opening up and talking to the other. This is an attempt to persuade the targeted audience to get help. When looking at how this particular image uses rhetorical devices, that audience is able to see exactly how the image adds to The belief that nurture and guidance are important factors in the treatment of depression. Student 4 After reviewing both images and the main goal, it is clear to see that they are connected in the belief that depression is treatable through guidance, nurture, and proper treatment. The Refuge aims to make unhealthy people healthy again by treating them through their residential programs by using techniques that specifically guide and nurture their patients. Without the proper guidance, nurture, and treatment, depression can significantly impair a quality of life Statistics, As seen in image 1 and 2, they claim to create a calm and welcoming environment in which people who need help can seek it. Image 1 expresses their goal of achieving a healthy mind through guidance and nurture while image 2 furthers this by actually showing two women have a conversation that appears to also have guidance and nurture. Both images connect back to The Refuge and its belief that one can be healed with nurture, guidance, and proper treatment. Word Count: 1128 Student 5 Works Cited Depression  The Refuge A Healing Place. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http://www.therefuge-ahealingplace.com/depression-treatment/>. Depression: Statistics, Causes, Signs &  The Refuge A Healing Place. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http://www.therefuge-ahealingplace.com/depression- treatment/effects-symptoms-signs/#How-Depression-Can-Effect-Ones-Life>. Welcome to The  The Refuge. The Refuge, A Healing Place., n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http://www.therefuge-ahealingplace.com/>. Gerdes, Julie. Visual Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 340. E-text. Lane, Emily. Lee, Kendra. McKee, Jessica. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 17-24. E-text. Student 6 LET US GUIDE AND NURTURE YOU BACK TO A HEALTHY STATE OF LIVING. Figure 1. http://www.therefuge-ahealingplace.com Figure 2. http://www.therefuge-ahealingplace.com/depression-treatment/