Name: Lambotharan Vijayan Instructor: Cat Modlin Jackson Class: ENC 1101 Date: 01/29/2017 Deserting Fossil Fuels for Hydrogen Fuels as Primary Source of Energy Increased energy usage is the most prominent factor for raising a quality lifestyle in all societies, from countries which are developing to developed. However, the reliability of energy from fossil fuels have produced a vast amount of unwanted side effects such as: environmental pollution which has put human health at risk, the increasing amount of carbon dioxide emissions that has brought the earth to global warming, and geopolitical tensions that has created war due to the varying distributions of fossil fuel resources throughout the world. The challenge most scientist face today is to find a highly efficient way to use, produce, and deliver energy that would enhance lifestyle but do not harm the environment and climate nor cost more geopolitical controversies. Hydrogen energy is an energy source that could be the answer to all these problems that we are facing in world. Hydrogen is a chemical element which is known to be the most abundant chemical element in the universe and the combustion of hydrogen would only produce heat energy and water with no harmful pollutants. Hydrogen is probably one of the many potential replacements for fossil fuels but it is not a naturally occurring energy source by itself but an energy source that is rather produced than found. Hydrogen is tend to be extracted from methane, water or nuclear power, and extracting hydrogen from these compounds would still need other sources of energy which we still have to tilt our heads to fossil fuels once again. Could hydrogen be produced without the help of fossil fuels? DAS, L.M. potential of hydrogen as an alternative fuel for the transport and power sector in International Journal of Environmental Studies, Vol. 64, No. 6, Routledge Taylor and Francis, December 2007, pp DOI: 10.1080/00207230701770418. Exhaustive studies conducted in the the laboratories of India have shown that hydrogen fuel can be effectively used in the existing designs of the SI engines. This approach advances the developments a stage closer to zero-emissions. This is so because the oxides of nitrogen, which is one of the single major pollutant of a concern in a hydrogen engine, can be substantially controlled using lean operating conditions. An appropriately designed injection system based on the typical combustion properties of hydrogen fuel is essential to ensure ultra- lean engine operations. Such an engine shows good performance and low emission characteristic of the engine without any symptoms of undesirable combustion phenomena. With the present level of technology, hydrogen can be used in diesel engines in a dual fuel mode. This article is relevant to my research because it states that hydrogen can be used in the existing designs of the SI engines which means we would not have to change or modify any existing SI engines to burn hydrogen fuel. Furthermore L.M. DAS is a professor in the Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi for the centre of energy studies, engines and unconventional fuels laboratory. Not only that, this article has been peer reviewed by others who specialize in this particular field. Ahmed, Adeel. Al-Amin, Abdul Quasem. F.Ambrose, Angelina. R.Saidur. fuel and transport system: A sustainable and environmental International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Volume 41, Issue 3, 21 January 2016, pp This article reviewed the prospects of introducing hydrogen fuel in Malaysia in response to climate change and energy security with focus on sustainable transport system. It critically assesses the Malaysian situation for hydrogen fuel in the transport system framework and requirements by taking into account concerns for a sustainable future roadmap and environmental attention in mind. In considering the various feasible options on renewable energy a detailed evaluation of the hydrogen fuels clearly shows that it is one of the most viable alternatives for the future transportation system in the Malaysian economy for long-term sustainability. The Malaysian R&D efforts to accelerate potential development reseof hydrogen fuels in collaboration with other developed and developing countries is expected to have a positive outcome for climate change. I find this article helpful and reliable because it evaluates the introduction of hydrogen fuel into the Malaysian transportation system for a sustainable and environmental future. R.Saidur is a researcher in Centre of Research Excellence in Renewable Energy in King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM), Dhahran, 31261, Saudi Arabia. This article has been peer reviewed by the by others who specialize in this particular field. Bidin, Noriah. Azni, Siti Radhiana. Abu Bakar, M. Azat. Johari, Abd Rahman. Abdul Munap, Daing Hanum Farhana. Salebi, M. Farizuddin. Abd. Razak, Siti Noraiza. Sahidan, Nur Syahira. Sulaiman, Siti Nur Aqilah. effect of sunlight in hydrogen production from International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Vol 42, 1, Elsevier Ltd, Issue, 5 January 2017, Pages doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.11.203. Sunlight energy has provided external electric field in water electrolysis. The sunlight reveals the optimum hydrogen production because it overcomes the drawback of residue electric field normally induced by the DC power supply in water electrolysis process. The presence of external electric field from sunlight strengthens the electric field in water electrolysis enhances the hydrogen production. The alignment of the electric dipole of water affected the hydrogen bonding which allow to stress and stretching and ultimately leading toward water splitting. The mechanical effect is demonstrated via surface tension and the separation charge through electrical conductivity. The surface tension is compensated with hydrogen production meanwhile the electrical conductivity is to lead the charges towards hydrogen production. This mean the role of surface tension is as initiator to start water splitting, whereas electrical conductivity is to continuously flow the separation charges induced by water splitting that attribute towards hydrogen production. Collimated sunlight has a high potential to be used as a renewable energy source to enhance hydrogen production in the future. This was taken because it discusses the topic about production of hydrogen through sunlight. Furthermore, they have discussed and compared few other experiments and had their research prove that sunlight is the best way to produce hydrogen energy. The are researchers from University Technology Malaysia and Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Batu Pahat. Al-Zareer , , Maan. Dincer, Ibrahim. A. Rosen, Marc. and assessment of a novel integrated nuclear plant for electricity and hydrogen Energy Conversion and Management, Volume 134, Elsevier Ltd, 15 February 2017, Pages doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.enconman.2016.12.004. Hydrogen is produced through the four-step hybrid thermochemical water decomposition cycle that utilizes copper and chlorine compounds. A Rankine cycle is used to generate power, part of which is used by the electrolysis step in the hybrid thermochemical water decomposition cycle and the hydrogen compression system. The nuclear heat is delivered to the other systems in the integrated system in the form of supercritical fluid. The nuclear reactor is based on a supercritical water-cooled reactor with a closed loop containing the supercritical fluid. The integrated system is simulated using the process engineering software Aspen Plus. Based on the results of the integrated system, it is concluded that the idea of integrating nuclear reactors with high temperature output to produce hydrogen has promise, and is supported by the reasonable energy and exergy efficiencies. Carbon-free nuclear hydrogen production can mitigate carbon emissions to the environment. This article is peer reviewed by experts in this field and the authors are researchers who does research in University of Ontario Institute of Technology. This article also discusses about the production of hydrogen from electricity generated in nuclear plants. The production is proved to be efficient and more research is taking place to make the production of hydrogen better. Bae, Joongmyeon. Lee, Sangho. Kim,Sunyoung. Oh, Jiwoo. Choi, Seunghyeon. Bae, Minseok. Kang, Inyong. P. Katikaneni, Sai. fuel processing for hydrogen production: A International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Volume 41, Issue 44, Elsevier Ltd, 26 November 2016, Pages doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.08.135. Liquid fuel processing technologies have attracted attention because of the increasing importance of energy and environmental problems. Liquid fuels such as gasoline and diesel are promising hydrogen sources because of their high hydrogen densities, widespread applications and well-constructed infrastructure. Liquid fuels can be used in various applications, such as fuel cells, through liquid fuel processing. Pure hydrogen or natural gas has been used depending on the fuel cell type. However, pure hydrogen and natural gas are unavailable in some applications and areas. Therefore, fuel cell applications can be diversified by using liquid fuels. The liquid fuel delivery, catalytic reforming and reformate cleaning processes have been investigated for producing hydrogen-rich gases. Some kW-class reactors have also been developed for practical applications. This paper will summarize and discuss each liquid fuel processing technology and the kW-class reactors for converting liquid fuels into hydrogen-rich gases in a stable manner. This article was chosen because the authors are researches in the Department of Mechanical Engineering in Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology and research and development center in Saudi Arabia. This article is peer reviewed by experts in this field and they discuss their research on how to maximise the hydrogen production by using fuel cells. Monk, Nigel. Watson, Simon. of pulsed power for efficient hydrogen International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Vol. 41 Issue 19, Elsevier Ltd, May2016, p7782- 7791. 10p, doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2015.12.086. Pulsed power applied to electrolysis offers a potential method for efficient hydrogen production which has not been comprehensively studied to date. Pulsed and plasma electrolysis are introduced and previous research assessed. Electrolysis use in potential space or aerospace applications is substantially weight and volume sensitive. Pulsed plasma electrolysis is able to far exceed the Faradaic limit on electrolysis at very high surface current densities presenting the opportunity to reduce electrode mass and volume. Pulse generation technology is introduced and challenges inherent in application to electrolysis outlined. The need to evaluate electrolyser parameters beyond thermodynamic efficiencies has been suggested, leading to potential weight and volume sensitive applications if a high intensity aqueous electrolysis process can be created. This article discusses about the Pulse power applied to electrolysis for hydrogen production and thus has helped me to further my research about hydrogen fuels. The authors are also researchers from Centre for Renewable Energy Systems and Technology in United Kingdom and they must be experts in the field of renewable energy and that is why i find this source reliable. Furthermore this article has been peer reviewed by professionals whpo are also experts in the field of renewable energy.