Student 1 Student Dr. Thorton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Project 1 Final Draft A stakeholder is a corporation that has concern for a certain matter of business; in this case the Federal Drug Administration, or FDA is responsible for the safety of food products while also promoting better nutrition (U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page). The images and text included on the stakeholders website convey a positive message to their audience in regards to the organizations mission. The FDA regulates and produces guidelines in order to better the health of the public. Through their use of visual and rhetorical strategies the FDA communicates that their implemented tactics are there to benefit public health. In order to reach out to their audience they use these strategies in their images. One of the many aspects of food and its effect on human health that the FDA holds great importance on is the use of genetically modified organisms, or (Statement of Policy - Foods Derived from New Plant Varieties). The administration holds responsibility for and encourages manufactures to label food that has been modified. Policies and guides for direction regarding genetically engineered plants have been implemented and are continually looked at by the FDA. are a matter being discussed on the website that shows how the Federal Drug Administration upholds their responsibilities which include providing safety for the health of the public, promoting better nutrition, and ensuring the quality of products. The FDA provides guidance regarding the labeling of on food products by different manufacturers. The FD&C Act created by the FDA forbids food from the industry that Student 2 has been misbranded or mislabeled in a way that is misleading in any way (Statement of Policy - Foods Derived from New Plant Varieties). This act is in place in order to ensure that the public is aware of what makes up their food. As an example, if the product packaging fails to mention the existence of or mentions ingredients that are not present. What seems to trick people is how manufacturers place the term GMO on the product by calling it something different such as, or (Statement of Policy - Foods Derived from New Plant Varieties). The common public does not conceptualize that fact that the manufacturer is referring to by using a different term. This act was put in place by the FDA just as another way to maintain their mission of ensuring better quality and safety for the betterment of the public (U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page). Throughout the website there are many images and statements used to reassure the fact that their main goal is to provide safety for the public. In analyzing the visuals in the first image what really stands out is the connection between the mother and child. This targets mainly anyone who is a parent as the main audience. The expression on the mothers face gives off a warm and positive feeling to the audience that feels comforting. This image not only makes the Student 3 audience smile, but it includes other visual appeals to the eye such as the bright colors along with different textures (Sheffield). These elements of the image are what make it unique from the others on the website. most sweeping reform of our food safety laws in more than 70 years aims to ensure the U.S. food supply is safe by focusing on (FDA Food Safety Modernization Act). The caption that describes the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act provides the audience with an example of how they ensure safety by focusing on prevention. Overall, this image from the stakeholders website reinstates that the FDA is there to provide safety for the health of the public through the use of various visual appeals (U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page). When analyzing the use of rhetoric in this image there are many aspects that are demonstrative of the different appeals. Logos is present in the image through the depiction of a mother handing the child a tomato. This shows the audience that if a mother trusts the food enough to give it to her child then the food must be safe to consume. The common phrase knows is conceptualized in this image which appeals to the viewers logic. The appeal to emotion is shown in the way that the mother is looking at her child. The expression on her face along with having a baby in the photo shows the use of pathos. The connection shared between the two of them demonstrates kairos, by having the moment perfectly timed. Ethos is present in the caption, as it provides credibility through the use of an example of one of their laws. This image truly captures the moment between a mother and child in order for the FDA appeal to a certain audience, in this case being parents, to show just how they care about the health of the public. Student 4 In the second photo the FDA uses a multitude of images to show the different contexts of public health that they deal with. As opposed to the other photo this one is not as positive and sends a different message to the audience. By placing all of these different images together the administration is showing that they are responsible for many different aspects of human health. They are able to have many of the different areas of health represented in one image. The targeted audience is any users of the products that are represented in the image. Since many of these products are used daily by people, the stakeholder is able to appeal to quite a large audience. Having a cool toned color pallet makes this collage blend well and causes the viewers eyes to flow from one image to another (Sheffield). In analyzing the visual aspects of this image, what immediately sticks out is the photo in the right hand corner. This photo in particular speaks volume about the FDA, by showing that they do not support the use of cigarettes. The caption reiterates what the photo shows by saying that there are, many ways FDA is responsible for protecting the public (Is It Really Being FDA approved ensures that the product or food is of high quality by meeting the administrations standards. Through many Student 5 visual appeals, this photo goes back to the mission being that they strive to ensure the highest quality of products (U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page). This image also has many appeals within each individual photo. The appeal to logic, logos, in this image is evident because of the seriousness of these photos and the responsibility that the FDA is showing that they hold. Ethos is used in this image through the FDA mentioning how they hold responsibilities, which shows credibility. By capturing images of drugs, cigarettes, and the CAT scan machine the image appeals to the audiences emotions because these objects deal with serious issues. Kairos is used in this image by the breaking of the cigarette, which shows a perfect example of the right thing at the right time. In this case that is getting rid of something harmful in order to better the health of the public. These appeals help show the users of these products that the FDA strives to attain the highest quality of products while maintaining safety of public health (U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page). The Federal Drug Administration is in charge of guaranteeing that products distributed by manufacturers are safe, nutritional, and of high quality. The rhetorical strategies used on the website establish the administrations credibility and responsibility. By forming different acts and laws the FDA delivers safety standards in the publics best interest and certify that the nutritional values placed on products are valid (Statement of Policy - Foods Derived from New Plant Varieties). The two images, though different in appearance, deliver similar messages to various audiences. The messages coming from the photos convey to the audience the main goals of the FDA, which are to provide safety for the health of the public, promote better nutrition, and ensure the quality of products. Student 6 Works Cited FDA Food Safety Modernization Act  U.S. Food and Drug Administration. N.p., 31 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Is It Really  U.S. Food and Drug Administration. N.p., 30 Sept. 2008. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Sheffield, Jenna Pack. Breaking Down an  Writing Commons. Creative Commons, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.. Statement of Policy - Foods Derived from New Plant  Statement of Policy - Foods Derived from New Plant Varieties. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. U S Food and Drug Administration Home  U S Food and Drug Administration.Web. 29 Jan. 2017.