Rudderham 1 Stephen Rudderham Professor Karen Hanson ENC1102 February 12, 2017 Outsourcing Shaping the World Outsourcing has become an important topic in globalizing world. Outsourcing is when a company produces a good or service in an outside country rather than one they are citizen of, in order to reduce the amount it will cost to perform such tasks Many governments like the United States believe businessmen and women have been taking advantage of the loose labor laws in developing countries, especially those in South Asia. The business men and women believe that doing this will in return help the people of their own countries by producing cheaper clothing and utensils. Through outsourcing goods and services, the economy of countries involved can be hurt, as well as the lives of the workers that are employed in factories or sweatshops. The conditions they work are often long hours for little pay in extremely harsh conditions with excess heat or little time for breaks if any. Businesses are for the construction of goods in foreign lands because it allows them to bring in greater profits. With that being said organizations like the US Department of Labor have been trying to restrict corporations from employing these people with laws of their own. Other organizations, like The U.S. Chamber of Commerce are in support of outsourcing products in foreign countries. To bring both opinions into the equation, these companies should work together to create laws about teaching people in developing to lead businesses and be incorporated in the success that can occur. Rudderham 2 The United States Department of Labor is encouraging making new laws that restrict corporations from invading other countries that need help with their economies, and setting up their business. Inside the Department of Labor, they have the Bureau of International Labor Affairs. The bureau oversees foreign policies like negotiating labor provision in trade agreements, and the capacity of other countries to enforce and improve labor (Trade Negotiation & Enforcement). This means that the Bureau is looking over trade agreements between different countries and making them fair or equal for each party. Next, our nation is struggling still from the Great Recession and by taking away jobs from our middle class Americans it is leaving disadvantaged workers with little opportunity to contribute to the economy (Hux, and Joseph). The US Department of Labor believes that outsourcing products to developing nations is unethical. They feel that the countries are being taken advantage of from these big corporations because jobs are finally being offered to them, but at harsh conditions and minimal pay. The United States needs to recover from this economic crisis that started nearly a decade ago To start this movement of recovering from the economies the US Department of Labor has begun to implement new laws in order to keep jobs in the United States. The Department of Labor believes this will allow the economy to improve and produce more jobs in the United States. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the, largest business They represent over 3 million businesses of all sizes and classes (About the U.S. Chamber). These businesses all look to the Chamber of Commerce in order to represent them in Washington D.C. The Chamber of commerce is funded by supporting organizations. The organizations that fund them are often comprised of the people that they support in Washington D.C. Taking that into consideration the Chamber of Commerce is going to feel obligated to help these businesses and Rudderham 3 try to accomplish tasks they ask. In order to support outsourcing, The Chamber of Commerce, jobs overseas on behalf of its corporate (Johnson 1). The Chamber has previously sent out alerts opposing the views of Democrats to find jobs locally. They are in favor of open opportunity to businesses with the money and organization to send the company outside the United States. They believe that they are helping the local people by offering a numerous amount of new jobs for them. Also, because businesses are achieving so much success from outsourcing, they do not want to be restricted in where they can operate. In order to bring both sides into a solution, these two organizations should work together. Although they have opposing views on the subject it is easy to see that large corporations are going into developing countries and taking away from the small businesses that help local economies. Small business owners struggle to survive when big, outside corporations come in and begin working. (Yusuf, 1995) In order incorporate both stakeholders, a solution is to make laws that require businesses to employ the local workers and people, of the countries they go into, as interns or managers and not just people who work in factories. This would allow for both the business to work in another country but also the people of the country to be more invested within their place of work. By having interns in the companies the local people will understand how the business world works and they will easily transition into owning their own companies eventually even if they are a smaller owned place. Now these unskilled workers will become skilled and the high labor costs with low wages will disappear. Therefore, this will attract appropriate business to developing nations. With everyone working together, the world could accomplish much more and make it a safer more enjoyable place to live everywhere. While outsourcing products and services can be beneficial to the business and account for profits, the negative sides of putting people in sweatshops and giving them little pay is dangerous Rudderham 4 and unnecessary. Therefore, in order to set this aside, companies need to hire or intern local people into the management spots of their business. This was tried before in 1961, with the Lebanese people with the development of the Beirut Management College (Guenther). A more recent endeavor was with an organization named SOLIDAR. They are located in Europe and are trying to go into developing nations and establish universities in order to help the people About ). Developing nations have been a talking point for the past decades. When companies and organizations come into a new country and try to help out the local people it is often a high risk encounter. Risks like the businesses losing money from employing people for higher pay or even just being unsuccessful in a foreign land. Another possible encounter could be community understanding and enthusiasm (Guenther). This possible draw back was mentioned in the experiment that took place in the late 1960s although could still entertain the same reactions today. With all that has happened and the terrible conditions that local workers have been put through, they may not look at this as a beneficial thing that is happening. But, if everything is done well and a plan is made to educate the local people, like SOLIDAR mentioned, then this possibility has a great chance at success. With everything happening accordingly the developing nations will have a real chance at being a developed nation. And this could be because of the help from countries like the United States, Great Britain, Germany and other developed nations. Rudderham 5 Works Cited United States Department of Labor. N.p., 18 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  SOLIDAR - Advancing Social Justice in Europe and Worldwide. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. About the U.S.  U.S. Chamber of Commerce. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Community Colleges Become a Force in Developing Nations  The Chronicle of Higher Education 37 (2001): Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Guenther, H. P. Beirut Management College: An Experiment in Management Training for a Developing  Middle East Journal 17.(1963): 368-382. Humanities & Social Sciences Index Retrospective: 1907-1984 (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hux, Annette R., and Joseph R. Nichols. The Financial and Political Impacts of Labor- Outsourcing in Rural School  Education 3 (2016): 275. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Johnson, Brad. Chamber of Commerce Funded by Top Offshoring  ThinkProgress. 08 Aug. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.  Investopedia. N.p., 01 Dec. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Trade Negotiation &  United States Department of Labor. N.p., 18 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Yusuf, A. (1995). Critical Success Factors for Small Business: Perceptions of South Pacific Entrepreneurs. Journal of Small Business Management, 33(2), 68. Retrieved from https://search.proquest.com/docview/221005097?accountid=14745 Rudderham 6