1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Conveying Solar Importance As the earth looks towards the future it sees the drying up of its major energy source, fossil fuels. With the running out of fossil fuels it is thoughtful to invent more sustainable ways for energy use. The use of renewable resources has been one of the solutions to try and combat this problem. Renewable resources are not by any means a new idea, however their importance has more recently become an important topic. Solar energy, specifically, is a resource that is readily available and will be for billions of years. With the importance of solar energy becoming more prevalent, stakeholders are starting to make themselves more known. One organization, founded in 1991, has continued to impact the conversation surrounding solar energy. Solar Energy (SEI) mission statement is simply, empower through the education of sustainable (Solar Energy International). Using their website, SEI, continues to impact those interested in learning about solar energy. Through an image of empowered individuals around a solar panel and the use of smaller images in the seal, Solar Energy International provides instructional information on solar energy and is empowering and helpful to the world and individuals. The first image depicts a group of individuals standing and sitting around a solar panel in an ecstatic mood. This image is specifically appeals to the rhetorical device of pathos, appeal to (Rhetoric Really Matters 37). The emotion of the people, is a cheerful and Student 2 smiley mood. This cheerful mood raises the question of are these people so The answer can be found in the arrangement of the images elements. In the center of the image stands a solar panel, which the excited group surrounds to become the focal point of the image. The focal point is the most important point on the image and the cheerful mood helps bring a sense of happiness along with the solar panel. The installation of this solar panel was something fulfilling to those in the image and they are content with their, hoping they made a difference. Some of those happy individuals are holding plagues or certificates up at the image adding towards their credibility, ethos, with the viewer. The showing of the plagues stems to show that the people had to learn to be able to install solar panels, however by their reactions all that times spent is worth it to put their knowledge to use for the better. Solar Energy International use of this image is to bring about a sense of honor being accredited in the knowledge and understanding of solar panels. The happy people show that what they have been able to do, brings happiness once their knowledge is put to good use. The individuals made the world a little more sustainable but by their reactions, that is all a little bit goes a long way. With the simple use of emotion and how the individuals are arranged around the solar panel, Solar Energy International stems to make their case in showing just how good it is to make the world a more sustainable place to live. The second image resembles a shield from a medieval coat of arms but adapted for modern use. This image is meant to appeal to those seeking more information on the Solar Professionals Certificate Program (SPCP). Contained within the of are three smaller images meant to implement the meaning of Solar Energy International. The three smaller images are that of a globe, the sun and a lightning bolt crossed with a wrench. The sun signifies the use of renewable energies that are the founding component of message. The globe means to show how Solar Energy International impacts more than just one part of the world, even stating Student 3 they have done work in Africa, Micronesia and the (Solar Energy International). The lightning bolt and wrench are meant to establish that Solar Energy International works with energy in a hands-on way. Using the combination of lightning bolt and wrench is seen at the top left of seal, which is the most important as to right and from top to (Rhetoric Really Matters 348). The image holder put the wrench where is war so our eyes would see it first, as it has significance to the overall image. The wrench being the first image seen is meant to establish what SEI does for those that are considering SCPC. As you look across the image and see the smaller other figures, it appeals to the emotions of those viewing that, if you work for SCPC you can make a difference over the world. Touching the planet in places other than in just your own backyard and making it a more sustainable place. The Solar Professionals Certification Program is used to establish the credibility that SEI has when it comes to sustainable sources of energy. Having your own accredited certification program shows that your company contains a cast array of knowledge about the topic being certified in. The intention of the stakeholder, with each individual symbol in the shield is show how each part unifies together as a whole to complete the meaning of Solar Energy International, to show people how to make the world more sustainable. Solar Energy International is a stakeholder that has put tried to make a claim since their founding in 1991 (Solar Energy International). To get their message into the conversation surrounding the need for more sustainable energy SEI has used many media and medium to do so. However, in present times through rhetorical appeals in images on their website, SEI continues to try and sustainable Through the rhetorical appeals of ethos and pathos, as well as how the images are arranged possible to see how Solar Energy International make their claim. It is simple to read the mission statement to find the claim of a Student 4 stakeholder, however their use of rhetorical appeals in images helps to establish the claim in a more lasting way by permanently engraining images and their message into that of the viewer. (WC: 1012) Student 5 Works Cited Solar Energy International, October 2014. Photograph. Accessed 22 January 2017. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-41. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Breaking down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. E-text. Solar Energy International. Solar Energy International, 2016, http://www.solarenergy.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Professionals Certificate Solar Energy International, November 2014. Graphic. Accessed 22 January 2017. Student 6