Peterson 1 Rebecca Peterson Kimber Wiggs ENC1101 Section 713 February 5, 2017 Healthcare Law and Reform Annotated Bibliography With the political climate becoming more and more turbulent, the top priority of lawmakers as of late is centered around universal healthcare, specifically The Affordable Care Act (ACA). The ACA, or more commonly called Obamacare has extended healthcare coverage to millions of Americans, making some insured for the first time due to the extensive coverage gap between the different levels of incomes used to qualify for different programs such as Medicare, Medicaid, and the Marketplaces. With the argument that universal healthcare coverage is too expensive for the public and with no incentives of better healthcare to accommodate the higher premiums, lawmakers are looking to completely repeal the ACA to bring costs down. This places the economic standpoint of healthcare over the social aspect of having healthcare be a universal right to the people. What policies are in place and need to be added to make healthcare universal without hurting the economy? By viewing the changes that have happened in healthcare reform from before the ACA, as the ACA was implemented, and even in other countries that have universal healthcare but use an entirely different system can provide different perspective as to how to offer healthcare to those in the coverage gap without draining all the resources of those who must pay for the gap coverage. Sherman, Peter J. the Whole Quality Progress, vol. 43, issue 9, 2010, pp. 32-36, 38. Peterson 2 Within the Whole Sherman gives his experience of being the primary caregiver to his father and the experiences he had at a hospital and how the issue with expensive healthcare is not to look at the individual pieces that have failed, but rather to look at the flaws of the overall system. With examples of where over $1500 dollars was essentially wasted due to miscommunication between departments and more expensive tests given when a cheaper alternative was already done, shows that money is being drained in ways that could avoided if the entire system was given a complete overhaul and not blaming the specific individuals of that one event. Sherman also gives numbers to the amount of money spend on average for health insurance, the surgical deaths related to incorrect surgeries, anesthesia, and infections resulting from poor or incorrect surgical techniques, and the amount of deaths from incorrectly filled prescriptions. makes the patient the customer and by better organizing a hospital, it sped procedures alone, wasted less of the time because of better communication between departments, and save thousands of dollars in medical bills that no longer would need to be covered by health insurance, the hospital, or the patient. the Whole relates to the research question because it shows the economic toll inefficiency has on an individual hospital which is them amplified to the patient and the health insurance they are covered with. By taking this inefficient model and assuming every hospital is similar, for worst case scenario, that is millions, if not billions, of dollars that are being wasted. Sherman is a civil engineer and the lead instructor at Emory Six Sigma certificate program, while also witnessing first-hand how the system was ineffective with his time, makes Sherman qualified to show his idea of a solution to the rising healthcare costs by changing the entire system, not just one component. Peterson 3 Lyons, Barbara, and Rowland, Diane. Role in Health Reform and Closing the Coverage Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, vol. 44, 2016, pp. 580-584. Role in Health Reform and Closing the Coverage details the many millions of Americans who were ineligible for Medicaid for a variety of reasons including only being two adults with no dependent child, falling within the annual gap of Medicaid and the Marketplaces, states not allowing the ACA to close the gap, and being an undocumented immigrant. All of these things in combination are what led to the 41.1 million uninsured dropping to 28.5 million within just two years when the ACA Medicaid expansion was put into place to close the gap of Medicaid and the Marketplace. There are states within the United States that have opted out of implemented the Medicaid expansion which leaves millions uninsured as they do not qualify for publicly-financed coverage in their state, do not have employer-based insurance through a job, and do not have enough income to purchase their own health insurance. By eliminating the difficult and strict tiers of eligibility for Medicaid, the ACA was meant to bring insurance to those who make too much for Medicaid but not enough for the Marketplace and even offers federal dollars matching what the states contribute, dropping to 90% matching by 2020. All of these in combination would benefit the nation as a whole, since everyone would have health insurance it would lower the cost for the public as a whole while also ensuring quality healthcare to the low-income families and individuals of the nation. Diane Rowland received her Doctor of Science from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at John Hopkins University, is the Executive Vice President of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation and Executive Director of the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, and also served as the inaugural chair of the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission. Barbara Lyons received a Ph.D. in health policy from the Bloomberg School of Peterson 4 Public Health at John Hopkins, is a Senior Vice President at the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, and was a member of the policy staff for The Commonwealth Fund Commission on Elderly People Living Alone. Both women have doctorates and are currently involved, including in the past by being members of boards or committees, with programs and foundations directly involving Medicaid and uninsured people. Their article relates to the research question because it shows how the social aspect of giving mass amounts of people health insurance is a good thing and how the ACA has just bridged the gap between those covered by Medicaid and those able to be a part of the Marketplace. Bessard, Pierre. of Mixed-Economy Solutions in Healthcare: The Examples of Switzerland and University of South Florida Online Database, Economic Affairs, volume 28, issue 4, 2008, pp. 16-21. Bessard compares socialized healthcare system to that of Singapore. Switzerland has most of the cost put onto third-party payers with no expense being placed on the individual which has led to rampant overuse of medical treatments and unnecessarily long hospital stays. Singapore instead requires 20% of all copays to be paid by the patient, part of their monthly salary or income is placed in a medical expense savings account, and there is transparency with the insurance and what it covers. Singapore has kept its healthcare costs to half of which still maintaining a high life expectancy, 80 years to 82, without the extensive waste of resources. Pierre Bessard writes academic articles and is a journalist that focuses on Switzerland and the economy of Switzerland and of other countries. By understanding how economics function and by being familiar with Switzerland gives journal more credibility because they are two subjects that he is very familiar with and has written several reports and articles about. Peterson 5 Rosenbaum, Sara and Thorpe, Jane Hyatt. Affordable Care at Six: Reaching for a New Normal. University of South Florida Online Database, The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, vol. 44, 2016, pp. 533-537. Rosenbaum and Thorpe talk about what the ACA is and the ways in which its implication has been a success as well as where it has fallen short. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was made into law in March of 2010 and made access to decent and affordable health insurance possible, regardless of economic standing or the existence of pre-existing conditions. It was to assist with the employer coverage, coverage purchased in the Marketplace, and closed the gap between Medicaid and the poorest and Medicare for the elderly and those with severe disabilities. The purpose of the ACA was to lower the overall cost of healthcare. It would lower insurance premiums and keep rates from increasing unneccesarily by keeping everything competitive. Sara Rosenbaum has written or been a part of dozens of healthcare articles over the last 6 years, specifically focusing on the affordability and economic standpoint of healthcare and those that it ensures. Jane Hyatt Thorpe has also written several academic articles and been a part of several periodicals where she takes about healthcare and has also done several papers about medicine, hospitals, health insurance and the ethical dilemmas and questions that float around within those spheres. Both of these authors add credibility to their article because they have both been involved in the field of healthcare and medicine for several years with a significant amount of research going into each of their articles or periodicals.