Al Omairi-1 Ward Al Omairi Professor Mark J, Nusspickel ENC composition 1101 February 6, 2017 Fast Food Effects and Popularity Through the years, many things have changed due to different reasons, and events. For instance, the food consumption has changed over the generations because some behaviors and new things that came to life such as fast food restaurants. People used to depend on homemade food, but after the appearance of fast food restaurants people start to eat outside the home mostly because people start to believe in saving time, and money. Also, this considers an advantage of fast food because we are in time of speed and people like everything that is fast, and it is easier for busy people to get food. Furthermore, nowadays many fast food restaurants have become the dominator of the food industry such as McDonalds. What is more, McDonalds serve in 119 countries around the world, and they have around 68 million costumer everyday. Nevertheless, there are some major reasons for this huge popularity of fast food companies among the people: it is inexpensive and affordable to everyone, it has positive and negative effects on health and some economies, and it might be affected by any culture and the opposite. However after realizing the huge spread of fast food corporations around the world, what is the true dominating factor on both people and economies? Kirkpatrick, K. (2012, December 3). Fast Immediate Damage To Your Health. The Huffington post. Retrieved from: Al Omairi-2 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/27/fast- food-health-arteries- This article shows a study that compares between the junk food and the Mediterranean food, and this article encounters the bad effects of junk food on our health. First of all, eating too much of junk food could lead to poor nutrition and bad health because this kind of food has a large amount of sugar and fats. Secondly, this article showed that there is a connection between childhood obesity, and eating fast food with high amount of calories and less nutrition. Finally, the writer encourages people to improve their health, and stay away from fast food. This article is so helpful cause it would provide me with the reasons of obesity, also it would help me to answer my research question, and to know the disadvantages of fast food. Also, the experience of Kristin Kirkpatrick in nutrition and health makes this article trustworthy. In addition, Kristin has a degree in health promotion management from American University. Pan, A., Malik, V. S., & Hu, F. B. (2012, July 2). Exporting diabetes mellitus to Asia: the impact of Western-style fast food. Ncbi. Retrieved from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ The article diabetes mellitus to Asia: the impact of Western-style fast mention some statistics about fast food chains around the world, and it give examples for the numbers of fast food restaurants in some Asian countries. In addition, this article contrasts the growing of fast food consumption in the world, which led to some diseases and obesity. Also, it provides some statistics about the growing numbers of Al Omairi-3 people who are infected with 2 nd type diabetes in China and India. All of these increasing numbers of this disease is due to eating a lot of fast food. Moreover, this article states some social and culture effects of fast food corporations on the daily life style in china. This article is relevant to my topic because it has a lot of examples of fast food restaurants that are all over the world, and also it touches some bad effects of eating fast food on the health. What is more, this article would help me to describe the effects of fast food on any country, and to answer my research question. Additionally, the use of this article in the library database of University of South Florida gives it credibility. Moreover, the writers are experienced in nutrition and public health. Also, Vasanti and Frank Hu are research scientists in nutrition department at the Harvard school of public health. Pietrangelo, A., Carey, E. (2015, November 2). 13 Effects of Fast Food on the Body. Health line. Retrieved from: http://www.healthline.com/health/fast-food-effects- on-body This source has a lot of fast food effects on health, and it is full of explanations about how the fast food could affect our bodies? What is more, this source states that the fast food has a large amount of fats and calories, which could cause a lot of problems to health. In addition, eating a lot of fast food could cause a lot of diseases such as, heart diseases, and high cholesterol. Moreover, this article shows a study in Public Health journal, this study showed that eating a lot food could lead to depression. Al Omairi-4 This article would help me to define why the fast food could be harmful for us, and our lives. Moreover, this would help me to answer my research question, and would make it easier for me because it has a lot of facts and effects. Furthermore, this source would help me to know what are the bad effects of fast food on our bodies. Nevertheless, the source is reliable because the writers are experienced in health. For example, Ann Pietrangelo is focusing on health issues, and she has many articles about health in different websites. Also, Elea Carey is a writer who has a master degree of fine arts from Pacific Lutheran University. All of these things make this source credible. Pereira, M. A., Kartashov, A. I., Ebbeling, C. B., Van Horn, L., Slattery, M. L., Jacobs, J. R., & Ludwig, D. S. (2005, January 1). Articles: Fast-food habits, weight gain, and insulin resistance (the CARDIA study):15-year prospective analysis. Science direct. Retrieved from: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140673604176630; This article is describing the rising of fast food consumption around the world and especially in America; also it mentions how the fast food consumption helped to increase the number of overnighted people in America. What is more, the appearance of fast food restaurants affected the food habits, and people behaviors. Even though that the junk food has a lot of fats, people start to depend on fast food more than the fresh and homemade. Thus, eating too much of fast food could lead to increase in weight especially for the children. Moreover, a study showed that the people who go to fast food restaurants more than two times, have gained 4.5 kg and increased level in Insulin resistance. This article would assist me to figure the bad effects of fast food is more than the good effects of fast food, and answer my research question. I would have many examples Al Omairi-5 of the bad effects of fast food, so I can compare between the Advantages or the disadvantages of fast food. Additionally, the writers of this article are experienced and experts in health and fast food issues. For instance, Mark A Pereira has a PhD degree in epidemiology and health community from University of Pittsburgh. Also, he works in University of Minnesota exactly in the school of public health. All of these things make this article credible and dependable because the writers have certificates, which are related to fast food consequences and health in general.