Remy 1 Nicolas Remy K. Wiggs ENC 1101-S17 5 February 2017 P1 Intermediate Draft College is one of the essential turning points in an average life. It is the time where most take the plunge into the glorified life of an adult and tackle responsibilities with a strong emphasis on independence. With such a sudden transition of lifestyles; a significant amount of college students fall under the tight grip of anxiety and depression. Depression is noticeably an ever-growing scourge that is plaguing students in every field of study on college campuses, with one fringe field of study suspiciously depressing an unproportionable number of students. The studies of Music Performance and Music Education are exclusive majors that require auditions only for acceptance, and a seemingly more limited number of students are accepted into this field compared to other majors. This exclusive group of students undergo one of the most work-induced and credit-heavy programs offered at most Universities. On top of taking regular classes as well as major specific classes music students are expected to take extra time of their lives to attend rehearsals, practice, and perform. It is no surprise that these students develop mental issues due to immense amounts of stress and anxiety. While the problem has been pinpointed for over a decade, one question arises: What is being done to help eliminate the mental illnesses of Music degree seeking students? Kurara, Bannai, et al. Relationships Among Performance Anxiety, Agari Experience, And Depressive Tendencies In Japanese Music  Medical Problems Of Performing Remy 2 Artists 31.4 (2016): 205-210. International Bibliography of Theatre & Dance with Full Text. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This study brings to light all the factors and issues that cause depression in college music students, while providing insight into another culture group that experiences the same plights as western culture. In the study, the author goes into detail about performance anxiety in Japanese culture; defining physical and mental negative responses to excessive emotional tension felt in the presence of an audience as the term agari. The author proves in their study that performance anxiety is linked to depressive tendencies. When a student musician is performing under the pressures of performance anxiety and agari their overall performance is affected, and the outcome of their performance creates another factor to create depressive tendencies. This study was published by Kurara Bannai as well as three other authors; Takayoshi Kase, Shintaro Endo, and Kazuo in December of 2016. All four authors were graduate students under different areas of study at Rikko University in Saitama Japan at the time of the publishing. This article is helping solve depression in college music students by generating new studies and information that provide further insight into the multiple factors that contribute to the causes of depression. Powers, Keith. Young musicians face depression with silence: recent study suggests that most college music students suffering from depression and anxiety symptoms never seek  Teaching Music 2013: 24. Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This is a very concise article that brings up great points about music students and their connection to depression. It states that up to 15 percent of college students suffer from anxiety or depression, and that music majors make up a sizeable portion of them. The article finds that few music students seek treatment. While the article does say that only 12 of music students get Remy 3 depressed, those students make up a good percentage of the overall number of college students who get depressed. Another interesting point in the article states that performance anxiety contribute a lot to depression, but pervasive anxiety due to practicing and poor time management does. The article concludes by stating that mental conditions would less likely become pathological if students were taught more specifically on how to manage time, form better practice habits, and cope with stress. This article was published by Keith Powers on August 2013. Keith Powers has written over thirty articles for the journal called under the National Association for Music Education (NAfME) on subjects pertaining to music and music education. One of the most important points in the article related to the research question state that social stigmas associated with musicians and depression need to be broken down. There is still a stigma behind musicians seeking help for their mental health and that while there is a slow acknowledgement of how mental health shapes physical health; there is still a long way to go in the music profession. Spahn, Claudia, Sandra Strukely, and Andreas Lehmann. Health Conditions, Attitudes Toward Study, And Attitudes Toward Health At The Beginning Of University Study: Music Students In Comparison With Other Student  Medical Problems Of Performing Artists 1 (2004): 26. Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This study analyzes three hypotheses in regards to the health attitudes of music, psychology, medical, and sports students. They conclude that music students start their course of study with specific problems and greater health impairment than students majoring in other subjects, music students believe more strongly than students majoring in other subjects that they Remy 4 can influence their own state of health. Literature suggests that anxiety syndromes occur three times as often in music students compared to the general population. This article ties in to the research question when it observes the possibility for preventative measures. For implementation of preventative measures one must consider three subgroups of music students: students who have current symptoms limiting their performance, students who have has symptoms in the past, and students who have never had symptoms limiting their performance. The Trondelag Conservatory in Trondheim, Norway has made strides in preventative measures regarding depression in music students; they evaluate their students at preliminary examinations about health impairment and guided their students per various preventive measures. Preventative procedures should be oriented towards strong identification with performing music, and psychological themes such as anxiety and insecurity should be considered. Musicians should be encouraged to believe that they can influence their own state of health, and that preventative health consciousness should be part of the responsibility in becoming a good musician. Author Dr. Claudia Spahn is director of the Freiburg institute for musician medicine in Germany. Wristen, Brenda G., (Author). Depression And Anxiety In University Music  Update: Applications Of Research In Music Education 31.2 (2013): 20-27. RILM Abstracts of Music Literature (1967 to Present only). Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This article eloquently covers all aspects of factors linked to music student depression. It cites a study that compares majors of premedical, psychology, and physical education to music; the study mentioned found that music were the least able to detach themselves from their course of study. Because music students personally identify with their work and are not easily able to separate themselves from it, it leads to a narrowing of other interests in life. The study cited also Remy 5 found that even though musicians suffer from depression, they are reported to have significantly lower rates of emotional and alcoholic problems compared to their non-music peers. The study found that 79% of musicians who reported psychological problems seek professional help at all. This article concludes with some excellent solutions to decrease the amount of depression in college music students. This article directly helps answer the research question by giving a few good solutions that bring about a way to prevent depression in future university music students. Findings in the studies cited in the article could be valuable to university music educators as well as pre-college music educators, whom of which are very influential in the lives of pre-college/university music students. The article written by Brenda Wristen suggests that music educators should acknowledge mental health disorders such as depression and anxiety to their students the same level of concern given to physical injuries. Affecting musical participation might encourage students to seek treatment when Music educators should also provide their students with time management skills and strategies, which are invaluable skills that are neglected in formal education. Author Dr. Brenda G. Wristen is Associate Professor and Director of Piano Pedagogy at the University of Nebraska, whom of which teaches not only piano but also Occupational Health and Wellness for musicians. Wristen has received a multitude of grants for her scholarly activity in the field.