Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Through the Arts Art is a beautiful symbol of self-expression, but has not always been enforced through education. Americans for the Arts is an organization that enforces access to art education through raising money and demonstrating the importance of the arts (Americans for the Arts). The organization has four sub-categories: The Arts Action Fund, National Arts Marketing Project, pARTnership, and Animating Democracy (Americans for the Arts). Americans for the Arts has multiple photos on its website, including a colorful photo that portrays the sentence we are Americans for the Another image that Americans for the Arts posted on its website has a propaganda-feel that declares National Arts and Humanities Month. Through the images, Americans for the Arts tells viewers that art is beneficial because it gives the sense of togetherness, has immense power, and anybody can create it. The first image chosen uses text to give a literal meaning to the mission to pursuing art education together. To draw this conclusion, one must break down an image by considering major points in the photo, such as color, purpose, audience, and text (Sheffiled). The part that stands out the most is the white, bold text that takes up most of the image. The text states we are Americans for the in capital letters; the words are much larger than the other words, which throws the message into the face. The words are a powerful way to make the audience feel like it is a part of the movement. Deeper in the Student 2 photograph, there are colors that change from left to right from yellow down to indigo; the color patterns along with the pointillism-like style make the image stand out more than a flat color would. One could even say the collection of colors come together just like the audience can come together for the organization; the background has a few pieces of artwork incorporated in it to depict all works of art coming together as well. Along with coming together, stating are Americans for the gives even the non-artistic viewers a chance to get involved; the statement encourages them to be a part of the movement and maybe even the art world, because all people can get involved and create art, no matter the skill. The image is placed on the A page and uses the visual appeals to compel the audience to join. The A page photo also uses rhetorical appeals to compel the audience. The page has a description that includes facts; more than 7,000 people are part of 1,500 organizations brought together through the arts by Americans for the Arts, and the members are people from different backgrounds and careers who have come together (Become A Member). The use of logos, or logic, in this case is in the description because it lists the number of people and organizations involved, which serves as numerical evidence to the argument (McIntyre). Pathos, the rhetorical appeal that triggers emotions of the audience, is also used in the image; the emotion is triggered by the image because it makes viewers feel special to be a part of something bigger (McIntyre). Two other logical appeals are ethos and Kairos, which relate to credibility and timeliness respectively, are used subtly in the image as well (McIntyre). Ethos gives credibility to everyone in the audience, it implies that every viewer can be a part of the organization along with creating art. Kairos is used because people in society have a need to be a part of something, especially when one can feel so little compared to the changing world. This image makes the viewers feel like they make a positive impact on the art Student 3 community together; the image gives a sense of togetherness and lets the audience know that anybody can become involved and anybody can create art. The second image Americans for the Arts uses says that all art forms are powerful together; the organization compels the audience through the orange propaganda-like image for National Arts and Humanities Month. The part that stands out the most in the image is the contrast between the background and the foreground; the purple fists and lettering stand out on the orange poster because they are opposite colors. There are four fists with different art instruments in hand; the instruments include a computer mouse, paint brush, microphone, and a pencil. The inclusion of various instruments depicts the idea that all mediums of art are powerful. The text on the photograph even says to the in capital letters, because Americans for the Arts wants the audience to know that art has the power to society. This photo was posted on the Americans for the Arts website because it was October, the month declared National Arts and Humanities Month (News). During the most recent National Arts and Humanities Month, former President Barack Obama said in his proclamation to to harness the unparalleled ways the arts and humanities bring people (United States). Thus, former President Obama has agreed that the arts bring people together, and it is conveyed through his speech and through this image. The power and importance of the arts is also conveyed through the rhetorical appeals. The multiple art utensils represent a use of pathos by applying to all mediums of art; if members in the audience use any of these utensils to create art, those members will feel included and empowered in the movement. With all mediums of art, endless possibilities can create art and no matter the medium anybody can create it. Kairos, the to is incorporated in this photo because during this day in age, the arts have been a growing debate on Student 4 whether they are useful (McIntyre). This photo tells the audience that the arts are not only useful, but powerful. Ethos is stronger in the second photo than the first photo because this photo has the Americans for the Arts logo in the right-hand corner of the image; the logo gives conveys credibility because the organization is centered around the arts, so it is a believable source. Logos is the least used appeal in the image, but all mediums of art are in the picture; nobody can argue their version of art is not included or empowering. The organization is being realistic, or logical, in the sense that all art is power; a member of the audience will feel empowered if his version of art is included in the powerful arts. This image gives both a sense of empowerment and inclusion, or togetherness, to the audience. In the years of advocating, Americans for the Arts witnessed multiple changes in the art community. But, the debate over the importance of art education remained static. The organization speaks highly of art, and when art is given such qualities and power the importance of art education is promoted; Americans for the Arts argues that art can society and all students deserve to be able to pursue art education. Through the two images chosen, Americans for the Arts makes the audience feel involved in the movement, able to create art, and empowered through art. (WC: 1197) Student 5 Image one: Image two: Student 6 Works Cited Americans for the Arts. Americans for the Arts, 2015. americansforthearts.org. Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. A Americans for the Arts, 2015. www.americansforthearts.org/become-a- member. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text. October is National Arts and Humanities Americans for the Arts, 8 Oct. 2014. http://artsactionfund.org/news/entry/national-arts-and-humanities-month. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Sheffiled, Jenna Pack. Down an Writing Commons. writingcommons.org. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. United States. The White House. Office of the Press Secretary. Presidential Proclamation -- National Arts and Humanities Month, 2016. Barack Obama. The White House, 28 Sept. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.