Sian 1 Sonal Sian Emil Smith Composition I January 29, 2017 The Ethics of Physician Assisted Suicide The physician-patient relationship has come a long way since the creation of the Hippocratic oath. Hippocrates encouraged a paternalistic take on the role of a doctor, wherein a physician was expected to be the altruistic guide that led the patient down whatever path he deemed best for his condition. Fortunately, however, society has since evolved from these older philosophical views, and the patient now plays a more active role in the medical decisions made in regards to him. In fact, the patient has become so much more vocalized now that it has brought forth the issue of physician assisted suicide, which involves doctor intentionally helping a person commit suicide by providing drugs for self-administration, at that voluntary and competent (Materstvedt, 2003). The issue here rises in the attempt to fit physician assisted suicide (PAS) into the role of a physician. When a patient is on his death bed and is suffering tremendously, is it the duty to terminate the suffering by actively taking part in the death and providing the means to commit suicide? Not necessarily. There are many ways for a physician to mitigate the suffering and to prevent anything that is death delaying, such as discontinuing a life support. Through the course of this research, a close look at a case dealing with a involvement with PAS displays the extent to which participating in PAS can go wrong. Thus, this research will explore Sian 2 the necessity of physician assisted suicide in the medical world and whether the active participation in killing a suffering patient is part of a duty. Hosseini, H. M. (2012). Ethics, the Illegality of Physician Assisted Suicide in the United States, and the Role and Ordeal of Dr. Jack Kevorkian before His Death. Review of European Studies, 4(5), 203-209. doi:10.5539/res.v4n5p203 The article listed above discusses the ethical and legal nature of physician assisted suicide (PAS). the Illegality of Physician Assisted Suicide in the United States, and the Role and Ordeal of Dr. Jack Kevorkian before His brings to light the legal issues that physician assisted suicide has met with in the past, and many differing arguments made by ethicists, philosophers, and legal experts. Unlike many other articles discussing physician assisted suicide, this one shares the personal story of Dr. Jack legal issues due to his belief in PAS. The inclusion of a specific example of the issues that arise from the blurred lines of euthanasia and physician assisted suicide give a good perspective on the ethical and moral aspects of physician assisted death. The article is relevant to this research as it discusses a type of case study on Dr. Jack contributions to the issue of PAS. A generally accepted position on PAS is explored in this article, which is the immorality of physician assisted suicide. Dr. strong belief in PAS and his active administration of PAS on a CBS program forced this issue into the light and led to may legal complications for him. The article discusses some basic information regarding the illegality of PAS and its ethics in the United States. The article was found in the USF database and under the peer-reviewed articles, thus, it is a credible source. It was Sian 3 part of the fourth volume of Review of European Studies and was published by the Canadian Center of Science and Education. Emanuel, E. J., Onwuteaka-Philipsen, B. D., Urwin, J. W., & Cohen, J. (2016). Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and Europe. JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association, 316(1), 79-90. doi:10.1001/jama.2016.8499 The article listed above gives an overview of the legal status of euthanasia and physician assisted suicide, statistics related to PAS, and information regarding the attitudes and practices involved in PAS. Similar to the and physician-assisted suicide: a view from an article, this article by JAMA lays out clear cut facts and statistics on public support for PAS across the world and reasons for requesting PAS. The article provides evidence indicating that PAS and euthanasia are of relatively rare occurrence, typically involve cancer patients, and are increasingly being legalized. Additionally, it states that from the data scrutinized in the article, there is no indication of widespread abuse of PAS or euthanasia. This is another article that can be used to provide basic statistical information of aspects relating to PAS and euthanasia. The data provided regarding public opinion of PAS, reasons for requesting PAS, and the general perception of PAS is analyzed and interpreted, yielding a conclusion that could be used in an argument for allowing PAS. This article is very relevant and contains crucial information in the form of statistics about PAS that will help create a solid backbone for this research paper. The article was sourced from the USF library database, is peer reviewed, and was extracted from JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association, establishing it as a credible source. Sian 4 Materstvedt, L. J., Clark, D., Ellershaw, J., R., Gravgaard, A. B., H. C., . . . Rapin, C. (2003). Euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide: a view from an EAPC Ethics Task Force. Palliative Medicine, 17(2), 97-101. doi:10.1191/0269216303pm673oa Like the previous article, and physician-assisted suicide: a view from an EAPC Ethics Task discusses physician assisted suicide in legal and ethical terms. However, this article provides a good amount of background information on the basic accepted definitions of terms such as palliative care, euthanasia, and physician assisted suicide. The article also reviews concepts like medicalized killing and pin points key issues surrounding the euthanasia and physician assisted suicide debate. An attempt to figure out how PAS fits into palliative care, the role of a physician, and into patient autonomy is also made. This article provides crucial foundational information needed for one to understand the debate revolving around PAS. This article relates to the topic chosen for this paper as it defines major concepts and terms that are a significant to the understanding of the role of PAS in the medical world. The article relays basic information and comparisons regarding palliative care, medical killings, and PAS. It gives the history of euthanasia and PAS as well as the current role that these processes play in the medical field. The article is a credible source since it was retrieved from the USF database and it is peer reviewed. The article is from Palliative Medicine and was reviewed by the European Association of Palliative Care. Yang, Y. T., & Curlin, F. A. (2016). Why Physicians Should Oppose Assisted Suicide. JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association, 315(3), 247-248. doi:10.1001/jama.2015.16194 Sian 5 Physicians Should Oppose Assisted is a one-sided article, however, it provides sound moral/ethical arguments in opposition to the process of PAS. The article takes a strong stand against the use and existence of PAS, lists reasons as to why physician assisted suicide is never justifiable, and discusses violations PAS makes in regards to the duty of a physician. Because the article contains a strong bias it will have to be used cautiously to prevent any use of misinformation or solely opinion based information, but it contains relevant arguments, when accompanied by fact-based information, which could be a beneficial addition to this research paper. The pertinence of this article to PAS is clear in that its purpose is to discourage the use of PAS. Despite its strong bias, the article does contain an interesting perspective that if added to this research paper would provide a complete study of whether the use of PAS should be allowed or completely outlawed. This article, like and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician- Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and was extracted from JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association. It was found using the USF library data based advance search and is peer reviewed, making it a credible source for this research.