Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 10 February 2017 Project 1: Food Waste Reduction A study done by the Guardian, estimates that one third of all food produced annually in American is thrown away (Chandler). Not many Americans are fully aware of the extent of the food waste occurring in the America. The veiled issue led to the establishment of the FWRA, a stakeholder, which is a group with a particular interest in the issue (Hoffman 371). There is no single way that people waste food, but is commonly wasted by consumers, local restaurants, markets, factories, and farms. FWRA focuses on the areas they can impact the most, own U.S. operations [such manufacturing, retail, and (Food Waste Reduction Alliance), in an attempt to lower the amount of food wasted in food production. As a result, the goals are not only to raise awareness of food waste, but to also combat the issue. The focus is on strategizing how to produce food more efficiently. Those strategies are given to the food industries to implement into their production lines. This strategy keeps more food out of landfills and boosts the supply of donations to food banks. To encourage their goals, the website provides powerful images, information, and methods to get bystanders involved (Food Waste Reduction Alliance). Food waste is a major issue in America, and though compelling methods images, the FWRA wants to reduce the issue by involving the community, educating people and companies on the topic, and diverting useful food away from landfills. Images used on webpage help draw the attention and inform them of the issue of food waste in America. The first image (see Fig. 1) can be found across the top of the Student 2 Food page, and displays a statistic about food waste. As the viewer looks from left to right over the image, they first observe the background containing a grocery store, before seeing the statistic at on the right side of the image. The location of the text gives the audience a chance to first absorb the scenery of the store. The scene of the store has a huge variety of colors, causing the author of the image to insert a gray background behind the text, adding clarity to the font. Without a clear distinction between the background and the text, the audience would not be able to easily read the statistic (Pack). Text was inserted over a grocery store background helps the viewer to grasp the gravity of a statistic used about food, giving the image a serious tone. The mission of the images is to inform people of the significance of food waste during the production stages (Pack). This mission is done through a claim, that up to forty percent of food in the U.S. will never be consumed (Food Waste Reduction Alliance). The statistic used over a grocery store background helps to inform the audience, and draw their attention to food waste. The elements that make up the first image display aspects of different rhetorical appeals, or persuasiveness, and also elicits emotions in the audience. This arrangement of the image affects the pathos of the image, one of the rhetorical appeals, adding an emotional connection through the grocery store and typography inserted over the image (Hoffman 348). People may feel a relational pull to the image, since the grocery store is a location people visit often. The statistic also appeals to the logos of the image, by making a claim about the amount food waste occurring in America, it becomes clear to the reader why they should support the goals (Hoffman 25). Logos is followed by Kairos, or timeliness aspects of the picture, since the image gives an urgency to act as soon as possible to limit the issue. Ethos, the credibility, is also displayed in the text, because the stakeholder is supporting their goals with statistical evidence Student 3 (Hoffman 20). The rhetorical appeals used in the image help to create an emotional response from the audience. The second image (see Fig. 2) compliments the first image, establishing the mission to reduce food waste, bringing to attention a clear focus and direction for the stakeholder. The image is found under the the tab, and is seen at the top of that page before the audience reads a summary of the FWRA. Opposite of the first image, the text is given on the left side over empty space, so that the reader sees the text before viewing the object of the image. The dark green grass heavily contrasts with white text, making the typography easy to read (Pack). The font size is big enough to be comfortably read, but not big enough to distract the viewer from the rest of the image. The image is arranged the way it is to make a statement about their goals, before an ingraining image is applied over the message in the mind. In the background, the grass is blurry, and there are hands holding rice, in clear focus to draw the attention. The author appears to display an ardent tone, or attitude, though the powerful sense of generosity seen with the hand of rice (Pack). These collective elements of the image clearly portray goals for food waste reduction. The use of rhetorical elements in the second image informs the viewer what the stakeholder is currently doing to engage the issue of food waste. One way the image draws the support of individuals and businesses towards cause is through the use of Ethos. The Typography used appeals to Ethos, giving the viewer the sense that the stakeholder has a lot of experience in the field of food waste, based on their large stated goals (Hoffman 27). Then the hands holding rice affects the pathos of the image, because the person looks like they are handing rice to someone. These hands support the idea that FWRA wants to convert some of the food waste into a gift for people in need of food. The inferred kindness of the image draws on the Student 4 emotions and morals about feeding the hungry. A need to act now can be drawn out of this image, similarly to the first image, since it is clear in the image that the stakeholder is currently trying to combat food waste. Needing to act at a certain time shows the element of Kairos used in the image (Hoffman 41). Together, the images complement each other, and focus on the goal to reduce food waste. The FWRA cannot do it alone, but by educating people, and through the assistance of the community, the FWRA can reduce the food waste in America, keeping excess food from landfills. On the website, many images can be found that convey goals through the use of rhetorical appeals. Image one and two helped to establish the goal to stop food waste, an issue that many Americans are not very concerned about. The images informed the audience of the issues and helped point to ways they could get involved. The FWRA supported their idea of diverting food from landfills to food banks by engaging companies and individuals to come alongside them to prevent future food waste (Word Count 1198). Student 5 Works Cited Chandler, Adam. Americans Lead the World in Food The Atlantic. The Atlantic. 15 July 2016. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 Food Waste Reduction  FWRA Food Waste Reduction Alliance. Food Waste Reduction Alliance. n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Pack, Jenna. Down an Writing Commons. Creative Commons, n.d. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1. http://www.foodwastealliance.org/services/ Student 7 Figure 2. http://www.foodwastealliance.org/about-us-page-2/