Student 1 Student Paper Shredding Dr. Thornton 12 February 2017 Paper recycling plays a huge role in the environment. Most people do not care what happens to paper after the use of it, but many people care a lot about the environment and how to better it. Accu-Shred is a company that practices shredding paper to recycle it and reuse it constantly to save some a significant amount of resources (AccuShred). Accu-Shred is one of the many companies that undertakes this job, since this is a very demanding topic in this world today. Paper recycling is a key factor in maintaining the environment and resources and should be considered because it is cost-efficient, easy to practice, and resource sufficient. The first picture represents a shredding machine in its current act. It is shredding the paper that says (AccuShred) which means that the company is trying to tell the audience that they are AAA certified and that they shred papers. Being AAA certified means they can undergo destruction services under legal terms by NAID. The rhetorical appeal ethos appeals to credibility (pg. 20, Hoffman and Wiggs). Ethos relates to ethics; ethos is the way the author obtains his trusts from his audience through his ethical text. In the first image, ethos exists in this image when it comes to ethically describing the purpose of the company through a picture. For example, the picture shows a shredding machine that does the job, and the image also includes a paper that says AAA certified which automatically makes the audience trust and support the work of this company. all ethos is about, gaining trust of the audience through credibility to pursue their purpose. Student 2 (http://accushred.com/) Another rhetorical appeal logos, appeals to logic (pg. 23, Hoffman and Wiggs). Logos mainly pertains to logic and reason and how an author can deliver his message by simply throwing out a simple picture out there that the audience can make sense out of and fully understand the whole purpose. In this image, Accu-Shred presents a shredding machine that the audience can picture very quickly and decide that a shredding machine since the machine is shredding the paper in the image. Logos is usually one of the first appeals that is used when breaking down a picture and analyzing it, because after the audience knows what the picture could be representing then they could deeply analyze the picture using other rhetoric appeals. Pathos is another rhetoric appeal that appeals to emotion (pg.22, Hoffman and Wiggs). Another word that can be used to describe pathos could be empathy. Empathy can relate to experience or sensitivity toward emotion. Accu-Shred presents a bunch of pictures for many purposes mainly being to send their message to the audience in an easier manner. In this image, showing the shredding machine to the audience can emotionally affect the audience. After seeing how easy it is to shred the paper and recycle it, people tend to feel bad and sorry for all the times they part of this company or mission. This is how pathos exists in this image and mostly all other images. Kairos is the final rhetoric appeal that appeals to timeliness, which means that persuasion needs to be undertaken at the right moment of the right time (pg.25, Hoffman and Wiggs). Accu-Shred presents kairos when it comes to the company telling the audience to act now and Student 3 save the environment. When things must be done quick to fulfill a purpose when kairos exits. In this image, looking at the shredding machine tells the audience to hustle up and start to act quick because an easy way to join it and be a part of the process. In the other image listed under the website, shares a very similar purpose but undertakes a different meaning than the first image. In this image the company is trying to show their industry in which every day processes are undertaken at. The company wants to show the audience how clean their industry is and how new and up to date their machines are. Ethos exists in this image when it comes to the company showing the audience how clean the machinery is so that the audience could trust their work. Seeing how new and clean the machines are in this factory, helps the audience gain a sense of trust in the company itself. (http://accushred.com/) Logos exists in this image when it comes to the audience looking at the image and being able to make sense out of it by using logic and reasoning. When the audience looks at this image, they see machines, a factory and a bunch of papers. The audience could easily conclude that this is where the papers go through the whole process of recycling, and can easily understand the main purpose of the company. Pathos exists in this image when the audience feels bad and sorry for not being part of this mission since the beginning. By looking at the new machines, and seeing the hard work that Student 4 this company has put in to better the environment, it makes the audience feel bad that they have not taken any step towards it to make this world a better place. The company shows this image to change perspective on paper recycling after their emotions play a role in this. Kairos exists in this image when it comes to the company by showing you how long it took them to build such clean and new machines, and how they take care of them daily to keep them clean and ready to go. Kairos also exists when the company tries to demand the audience to act now through an image so this world could be saved and made better. Accu-Shred presents many pictures that speak out their mission, these two images work the best in perusing their message. The rhetorical appeals: Ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos were all used in a great way to analyze each of the images, to understand what the main mission was and how they were trying to deliver their message to the audience. Rhetorical appeals help a lot when it comes to analyzing images and breaking them down into smaller images to understand the full meaning and purpose that an author or company is trying to illustrate (pg. 20, Hoffman and Wiggs). (Word Count 1027) Student 5 Works Cited AccuShred. http://accushred.com/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Wiggs Kimber. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Brooke Downey,2016. Hoffman, Allyson, and Wiggs Kimber. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, pages 20-46. Brooke Downey,2016.