Professor Roth ENC 1101 January 29, 2017 Animals in captivity For the past few decades, places like zoos or amusement parks such as bush gardens and sea world have not only been a major attraction for tourists due to the beautiful shows and trilling roller coasters, but have also been a place where people can interact with and enjoy the wide variety of animals. At first catching the attention of people to be educated and appreciative of the beauty with in the animal kingdom soon shifted, from loving to hating the idea of captivity, groups of people started to bring to light the reality that comes with keeping undomesticated wild animals in unfamiliar confined spaces. The reality that keeping animals captive no matter how well treated, can be cruel and detrimental to them. Exhibiting abnormal behavioral changes can be taken as a problem and as a possible compromise to the well-being of such animals, these behavior have to be new unknown behaviors but can be normal behaviors found in the wild but at a higher rate. Behavior like coprophagy which is the ingestion of feces is common among chimpanzees both in captivity and in the wild, but done at higher rates in captivity has cough the attention of scientist and research is now telling us that those increased behavior are sings of compromise in the wellbeing of these animals. One other animal that has brought a lot of attention is the killer whale, with recent events that have taking place research on these animals and how they are affected by captivity has arisen, one major point being survival of these whales compared to in the wild, scientist have concluded that killer whale survival in captivity is lower than survival in the wild. These facts bring up the question if captivity negatively effects the quality of life in animals and if all animals or just some are affected in a negative way? John, Jeffrey Ventre. killer whale (Orcinus orca) Marine mammal science 2015. - the article killer whales focuses on the survival of killer whale that live in three different places; U.S facilities, foreign facilities, and the wild. They take in consideration factors like gender that may affect the life span of these creatures. Many places hold killer whales captive, in the research done it shows that killer whales held in captivity in foreign facilities survival is lower then those of U.S facilities. But compared to wild killer whales both survival rates are lower. - these article is relevant to my topic because it goes over how one of the factor of the lower survival rate in foreign facilities is the policies when it comes to dealing with the animals, even though we take better care of them our human error comes into play with the life of the killer whale in captivity. The credibility of this source is that it was from trainers that have had experience with the whales, it was found in the University of South Florida database. Lydia, Hani, Stephen R. Ross. coprophagy as an indicator of negative welfare for captive Applied Animal Behavior Science 2016. - this article focuses on chimpanzees and abnormal behavior that arise from captivity, the research takes normal behaviors and takes them as abnormal when they are done at higher rates that in the wild, some of the behaviors are regurgitation, reingestion and coprophagy. It the focuses on coprophagy and how it is done at higher rates in captivity, connecting to my topic because captivity changes the behavior of chimpanzees and the research concluded that the abnormal behaviors being shown do affect the well-being of the animal. - the source is credible because it was found using the University of South Florida database.