Badro 1 Joy Michela Badro Professor Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 th January 2017 Gun Control in the United States of America The debate regarding gun control has been highly prevalent during the last few years, especially since 2007, when one of the deadliest shootings in US history occurred. There have been many prominent stakeholders who have vocalized their stance on the issue, whether they were in support of gun control or against it. The National Rifle Association (NRA) is most likely one of the most threatening stakeholders against gun control, and they believe that American citizens need to protect the Second Amendment by giving Americans the freedom of purchasing guns with relative ease. In contrast, The Brady Campaign, an organization in favor of gun control, argues that it is important that strict and extreme regulations are imposed on the purchase of guns. While both organizations want the same thing, which is a safer America, they have different ways of achieving it. A plausible compromise for the NRA and The Brady Campaign, in order for America to be safer place, is that certain gun control measures should be implemented in moderation but not to the point that it will hinder the right of law-abiding citizens to possess a firearm. The NRA was established in 1990, and they claim to have approximately 5 million members, making them one of the most recognized and established organizations that protect the freedom Americans have to obtain a gun. Clearly, the NRA is somewhat successful, giving that Badro 2 received over million in support of the shooting (NRA Foundation). It is no doubt that the NRA believes in a safe America, as on their official website, it states that funds towards their organization go towards such as youth education, law enforcement (NRA Foundation). According to the Second Amendment, Americans have the freedom to own a gun for self-defense purposes and security; the NRA agrees with this as they and foster the Second Amendment rights of all law-abiding (NRA Foundation). Therefore, their way towards a more secure and free America is through an increase in the gun supply and a decrease in gun control. The Brady Campaign claims to be a nonprofit organization and was founded in 1974, although it was founded under a different name of For approximately 25 years now, The Brady Campaign has been fighting against gun violence in the courtroom by representing victims who have been affected by gun crime. Similar to the NRA, The Brady Campaign wants to a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (The Brady Campaign). This shows that both stakeholders share a common ultimate goal. They do, however, completely disagree on the way this goal should be achieved. The Brady Campaign argues that a safer America can be achieved by avoiding guns getting into the wrong hands through a tightening of the gun supply and an increase in gun control. The Brady Campaign attempts to increase background checks, restrict gun dealers that supply the majority of all crime guns and change the mentality of home owned guns because of the danger they may cause. Just like the NRA, The Brady Campaign is a very significant stakeholder. The President, Dan Gross, has been identified as of the foremost leaders in the gun violence prevention (The Brady Campaign). He is much respected, and has been an efficient catalyst in getting support for The Brady Campaign. Badro 3 In the past, specific gun control measures which may have been taken too far or not far enough have been inefficient at serving their purpose. One quintessential example of this is the Assault Weapons Ban in 1994, which was viewed as a failure by many. Firearms which had more than one military-style feature were banned for safety reasons. Nonetheless, this did not stop the fact that many people already owned such guns and that many of those guns were already in circulation, and nothing could be done about that. This view was supported by John W. Magaw (who was in charge of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms) who claimed that were so many ways around the ban that it really (The Washington Post). Due to this failure, amongst others, gun control seems to have a negative connotation to a lot of Americans (specifically to those who identify with the Right wing). However, just because some measures did not work out previously, this does not mean that they never can. It is important to take into account why those measures did not work out in order to come up with a viable compromise regarding gun control that will benefit (or at least not disadvantage) both stakeholders. A good compromise would be to implement background checks all over the United States, as this can only help both stakeholders; it is not restricting the gun supply nor is it restricting law-abiding citizens from purchasing a gun. Someone with good intentions should have no issue getting a background check in order to obtain their firearm. The fact that domestic abusers the dangerously mentally (CSGV), who abused their own rights once disobeyed the law, still have access to purchasing a firearm is a frightening thought. This can be potentially life threatening and could harm many innocent people in America who deserve the right to live. In the 19 states that enforce criminal background checks on the person prior to their gun purchase, it is said to be that there is fewer women are shot to death by intimate 48% less gun trafficking in Badro 4 (Everytown For Gun Safety). The NRA should agree to promote this idea because it would give the opponents of the current US gun laws less of a reason to demand more extreme gun control/a ban on firearms altogether, as people with mal intentions have access to guns in any of the States anymore. Moreover, both stakeholders should aim to promote the idea of imposing gun safety courses before a gun is bought. There is a massive problem in the United States involving accidental shootings, considering that 2005-2010, almost 3,800 people in the U.S died from unintentional (Examining Accidental Shooting Death Statistics). Mandatory gun training courses for potential gun owners will lessen the frequency and/or severity of these accidents. As a result, there will be fewer negative connotations and backlash on the idea of guns being sold to average American citizens. At the same time, it will not hinder the gun supply in the United States nor will it make it more difficult for citizens educated on gun safety to purchase one. This would benefit both stakeholders because the NRA and The Brady Campaign both aim for a safer America. Overall, it is safe to say that a plausible compromise for both stakeholders includes the NRA and The Brady Campaign promoting the idea of criminal background checks on those interested in purchasing a firearm, and gun safety programs being implemented and enforced in order to purchase a firearm. These solutions are not extreme as they do not take away any rights of law abiding freedom to own a gun, and thus do not interfere with the Second Amendment. Both stakeholders have the same goal of a secure America, so this compromise is nothing short of favorable and would definitely help make America safer by potentially reducing gun violence. The NRA and The Brady Campaign are both influential and powerful stakeholders regarding gun control, so if they were to come together on this compromise, it would have a beneficial outcome on the support receive. Badro 5 Word count: 1,257 Badro 6 Works Cited Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Everytown for Gun  Everytown for Gun Safety. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Examining Accidental Shooting Death  Examining Accidental Shooting Death Statistics. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Foundation, NRA. NRA  The NRA Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. History of gun control is cautionary tale for those who want more  The Washington Post. WP Company, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Universal Background  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.