Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Living Non-GMO: An Alternative to The debate over the consumption of Genetically Modified Organisms is a significant issue in the world today. Proponents of may say they will help to increase food production while opponents may counter with the claim that they are more harmful than helpful. In essence, both sides have stakeholders that will attempt to sway people by utilizing different visual and rhetorical appeals. One such example of a stakeholder is the Non-GMO Project which is an organization that is an opponent of the use and consumption of (Living Non-GMO). This organization has created multiple websites (such as Living Non-GMO) that serve to highlight the negative effects of while providing visitors with information about alternatives to such as non-GMO verified food products (Living Non-GMO). Two images that happen to stand out on the Living Non-GMO website are of a child in a bleak setting eating a spoonful of food unsurely and of a bee perched on a flower in bright colors Do Impact the The Non-GMO project uses images such as the ones listed above to convey their views of to the audience. Genetically Modified Organisms are deemed to be bad by the Non-GMO Project as they can cause long-term health issues, increase herbicide use, and are damaging to the environment. The visual rhetoric of the two images is what is first noticed by the audience on the website. For instance, in the photo of the little girl eating food, she is tasting a food item with an unsure expression on her face. The photo also emits a negative tone as the little girl smiling Student 2 and the overall color of the image is very dull and depressing. These two elements grouped together work to elicit a negative reaction from the audience which in turn may cause the audience to question altogether. The creator of the image now has effectively communicated the viewpoint of the organization to the audience and may have coerced the audience into considering the side on the issue of On the other hand, the image with the bee uses a pristine setting in an effort to make the audience disapprove of The stakeholder showcases a bee living its life happily in a bright setting to elicit a positive reaction from the audience. The stakeholder then includes information about the increase in deaths of bee populations as a contrast to the happy mood already established in an effort to push the audience to question the use of altogether. The two images both had each rhetorical appeal (logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos) present within them. The images themselves had no text embedded within them, however, the visual rhetoric in the images were effective in showcasing different rhetorical elements. The first appeal, logos, is defined as a statement, sentence or argument used to convince or persuade the targeted audience by employing reason or logic. In each image, the stakeholder used logos in an attempt to make the audience see their logic in being an opponent of In the image with the child, the audience sees an unsure and puzzled child which is supposed to make the audience themselves become unsure of In the bee image, the stakeholder couples the picture with facts about the increase in bee deaths. The creator of the image is conveying the logic that the use of has caused an increase in herbicide use which has been a main factor in the decline of bee populations (which are very important for crop pollination). The second rhetorical appeal, pathos, is a method of convincing people with an argument through an emotional response. For pathos, the stakeholder attempted to delve into the emotions Student 3 of the audience in different ways. One of the quickest ways to appeal to a emotions is through the imagery of a child. The unsure girl in the first image is used to make parents become unsure of as a well-being is often what is most important to most parents. On the other hand, the imagery off a bee perched on a flower in bright sunlight brings out a sense of beauty and happiness from the audience. When the audience ultimately learns that bee populations are dying off at an alarming rate, they may become concerned of The third rhetorical appeal, ethos, represents the credibility of the author on the topic/issue at hand. For the purpose of ethos in the images, they were ultimately just trying to convey to the audience a sample of reasons as to why they live non-GMO. The Non-GMO project believes that in any argument or topic, no matter what side one may choose, it is always important to ask questions instead of having tunnel vision. For instance, the stakeholder is using the dull and depressing tone of the child image to ask the question of how may impact children. Do they do harm or do they do good? Furthermore, in the bee image, the stakeholder combines the bright and happy tone of the image with the fact of the decline in bee populations to get the audience to ask if the correlation between the increase of bee deaths and the increase in GMO production is just or unjust. The Non-GMO project believes that these are important questions to ask when dealing with the topic at hand. The last rhetorical appeal, kairos, is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing so (Hoffman and Sawchyn 41). Furthermore, the use of kairos must be understood in a context outside of the image itself. For the purpose of these images, the use of kairos explicitly noticed by the audience but is effective for the sake of argument. The debate over the consumption of is still going on which is a perfect time to show the image of a puzzled child to audiences in an Student 4 effort to persuade people to question Also, at a time where bee populations are dying at an alarming rate (with potentially having a factor in their demise), the bee image can be very successful in drawing the audience to the non-GMO side. The Non-GMO Project is a stakeholder that is committed to preserving and building the non-GMO food supply and educating consumers on different products (Living Non-GMO). As a stakeholder in the discussion of they provide information and images that lean towards their side in the debate as evidenced in the two images that were analyzed throughout the paper. Through the use of different visual and rhetorical appeals, the Non-GMO project made an effort to reach out to different audiences and at least make people delve deeper into the discussion of whether if they are for or against them (WC: 1143) Student 5 Works Cited Living Non-GMO, The Non-GMO Project, livingnongmo.org/learn/gmo-faq/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-46. E-text. Do Impact the Living Non-GMO, The Non-GMO Project, livingnongmo.org/learn/gmo-faq/. Living Non-GMO. The Non-GMO Project, 2017, https://livingnongmo.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017.