Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Depression Can Be Defeated From the moment one is born, to the time one passes away, the human life cycle endures possibly the best of times and tragically the worst of times. In the case of the adverse times, people can reach substantially low points if the proper justifications are not made in a timely manner. This case can be made from an issue such as depression. In 1998, NPS MedicineWise was created to promote a form of safety using the correct medications to cure various illnesses. The treatment of depression can be found on http://www.nps.org.au, and displays through a series of images, there is a sufficient and positive path while on the route to recovery, and making quick actions to recovery is the best way to avoid falling into deep depression. To begin, the goal of NPS, the organization specializing in awareness of various conditions, is to eventually find treatment for those with depression, and this can happen through the road of recovery, as indicated from the image. The primary message of this image is to create awareness about the effective treatments while on the path to recovery. The road to recovery may be long, but eventually the person with depression will reach their goals of recovery just like reaching a destination as depicted in the image. Within the image, the sun is beaming on the sign, (NPS), illustrating that not only are the depressed going in the right direction, but the road to recovery will not be as bad as one may think. As portrayed in the image, the light colors may give the viewer of the picture a calming feeling because they know that everything will turn out fine. Per Jenna Sheffield of Writing Commons, can have different Student 2 meanings that implicitly portray a (Sheffield). Similarly, people may feel that the only logical way to rid the feeling of depression is to take the road of recovery. There are plenty of different paths, but the patient must choose the right path. Per NPS Medicinewise, are effective treatments for depression, but there is no single treatment that is right for everybody. Talking to a supportive family member, friend, or another health professional can also (NPS). As long as one makes the right choices, their life will eventually return to normal. The recovery sign portrayed may give its viewers a positive attitude. With this, the light colors in the image may give the viewer a calming sense of what it will be like to finally undergo treatment. Ultimately the sunlight in the image could give the onlooker a sense of warmth and hope. This could give a person who is losing hope the motivation to overcome their state of depression. Using a recovery sign with an arrow on it may let the viewer know that they will be heading down the right path if they make the decision to opt for treatment. As the sun is shining on the sign, it may convey a feeling of happiness as well as hope for a brighter future. With this in mind, the rhetorical appeal of Kairos is very useful. Most people have the feeling of depression in their teens, around the time when they begin to drive. Having an image of a sign pointing in a direction as if leading one on as they are driving in that direction is good timing because the one with depression will feel this is relatable at the time. A progressive image may ultimately be the key to motivation in recovering. In addition, someone can easily fall into depression if they let their mind take over their gut feelings, giving off a gloomy impression. A dark theme is portrayed in this image. The body sort of fades into the darkness as if they are succumbing to the disease. A vast amount darkness surrounding the person stands out as well as the hands on the face. In the image, the victim holding her hands up seems to look as if she is cowering or is afraid of what Student 3 just occurred. She may feel as though all hope is fading away, similarly to her fading away into the darkness of the picture. Likewise, people with depression are known to feel more helpless as if the world is against them. The darkness in the image implies this. Sometimes depression can come due to a tragedy and it feels as if it is bad timing because there are so many obstacles to overcome. The image conveys a hard time that the person has fallen on, but the only way to find a way out of the issue is to keep moving forward. Pathos can be portrayed immediately, triggering emotions of sorrow. The blackness taking over the image may strike the person as an urgent need to fix their issues. As elaborated by NPS Medicinewise, experiences of depression can be quite different from one person to the next, but feeling low or sad, feeling a loss of interest and enjoyment in life, as well as feelings of guilt and worthlessness, are the usual (NPS). Although those who have depression may express themselves in different ways, the image conveyed is the overall attitude when stricken with depression. Furthermore, there seems to be a bit of a frown in the expression, giving off the notion of depression affecting the human body. A fact can be made that depression can have negative effects on a person both physically and mentally. The only logical way out of depression is to start treatment. The image depicted may give viewers the extra motivation, or an extra knock in the head that they should treat their issue as soon as possible before it is too late. Although one may be going through depression, they should not let it take over their life. Overall, depression is a common problem, and the road to recovery can be either smooth sailing, or one will fall deeper into what can be an extremely difficult disease to overcome. There are plenty of effective treatments, but it all comes down to the person themselves. They must make the right choices and be willing to take the proper steps to help themselves. (WC: 1,033) Figure 1 Student 4 http://www.nps.org.au/conditions/mental-health-conditions/mood-disorders/depression/for- individuals/treatment Figure 2 http://www.nps.org.au/conditions/mental-health-conditions/mood-disorders/depression/for- individuals/symptoms Student 5 Works Cited I - Chapter Book I - Chapter 1 Rhetoric rhetoric.eserver.org/aristotle/rhet1- 1.html. NPS MedicineWise, 7 Jan. 2013, www.nps.org.au/. Does Depression NPS MedicineWise, 20 Nov. 2012, www.nps.org.au/conditions/mental-health-conditions/mood-disorders/depression/for- individuals/symptoms. Sheffield, Written by Jenna Pack. Pack Home, writingcommons.org/index.php/open-text/information-literacy/visual-literacy/breaking- down-an-image/399-breaking-down-an-image. for NPS MedicineWise, 20 Nov. 2012, www.nps.org.au/conditions/mental-health-conditions/mood-disorders/depression/for- individuals/treatment. Writing Center - Rhetorical University Writing Center - Rhetorical Analysis, writingcenter.tamu.edu/Students/Writing-Speaking-Guides/Alphabetical-List- of-Guides/Academic-Writing/Analysis/Rhetorical-Analysis.