Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project 1 Final Draft Recently schools over the globe have been deciding if they should keep or cut the art programs because of the money costs. This is a serious topic because many schools want to keep the program but just cannot because of how much money it costs. But there are many organizations that are trying to help schools with this problem because those organizations know how important the arts programs are to the schools and the students that attend there. The National Endowment for the Arts was created by the U.S. Congress in 1965 as an agency that will act independently that offers funding and support for schools who show artistic excellence. Keeping the art programs at high schools is a topic that is dealt within the website National Endowment for The Arts, which shows why the arts program is one of the most important programs for every school. Keeping the arts in schools is a big issue and should be considered because it brings joy to the student, it changes the view of the student and it also helps the student find who they truly are. The National Endowment for the Arts has a website that shows many of aspects of art. On the homepage, it has a picture of a man playing the piano and the words, NEA: Serving Our Nation Through the (Home). This sets the goal and the mood for this organization completely. Their message is to serve nation through the (Home), which is why this picture is great and supports them very well. This organization is one of the best organizations Student 2 that is taking an initiative to serve this country through what it can do which is showing love for the arts. (Park) This is one of the pictures that shows the true goal. This picture clearly depicts, art (Park). When viewing, this picture the viewer should realize the rhetorical devices used. Logos is the to (Hoffman 23), and is clearly seen in this picture. As art is hard and it takes a lot of time and repetition to be good at something. This picture is showing symbolism of the sinner condemned to an eternity of rolling a boulder or in this case flowers up a hill then watch it roll back down again. As stated before art does take time to do. If a person is playing an instrument it is known that the person must practice repeatedly to become a precise at their instrument of choice. Ethos which is the to (Hoffman 20), is seen in this picture by the (Park), in the top left hand corner. The NEA is a well- known organization which with their name in the picture shows the credibility for the picture. Pathos is the to (Hoffman 22), which is shown as the man is struggling to push the flowers up the hill. As many people in the arts have struggling moments but they can always get through it, even though it may feel like pushing a boulder up a hill and watching it roll down. Karios which is the to (Hoffman 25), is not obvious but this picture was posted at the beginning of the year, and if people know the story behind the picture it could give people the hope they need for the new year. This purpose was for those people who are Student 3 dedicated into the arts and need a little inspiration because they could take the picture literally and just know that practicing and working hard at something is better than pushing up a boulder up a hill. As proven this picture is a picture that supports the NEA and their purpose is to fund, promote, and strengthen, creative capacity of our communities by providing all Americans with diverse opportunities for the arts (Home). (Beete) This picture is taken from the National Endowment of the Arts, art works blog (Beete). This is one of the many pictures and posts made from this company and this is one of the strangest ones out there. The picture is showing the fun and the different ways this organization helps different societies around this country. The ethos in this picture is not noticeable but the only way to get to this picture is through the online blog which is enough credibility for all the pictures. The pathos in this picture is noticeable by the two people in the picture are wearing clothes from that they wear in their home towns. As seen, the viewer can directly notice that the woman is smiling and is having a very enjoyable time playing the drums. The logos is having the two people play the drums as it is one of their native instruments. The people in this picture are showing the people watching how playing such a basic instrument can be very enjoyable and how an instrument can sound when played by professionals. This picture was from the blog recent post and that is showing the kairos of the picture. The audience for this Student 4 picture is actually for the people who are watching the two people play the drums. The purpose for this picture is to show how the National Endowment of the Arts is spreading their love for the arts and is showing how other places around the globe express their way of art. Both pictures are pictures that support and spread the National Endowment of the Arts purpose, which as stated before is, National Endowment for the Arts is an independent federal agency that funds, promotes, and strengthens the creative capacity of our communities by providing all Americans with diverse opportunities for arts (Home). The first picture is to show how innovated the NEA is at promoting their organization. They used a symbolism that really shown in most pictures and it helped them show their true purpose other than just having a picture. The second picture was to show how the NEA is spreading their love and passion for music and is staying true to their objective. It is very unique of the NEA to choose this picture because it shows that they are bringing in other cultures to different parts of the United States. The NEA is one of the best equipped organizations that is staying on course to their purpose. The NEA is also showing why the arts programs are the best programs for schools and for their students. Student 5 Works Cited Beete, Paulette. It Like to Do an Artist Residency in Japan?  National Endowment for the Arts. N.p., 11 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. National Endowment for the Arts, NEA, https://www.arts.gov/. Accessed 10 Feb. 2017. Park, June. Making Art  National Endowment for the Arts. N.p., 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.