Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Anxiety and Depression Association of American: Triumph Over Anxiety and Depression! Depression is a complex disorder which was described in article by National Institute of Mental Health as of the most common mental illness but serious mood disorder, that causes severe symptoms that affect the way people feel, think, and handle their daily activities, such as sleeping, eating, or However, even though is it a common illness, how many people actually know about it and how much do they know? Anxiety and Depression Associations of America (ADAA) is a non-profit organization which mission is to provide information about mental disorders and help people who suffer from them. The organization aims to help people all over the world, improve their quality of life and to find new treatments. Their goal of helping people with disorders became their slogan Over Depression and The website is simple and made in bright, calming colors, which is a good idea to make people feel calm and safe, without triggering any negative thoughts or irritate by using some sort of aggressive colors. The first notable thing on the website is an interactive menu, which includes related articles about depression, anxiety and other mental illnesses. Moreover, the main page includes a column and where visitors can find new related information related to mental disorders. On the top of the website, visitors can easily find an interactive button to navigate through the website. The organization is sharing the information about treatments, nearest therapists and clinics, and other important information. Thus, by Student 2 providing related information, ADAA hoping to provide help and contribute the care and possible recovery to their visitors and members. The first image that grips attention is the image of a silhouette in the bright sunlight. The human is staying on a mountain; his arms raised up and widely open. His gesture shows the feeling of some sort of a triumph and/or success. Furthermore, since it is unknown if a or silhouette, people might associate themselves with this silhouette. On the right side of the image is the text message that says: Over Anxiety and The picture and the text match each other and giving an idea of a victory. The image is made in goldish colors, which also associates with a golden prize or a reward. The idea of the image is clear and positive; the relive that comes after depression or anxiety recovery is analogical to a victory and associates with a feeling of success. Therefore, it is notable that the image is making impact on emotional and logical sides of appeal, such as Pathos and Logos respectively. The logical appeal is clearly seen in the logical trait between relive from depression and triumph. While, the gender-neutral silhouette, the pose of the winner, goldish colors, everything is pointing at the idea of success which evokes some personal experience, makes people feel encouraged to fight with the disorders and believe that they can triumph over the disorders. The combination of both appeals represented harmoniously in the image and perfectly matches with mission to help people. The second image consists of hands holding a globe and the text message that says: a Therapist Near Hands that are holding a globe is might be a metaphor for is smaller than you This is a symbol of kind of a connection between people, to show that despite the fact that it seems that world is big and everyone are disunited, in fact, we are all living on the dame planet and we are much closer to each other than people can imagine. On the Student 3 other hand, the gesture of open hands, that are softly holding the Earth, also might be a symbol of a gentle and caring behavior, it gives an idea of that people actually care about each other and humanity in general. The text a Therapist Near is sort of saying that it does not matter where is the patient, there is always will be a place to visit if he or she needs help. This image shows that people, who are suffering from anxiety and depression are not alone, there are other people who are willing to provide help and it is very easy to find clinics somewhere near. The whole image is showing that nothing is impossible and help is closer than the patient can imagine. In addition, the hands as a symbol might mean something like is in your which can be interpreted as the patient is responsible for his or her health and it is only in his or her hands to change the life and help themselves. Rhetorical appeals in the image are represented through an emotional appeal, such as emotional needs of help and support, and logical text message that if someone needs a therapist, then he or she can easily find one near them. Therefore, Pathos and Logos in the image represent a perfect combination of emotional support and help, which is goes along with the mission of providing information of therapists to help their members and people who suffer from depression and anxiety in general. Additionally, the image supports the idea of the successful rehabilitation and completely matches the slogan - over depression and Despite the fact that the images that are used by the ADAA are possibly having differences in their appeal, symbol and text messages, they have a lot of in common. Their differences are nothing before the idea and context that they carry. Both images are aimed for a broad audience, since people of all ages might suffer from depression and anxiety. Mental disorders do not have exceptions for age, gender or social status; everyone is equal when it comes to health problems. Therefore, the ADAA want to make people feel support and help even Student 4 without personal interactions. Through theirs images and website the organization tries to provide all the necessary help, support and information to help people triumph over depression and anxiety. (World Count: 1001) Student 5 Works Cited National Institute of Mental Health, Depression, March 20, 2015, web, Anxiety and Depression Association of America, web, https://www.adaa.org http://treatment.adaa.org