Cramp 1 Hayden Cramp Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 12 February 2017 Finding Common Ground Between Public and Private School Systems Parents, students, and even the United States Government, regularly debate about which type of schooling system is superior, public or private school. Quality education is crucial to ensuring America has a solid foundation on which to build its future. All of the leaders and workers will have to go through school to be equipped for future challenges. Therefore, it is extremely important that our education systems are effective and efficient. Public and private schools have the same overall goal, the education of students so they can contribute to and improve our communities and the country as a whole. However, they often compete against each other because they operate differently. There are several arguments supporting the benefits of each system and a compromise between the two competing views can be made. Stakeholders with opposing views on this issue include public school boards and the various private school organizations. Public school boards are the governing body for most public schools. According to the Center for Public Education website, local school board is a critical public link to public schools. Whether elected or appointed, school board members serve their communities in several important (Center for Public Education). The school board attempts to look out for interests their students by focusing on education over everything. When making decisions for the schools, boards incorporate their view of what students should know and be able to (Center for Public Education). School boards are open to the Cramp 2 public, held accountable for the performance of their schools, and responsible for efficiently managing the tax dollars they spend on education (Center for Public Education). Public school curriculums are determined by the state/county in which they abide. Public education means a tuition-free, publicly funded system that must provide an education to each child in a neighborhood school within a publicly governed school system. The academic standards, the teachers and administrators, the values and methods of operation employed in these schools are all subject to oversight and direction by public policy-making bodies. (Center for Public Education) Since public schools are funded by taxes on the community as a whole, students and families do not have to pay anything directly for schooling. This is especially important to low-income families who may otherwise be unable to pay tuition for their education. Also, public schools are accessible to all members of the community and require no admission process. However, since public schools must serve a wide range of educational needs for large numbers of students, school boards must sometimes standardize education requirements, which may not be a best fit for all student needs. Unlike public schools, private schools are not managed or funded by local and state governments. Private schools are often affiliated with religious groups, not for profit, and funded by families or guardians through tuition. According to StateUniversity.com, an education analysis organization, school students numbered 5,162,684 in the fall of 1999, representing approximately 10 to 11 percent of the total elementary and secondary enrollment in the United States. Approximately 49 percent of these students were in Catholic (StateUniversity.com). This data shows that there is a large population of students that attend private schools, although it is still significantly smaller than the public school population. Private Cramp 3 schools can come in many forms based on information from Matt Donnelly, an author and youth advocate, schools in America today consist of a wide variety of different types such as preparatory (prep) schools, Waldorf schools, Montessori schools, parochial schools, Christian schools, Hebrew schools and Islamic (Donnelly, Matt). Each of these private school models employs different teaching methods and conduct ideals, but they all share the common goal of education excellence. Some people argue that private schools perform better than other public schools. They claim this because when people pay extra for private school, it causes the parents to be more involved and the students to perform better. Students at private schools are also more likely to be in the middle to upper socioeconomic class because they can afford to pay the high amounts of money for tuition. However, if needed, lower-income families can get grants to put their children into private school. An example of a private mission statement is one from Bell Shoals Baptist Academy in Brandon, a school which I attended: The mission of Bell Shoals Baptist Academy is to provide a Christ-centered education and serve as a guiding compass that helps us express a direction and points everyone to that direction. We strive to train students to excel in academics, fine arts, athletics, and technology while fostering a biblical worldview throughout all aspects of our program. (Bell Shoals Baptist Academy). This demonstrates how private schools outline their plan to achieve educational goals while holding to a set of core values. This differs from public school because private schools are allowed to teach more openly about religion. In the argument of public versus private schools, the two stakeholders of the public school board and private schools have many differences and similarities. A compromise can be reached since they share the common goal of educating their students. This compromise would Cramp 4 be that they could both come together and, instead of competing about which system of schooling is superior, work out a plan to use both of their methods and make an even better system. They could combine the accessibility and low cost of public schools with the teaching style and technology of private schools. This would benefit both by working toward their goals of educating students in the best way possible. Something similar to this exists today and they are called charter schools. Charter schools are a form of public school authorized by a governing body or (in some states) a for-profit corporation for a period of time. Charter schools are distinct from traditional public schools in two respects: they are free of many bureaucratic entanglements and tend to use more innovative educational techniques. Charter schools are left free to experiment in exchange for greater  (Donnelly, Matt) Charter schools are a good compromise because they are paid for through taxes but offering private school-like teaching styles students may prefer. Charter schools are becoming more and more popular for these reasons. Some research was done by Philip Gleason, an education researcher and author on the growth of charter schools, charter school sector in the United States has grown steadily since the first charter school opened in 1992. As of the 2015-2016 school year, more than 6,800 charter schools served nearly 3 million students in forty states and the District of (Gleason, Philip M). In conclusion, the compromise between these two types of schools benefits both stakeholders in many ways. However, this only benefits private schools that are not religiously affiliated. This is because charter schools are still technically and are not permitted to teach about religion by law. Even though this is the case, public and private schools benefit from this compromise because it satisfies their main goals of bettering education for its students. This issue is important because it forces public and private schools to be more Cramp 5 competitive and responsive to parent and student needs. Most important to lower-income families, the charter school hybrid option provides an excellent alternative to public schools and private schools that are out of reach financially. Works Cited About  Bsbacademy. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Donnelly, Matt. Charter  Research Starters: Education (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Donnelly, Matt. Private  Research Starters: Education (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Gleason, Philip M., and Inc. Mathematica Policy Research. The Secret Ingredient? Searching For Policies And Practices That Make Charter Schools Successful. Working Paper  Mathematica Policy Research, Inc (2016): ERIC. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Philip Private Schooling - What Is a Private School?, History of Private Schools in the United  StateUniversity.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. The Role of School  Center for Public Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.