Bryanna Tanase Dr. Smith Composition 1 29, January 2017 Tanase 1 Vegetarian and Vegan Diets for Weight Loss Over the years, several different types of vegetarian diets have spawned to appeal to the varying degrees of which individuals can tolerate cutting out meat from their diet. These include the commonplace vegetarian diet, the not as common ovo, pesco, and lacto vegetarians, and veganism. The latter is the most extreme type of vegetarian diet, which eliminates all foods containing animal products including dairy and eggs. Nutritionists and ordinary people alike have promoted these diets because of their supposed ability to decrease risk of disease such as diabetes and cancer, as well as aid weight loss. The aim of this research project is to determine whether vegan and vegetarian diets are effective for weight loss and discuss the potential risks of engaging in these eating regimens. Turner-McGrievy, Gabrielle M., et al. Applied Nutritional Investigation: Comparative Effectiveness Of Plant-Based Diets For Weight Loss: A Randomized Controlled Trial Of Five Different  Nutrition 31.(2015): 350-358. ScienceDirect. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This journal article is a study comparing the effectiveness of five different plant based diet on weight loss. Participants were randomly placed on one of the diets (omnivorous, semi- vegetarian, pesco-vegetarian, vegetarian, or vegan) for a 2-month weight loss period with a 4 month follow up period. This quote from the results section of the study describes the weight loss in each of the five groups from largest to smallest trend for weight loss among the five groups was significant at both 2 mo (P < 0.01) and 6 mo (P < 0.01) with the greatest weight loss occurring in the vegan group 4.5%), followed by the veg 6.6%), pesco-veg Tanase 2 3.4%), semi-veg 3.8%), and omni 3.6%) groups It was concluded that vegan diets were more effective than the other diets for weight loss because of increased fiber intake and decreased cholesterol intake. This source is credible because it was published in the journal Nutrition and the study described was carried out by a team of registered dieticians and experts in the field of nutrition. The source is relevant to the topic of study in that it provides affirmation that a vegan diet is best for weight loss when compared with other plant based diet plans due in part to improved consumption of fiber and decreased consumption of saturated fat. This article relates to my other source in that it also approves veganism as a safe form of weight loss. Ramona, et al. Adolescent And Young Adult Vegetarianism: Better Dietary Intake And Weight Outcomes But Increased Risk Of Disordered Eating  Journal Of The American Dietetic Association 4 (2009): AGRIS. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. In this study, researchers surveyed teenagers and young adults between the ages of 15-23 on vegetarian diets to examine the relationship between vegetarianism (which includes veganism) and weight, nutrient consumption, and unhealthy manners of weight management. They found that although vegetarians had better nutrition and weighed less than non-vegetarians, former vegetarians in both groups were more likely to engage in unhealthy weight control habits. This quote from the conclusion section of the article provides a clearer picture of how many young adult and adolescent vegetarians are likely to use poor methods of weight control. high proportion of current adolescent vegetarians (1 in 4) and former vegetarians in both the adolescent cohort (1 in 5) and young adult cohort (1 in 4) engaged in extreme weight-control Tanase 3 behaviors In addition, a poorly planned vegan diet leads to increased risk of deficiency of vitamin B-12, calcium, vitamin D, riboflavin, protein, zinc, and n-3 fatty acids. This article is related to the research being conducted in that it agrees with the idea that following a vegan diet is helpful for adolescents and young adults looking to lose weight. However, it also brings up two potential downfalls to this way of eating: the potential for vitamin deficiency and usage of unhealthy weight control behaviors following cessation of the diet. This source is credible because medical professionals and experts in the field conducted the study described and it was published in The Journal of the American Dietetic Association. This is related to the other sources in that it continues to approve the vegan diet for weight loss, but offers some information that may cause readers to be opposed to the diet. Mangels, Ann Reed, Virginia Messina, and Vesanto Melina. Position Of The American Dietetic Association And Dietitians Of Canada: Vegetarian  Journal Of The American Dietetic Association 6 (2003): 748. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. This article discusses the overall consensus of the American Dietetic Association and Dieticians of Canada on vegetarian diets, including veganism. Both organizations agree that planned vegetarian diets are healthful, nutritionally adequate, and provide health benefits in the prevention and treatment of certain (748). They came to this consensus after looking at all sorts of factors surrounding vegetarian diets such as the interest in the diet, nutrients consumed and recommendations for increasing intake of some if needed, and looking at the many diseases which these diets are believed to prevent. This source is credible because it was published in the Journal of the American Dietetic Association and offers the perspective of two of the organizations which registered dieticians and Tanase 4 nutritionists can become members of. This article is related to my research because it illustrates that plant based diets are effective for weight loss and can also help defend against disease. The fact that this article was published in 2003, much earlier than the others, yet still reiterates the notion that these diets aid weight loss support the position that perspective on this topic has not changed over time. Panebianco, Stephen M. The Merits And Pitfalls Of  Explore: The Journal Of Science And Healing 1 (2007): 55. Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. This article discusses both the benefits and downfalls of consuming a vegetarian diet, as well as provides some information on the many different spectrums of vegetarianism, including veganism. Benefits are stated by the author include reduced risk of disease. In addition, plant based protein sources have plenty of protein to boost the feeling of fullness for fewer calories than meat. On the other hand, following a vegetarian diet can lead to an excess intake of refined grains and processed foods, vitamin B12 and calcium deficiency, and anemia due to lack of iron consumption. Panebianco also states that some people have the wrong approach to vegetarianism in that they think they are being healthy just by avoiding meat. This is evidenced in the following quotation brand of vegetarianism can be soda, fries, and macaroni and (55). This statement illustrates that not all vegetarian eating habits are healthful and have the potential to be filled with empty calories and junk food, both of which inhibit weight loss. This is a credible source because it was written by an MD certified in family and holistic medicine, and the article was published in the Journal of Science and Healing. This article compares to previous sources in that it still mentions the same benefits of Tanase 5 plant based diets as the others, but provides more evidence in opposition to them which will be useful for the argumentative assignment.