Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Support for the Usage of Solar Energy in America People can be easily persuaded through the usage of specific rhetoric and visual appeals found in everyday life. Companies, organizations, and activists utilize images to convey and promote their positions on issues. These groups of people are typically known as stakeholders, typically independent parties that have an interest or concern towards a specific issue. A prime example of this is the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) as the organization employs images to promote the usage of solar energy within America. The SEIA is a non-profit organization established in 1974 as a trade association that works with several other companies to make solar a mainstream energy resource (www.seia.org/about). It stands out that the organization maintains a complete dedication to solar energy as means for powering America and intends to do so by influencing the general population of the United States. Due to the recent concerns of global warming and climate change, ideas of alternative sources of energy have become more prominent throughout the world. The SEIA stands to champion the use of clean, affordable solar energy in America by expanding markets and working with over a thousand member companies. Solar energy is a major form of alternative energy and should be considered as the primary source of power in America because it is cost-efficient, promotes a new source of jobs, and is a clean supply of energy. The first image utilized by the SEIA is a Target shopping center that has hundreds of modern solar panels on the top of it. The primary message the Solar Energy Industries Student 2 Association employs within the image of Target is that means business and more American businesses are solar than ever Means Business The SEIA shows that solar panels can be a more reliable energy resource within America by applying it to companies found within the United States. The visual cues such as the numerous solar power panels and the crowded nature of the Target help support the overall message of the image. The image also helps shows that other companies can start adopting solar panels within their businesses as one of the largest corporations in the United States, Target has already begun transferring to environmentally friendly sources of energy. Also by utilizing a common and large corporation found throughout America the SEIA not only promotes solar panels within businesses but also the general population of the United States. Rhetorical analysis and color is also incorporated within the image as the solar panels stand out greatly on top of the white rooftop of the Target, and the ethos or credibility of the image is ensured as from a source of Target, and found in the website of SEIA which is a leading contributor to solar energy within the country. Along with promoting the rise of solar power within America the article that showcases this image notes the rise of solar power as, the United States have now installed more than 1 gigawatt of solar energy, enough to power 193,000 homes. Also over 500 companies have installed solar at nearly 2,000 individual installations nationwide (Solar Means Business 2016). Overall this image employs a message that solar power is benefiting American companies and that most people and corporations should begin incorporating the alternate energy resource into their day to day lives. The other image utilized by the SEIA is a table of facts and small pictures revealing the progress of solar energy over the next five years with the implementation of a bill known as the ITC extension. The image shows that there will be an increase in investment, expanded capacity, Student 3 ability to create jobs and offset emissions within the United States (Impacts of Solar Investment Tax Credit Extension). The primary message of this image is the impact of solar energy and the possibility of it becoming a primary source of energy within America. This image uses simplicity within its visual cues and design to make it easy to interpret as a way of promoting solar energy. The pictures within the image are straightforward pictures of money, workers, solar panels, and factories respectively to show the long-term benefits of the ITC extension and solar panels in genera throughout America. The usage of orange and yellow within the image as warm colors also supports solar energy as its colors that are typically associated with the sun. The embedded text of the image and logos rhetorical appeals reveals that 30 billion dollars will be invested in the solar industry annually, the capacity of solar panels will increase 3000%, over 200,000 jobs will be created including 50,000 military veterans, and 100 million metric tons of CO2 will no longer be polluting the atmosphere by 2020 (Impacts of Solar Investment Tax Credit Extension).Through rhetorical analysis this image also employs a sense of emotion, by bringing up veterans people viewing the image gain a sense of empathy towards retired soldiers that are looking for a job. Ethos is also evident within the essay as it has or (Hoffman 27) and is analyzing a new bill introduced into the United states that promotes solar energy growth within the United States. The article also notes that, The extension of the Solar ITC will lead to a large sustained growth in the U.S. solar industry, also the industry will deploy more than 20 gigawatts of solar electric capacity every year and employ more than 420,000 workers (Impacts of Solar Investment Tax Credit Extension). People can be persuaded by this image easily as it shows all the benefits of solar panels to all Americans. By not showing any downsides to the solar industry the SEIA employs a fixed view on the issue and gains support by such facts and graphs. This image helps support solar power overall by showing Student 4 its clear advantages to common everyday Americans on how it can be a primary source of energy within the United States. Through visual imaging and rhetorical appeals companies can persuade and influence opinions without directly stating them as seen by images conveyed by solar energy promoters. The Solar Energy Industries Association is an example of one of the many stakeholders that promotes its own view on a specific issue on towards an audience. Stakeholders typically act as an independent party that is used for swaying and persuading the general population to support their own motives and internal agendas. By utilizing images, articles, the SEIA is able to gain a lot of support for solar energy by revealing its advantages over other sources of energy, and its growth over the years. The SEIA advertises solar energy to the general population of the United States as its stake is for the support of alternative energy resources within America. Along with the SEIA many other organizations seek out to influence a set audience through visual and rhetorical appeals as to accomplish their own goals. (Word Count: 1143) Student 5 Works Cited  SEIA. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. <http://www.seia.org/about>. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Pathos. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Understanding Visual Argument. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Impacts of Solar Investment Tax Credit  SEIA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Solar Means Business  SEIA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1. http://www.seia.org/campaign/solar-means-business-2016 Figure 2. http://www.seia.org/news/seia-solar-newsletter-jan-5-2016