Acceptance of alongside increase of organic products There has been a fair amount of controversy in recent years regarding the use of animal treatment in the food industries, and processed foods. Many have declared health hazards of while others argue that production rates and costs outweigh other factors. Two organizations concerned with this topic include the Organic Consumers Association (OCA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The OCA is an organization that focuses on diet related health concerns and healthy lifestyle around the world. They state that because of the foods regularly eaten by everyday Americans, have become a Fast Food Nation of bulging waistlines and high blood Food ,2012). The OCA views the rising health concerns in America to be a result of processed foods, and artificial preservatives contained in a variety of foods. The sole priority for the FDA is to check for any harmful products in foods to control what can and cannot be sold to the public. Although many foods are not directly harmful to humans, when consumed in larger amounts they can be detrimental to health. Essentially, the safety of consumers can be compromised by the presence of and processed foods if they have not been regulated and investigated thoroughly by the FDA. The primary goal of both organizations is to provide safe foods for everyday citizens. The opposition between the two organizations lies in the use of and determining whether they are in fact The acceptance of the least hazardous in food by the OCA would propose a heathy medium. Meanwhile, the FDA must ensure thorough safety experiments on processed and engineered foods setting a limit on the effects of allowed and to what extent the food can be altered from its natural form. This would ultimately allow for a modest use of and an increase of organic goods in markets as compared to a large quantity of processed and altered foods resulting in success for both the OCA and the FDA. The FDA does not approve all and every food product to be commercialized and sold to the public. There are set criteria that products have to fulfill and must be able to pass the safety guidelines. The FDA states that derived from genetically engineered plants must meet the same legal standards, including safety standards, as foods derived from traditional plant breeding concludes Arctic 2015). Therefore, so long as a food is deemed safe, the FDA allows the production and sale regardless of GMO content, artificial ingredients, chemicals, pesticides, etc. Alongside in plants, one aspect that can be overlooked is the production of genetically modified animals. The FDA regulates the safety for in animals as well to ensure full safety for the public. They provide a consultation process claimed to be effective by Dennis Keefe, Ph.D., director of the Office of Food Additive Safety, case-by-case safety evaluation ensures that food safety issues are resolved prior to commercial concludes Arctic 2015). These also allow for better production and longer lasting food sources. For example, in one case the FDA approved the use of biotechnology in the production of Arctic Apples that genetically engineered to resist browning associated with cuts and bruises by reducing levels of enzymes that can cause concludes Arctic 2015). This allows for longer life while retaining safety, ultimately providing the public with a better source of food. On the other hand, the OCA entirely opposes the use of and the use of artificial flavorings, preservatives, processing, pesticides, etc. in the process of food production. The OCA proudly presents their motto: FOR HEALTH, JUSTICE, SUSTAINABILITY, PEACE, AND 2017). In support of local farmers and organic goods, the OCA strives to eliminate the use of entirely along with any use of artificial or man-made chemicals. The main belief is that the only path towards eating safe foods and building healthy lifestyles in America is to rid all food of synthetic and biotechnology. Although this goal appears to be ideal, the probability of a successful elimination is little to none. The OCA also claimed that the quality of organic foods has been compromised by Congress Bush administration appointees in the USDA National Organic Program to approve hundreds of synthetic substances and processing aids in organic Food 2005). The OCA is still protesting to completely halt the use of and genetically modified foods. Both organizations aim to provide safe food for the general public while the OCA also places a concentration on providing healthy food. Although the FDA is rather neutral on the issue, a compromise can be made to increase healthy foods and limiting and processed food. By increasing restrictions on the requirements for food and allowing only a certain number of foods to be genetically altered, the general public will experience an elevation in healthy living. The FDA will benefit by retaining a better reputation rather than receiving constant complaints and having to defend from protestors and the public who are outraged at the lack safe foods. The OCA will also benefit by the increase of organic goods in supermarkets, less use of in food, and healthier lifestyles for all Americans. In addition, the initial act can lead the way for more movements which will again provide for a larger variety of healthier and organic foods. Thus, the compromise would entail further restrictions on foods, thorough experimentation on food conducted by the FDA rather than the biotechnological company producing the product, and a limit on what foods will be allowed to contain Although the two topics are completely unrelated, a comparison can be made between the LGBT community fighting for rights, same-sex marriage, and no discrimination against Congress. The two stakeholders involved in this controversy were Congress and the LBGT community. The LGBT community sought for all rights at once while Congress consistently denied their plead. Eventually after much protesting and debate, the LGBT community had a miniscule beginning toward freedom with the allowance of same-sex marriage for the first time in America in the state of Massachusetts in 2003. Congress withheld the current regulations on same-sex marriage but slowly allowed for it to pass state by state. In this situation, the LGBT community sought for rights everywhere and received a small change, or compromise, from Congress allowing for rights in certain states, but not entirely. After much controversy, Obama states his administration will no longer defend the Defense of Marriage stones in the American Gay Rights 2012), lifting the ban on same-sex marriage. ultimate goal is to provide civil rights and justice for all Americans while the LGBT community is primarily focused on the rights of homosexual individuals and others. With small increments of compromise, both Congress and the LGBT community have benefited from the debate and the goal of both organizations have been achieved. Therefore, the compromise between two organizations, one somewhat neutral while another strongly takes a side, is definitely plausible. As experienced in American history, the LGBT protested for equal rights and Congress slowly listened and fulfilled their plea. If the FDA takes small steps in limiting processed foods, and artificial ingredients in food, consumers will undergo changes leading to a safer and healthier lifestyle. The OCA will realize the positive progress and this can lead for more opportunities to provide better foods for all Americans. Annotated Bibliography Organic Consumers Association  Frozen Food Age, Oct. 2005, p. 4. General OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=ITOF&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CA13 8581386&it=r&asid=ba26f0ce9ae01448205bdc0399ba77a9. Accessed 31 Jan. 2017. The article provides news about the use of frozen food and its health effects on consumers. It proved to be a reliable source for this paper by describing the controversy that standards for organic foods are being lowered. This serves as support for the OCA and the opposition on the industries regulating food safety. Organic Consumers  About OCA. OCA., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. The initial website page provides the foundation and background of the OCA. It has helped in the writing of this paper by providing general information about the OCA so that their perspective could be presented accurately. This information allowed for the formation of choosing a side in the controversy and to support their opinion on the effects of and processed foods. Timeline: Milestones in the American Gay Rights  PBS. PBS, n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. This article summarized the chronology of the Gay Rights Movement into a simple timeline. The site provided details on steps taken leading to the recent admission of same-sec marriage in the U.S. nationwide. The information provided on this page supported the evidence needed for the real life example of a compromise between two organizations that proved to be successful for both parties. FDA concludes Arctic Apples and Innate Potatoes are safe for  FDA concludes Arctic Apples and Innate Potatoes are safe for consumption. U.S. Food and Drug Administration, 20 Mar. 2015. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. The article provided a brief yet informative example of how can be beneficial for food products. The FDA stated that the genetically modified potatoes and apples were just as safe to consume as standard apple with increased resistance to bruising resulting an extended shelf life. This aided in taking a stance that does not condemn the use of but rather realizes that there are benefits as well. The FDA uses this example to defend against debate that are harmful by displaying the pros as long as they are proved to be just as safe as standard foods. Determining the Regulatory Status of a Food  Determining the Regulatory Status of a Food Ingredient. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. This page provides a general background and foundation for the purpose of having the FDA and their general guidelines of regulating additive ingredients in foods. This article provides great support for general knowledge and understanding that the FDA does not condone nor prohibit the use of in food but does not cater to either position regarding the controversy. https://www.organicconsumers.org/essays/americas-obesity-and-diabetes-epidemic-junk- food-kills http://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm439121.htm http://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm439121.htm https://www.organicconsumers.org/campaigns/appetite-change http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/americanexperience/features/timeline/stonewall/