Kirstin L. Sowers 1 Kirstin L. Sowers Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 29 January 2017 Introductory paragraph Solar energy is a well-known alternative energy source. As the world burns through its supply of oil and coal, the question is raised of where the energy-hungry modern world will gather the power it needs to continue its lifestyle. Researchers and innovators are considering the advantages and disadvantages of solar energy collecting. There are several unusual uses for solar energy that the average consumer is not aware of beyond generating electricity, such as heating water, powering the AC unit and the central heating. Homes outfitted for solar often have the option to sell unused power to the grid, making money for the owner. Solar can be more cost effect in some locations, since it does not need to be transported like petroleum or coal. For years, startup costs have been prohibitive in the implementation of solar energy use. Overall, research and government subsidies is making this energy source cheaper and cheaper. Decreasing costs are minimalizing the number of serious disadvantages of solar energy, giving it an edge on traditional forms of energy. For solar to be taken serious, especially by the individual American, the question to be asked is: what are the advantages and disadvantages of investing in a solar energy system for the American consumer? Kirstin L. Sowers 2 Annotated bibliographies Walker, Andy. Solar Energy: Technologies and the Project Delivery Process for Buildings. Hoboken, New Jersey: Wiley, 2013. E-text. The author wrote Solar Energy: Technologies and the Project Delivery Process for Buildings with engineers in mind. This text covers, in depth, all possible technical aspects of planning and building a solar energy system, but it also covers many other related considerations, such as social implications of current energy policies. Some of the material is well out of the depth of the average reader, but large portions of it provide a deeper understanding of many aspects of solar energy. The text discusses benefits of solar energy and the (few) disadvantages. It explains how to calculate the most advantageous angle to align a solar panel based on location. It even gives a description of how the sun works. This text provides both an insightful overview of the current conversation related to solar energy in the context of the current ecological systems and an in depth, detailed explanation of the smallest factors to consider when designing a system. The author, Andy Walker, is a professor of engineering at the University of Colorado. This book can prove useful both to experts looking for solutions to specific problems and to students with no experience in engineering doing research projects on solar energy. Foster, Robert, Majid Ghassemi, and Alma Cota. Solar Energy: Renewable Energy and the Environment. Boca Raton: CRC Press, 2010. E-text. Kirstin L. Sowers 3 Solar Energy: Renewable Energy and the Environment provides a detailed look into the science behind solar energy. It explains fundamental principles, such as heat transfer and the laws of thermodynamics, and complicated topics specific to solar energy, such as the costs of certain systems given detailed parameters. The authors give an in-depth look into the costs of solar energy, for the individual or for a society. They also note the costs of continuing to rely heavily on traditional energy sources. They examine the damage traditional sources of energy have caused, as well as the current reliance of current systems on those sources and how to break free of that reliance. The text shows some bias towards the benefits of solar energy against other especially traditional sources of energy. The authors seem to have aimed this text at researchers and students at universities, though developers would also benefit from this text. This text is a collaboration between several individuals who work in the field of nontraditional sources of energy. The article helps address the costs of implementing solar versus relying on traditional sources of energy, for the individual and society. Delmas, Magali A., Matthew E. Kahn, and Stephen L. Locke. The Private and Social Consequences of Purchasing an Electric Vehicle and Solar Panels: Evidence from  Research in Economics (2016): http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.rie.2016.12.002. Accessed: 5 Feb. 2017. This article cover the social and ecological attitudes those who are implementing solar energy versus those who retain traditional sources. It notes social attitudes such as personal cost or preference over social conscious such as picking a safe vehicle over an ecologically friendly one. Solar energy faces a similar concern for example, a family that is not presented with Kirstin L. Sowers 4 financial options may be unable to afford solar energy options because of the initial cost versus the cost of maintaining a traditional system. The article notes the cost of solar panels and electric vehicles is decreasing, while their effectiveness is increasing. The article also presents the advantages to the environment of switching from traditional methods to solar energy and electronic vehicles. The article discusses the emergence of financing options for solar energy systems that are available. Current trends and potential future developments are discussed briefly. This a scholarly article, and the authors are affiliated with several Californian universities and the Western Kentucky University. One of the authors works with National Bureau of Economic Research. The article is fairly recent, 2016. This article helps address the question of not what a consumer should consider, but what they do consider when looking at the possibility of purchasing solar panels. Borenstein, Severin. The Private and Public Economics of Renewable Electricity  Journal of Economic Perspectives 1 (2012): 67. Academic OneFile. Accessed 5 Feb. 2017. The author of this article addresses the issue of how financial price of solar panels relates to the ecological price of pollution. He notes that this comparison is not straightforward. The issue is made even less straightforward by the many technologies available for renewable energy, and government subsidies that complicate analysis of the financial aspect. There are several different sources of renewable energy that would not work for every location or are too expensive. The author notes that solar is a scalable and cost competitive renewable energy Kirstin L. Sowers 5 source. Large scale solar has to transfer energy for distribution to the individual home. Solar can be used by a single individual, but the cost for the individual is higher than a large-scale system is. The author notes that electricity is expressive to store, but necessary in systems where demand or supply fluctuate. Solar is dependent on weather conditions. The article addresses the amount of pollution produced by traditional sources, and restrictions placed on its production. Reducing dependence on traditional sources would also decrease American dependence on sources of energy located outside our borders. This article addresses solar energy less from the perspective, and more from perspective. It was written 2012, so decently recent. The author discloses that portions of this work was done as part of a research contract form the California Energy Commission. The article is peer reviewed.