Chua 1 Jordan Chua Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 ReFED: The Possible Solutions to Reduce Food Waste targeted audience consist of environmental activists and anyone else who is concerned about the excess food that is being wasted every day. In order to persuade their audience, their messages and images on their website contains materials that cause the audience to emit emotions. (Vared) It will also cause the audience to think and reason with the call to action due to their credibility and authority in the field. ReFED is a stakeholder that helps reduce food waste through various rhetorical strategies as they try to persuade their audience by using images which contain the four appeals which are ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos. (Hoffman) The ultimate goal for the stakeholder is to use images in order to hinder food waste while still being able to create jobs, decrease greenhouse gas emissions, and alleviate hunger, as well as save water and other resources. (Vared) For example, on website, their homepage consists of a healthy green lettuce which is visible as soon as the website is accessed. (Vared) This immediately catches the attention as its vibrant colors of green that slowly fades into violet captures their eyes. (Vared) The use of this color is way of appealing to the emotions as the color green is known to emit feelings of good health and harmony as it is also the color of life. (Parker) The fading of the green to the violet also appeals to emotion as the color violet symbolizes the imagination and dreams for the future. (Parker) These two colors come in unity as good health, harmony, and a good future can be achieved by the reduction of food waste. Last Name 2 There is also a text joining the image that states we can reduce U.S. food waste by 50% by which is also pathos as using the pronoun allows the audience to feel like they are actually doing it together and that it is not only the organizations work. (Vared) This makes the audience feel important to the cause. Also, there is a message embedded in the image that appears as data-driven guide for businesses, government, funders, and nonprofits to collectively reduce food waste at (Vared) This embedded text definitely appeals to ethos, which is the appeal to credibility and authority, as ReFED basically states that their targeted audience is much larger than just humans who care about the excess waste of food and this implies that they have worked with larger authorities. (Vared) An image located in the tab of the website is filled with visual rhetoric as the stakeholder is trying to use it to attract the targeted audience. (Figure 1) The image consists of food such as carrots, peas, and pickles that are in an enclosed jar. The packaging appears to be hand packed considering the lid of the jar is composed of a piece of cloth that is being held together by a rope. The message that this image is trying to convey is that food that is in excess or unwanted can be saved in tightly packed jars either for a later time or to be distributed to those who need it. In consideration, the jar is made out of household items that people can find lying around and the purpose for that is to show that people do not have to go to big organizations or companies in order to do the same and that they can help reduce food waste by packing excess food in easily accessible household items. With this image, there are many areas where it appeals to logos, ethos, pathos, and Kairos. (Figure 1) The appeal of logos is used in this image as it is logical to pack foods using items that are easily accessible and convenient for the audience. It does not make sense to have to have someone else like a manufacturer or a big organization to do it for them. It is also more Last Name 3 logical to store food for whenever the audience may want it at a later time or to distribute to those that need it, instead of throwing it away. As for ethos, the stakeholder in the image has been in the business for more than 30 years. (Vared) It is also a nonprofit organization so in addition, it helps their credibility while giving the audience a peace of mind that they are not a money hungry company that is based upon monopolies and they also do not have to worry about them taking their money as well. As for pathos, the image is orange themed and it seems to have an orange tint with the carrots and peppers. The color orange is usually associated with emitting feelings of joy or warmth, and it also represents good health. (Parker) Kairos can also be found in this image as the jars are sealed and packed in a way that it is time restricted and that it should be either refrigerated or distributed right away. Another image under the tab can be found which consists of an employee checking the organized produce in a grocery store. (Figure 2) The message that this image is trying to convey is that the use of organized shelves in stores can impact food waste as the food that expires first is oriented in a way where it will get picked sooner than the ones that will expire at a later time. This method will reduce the amount of food wasted which is what the stakeholder is trying to achieve. The stakeholder uses logos in this image as, as previously stated, it is logical to not waste food. It is also logical to keep the produce on the shelves as healthy as possible to reduce throwing away. Ethos is also present in this image as the person checking the produce is a worker and it shows authority which gives him credibility. (Hoffman) As for pathos, this image contains a lot of the color green and the color is known to be associated with the feelings of safety, fertility and environment. (Parker) As for Kairos, it is present in this image as Last Name 4 the whole purpose of the message is to make sure that these green produce stay in the shelves for the right amount of time and not long after they are expired where they have to be thrown away. The stakeholder uses these strategies in order to attract their audiences. These are effective as they appeal to most perspectives and that is what companies take into account when they create these images. With these images in their website, ReFED hopes to be able to hinder food waste while increasing jobs, decreasing pollutions to the atmosphere as well as save water and other resources. (WC: 1120) Last Name 5 Works Cited: Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: Visual Rhetoric Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Parker, Raetta.  The Meaning of Colors. N.p., n.d. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Vared, Sarah. ReFED Rethink Food  ReFED Rethink Food Waste. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Last Name 6 Figure 1: http://www.refed.com/solutions/value-added-processing Figure 2: http://www.refed.com/solutions/improved-inventory-management