Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Raising the Paper Recovery Rate One Advertisement at a Time 2014, 96 percent of Americans had access to community curbside or drop-off paper recycling (Our Industry). People still find a reason not to recycle even though almost 100% of population is reached with recycling programs. The American Forest and Paper Association has a strong concern regarding the recycling of paper. The website for this association is a perfect source for education on the subject of recycling. It contains informative statistics, recycling news and argumentative articles to persuade the readers to recycle more. Their goal is to public policies that promote a strong and sustainable United States forest product industry in the global (AF&PA Celebrates 20 Years) The American Forest and Paper Association achieves their goal through advertisements. The primary visual message conveyed from both advertisements is to promote recycling to the public and raise the paper recovery rate. The history of the American Forest and Paper Association contains a long list of accomplishments. The Association was formed in 1993 when two groups combined. The first association was called Merger of National Forest Products Association and the second was called American Paper Institute. Former congressman Henson Moore was named president and CEO of the new association in 1993. In 1995, the association launched Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) principles. From the beginning, their main goals were to raise the paper recovery rate each year. In 1996, the association achieved their 40% paper recovery goal two years early and set a higher goal of 50% by the year 2000. The most recent update from the Student 2 website states they exceeded 63% paper recovery rate for the fourth consecutive year in 2015. On top of raising the paper recovery rate each year, their other goals are to public policies that promote a strong and sustainable United States forest product industry in the global (AF&PA Celebrates 20 Years) The first image advertisement for the association is the image of the train. Visual examples can be very powerful when it comes to reaching a particular audience. The American Forrest and Paper Association communicates how much paper is recycled daily through the image. The visual cues used in the image show how much is recycled that fills up the boxcars of a train. Elements of the design that stand out to the viewer is the landscape that surrounds the train. With big open fields of green grass along the train tracks, it makes the image seem more real to help convey the message. The front of the train is bright red to catch the eye. The text flows with the theme of the image and communicates that the U.S. papermakers recycle enough paper daily to fill a fifteen-mile-long train of boxcars. With further viewing, the audience can come to understand the message of the image and its impact. After coming to understand the visual analysis of the image, one can come to understand the rhetorical analysis of the image. Multiple rhetoric appeals can be found in the advertisement to persuade the viewers. The first rhetoric appeal found is logos. Logos is an appeal to logic and is a way of persuading the audience by reason (Hoffman 32). A common misconception of the public is that recycling is not worth the time. Logos is used in the image with the proof that recycling can fill a fifteen-mile-long train of boxcars. The next rhetoric appeal found in the image is ethos. Ethos is an appeal to ethics, and it is a means of convincing someone of the character or credibility of the persuader (Hoffman 27). Ethos is used in the image when the text states they are papermakers for the U.S. If they are recycling for the entire United States, they Student 3 have credibility about recycling and its importance. Next, Pathos is used to appeal to emotion, and is a way of convincing an argument by creating an emotional response (Hoffman 37). In the image, it can be a way to appeal to the happiness about the amount of recycling that occurs daily. Lastly, Kairos is used as an appeal to timeliness (Hoffman 41). Kairos is displayed in the image to inspire the audience to recycle even more. Recycling is done to protect the environment. It always should be considered as a call to act now. The next primary visual message that the American Forest and Paper Association communicates through their advertisements is the easy capability to reach recycling resources. The picture of the family is a visual cue used in the image to convey the message that anyone can use the recycling resources. The font displayed in large letters allows the audience to read it first, and then look at the image of the family to connect the two ideas. The text communicates the main idea of the image and what recycling resources are available. With the rhetoric analysis, the viewers can see that all four rhetoric appeals are used in this advertisement just like the first. The rise of recycling contributes to the Kairos used in the image. The environment is vital and every little piece of paper recycled matters. The image displays a way to help recycle with the resources available. Logos is used in the image by showing physical evidence of the recycling resources. Recycling bins are proof to appeal to the logic and reason of the audience. Ethos is used in the image by using credibility that comes from something the audience already believes in (Hoffman 30). The audience already knows how recycling works and its importance. The credibility of the advertisement reinforces what they already know to persuade them to recycle more. Lastly, pathos is used with the family appearance in the image on the right. That part of the image makes the audience feel inspired to recycle just like the family. Student 4 By analyzing the images visually and rhetorically, the audience can come to understand the goals and missions of the American Forest and Paper Association. They clearly exemplify logos, pathos, ethos and kairos to communicate to the audience the easy capability to reach recycling resources and to communicate how much paper is recycled daily. This in turn helps their goal of raising the paper recovery rate every year, as well as being a preferred source for paper recycling education. The association has come a long way since 1993, and is staying strong. (WC: 1,086) Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs. The Rhetoric Rhetoric (Really) Matters. University of South Florida, 2016. 20-26. Print. Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (Really) Matters. University of South Florida, 2016. 27-31. Print. Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (Really) Matters. University of South Florida, 2016. 32-36. Print. Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (Really) Matters. University of South Florida, 2016. 37-40. Print. Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (Really) Matters. University of South Florida, 2016. 41-46. Print. Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs. Breaking Down an Rhetoric (Really) Matters. University of South Florida, 2016. 345-351. Print. Celebrates 20 American Forest and Paper Association. DC Web Designers, 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. American Forest and Paper Association. DC Web Designers, 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Student 6