Student 1 Student Doctor Thornton ENC 1102 27 January 2017 PTSD: War Veterans are Still Suffering According to the PTSD Foundation of America, one in three returning troops will be diagnosed with PTSD and of this 33%, less than 40% of them will seek help. Now what exactly is PTSD? Post-traumatic stress disorder is a mental health problem that is developed after experiencing or witnessing a life-threatening event. Besides being exposed to a war zone, PTSD symptoms can also arise from being in a natural disaster, being sexually assaulted, or types of maltreatment National Center for The symptoms of this disorder include re- experiencing the traumatic event, avoiding the scene of the trauma or anything related to it, and the constant feeling of being alert. If a post traumatic event individual experiences these symptoms for more than one month then they can be diagnosed with the disorder and should seek help right away. important to realize that symptoms can be seen immediately following a tragic event or they can also not show up for a long period of time (ptsdusa.org). The PTSD Foundation of America is a non-profit organization that works to combat post-traumatic stress disorder, to give back to those who have given of themselves so selflessly, and to increase public awareness of this disorder. The foundation has a great history of providing hope and healing to those combat veterans suffering from their past. They are faith-based in their approach and offer a safe place where nobody is judged. These suffering veterans have sacrificed so much for their country and have seen a great deal of barbarity, therefore they deserve any help they can get. Their website has many images that really capture their mission, but there are two in particular Student 2 that really stand out. The picture of the tired and worn soldier makes the viewer emphasize and feel their pain while the picture of Camp Hope shows a possible route these struggling victims can take towards recovery. The PTSD Foundation of America is very beneficial for veterans because it provides help to those with the disorder, raises awareness, and the families through the process. The primary visual message of the soldier picture on the main home page of the website is that we should support our combat veterans that have been strained through war like the one depicted in the picture (Figure 1). The visual cue, such as the worn and tired look of the veteran who has seen things he will never forget, works to convey the intended message. What stands out most is the close up view of the face. Seeing the wrinkles on his face and the blank and spaced out look in his eyes allows the audience to feel his pain and connect with the cause. The audience is referring to the families of those affected by this disorder, those currently suffering from and looking for help, and anyone else that is willing to help the cause. In addition, the black background makes the overall picture look more intense. Rhetoric appeals are used to engage the audience to make them feel and think a certain way (Emilly Lane). The biggest rhetoric appeal in this picture is the use of pathos, or appeal to emotion. As previously mentioned, the detail on the worn veteran make the viewer emphasize with him. The use of logos is also present by making the audience want to support the cause because it is the right thing to do. The source of this picture is credible which is where the rhetorical element of ethos comes into play. Finally, the element of Kairos deals with the timeliness of when the picture is presented. The website stated that as many as 400,000 service members live and struggle with the invisible wounds of war. Considering the large amount of individuals affected by PTSD, the timing of this picture is ideal. This image directly correlates Student 3 with the mission because it brings awareness to the public and lets them see in firsthand what a suffering veteran looks like. The second picture located in the tab on the website deals more with promoting the recovery for veterans with PTSD. The picture includes a sign of Camp Hope which is a facility that provides housing for veterans and their families suffering post war related PTSD issues. The unique team offer a positive environment and have the necessary counseling training (ptsdusa.org). The purpose of this picture is to promote a potential treatment option for those suffering from the disorder. Therefore, the intended audience would be specifically for those individuals that are looking for help. The visual cues are the words in the sign explaining the name and its purpose. In addition the design of the image is fit because it only focuses on the sign which makes it stand out which ensures the message is not missed. Colors can play a big role in the analysis of the picture. In this picture, there is a part of an American flag in the upper section above the sign. This small amount of red, white, and blue add a sense of freedom and hope for those in need. The use of logos is seen in this picture by providing the exact location of a place where they assist people with PTSD. It makes it a logical option for those who are interested in receiving help. Similar to the first picture, ethos is used by it being presented on a website that has a high degree of credibility. Pathos is present by showing the American flags (Figure 2). As mentioned above, these flags connect with the suffering veterans and makes them feel more welcome. This feeling of comfort makes it easier to want to seek help. Pathos is essential in visual analysis because offers way for the audience to relate to the subject through common emotions and feelings (Kendra Gayle Lee). Finally, the timeliness of this picture is adequate because of the large amount of veterans that do not go and find help even though they possess symptoms of post-traumatic stress Student 4 disorder. This particular picture connects well with the mission because one of the treatment options available for combatting PTSD. As you can see, these images really capture the mission statement of the PTSD Foundation of America. They both have strong evidence of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos which are very important when expressing their individual messages. The foundation hopes to achieve its goal of supporting and giving help to veterans who are post-war and suffering from the effects of post-traumatic stress disorder. the least that can be done for those who gave the greatest sacrifice of all and fought for this country. (Word Count: 1097) Student 5 Figure 1 Figure 2 Student 6 Works Cited PTSD: National Center for  PTSD Basics - PTSD: National Center for PTSD. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Http://ptsdusa.org. What Is PTSD? Find out Now and Get the Support You  PTSD Foundation of America Combat Trauma Support Groups, Camp Hope Houston, Warrior Shield Fort Hood, Shield Radio. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Emily Lane, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides. Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-28. E-text. Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text.