Boyd 1 Taylor Boyd Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Kicking Pennies Out of Circulation: Should They Really Go? Pennies have been in circulation since 1787; that is 230 years (Americans for Common Cents). The question of whether pennies should stay in the currency has become a bigger and bigger issue. Two-thirds of Americans are still supportive of keeping the penny for many reasons (Americans for Common Cents). Americans for Common Cents is speaking up about keeping pennies in the currency in an ineffective way, because their homepage is unclear and their poster is degrading. Americans for Common Cents is a stakeholder informing patrons about why pennies should stay in the currency, stating, for Common Cents aims to inform and educate policymakers, consumers, and the media about the economic, cultural, and historical (American For Common Cents). They claim that the penny helps both Americans and the government (Americans for Common Cents). Stating, benefit with a low denomination coin, with the penny helping keep high prices in check for millions of hardworking (Americans for Common Cents). Americans use pennies every day, not understanding their worth; their value to the everyday living. Americans use pennies to raise money for charities and the government has kept the penny around to help keep high prices down for hard-working Americans (Americans for Common Cents). Americans for Common Cents claims, Impact: Every Cent but their message is not effective in the visual Boyd 2 sense because their website set up is not modern and their poster takes time to find on the website (Americans for Common Cents). The first picture is the homepage of the website. This picture is being used to show how the stakeholder is not being visually effective. This picture is not visually appealing because it looks confusing and few people will take the time to sit down and read all of what it says. The organization seems to have an organized website but it is also confusing because nothing seems to be very clear. Someone can click on the other links at the top, but they also have extra side clips or links at the bottom so a patron must look all over the page just to find one thing they want to read (Americans for Common Cents). The logic behind this website is to give patrons information on reasons why to keep the penny but it truly is just an overload of information. The colors of the website are gray with a little bit of red in the logo. The color gray sends the message of gloominess and sadness (Rhetoric Really Matters Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs 349). The little bit of red could mean death or love. Sending mixed messages of a gloomy love or a sad death can confuse a citizen and how that person is supposed to feel when looking at this website. The one message that can easily reach the eyes of a citizen is, Impact: Every Cent (Americans for Common Cents). This message can very easily go along with the negativity of the homepage because the stakeholder is yelling at you to make sure you keep every cent, in hopes to make a difference. To add to the confusion, there is little ethics in this picture. Is it ethical to have so much writing with no pictures but a logo? In Rhetoric Really Matters, it is stated, technology develops and encourages more and more casual writers to join Facebook, Twitter, and other social networking forums, it is also turning more people into graphic (Rhetoric Really Matters Mary E. Hocks 339). This forms the question as to Boyd 3 if the website is appealing to modern times. If people like to look at pictures more and more, why would there not be more pictures on the website? The second picture is a poster hidden in the depths of the website. The word itself means that the organization is wanting to promote a thought; to make sure anyone can see it if they put it online or on the streets. Rhetoric Really Matters states, portray meaning, just as language (Hoffman and Wiggs 351). The stakeholder understands this idea and uses it to increase the number of viewers of this picture. They have hope that it will impact more people and make them want to help support the idea of keeping the penny. With hopes of support, the organization put contact information on the bottom of the poster. They make this the smallest text because they want the attention to be grabbed by the God- like hand. This Godly figure is used in the ethics behind the poster. The idea behind it is if a universal life force uses pennies, then believers of a Divine Being should do the same (Hoffman and Wiggs 347-349). This God figure is holding pennies to show they have power, so why would Americans not want to use something that has power? This once again leads to the emotion of excitement because of the possibility of having power. The organization wants patrons to feel this power from the very beginning when the thought of taking pennies out of circulation came about. This means they wanted to get this poster out to viewers as soon as possible. The more time people get to see the poster and the more people who see the poster, the more support they are hoping to receive. To make the poster even more eye catching, the words pop with the blue background. The colors of the words are orange and yellow, to bring warmth to the idea of power. It is not icy cold, it is warm and inviting. It also comes closer to matching the copper of the penny so the viewers of the poster manage to make the connection. The main idea of this poster is to make people understand that if anyone wants to make a difference in keeping the Boyd 4 penny in circulation, then they need to contact Americans for Common Cents. The penny has power and citizens can make a difference and have power themselves if they are willing to speak up about the issue. Keeping the penny is an issue that needs to be heard and the organization, Americans for Common Cents, is willing to speak up about this issue using their confusing website and posters. As bad as this website is, it was the only one that supported one side and had one picture. Other websites are either very hard to find or do not have pictures or have pictures but only list pros and cons of both sides. This stakeholder at least finds it very important to be willing to speak up if you want to have power and help make the difference in keeping the penny. Americans for Common Cents degrades patrons if they are not supportive of the idea for the purpose to have more supporters. No one wants to be told that they do not have common sense and that allows the organization to have power and superiority over everyone else who looks at the website or poster until they decide to speak up with them. (Word Count: 1180) Figure One: Screenshot of Homepage http://www.pennies.org/.jpg Boyd 5 Figure Two: Penny Poster http://www.pennies.org/images/stories/pdfs/pennyposter.pdf Boyd 6 Works Cited Americans for Common  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pennies.org/>. Americans for Common Cents homepage screenshot. Digital image. Americans for Common Cents. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pennies.org/.jpg>. Hocks, Mary E. visual rhetoric in digital writing College composition and communication (2003): 629-656. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Penny Poster. Digital image. Americans for Common Cents. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pennies.org/images/stories/pdfs/pennyposter.pdf>.