Student 1 Sydney Bass Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Lighthouse: Beacon of Hope for Adolescent Lighthouse is a non-profit organization based out of Winnetka, IL that was founded by Tom and Ginny Neuckranz after losing their daughter to depression. Depression self is a disorder that causes persistent feeling of sadness and loss of (Mayo Clinic). Depression can also affect you feel, think and behave and can lead to a variety of emotional and physical (Mayo Clinic). Because of this, purpose of Lighthouse is be a beacon of hope for the many other young people who struggle with depression, empowering them with the knowledge and skills to understand and cope with this Lighthouse). The website contains many images, bright colors and information that follows through with their vison on educating people (especially young people and their parents) about depression and how to deal with it. The pictures that catch eye on the website is an image of hands on top of a globe and the other image is of a girl holding up a piece of paper that says Through the compelling images on the website that will be analyzed, they carry the promise that Lighthouse is a community based on helping adolescents, young adults and their parents with handling their depression. To begin, the first image with the hands on the globe show that you do not have to be alone when facing depression, having people around you can make handling depression much better. When going through the website this image was under the tab. According to the website to 20% of teens will suffer from at least one depressive Student 2 episode before they reach Lighthouse). As shown in the picture it appears to be hands on that globe. Depression is more common in this age group and need a sense of community to get the help they need. The different shades of hands on top of the globe show that depression can happen everywhere from different from different walks of life. The stakeholder shows concern that there is a certain stigma about mental illness that can sometimes impact depressed kids the help they need. Being able to reach out and have someone to go to receive help will help prevent the negative impacts depression can have. The image takes an emotional appeal of the fact that people can come together and help each other out and that they are not alone. Through that appeal there is a call to action on depression because of the adolescent/teen suicide and depression rates increasing. This shines a on the fact that depression is a serious mental illness and should be taken seriously. That is one of the reasons why the founders created this organization, to shine a light on this and prevent teens from ending up in the same fate as their daughter, Erika, did. To continue, the second image of the girl holding the help sign shows that one should always ask for help when handling depression. The dictionary.com definition for help is give or provide what is necessary to accomplish a task or satisfy a need The expression takes a village to raise a plays a huge role here. Handling depression should not be a one-person job. In order for adolescents to figure out if their symptoms are real the website offers a that will educate adolescents and parents more on how to handle depression. The Toolbox has different tabs labeled and (Toolbox). Having the blurred out visual of the girl holding the sign helps to focus the eye to the paper and what it says. Help can be a strong word because it communicates the need for someone to be of assistance and is something that especially adolescents going through depression need to ask. According to the Student 3 website, and help is possible and it all starts with a little (Toolbox). Asking for help to anyone means that the person is willing to listen and get the they need. As stated before since depression is a strong and emotional topic that pictures that go with it have a strong emotional appeal. When thinking of a person that need helps the word that comes to mind is powerless and that that person (child) needs someone to be there for them. To finish, both of the images come together and are similar in that they show that adolescents and their parents need to take charge of depression as a mental illness. According to Rawhide.org, of teens will experience depression before (Malcore). Because of this, teenagers are getting more depressed and not receiving the help they need which can result to thoughts of suicide, violence and other things. In the past, depression can be seen as something minor and can be overlooked against other mental illness. The target audience of Lighthouse is parents, adolescents and young adults and the main purpose is to educate people about depression. The mission is simple, educate communities about teen depression, eliminate the stigma associated with mental illness and empower teens to take charge of their mental number one concern should be that their health is the best it can be, physically and mentally. When people think of a mental illness, depression something one would exactly think of first. The mind would go to more known mental illnesses like schizophrenia, PTSD, Bipolar, etc. Having a mental illness can be seen as embarrassing and showing signs of weakness, Because of this negative stigma on mental illnesses, especially depression, negative effects can happen because of people not taking care of their mental health. To conclude, Lighthouse is a great organization that empowers adolescents and young adults to take charge of their mental health. Tom and Ginny fulfilled the legacy of their Student 4 daughter by creating an organization that can prevent children from having the same fate as their daughter. It also allows parents with the right information in order to get their kids the help they need. Some of the images depicted on their website help to visually communicate their message. Adolescents and young adults should know that they are not alone when it comes to handling depression, to always ask for help especially going through the symptoms of depression and to take charge of depression as a mental illness. Lighthouse is the light in the darkness that is there to help people in need. (WC:1,084) Student 5 Works Cited Teenage Depression Programs  Teenage Depression Programs Lighthouse. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Community  Community Organizations Lighthouse. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. The  The Toolbox Lighthouse. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily. The Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 18-24. E-text. Womack, Karissa. Essay Structures for Specific Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 18-24. E-text. Mayo Clinic Staff. Depression (major  Mayo Clinic. N.p., 7 July 2016. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Malcore, Paul. Teen Depression: Troubling Statistics and  Rawhide. N.p., 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.  Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Student 6