Terrill 1 Elisa Terrill Emil Smith ENC 1101 1-29-17 The Emotional and Physical Effect of Cell Phone Overuse As time has passed on, technology has rapidly increased in both use and efficiency. In particular, cell phones have continued to be upgraded to keep up with the rest of the fast growing world of technology. However, with all the continuous improvements that our cellular devices have undergone come side affects, both physical and mental. When it comes to the toll cell phone overuse has on the body, Environment International has found that extensive use of a cell phone can lead to infertility in men. Furthermore, Elder (a professor and research scientist) completed an experiment on student cell phone use in class and the affect it had on their learning abilities. So the question stands, how deeply does the daily use of cell phones affect the average person? Environment International, comp. Effects of cell phone use on semen parameters: Results from the MARHCS cohort study in Chongqing,  International. 91 (2016): 116. OneFile . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. For this study, the scientists began by collecting a large sample of men to participate. 794 men participated in 2013, 666 in 2014, and 568 in 2015. An important note is that these men were gathered from an infertility clinic instead of from the general Terrill 2 population. This factor may have skewed or affected the data collected in this study. Conclusion of the experiment led to results that showed the relevance between talking on the cell phone each day and decreased semen parameters. It was also found that accessing the internet with the cell phone could also be traced to decreased sperm concentration and count. Several different types of analysis were done to account for a discrepency in a certain type of analysis but decreased semen parameters still remained. The effects of talking on the cell phone daily, although consistent, were not drastic when looking at it year by year, but when the data from all 3 years is combined, the decreased semen parameters are significant. The research done in this study helps to answer the question posed earlier. Just how much does cell phone use affect us? According to this academic journal, the extent is pretty significant. Cell phones have become integrated into a part of everyday life. However, the constant use of this technology is unhealthy for our bodies. If technology continues to improve at the rate been at and the affects also begin to increase, we may find it increasingly harder and harder to reproduce and have children. As aforementioned, there is a slight possibility of skewed data based on the sample of the population that was taken. The subjects that participated in this study were from an infertility clinic which may lead to infer that there may have already been some pre-existing infertility problems in the men that were being examined. This creates a sort of grey area when it comes to the credibility of this source. Terrill 3 Elder, Anastasia D. 1. College Cell Phone Use, Beliefs, And Effects On Their  Student Journal 47.4 (2013): 585-592. Full Text (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 30 Jan. 2017. In this study, Elder gathered a sample of 88 college student which she had fill out a questionnaire about the use of their cell phones during class and while studying. The questionnaire asked how the students believed their use of their cell phones affected them during these activities. In addition, a subset (n=34) participated in an experimental part of the study in which half the students listened to a novel lecture without their cell phone and the other half were instructed to use their cell phones during the lecture. results showed that students are in agreeance with cell phone use during class and reported that they felt neutral about whether or not the cell phone was a distraction. When given a quiz, there was not a difference in test score between the two different groups in the subset. This study does an excellent job of exploring how cell phone use during class affect students. Although there was not a difference in the quiz scores of the students, it was noted that those who did use their phones during the lecture anticipated lower quiz grades. This shows that although the use of the cell phone during class may not cause lower quiz or test grades, it does cause unnecessary stress to the student. This source differs from the previous one because unlike the negative data collected about decreased semen parameters, one can actually argue that this source proves that cell phone use is acceptable during class lectures. Also, unlike the other source, the author of this study, Elder, has mady credentials associated with her. She is currently a Terrill 4 Professor in the department of Education Psychology and Counseling and has previously held employment as a Research Associate at Vanderbilt University. These positions give Elder much credibility. Zajdel, et al. Cell Phone Ringtone, But Not Landline Phone Ringtone, Affects Complex Reaction  Journal Of Occupational Medicine And Environmental Health, Vol 26, Iss 1, Pp 102-112 (2013) 1 (2013): 102. Directory of Open Access Journals . Web. 5 Feb. 2017. For this experiment, Radoslaw wanted to test two objectives. The first was to monitor how the sound of ringtone correlates to their reaction time and the seconds is to determine whether there is a difference in reaction time between cell phones and landlines. The examination conditions were standardized and consisted of 23 women and 24 men aged between 19 and 24 years of age. The results of the study found that reaction times were longer in women than in men, but it was noted that the difference was not significant. The set-up of this experiment was extremely good-with four different types of scenarios that can all be compared to one another in order to help gain a clear and true perspective and results. It was concluded in the study that an aspect as simple as a ringtone can disrupt a concentration and attention. Though thorough, it would be nice for them to have also researched which hormones in the brain are responsible for the abrupt distraction that occurs when a ringtone goes off as well as what they believe the positive and negative effects of long/short reaction times are to help get Terrill 5 a deeper perspective of what is really going on when a person gets distracted by their phone in a physical and mental capacity. Roberts, James A., Luc Honore Petnji Yaya, and Chris Manolis. The Invisible Addiction: Cell-Phone Activities And Addiction Among Male And Female College  Of Behavioral Addictions 4 (2014): 254. OneFile . Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The purpose and objective of this study is to observe which functions of the cell phone are most addictive. One hundred and sixty four college students willingly participated in an online survey which asked how much time each student spent on twenty four different cell phone activities. The activities that were found to drive cell phone addictions were also found to vary vastly across males and females, although there was a correlation when it came to social components. The conclusion of the study is that cell phone addiction can be associated with desire to connect socially to others. After reading this study, it has become evident that this was a very well thought out experiment that was also well executed in order to find the results that were desired. However, because the results varied to drastically between the sexes, it made the data hard to interpret and infer information from. However, a great suggestion was made on what future research on this topic should focus on: the activities that push cell-phone use beyond its where it crosses the line from a helpful tool to one that undermines our personal well-being and that of Although good data was collected, it is too dispersed to base much off of, which makes this source not as Terrill 6 strong as it could be. However, it is still a semi-credible source as Roberts is in the Marketing Department at the School of Business at Baylor University.