Student !1 Student Thornton ENC1102 12 February 2017 U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs Visual and Rhetorical Analysis Post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a condition in which a subject has continuous mental and emotional stress as a result from injury or severe psychological shock. PTSD has been ever-present in the United States military. Because numerous amounts of soldiers and veterans suffer from PTSD, the United States government created the U.S. department of Veteran Affairs (VA) to assist those who from this disease as well as many other physical and psychological illnesses. The VA has a website that provides information about PTSD and also provides ways in which their department can help those who suffer from it. The message that the VA is trying to send is that they want fulfill President promise care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his by serving and honoring the men and women who are veterans (U.S Department of Veteran Affairs). To send this message, they use these two images which invites veterans to get treatment for PTSD from the VA. The VA uses a variety visual rhetoric to convey their message. Visual rhetoric is a means of communication that uses images to create meaning or to make an audience (Pack 345). It consists of the audience, purpose, and the content of image. For every image, or message, there is an intended group or peoples being targeted, called the audience (Pack 345). In these two pictures the audience is any veteran, or their family, who suffers from PTSD. This is clearly Student !2 defined in the text of the first image; from Veterans how PTSD treatment can turn your life (Figure One). This sentence creates a sense of trust for fellow veterans to learn from their comrades who have used the treatment In the second image the audience is also easily available through the text. One can assume that the audience is veterans who suffer from PTSD because the biggest words in the image are (Figure Two). To continue, the purpose of these images, or the overall goal (Pack 347), is to get veterans to sign up for PTSD treatment through the website. In the first image, the VA wants veterans to believe treatment will turn their life around and that they can ask fellow veterans if the claim is true. In the second image, the text says that there is 24/7 access to VA. If treatment is available all the time, a veteran is more likely to take advantage of it. Lastly, it is important to analyze the content of each image. There is a picture of an older gentleman in figure one and text that says, from veterans how PTSD treatment can turn your life (Figure One). Viewers of this image can relate the text with the picture and assume that the gentleman is a vet himself. Also, the text is separate from the picture and is orange on white which helps it stand out even more. The text in the picture is red and blue on top of a light background resulting in an American patriotic theme. The image also has an eagle in it which is used as symbol for freedom in the United States. Through visual analysis, one can see the goals of a stakeholder and the techniques used by them in order to attract their audience and relay their message. To continue, not only is it important to visually analyze a images to find out their goals and motivations, but it is also important to analyze the rhetorical appeals being conveyed through the images. Rhetorical appeals consist of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Student !3 Ethos are the appeal to credibility or how the author/creator establishes trust with the viewer (Lane et al. 20). In the first image, the designer establishes trust by choosing to say from (Figure One) and also provides a picture of a gentleman who, one can assume, is a veteran. Through doing this, a veteran viewing this image will able to trust this website because they can talk to fellow veterans about PTSD treatment. The designer of the second image establishes trust by using red, white, and blue color choices. Red, white, and blue are the colors of the American flag and essentially are what America stands for. Most veterans are patriots and because this picture uses patriotic colors, a veteran viewing this image is likely to trust the source because they believe the source is patriotic like themselves. Next, pathos are the appeal to emotion or empathy (Lane et al. 22). In the first image, the designer appeals to pathos by including the words (Figure One) at the bottom of the image. If a veteran is viewing this image, these words will bring them back to their time in the military and evoke emotions associated with how they felt at the time of their service. Also by using the words your life (Figure One) the designer evokes a sense of wanting a new, better life to someone who is suffering from PTSD. To create emotion in the second image, the designer chose to include a sketch of a bald eagle. The bald eagle is a national symbol for the United States which symbolizes strength, life, and freedom. Because veterans fought for all these things, seeing the bald eagle is likely to make them feel proud of what they have done for their country and give them a rush of emotion regarding what they fought for. The next rhetorical appeal to analyze is logos. Logos are the appeals to logic and reason (Lane et al. 24). When looking at the first image, the text provides us with logical thinking. from veterans how PTSD treatment can turn your life (Figure One). It is logical Student !4 to ask a veteran who has gone through PTSD treatment how their life was affected by it because it may not be a true claim. The second image evokes logic and reason by using the words and It is logical to want to take care of your body and your health and this image suggests that the VA can help one do such. Lastly, designers use kairos in their images to appeal to timeliness or the type of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right time. In the first image, the designer chose to simply use the word (Figure One) instead of stating something such as can This comes off as a command that evokes a sense of urgency which is a technique that will definitely appeal to a soldier. In the second image, the designer creates a sense of timeliness by including the well-known phrase This phrase lets the viewer know that they can get help at any time of any day and that the VA is there at any time for them. Studying a image allows people to determine the goals and motivations of the stakeholder. In this case, analyzing the visual and rhetoric cues in the images, one can determine that the VA is trying to connect to veterans who have PTSD and give them the option of having treatment. They send this message by using certain visual and textual cues such as color and use of language. By using visual and rhetorical appeals, stakeholders convey their message to their audience in hope of getting a response. (WC:1198) Student !5 Works Cited Lane, Emily, et al. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text. Pack, Jenna. Down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-51. E-text. VA.gov, 22 Dec 2015, Accessed 29 Jan 2017 Student !6 Figures Figure One Figure Two