Intermediate Draft Living in a globalized world can affect people in a variety of ways. Such as economically or in relationships. One thing that can be easily noticed to have been part of this new globalized world that affects our lives is social media. Social Media has clearly been changing the way we interact with one another and how we build relationships. According to Paul Booth, PhD, an assistant professor of media and cinema studies in the College of Communication at DePaul University in Chicago, has been a shift in the way we communicate; rather than face-to-face interaction, tending to prefer mediated he says. Which means that we have been decreasing face-to-face interactions and started using more and more indirect ways of communication like text message for example. Another aspect to analyze is when individuals spend more times on technology than with real interactions. Nicholas David Bowman, PhD, an assistant professor of communication studies in the Eberly College of Arts and Sciences at West Virginia University, says that these people, they likely feel such a strong sense of identity online that they have some difficulty separating their virtual actions from their actual So it is possible to argue based on those sources that the increase of Technology use in our globalized world has been decreasing our social ability to interact with one another. Another thing to analyze when talking about the effects of globalization is the economy. Like pointed out by Hamdi, PhD candidate at ICN Business School in France, countries set up their companies and industries to the developing nations to take advantages of low wages and this causing pollution in countries with poor regulation of Developed countries have been taking advantage of developing nations. Title: Social Media and Interpersonal Communication Author(s): Maura Keller Date of publication: May & June, 2013 Summary: Glance around a restaurant and be hard-pressed to find people who have their heads down using their cell phones to text, Tweet, or update their Facebook while sharing a meal with others at their table. Social effect on our ability to interact and communicate is visible throughout all areas of society, so what does this mean for interpersonal communication? Title: The Impact of Globalization in the Developing Countries Author(s): Fairooz Hamdi Date of publication: June 11, 2015 This paper will discuss the benefits and drawbacks from the point of view that globalization made in the developing countries in the three important fields such as economic and trade processes, education and health systems and culture effects. It is consists of four paragraphs. In paragraph one, the benefits and detriment of globalization in the economic and trade processes field will be discussed. Then, in paragraph two, the impact of globalization on education and health systems in both sides will be shown. In the paragraph three, the positives and negatives of globalization on culture will be illustrated. Finally, paragraph four, will deal with conclusion and offer an opinion. MLA form: Keller, Maura. Social Media and Interpersonal  Work Today . N.p., May & june 2013. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Hamdi, Fairooz. The Impact of Globalization in the Developing  in . N.p., 11 June 2015. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.