Viens 1 Evelyne Viens Professor Emil Smith Composition 1 29 January, 2017 Early Draft Project 1 Sports are a universal passion and almost religion for some, a part of life enjoyed and supported by most societies. Millions of dollars are spent annually by fans and sponsors to support their favorite teams for their own entertainment. These teams are made of both men and women, but they face much different experiences. By and large, teams receive more attention and support from the fans and sponsors, and this reflects the wage gap between men and women. Some reasons for this financial deficit include the uneven representation of men and sports in the media, the teams not receiving a payout equal to their performance, and pure discrimination in society. With all these considerations, can women achieve true financial equality in sports? Vann, Portia. the Game: The Role of Social Media in Overcoming Old Attention Deficit Toward Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media, July 2014, Print. This newspaper article addresses the aspect of media and why women are not as represented as the men in sports. The writer of the article, Portia Vann, explains the evolution of the utilization of media. She describes with statistics the popularity of the teams in relation to the intensity. Moreover, she explains the lesser attention that sports receive compared to The author describes bad structural challenges that media Viens 2 has placed on professional Furthermore, with a huge gap in the media, sports cannot dream of a true financial equality if the media aspect is deficit. I feel free to use this article because the author wrote all the references that she used to do her article. This author has also written about social media and sports before. Moreover, the article has been published, so some people reviewed the article. The information of this source will be used in my first paragraph that is going to talk about the gap of representation of sports in the media. Some graphics are really interesting, so I will interpret them and be able to relate my thesis statement to this information. Learn, and Sage. Sports: (Still) a  Parks & Recreation, vol. 49, no. 11, Nov. 2014,eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=514fdb89-9b93-4cc0-84ee- a5b1d982d6c7%40sessionmgr4006&vid=7&hid=4211. Accessed 1 Feb. 2017. The two authors of this article talk about the discrimination between boys and girls at younger ages. The authors ask three questions: we currently providing equal opportunities for women and girls to play and compete in sports? How do we look at and treat girls and women in sports? How women are treated with regard to The article describes the evolution of the participation in sports. that time, it was commonly believed women were not physically capable of running long Moreover, the subject of changing attitudes and find respect are two subjects explain in the text. This article will be useful in my third paragraph because I will use the discrimination aspect to explain my research question. Moreover, in the essay, it is required to explain the evolution of my subject. This source will be useful because the authors are doing an overview of discrimination over the last couple of years. The article illustrates their description with graphics. It is credible Viens 3 because Sage Learn already wrote about sports and he is a reputed author. Finally, I will be able to use some quotes from his text. Cunningham, George B. Media Coverage of Sport: A New Look at an Old  Physical Educator, vol. 60, no. 2, 2003, eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=10&sid=f0edb2c1-1495-4df0-9342- 3fff26b8cf9d%40sessionmgr4010&hid=4211&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d# AN=507822125&db=eft. Accessed 1 Feb. 2017. The media is playing an important role in the popularity of sports. The article explains that more diffusion in the media for sports results to more sponsors and more money for the team. George B. Cunningham the Internet coverage of university sponsored and tennis sites. However, everyone thinks that team receive more coverage than team, this scientific research shows the opposite. The author selected a ton of colleges to do a summary of the media coverage in and tennis teams. indicate no differences in the presence of information between and sites. However, the coverage of tennis was significantly longer than that of signaling a stark change from previous The author is credible because he explains all his methodology. Moreover, he cites all the references that he used to did his research. This source will answer my research question by explaining the media coverage in college and the transition to professional league. This article will help me in my counter-paragraph and in my paragraph about the media coverage. Flake, Collin R., Mikaela J. Dufur, and Erin L. Moore. Advantage Men: The Sex Pay Gap in Professional  Sage Journal, vol. 48, no. 3, 2013, Viens 4 journals.sagepub.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/pdf/10.1177/1012690212442166. Accessed 1 Feb. 2017. This article tries to describe the wage gap between men and tennis player in the top 100. The authors separated the tournament in three sections: Grand Slams, middle- and low- tier tournaments. They compared the salary of those tournaments between men and players. With their scientific method, they wrote five results models that explain the difference of payout between both of them. They suspected a lower salary for players, and they analyzed the productivity and the salary; they controlled the most variables possible. 1 identifies the size of the gap in 2009 prize money: on average, females earned .235 logged dollars (p < .05) less than their male counterparts during the 2009 Furthermore, average female player earned .234 logged (p < .001) dollars less than the average male for every singles tournament won in The article is credible because of all the explanations of their method. The authors did a reel scientific method by explaining the problem, giving their hypothesis, explaining the data and problem, observing and researching, giving their conclusions and finally doing an overview. Moreover, the authors used a lot of references to write their article and be sure that their data was funded. I will use this article in my second body paragraph that is going to explain the wage gap between men and professional athletes. I will be able to quote and give some examples with data.