Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Putting an end to Homelessness in America Homelessness in America continues to be a serious problem. Homelessness has decreased in 33 states, while 16 states increased according to the Homelessness report from the government (State of Homelessness). The stakeholder company chosen was the National Alliance to End Homelessness. The State of Homelessness in America 2016 is the sixth in a series of reports charting progress in ending homelessness in the United States. The company examines trends in homelessness, populations at risk of homelessness and homelessness assistance in America. There are two images on the website that truly show how homelessness is an ongoing issue and the impact it has on lives. Homelessness in America is getting really bad because we are not raising enough awareness to people about the issue, being selfish, and not thinking about the impact homeless people have on others that are not homeless. The organization primary goal is to raise awareness to people about homelessness and be able to get people to donate to the cause. It has become a very serious wide spread issue. Without raising awareness about homelessness than people would never recognize the issue and nothing would resolve the issue. People are not realizing the impact that homeless people have on our country for many reasons. The aspect on the website that stands out the most is the statistics on homelessness in America. In the first image the primary visual message the stakeholder is trying to communicate is that there is homelessness all over America, not just one state or city. The image of the map has an in text that says state of Homelessness in The intended Student 2 audience of the organization is for everyone in America. Anyone is welcome to help the cause of homelessness. Any donation, no matter the size can help change life forever. It is not about how much you donate or how much you help out at shelters, the thought that matters the most. Logos is used by how the image is trying to portray logic to the audience (Allyson, 8.1). The image is representing how homelessness is a serious issue among America and not a specific area. The national rate of homelessness in 2015 fell to 17.7 homeless people per 10,000 people in the overall general population from 18.3 in 2014 (State of Homelessness). On a single night in February 2015, there were 564,708 people experiencing homelessness, meaning they were either sleeping outside or in an emergency shelter (State of Homelessness). Ethos is used by how the author tried to create an image that tries to persuade the audience to donate and help put an end to homelessness. In order for homelessness to come to an end, companies like the National Alliance to End Homelessness, need people to help them out in order for them to help homeless people get food and shelter. Pathos is used by how the feeling of homelessness is mostly sad and that is felt while looking at the image. The message to the audience that was portrayed was sad and depressing. Lastly Kairos is used by how the image to trying to get the result of helping the homeless and hopefully putting an end to it soon. This is a crucial part for the message of the image (State of Homelessness). The primary visual message of the second image is to show some of the major cities in America in the background of the text. The purpose is for the viewers to take a survey on the conference which you can watch or read and it is really informative about homelessness. The image is a way for the stakeholder to get the message to the audience that a survey needs to be completed. The audience that is intended to take the survey is open to all, because the more Student 3 people that take the survey, the more it helps the company with statistics. A company cannot help homeless people if they have statistics or resources by the viewers that see what is going on in their areas. The voices of people really make a difference in helping homelessness around our country so no one is forgotten. Logos is used in the image by how it is trying to portray logic to the viewer and alert them what is occurring in our country. Ethos is used by how the author is trying to persuade the audience to take the survey (Allyson, 8.1). The image is very persuasive in a way that grabs attention so action can take place. Pathos is used by the hands that are holding the cardboard, are meant to represent a homeless person. The purpose of that is to show sadness and depression. The overall tone of the image is sad. Kairos is used in the image by getting people to take the survey can result in helping homeless people try to live a better life. We the people, are there chance in life to be able to get off the streets and hopefully live a better life (State of Homelessness). Homelessness is an issue where the people in America, us need to step up and show our support. We cannot always rely on the government to take care of homeless people, because a lot of them go through their whole life without receiving any aid. The stakeholder chosen was the National Alliance to End Homelessness, really does a great job in trying to help homeless people and for them to have the same chance in life as any human being would have. They have images like the ones discussed throughout the paper, that really have a powerful impact on the viewers for them to take action. By having images that grab the attention, it makes the purpose more meaningful and helpful to the audience. Overall we as Americans, can stop homelessness from increasing and hopefully soon be able to put an end to such a terrible thing. It Student 4 is going to take a lot of time and effort, but we can all help to make this country better for the people that are less fortunate. Figure 1: Figure 2: Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Chapters  Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 364-75. Print. The State of Homelessness in America  National Alliance to End Homelessness. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.