Student 1 Student Kimberly Wiggs ENC 1101 27 January 2017 Gender Wage Gap Human inequality is colossally prevalent in modern day society, more so in some parts of the world than others. Inequality has improved vastly as time progressed, as seen before with slavery and mistreatment of minorities such as women and people from African descent. Even today there is many inequalities with these minorities, even in first world countries. Not to mention the inequalities occurring now-a-days in the middle east. Feminism is taking the United States over by storm to promote women rights and equality to men. In the Institute for Policy article by Ariane Hegewisch states that ratio of and median annual earnings was 79.6 percent for full-time or year-round workers in (Hegewisch 1). Women make twenty less cents on the dollar then men do on average, although the pay gap improves as age increases. Gender bias is undeniably there and it has been for years. Could it be caregiving responsibilities or just the fact that more women work part time. In the following the gender wage inequality will be analyzed and scrutinize the reason behind this gap. Why does the wage gap exist in modern day society in the United States and the world? Is it actually unequal pay for equal work? (Word Count: 203) Student 2 Works Cited Cohen, Philip N., and Matt L. Huffman. Working for the Woman? Female Managers and the Gender Wage  American Sociological Review 72.5 (2007): 681-704. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This journal is incredibly insightful due to the fact that it provides a different perspective on the inequality troubles in jobs. This is a large scale analysis on wether the gender composition of managers affects the gender of workers beneath them. As Cohen states, more women in [positions of make crucial decisions about salaries, promotions, hiring, and firing, gender differences in earnings should (Cohen 2). The journal states that not enough women get into higher management positions. If they did get into said positions the wage gap would decrease significantly. It also said that women express stronger support than their counterpart to promote gender equality and to reduce the gender wage gap. A very important quote by Cohen is that increased access to organizational resources and power, homophily preferences, support for equity efforts, and weaker sex-based biases against female (Cohen 4). This means that gender plays an increased role on gender equality, and their rooted desire for female in managerial positions. This connects to the research question due to the fact that it is a very good perspective to provide that women are more inclined to want gender equality, either it be due to societal upbringings or rooted from some other external factor. The source is credible due to the fact that Philip Cohen has his PhD in sociology. He has other published works on inequality and social demography. Student 3 Hegewisch, Ariane, and Asha DuMonthier. IWPR  The Gender Wage Gap: 2015; Annual Earnings Differences by Gender, Race, and Ethnicity IWPR. IWPR, 1 Sept. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.iwpr.org/publications/pubs/the-gender-wage-gap- 2015-annual-earnings-differences-by-gender-race-and-ethnicity>. In this IWPR report it states that there is a disparaging inequality between men and women when it comes to how much they are being paid. On average, women get paid 20.4 percent less than men do. Womens average earnings for 2015 was $40,742 while men were paid $51,212. Womens wages are definitely getting closer to mens though, since 1975 there has been a solid increase, but less so within the past decade. Closing the wage gap, according to the Institute of Womens Policy Research is not a zero-sum game, which means that the losses for one sex does not have to necessarily include the losses for the other sex. The source is extremely important to this research question due to the fact that The Institute for Policy Research is an institute where its main purpose is to better the opportunities of women form all backgrounds. The gender wage gap is a critical issue where not many people are actually informed about. The credibility of this source is to be trusted due to the fact that their research teams have Bachelors in science and have worked in equal opportunity policies for many years. Ariane Hegewisch has her economics degree from London School of Economics and her master of philosophy degree in developmental studies. Kassenboehmer, Sonja C., and Mathias G. Sinning. Distributional Changes In The Gender Wage  Industrial & Labor Relations Review 67.2 (2014): 335-361. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. In this article in Business Source Alumni edition, states that the gender wage gap in the United States has fallen tremendously since the late 1970s. It states that there been much Student 4 change in the gender gap wages in the bottom of the distribution, but what decreased the gap is the increasing number of educated women. It states that the educational success of women greatly contributed to the unequal gender wage gap. They also state that women that are members of unions do not help them as they should and are not significant in their data at conventional levels for 2006. This source is crucial to the research question due to the fact that it is an expertly written paper on the gender wage gap distribution and provides some input on what the root cause of it might be. It also provides an empirical analysis on the issue in order to understand it in a more mathematical form. This conncets the source to the research question due to the fact that it looks at it in a more mathematical perspective. The author, Dr. Sonja Kassemboehmer, is an incredibly knowledgeable person about this topic and she has posted numerous research papers on human well-being. She has a doctorate in economics in which she received summa cum laude. Olivetti, Claudia, and Barbara Petrongolo. Unequal Pay or Unequal Employment? A Cross Country Analysis of Gender  Journal of Labor Economics 26.4 (2008): 621-54. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This journal is a great perspective to acknowledge due to the fact that it acknowledges the pay gap for international situations as well, not only the United States. Olivetti states that there is international variation in gender pay gaps, from around 30 log points in the United States and the United Kingdom to between 10 and 25 log points in a number of central and northern European (Olivetti 1). This means that there must be situational or occupational differences in these countries. Their data shows that US and UK wage gaps are much higher than the rest of Europe, for example. Olivetti states that this might be due to the fact that supply or demand forces are different in every country. She also states that there are Student 5 which include gender roles and family values. Women are more prone to adhere to these values more than men. This is extremely related related to the research question due to the fact that this journal provides us with some reasoning behind the wage gap. Gender roles indeed play a role in this wage gap and missing women in management roles creates less women un subordinate positions and it is a never-ending cycle. This is a credible source due to the fact that she has her PhD in economics and has numerous publications in gender roles and human inequality.