Robert Traitz ENC 1102 Mariama 1/31/17 Project 1: Intermediate Draft The right to bear arms is one of most coveted constitutional rights. There are currently around 270 million firearms legally owned by civilians in the US. In Florida, over 1 million citizens have obtained concealed carry licenses, which has resulted in 30% decrease in violent crime since 2013. Many believe that the right to carry their firearm with them should not be infringed upon or limited to certain locations. Concealed carry of guns on college campuses is a fervently debated topic as proponents to the idea believe that law abiding Americans should be able to protect themselves when on campuses, while opponents say that a lack of training and responsibility by gun toting students will lead to a much more dangerous campus environment. Students for Concealed Carry is a national, non-profit organization that advocates that citizens who possess state-issued concealed handgun licenses should be able to carry their concealed gun to protect themselves on college campuses just as they can almost everywhere else. The organization consists of not only students, but also faculty, staff and concerned citizens who all believe it is their right to defend themselves, even when at school. The Florida Chapter of SCC has the goal of training and educating the public about campus carry issues and misconceptions while broadening the acceptance of lawfully armed citizens in our college communities (Zalneraitis 2012). The SCC website identifies and refutes nearly 40 common arguments against concealed carry on college campuses. Out of all the reasons supporting the idea of campus carry, the SCC identifies two as paramount. Firstly, Floridians have the legal right to carry handguns for self-defense anywhere else in the state, without having to prove some imminent threat to their safety first. Second, is the actual, real need for self-protection on campuses. Even though studies have shown that colleges and universities typically see less crime Robert Traitz ENC 1102 Mariama 1/31/17 than surrounding and non-campus areas, that refute the fact that violent crime happens in new, unexpected places all the time. one ever expected a quiet college in Blacksburg, Virginia to become the target of a killing spree. An explanation of how incredibly unlikely it would be for a killer to choose their school is useless to student cowering behind (SCC 2009). Despite a decreased probability of crime, the U.S. Department of Education reported that from 2005-2007 over 100 murders, 16,000 assaults, and 10,000 sexual assaults were reported on college campuses. Stakeholders in this issue such as Florida Students for Concealed Carry wish to emphasize that they are not trying to put guns in the hands of underage, drunken students. Proponents to campus carry argue that the only ones who will be allowed to carry on campuses will be law abiding citizens 21 years of age or older, who have taken and passed the necessary training course that certifies them as able to carry and use a gun in self- defense. Organizations like SCC focus on educating and training the public on what the role of a concealed carry permit holder is in a self-defense scenario. The training that permit holders receive is centered around the idea of personal protection against an immediate threat. This means that in a mass shooter situation, armed citizens are not trained to go hunt the shooter, but rather to hide and set up defense for themselves and others around them. This is an option that could easily save a group of barricaded students in a classroom when the shooter comes knocking (Rogers 2012). The idea of concealed handguns is that a person can have a force equalizer should they ever be presented with a deadly threat, this ability to defend oneself should not be taken away the moment at student steps on campus (SCC 2009). Their goal is to allow of-age, legally licensed citizens to extend their right to protect themselves and others to the colleges they attend. Robert Traitz ENC 1102 Mariama 1/31/17 On the other side of the issue sits organizations like The Campaign to Keep Guns Off Campus (KGOC), who works with colleges and universities to oppose legislative policies that would force loaded, concealed guns on campuses (keepgunsoffcampus.org/about). So far, this organization has helped stop pro-campus carry legislation from being passed in 18 states. The Campaign to Keep Guns Off Campus has a few key points they emphasize in all their actions. Proponents to campus carry often cite mass school shootings as a primary argument for students and faculty being armed on campuses. KGOC refutes this point by emphasizing that the average concealed carry permit holder possess anywhere near the level of training and proficiency required to effectively respond to an active shooter situation. The average state licensed concealed carry permit class consist of about 5 hours of classroom instruction followed by very brief range session where a candidate may have to demonstrate his ability to fire a handgun safely. This level of training does grant a citizen their permit and prepares them to defend themselves, but it does not mean they will have the necessary skills and competence to safely engage a violent threat in a situation as diverse, foggy, and complex as a school shooting. Aside from concerns about training, KGOC also warns about the consequences of adding guns to an environment with a wide drinking, drug using, and partying culture. Allowing students to legally possess and carry guns on campus means combining the presence of firearms with that of underage drinking and partying as well as the relative life inexperience of college students. Overall, organizations like KGOC firmly believe that response to deadly threats should be left to law enforcement professionals and not to everyday people. These two stakeholders have been at odds with one another for years which has led to complex legal battles and lobbying of legislators in an attempt by both sides to achieve their desired outcomes. Both stakeholders share the desire to keep college campuses and the citizens Robert Traitz ENC 1102 Mariama 1/31/17 they serve as safe as possible. Students for Concealed Carry believes that enhanced safety can be achieved by allowing guns to be carried on campus by legal permit holders, while Keep Guns off Campus believes the solution is to do the exact opposite and continue to ban firearms on college campuses all together. Openminded representatives of both organizations have tried pushing for legislative compromise that would appease both sides in the past. Unfortunately, there has been no success thus far. Research on the good points and valid concerns stated by both stakeholders has helped me construct a valid compromise that would allow legal gun owners to carry on campus while ensuring that only those who are properly trained and competent possess the option of deadly force. As we ease into the unfamiliar territory of concealed carry on campuses, policy makers can start by allowing faculty and staff at colleges the option to concealed carry while at work. The catch will be that only those who have completed additional government approved training will be able to carry on campus. Subsequent training will be in addition to the required concealed carry permit class and will include classes on tactical shooting, emergency management, de-escalation, and active shooter drills. This compromise will increase the number of law abiding citizens with guns on campuses while ensuring that the only ones carrying a firearm are those who are trained to be able to handle violent confrontations. Additionally, this will quell worries about students possessing firearms in their dorms in coalition with drugs and alcohol. As this issue continues to develop and evolve, it may be possible to take more steps towards allowing concealed weapons on college campuses. For now however, the situation remains stagnant in that organizations like Florida Students for Concealed Carry want every legal permit holder to be able to concealed carry on college campuses while opponents to the idea such as Keep Guns off Campus, remain steadfast in wanting to ban any sort of firearm from Robert Traitz ENC 1102 Mariama 1/31/17 being allowed on campus. At the end of the day, both organizations as well as university presidents, boards, and police departments share the goal of keeping institutions of higher education, and the communities they serve, as safe as possible. The key will be to balance the presence of firearms with the amount and type of citizens that could one day be trusted with defending themselves and others in a life or death situation. Robert Traitz ENC 1102 Mariama 1/31/17 Bibliography About - The Campaign to Keep Guns Off  Keep Guns Off Campus. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Campus Safety and  Campus Safety and Security. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Cramer, Clayton E. Guns on Campus: A  Academic Questions 27.4 (2014): 411-25. Web. Unknown. Common Arguments Against Campus  Students for Concealed Carry RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Weinstein, Lt. John. Should We Allow CCP Holders to Carry Guns on Campus? 11 Reservations of a  Public Safety RSS. N.p., 07 Dec. 2015. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Robert Traitz ENC 1102 Mariama 1/31/17