Baird 1 Garret Baird Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 27 January 2017 The Liberties and Religious Freedoms of America A very common and controversial topic all throughout the history of the United States has been the topic of civil rights and liberties for Americans. A mass of things have been put in place and have changed since the beginning of the United States, some examples being the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth amendments that granted rights for the enslaved African Americans, as well as the nineteenth amendment that gave women the right to vote, and then the Civil Rights Act of 1968. Unfortunately, though a great deal of work is still being done for civil rights. The leader of all this change currently is known as the American Civil Liberties Union, also known as the ACLU. The ACLU attacks all sorts of civil rights issues, even including civil rights regarding religion. But when religion comes into play, another stakeholder regarding civil rights comes to challenge; The Catholic League, an organization known for defending the civil rights of the Church and its right to promote its own teachings just as any other institution does in the United States from other people/organizations that are throwing slander. The Catholic League and the ACLU have disputed multiple instances concerning multiple aspects of civil rights and religious practices and it seems like they may be at odds for a long time. But with every dispute there can be a compromise. If the Catholic League and the ACLU can come to a compromise by recognizing each ideals and practices and give some leeway that would work in advantage, such as discontinuing pursuit against religion in certain places, Baird 2 while also implementing what ACLU wants in particular areas could ultimately lead and give the people of the United States the rights they deserve and want. As it was stated earlier, the first stakeholder on this topic of civil rights (including religious civil rights) is the American Civil Liberties Union. Founded nearly one-hundred years ago, the ACLU is one of the leading organizations that defends any rights and liberties underneath the Constitution and the laws of the United States (The ACLU Today). The ACLU stands for every American/organization and also battling certain injustices. Some examples being the defense for the LGBT people, setting up new privacy protections for the government, and even fighting for the rights for women to have abortions, which is an essential topic when regarding the Catholic league. And the ACLU has shown some a clear standpoint when it comes to abortions, contraceptives, and other things frowned upon by the Catholic League, trying to abolish the God We from the American coins and the should be taken away from the Pledge of Allegiance (Novak, 1). Now, to take a look at the other side of the argument, there is The Catholic League. The Catholic League does a multitude of things, all dealing with the Catholic Church and its followers. Whenever there are slanderous accusations made against The Church, The Catholic League is right there to defend the rights of The Church while also attempting to promote its teachings to society (Our Mission). Some examples of their are defending The Church against media, help students who are denied their rights, and defend Catholic interests that are dishonestly represented. Just like the ACLU, The Catholic League has shown a clear standpoint when talking about abortions, contraceptives, and other civil rights related topics. The Catholic League is directly behind The Church whenever it comes to these topics, so they are heavily against abortions and the use of contraceptives. When the ACLU attempted to Baird 3 integrate abortion, contraceptives, and sterilization in Catholic hospitals, The Catholic League called these (Donohue). Without the American Civil Liberties Union or The Catholic League even knowing it, they have way more in common than they could possible imagine. Both of these organizations spend every waking moment of their time looking to immediately defend the rights and liberties of people in the United States, that deserve it of course. The ACLU and The Catholic League may have different perspectives on the issue at hand, but when it comes to rights, it is their forte. If either of the organizations know it or not, they work in the same field, and if they ever came together, leaps and bounds could be made for people. The ACLU and The Catholic League share an exceedingly comprisable common ground. As it was previously stated, both the ACLU and The Catholic League split a comprisable common ground, and a compromise can just be easily made with just a little bit of understandability. It has been somewhat shown that the ACLU is willing to try to compromise/negotiate with The Catholic League by Raul Cano, a Bowling Green University alumnus, saying that if government ever tried to take the Catholic League off the internet, that the ACLU would come to their aid and help (Cano, 1). He even continues to say that the ACLU is not anti-religion, but only against forcing religion upon the people of the United States. Consequently, a good compromise for these two organizations would be to come to an understanding of each ideas and beliefs. But with every single compromise, both sides have to give something up in order to come to that compromise. The ACLU must need to stop their needless and persistent pursuit to remove the name of God from schools and stop trying to remove the heart of Catholic beliefs from workplaces, schools, and many other places that include the general public, while also refraining themselves as an organization from the Baird 2 slandering the Catholic Church as a whole. On the other side, the Catholic League and The Church might have to give up a little bit more. For this compromise to truly be recognized, The Catholic League would have to begin to understand abortions, and sterilizations are the right and obligated choice and while implementing these things, they would be saving an enormous amount of people from possible death related situations. Of course, The Catholic League and the Church can begin by just slowly applying them to the hospitals and would be completely comprehensible. It has even been shown that in the new directives, that Catholic hospitals must give out instructions on family planning to couples and have begun procedures that induce sterility (United States Conference of Bishops). This shows that change can happen and this compromise could come to with time. Now, when it comes to arranging this compromise Susan Herman (President of ACLU) and Bill Donohue (President of Catholic League) can assemble a few public meetings where they can discuss this compromise while also bringing other Catholic establishments along with the cause. With a beginning like this, both organizations can continue to work together and this not just be a one-time thing between the two stakeholders, and bring about change for the better of America and its people. To conclude, with a compromise including the American Civil Liberties Union and The Catholic League coming to an understanding and becoming empathetic towards each beliefs, meaning the ACLU needs to halt all their ambitious quests for abolition of Catholic beliefs in schools and the Catholic League and the Church executing plans to deal with abortion and other related topics. Just imagine what these two colossal organizations can accomplish if they just work on a few restricting perspectives that these two organizations hold. If The Catholic League and the ACLU come to this compromise, troubled individuals of the United States seeking liberty and freedom from restricting/unfair laws will be able to seek help from Baird 3 these two. The Constitution was written under the basis of freedom and civil rights, with the Catholic League and ACLU, nobody is sure what can be accomplished. Word Count: 1289 Baird 2 Works Cited the American Civil Liberties Union. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Cano, Raul. Clause The BG News. N.p., 27 Sept. 2004. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Donohue, Bill. League for Religious and Civil Rights 2016 Year in Catholic League. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Health Care. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Novak, Michael. Atheist Civil Liberties The Jewish Press. The Jewish Press, 16 Aug. 2002. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Catholic League. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.