Plouffe 1 Michaela Plouffe Adam Phillips ENC 1102.022 29 January 2017 Opportunity Through Free College Tuition In recent years, higher education has become more important and pivotal for success. Of course, there are the exceptions where people can become successful without a college degree, but most people are unable to enter the career they desire without a college education. People who further their education at universities find it to be very beneficial. However, many people are discouraged to further their education because of the expenses that are associated with attending a university. The amount of student debt acquired in America is a huge problem. The United States Students Association reported that Student debt sits at $1.3 trillion and the average student graduates with $28,400 in student (Free Higher Education). As higher education becomes more and more critical for success and as the amount of student debt increases tremendously in America, the thought of having free tuition at universities has become highly discussed. If higher education was free for undergraduate programs higher education would become more accessible and the student debt would decrease. Evaluating the stakeholders in student debt will determine what their own core beliefs are, show where they agree and disagree, and make a compromise possible. A stakeholder in the issue of student debt in United States that is most directly affected in the students. The United States Student Association is an organization dedicated to stop injustice in education. They believe education is a natural right and that everyone should be granted equal access to an education that can make them successful. They have developed a campaign and are Plouffe 2 fighting for free higher education. They state on their webpage that, want four years of tuition- free, public higher education, while expanding existing financial aid for housing, food, textbooks, transportation, and other costs of (Free Higher Education). This expresses what exactly the United States Student Association is hoping to achieve in their campaign. The United States Student Association believes they can achieve this goal by bring attention to the problem and by changing the way people think. Jon Weiner in his article Aiming Higher: Make College Tuition Free gives evidence to just how their goal is achievable. Jon Weiner, like the United States Student Association, believes free college at four-year universities is necessary and do-able. He uses Germany, who has established tuition free universities, as an example of just how United States can achieve it. He says in his article: But German citizens organized the Alliance Against Tuition In Hamburg, they organized a fee strike; in the state of Hesse, which includes Frankfurt, they occupied the universities, and 70,000 people signed a petition in support. The Christian Democratic government in Hesse, facing an election in 2008, reversed course and promised to eliminate tuition. (Weiner 224). This expresses how this goal could be achieved. The United States Student Association is executing their campaign in a similar way to lobbyist in Germany. The United States Student Association believes that free college tuition could solve the problem of student debt and make higher education more accessible to all. However free college tuition is not beneficial for everyone. Another stakeholder in the issue of student debt in the United are student loan providers. Sallie Mae is one of the biggest student loan providers in the United States. On their Fourth Quarter 2016 Earnings Release they reported that, 2016, the company grew private education loan originations 8 percent to $4.7 billion, expanded its private education loan portfolio 34 percent to Plouffe 3 $14.1 billion, and increased net interest income 27 percent to $891 million, all compared to (1). This shows how much Sallie Mae as profited from student debt. They encourage students and their families to be responsible with their money while paying for higher education by using savings, scholarships, and federal student loans before taking out private education loans. They also offer a variety of interest rates and payment plans for their customers and encourage to pick the best option for their financial situation. Sallie Mae does their best to provide the best services for their customers and want to ensure their success as they further their education. Sallie Mae makes higher education more accessible to all by giving different paying options to students who are unable to pay out of pocket for their education. The article Less Out of Pocket notes that than a third (34 percent) of college costs are being handled through scholarships and grants versus 29 percent from incomes and savings. Twelve percent of the cost is being paid through student income and savings and 13 percent from student borrowing, while parent borrowing (7 percent) and relatives and friends (5 percent) make up the (Diverse 5). This shows just how Sallie services are giving students the money they need to further their education. While profiting from student debt, they are offering services that do make higher education more accessible. The United States Student Association wants tuition at four-year public universities completely free for students. Although this does completely solve the problem of student debt in the United States, it would hurt the Sallie Mae company very much and could put them out of business. While both stakeholders appear to be at odds ends they both see value in higher education work to make it more accessible to all. A compromise for both stakeholders would be if tuition became free for two-year community colleges. This would allow students who would otherwise not be able to attend college at all attend college. This would also allow students to work and save Plouffe 4 their money while attending their first two years of college so that they can borrow less money and acquire less debt. Fran Cubberley expresses in her article The Reality of Free Community College Tuition that, limited resources preclude a number of people from considering college, having the opportunity to enroll in community college for free could inspire, and prepare, many to realize their dream of obtaining a (Cubberley 22). This expresses the countless benefits to tuition free community college. This is a very attainable goal. Tuition-free community colleges have been established in Tennessee and President Obama was making efforts during his time in office to make all two-year community colleges tuition free. If tuition free community college can be established in Tennessee, then it could be just as easily established in all states. The way to achieve this goal is very similar to the way any other a movements goals are achieved. People who want tuition free community college must make their voices heard. If the United States Student Association made their primary goal to make just community colleges tuition free and carried out the same action plan of their free higher education campaign their goal would become more achievable. There needs to be an increase in public support and protest to spark change. By lobbying congress government officials will feel more pressured to create tuition free community colleges and to work to decrease student debt. Tuition free community college could decrease student debt greatly in the United States as well as increasing opportunity and education for all. In conclusion, higher education can be extremely beneficial and can be necessary for some to be successful. The abundance of student debt in the United States is alarming and needs to be decreased. One stakeholder in student debt is the students, who are represented by the United States Student Association. The USSA wants public four-year universities to become completely tuition free. Another stakeholder in student debt is private loan providers, who are represented by Sallie Mae, the biggest student loan provider in the United States. Sallie Mae profits from student debt Plouffe 5 and could possibly go out of business without it. However, both stakeholder do work to promote education and to make it accessible to all. A compromise would be making two-year community colleges tuition free. This would decrease the student debt in the United States and would give everyone the opportunity to further their education. Plouffe 6 Works Cited Cubberley, Fran. The Reality Of Free Community College  Journal Of College Admission 227 (2015): 21-23. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Free Higher  United States Student Association. United States Student Association, 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Meet Sallie  Sallie Mae - About Us. Sallie Mae Bank, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Diverse: Issues In Higher Education 33.13 (2016): 5. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. WIENER, JON. Aiming Higher: Make College Tuition  Nation 300.14 (2015): 224-226. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.