Power 1 Molly Power Adam Phillips ENC 1102.022p 12 Feb 2017 Health Care in America: Public or Private Health care in America is a topic of interest due to division into two polarized systems, public and private. Public, or government regulated health care, is able to affect a broader range of Americans than if it were privatized. Criticism by private healthcare stems from the belief that public healthcare infringes on a freedom, by limiting their options. The well-being of America through public or private healthcare is the driving force behind The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) and the American Action (AAN) contentious campaigns. Creating an insurance plan that is regulated by the government, but increases an options for treatments, similar to private health care, is a fitting compromise between the plans. AHRQ argues that poor health care access to individuals will effect the community as a whole. This demonstrates their support for affordable, public health care. Many conservative organizations, like AAN, oppose this support. The AAN argues that government- sponsored health care increases tax dollars and infringes on a personal freedoms. A compromise between the two would allow for a wider range of health care options for the public without privatization, minimizing the blunt cost for an well being. This would increase the percentage of the public impacted by healthcare without affecting their personal freedoms or the need for profit. Public health care supports the well being of the community through limited but Power 2 affordable options. It is made affordable through government regulation and funding. This is supported by leading researchers in the Journal of Health Politics, Policy, and Law: designed to contain costs, and improve health and health care, may need to be combined with much stronger regulation of health care markets if the nation is to achieve a balanced and stable system capable of covering all (Siegel et al. 649). With this, more people are getting treatments they need to protect their well being along with those around them. An increase in treatments translates to more successful insurance companies and a stronger economy. Government regulation also implies an increase in taxes. Public health care does not rely on profit, making the direct cost of treatment more affordable for the individual. Criticism stems from this system due to the increase in taxes for the public overall. With this said, the reasoning behind supporters of public health care accept this use of tax dollars over direct, and occasionally overpowering, medical costs. main objective is to gain access to proper, and affordable, health care for the public through data and research ( Access to Healthcare, Agency for Healthcare Research & Quality). Also known as the AHRQ, the organization uses Evidence Based Reports, EPCs, that list problems and benefits of healthcare plans. (Access to Healthcare, Agency for Healthcare Research & Quality) With this, AHRQ can interpret the best possible healthcare for the greater good of the public, thus leading to a healthier and more responsive society. Society described by the agency considers populations from the disabled, the elderly, minority groups, and more (Access to Healthcare, Agency for Healthcare Research & Quality). This, along with EPCs, leads to a more accurate understanding of both public and private health care. Considering all of the populations, Power 3 AHRQ supports public health care for all. Private health care consists of more options for a smaller population. With this, it allows an individual to determine the specifics behind treatments, including the location, time, and what specialist. Similar to the case made by North Carolina Law Review, privatization in American health care allows for improved opportunities in an evolving field (Pasquale, 1661). These opportunities can be seen as the result of more options that are available for an individual. This said, private health care depends on profit unlike the public alternative. Profit can be seen as both an advantage and disadvantage. To organizations like AHRQ, this is a disadvantage due to the blunt cost behind each health care opportunity or treatment. The advantage behind profit is that it decreases the national debt. Supporters want to lower taxes which, in turn, leads to more expenses within health care for the individual but reduces debt for the country. Organizations like the American Action Network support private health care due to their access to specific treatments and the privacy between patient and care taker. These aspects create opposition to the AHRQ. Also known as the AAN, the network wants to reform public health care. Like many private health care advocates, the AAN supports quality of health care but without raising American tax dollars. As stated by the American Action Network, care should be a physician-patient decision, not a government believe in patient-centered health care solutions that provide Americans access to quality, affordable health care of their (Health Care, American Action Network), the priority should be on the quality of service not the quantity. The accepted alternative is for the individual to have the freedom to choose their health care personally and be responsible for those choices. Although this indicates Power 4 more direct health care costs to each individual involved, the public is not affected as a whole. For the future and well being of the country, an agreement has to be achieved between the public and private sectors. A compromise between AHRQ and AAN begins with the acceptance of both public and private health care. Public health care is a solution that effects more of the community while private health care is a solution to more options for individuals. Combining the two solutions could allow for an increase in people and options involved in an affordable health care plan. The AHRQ, although primarily a supporter of public health care, considers both sides of the argument, and support public- private partnerships in this area its EPCs, sponsors the development of various reports to assist public- and private-sector organizations in their efforts to improve the quality of health care in the United (Access to Healthcare, Agency for Healthcare Research & Quality) demonstrates the aptitude to compromise. As stated in Colleen Lets Call the Whole Thing Off, health care opportunities can be regulated by the government but still predominantly private. With private providers like hospitals and pharmacies, there is a (Grogan, 403). With this said, more Americans can afford health care while there is still aspects of privatization, similar to the Affordable Care Act put in place by President Barack Obama. This act, although criticized by many private health care supporters, is beneficial to the public. Like the compromise stated, the ACA allows more access to more Americans while attempting to provide all necessary options. If the ACA was able to provide more options for the private sector Americans, there would be a fitting compromise for the Agency for Healthcare Research and the American Action Network. Power 5 The contention behind the right to health care for all Americans is a question of either public or private opportunity. This topic is important because without stakeholders like AHRQ and AAN, health care would not be as polarized as it is today. To minimize this polarity, there needs to be a compromise from both stakeholders of public and private options. Supporters of public health care, like the AHRQ, need available health care options for all individuals. The majority of opposition from private health care supporters, like the AAN, stems from the argument that an individual should be responsible for their healthcare freedoms. A lack of this responsibility leads to higher taxes for the public. To create a fitting compromise for both AHRQ and AAN, both public and private health care needs need to be met. A wider range of health care options for the public and a lower direct cost for an well being would increase the population impacted by healthcare without effecting their personal freedoms or the need for profit. This compromise would bring both AHRQ and the AAN together, and finally create a stable and effective health care plan for America. Power 6 Works Cited  Access to Healthcare  Agency for Healthcare Research & Quality. U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, 2011. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Grogan, Colleen M. You Call It Public, I Call It Private, Call The Whole Thing  Journal Of Health Politics, Policy & Law 36.3 (2011): 401-411. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Health  American Action Network. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Pasquale, Frank A. Health Care Decisions In The New Era Of Health Care Reform: Private Certifiers And Deputies In American Health  North Carolina Law Review 92.(2014): 1661. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Siegel, Bruce, Holly Mead, and Robert Burke. Private Gain And Public Pain: Financing American Health  Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics 36.4 (2008): 644 651. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Top Pro and Con Arguments  ProCon, 26 Aug. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.