Cruz !1 Zachary Cruz Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 29 January 2017 Healthcare for Undocumented Immigrants In 2014, the United States had around 11.3 million undocumented immigrants. Though the number is unknown today, the problem of what to do about them is still relevant. One of the stakeholders, the Trump cabinet, wants to deport 11.3 million undocumented immigrants and ban anyone who is tied to the religion of Islam or the terrorist organization ISIS. The trump cabinet believes in banning all or most of illegal immigrants because they believe that they are drugs. They are bringing crime. They are (Lee). His deportation force would force people to leave the country and it would get rid of a good amount of criminals. But it still would tear apart families that contribute to society as much as allowed to and leave children motherless and/or fatherless. My other stakeholder is Grameen Vida Sana which is a benefit program that gives undocumented immigrants healthcare. This benefit program was created for the sole purpose to help undocumented immigrants so that they can have basic affordable healthcare which is similar to the Affordable Care Act. They give healthcare to people from all walks of life. From middle class working Americans to struggling undocumented immigrants. But to a majority of people this kind of program feels like the first step into having a pathway to citizenship, which a lot of people seem to have different views on. But it could mean actual criminals receiving affordable healthcare or possibly even getting citizenship in the far future and most people could agree that actual criminals getting citizenship would be bad. These Cruz !2 two stakeholders both have very different views; one wants to give affordable healthcare one wants to deport the person that was accepting that healthcare. However, essential that both the trump organization and Grameen Vida Sana come to an agreement on this issue so that both parties will be satisfied. The Trump cabinets views on immigration are very strict for example one of his Point Plans to Put America is working on an impenetrable wall on the southern border, on day one. Mexico will pay for the (Immigration). In regards to his views on illegal immigrants it seems he make up his mind. On his website it says criminal aliens out day one, in joint operations with local, state, and federal law enforcement. We will terminate the Obama deadly, non-enforcement policies that allow thousands of criminal aliens to freely roam our (Immigration) in regards to only illegal immigrants. But in reference to all illegal immigrants will go out. They will come back..They have to come back (Rep. Bass) but again his plan to deport also on to include people who have charged with any criminal offense or who committed acts that constitute a chargeable criminal (Planas) Basically he truly just wants to deport some of them and have them go through the visa process. But the thing is, you really deport millions of people and that expensive. This is good for finally enforcing our law because people should not just be coming to America without a problem and without a background check. Him and his plans have a positive and negative effect on our country and also have very different view of immigrants than the Grameen Vida Sana benefit program. Cruz !3 Grameen Vida Sana seems to has one goal aim to ameliorate the link between poverty and poor health by increasing access to care, preventive services and health education, while decreasing out-of-pocket costs, ER visits and lost (No) This goal is basically a representation of the affordable care act. Grameen America created Grameen Vida Sana for undocumented immigrants which a $45/month benefit program that includes an affordable that includes primary care, personal health coaches, weekly group wellness meetings, educational materials, and access to health (Nonprofit Organizations). This will definitely help them because they might not be able to get care because of the lifestyle they are forced to live in because they citizens. Also if it for undocumented immigrants there have been a of $35.1 billion to the Medicare Trust Fund between 2000 and 2011, according to a new Journal of General Internal Medicine study recently (No) So undocumented immigrants a burden on the healthcare system either if someone tried to argue that. Giving them access to affordable healthcare could be a great start towards a pathway to citizenship. The differences between Grameen Primacare and the Trump organization are apparent. The Trump organization wants to not help these immigrants because he thinks they are criminals. Grameen Primacare wants to give them healthcare so it makes sense if they get along. But if you look closely at it the Trump organization seem to pay much attention to the undocumented immigrants that are not criminals. Grameen Primacare seems to want everyone to have healthcare. Grameen Primacare would have to not allow criminals to get their healthcare because that is something that Trump want. They would have to do this by getting a background check before they sign up for Grameen Primacare. The Trump organization would Cruz !4 also want to deport the criminals with his but he would have to agree not to deport the undocumented immigrants. Trump might be in favor of a compromise with Grameen PrimaCare because on Huffington Post it says deportation would happen to who have charged with any criminal or who acts that constitute a chargeable criminal (Rep. Bass) So in regards to that Trump would be okay with this compromise. Trumps goal is to get his deportation force to criminal aliens out day but he does not really say much about the other immigrants. Although Grameen goal is to have healthcare affordable for everyone. So Trump would have to give up on his hope of deporting all illegal immigrants and stick to his original goal on his website and focus only on the criminals. Grameen Primacare would have to give up on helping the criminals get healthcare. But the compromise would consist of Trump creating his deportation force to deport only the undocumented immigrants that are an actual threat and allow Grameen Primacare to help illegal immigrants receive healthcare. Trump would have to give up deporting all the illegal immigrants and Grameen Vida Sana would lose out on helping the undocumented immigrants that got deported. Although, Trump would accomplish getting his deportation force and Grameen Primacare would get the chance to help undocumented immigrants that afford healthcare. Also this plan would lead to a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. Even though the Trump organization and Grameen America/Primacare have different views it is possible to find a compromise. The Trump organization believed in deposing all or most of the undocumented immigrants but Grameen America/Primacare believes affordable Cruz !5 healthcare to all even undocumented immigrants. These different views are able to ignore the odds between them and work together. The compromise to only deport criminals and allow the ones that are still here to receive healthcare and possible citizenship seems like a great compromise. Cruz !6 Works Cited  Donald J Trump for President. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. No, Undocumented Immigrants A Burden On The Health Care  Grameen PrimaCare. N.p., 22 July 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Nonprofit Organizations Finding Ways to Provide Affordable Care for Undocumented  Joint Center. N.p., 22 Apr. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Planas, Roque. Trump Order Views Most Undocumented Immigrants As Deportation  Huffington Post. N.p., 26 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rep. Bass Says Trump Promise to Mass-deport Latino  @politifact. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lee, Michelle. Donald False Comments Connecting Mexican Immigrants and  The Washington Post. WP Company, 8 July 2015. Web. 10 Feb. 2017.