Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 25 January 2017 Depression is a mood disorder that causes a persistent feeling of sadness and loss of (Mayo Clinic Staff 1). The Mayo Clinic staff states that doctors and Researchers do not know what directly causes depression, however, in most cases of mental disorders there are the same, four, influential factors. These four factors are biological differences, brain chemistry, hormones, and inherited traits (Mayo Clinic Staff 1). Health is an organization based out of California which has created a website so that it can help people who are struggling with depression 1). Rhetoric Really Matters states, thorough rhetorical analysis involves understanding the many elements that go into the creation of a (269). Health.com considers these things when creating images to help the reader understand the meaning of them. This organization gains information about their medical content by conducting interviews with experts, medical personal, and real people 1). Treatment of depression is strictly talked about on the website health.com, it provides viewers multiple treatments to help with depression. The two images used from this website show that Health.com supports these treatments for depression. To begin with, Health.com uses an image of a man who is in a dull colored room with his head down and sitting on the edge of his bed. According to Health.com, Individuals who suffer depression usually have loss of interest and cause sadness, but it Student 2 can affect every individual differently. Ella Browning and Joshua M. Rea, the authors of Understanding Stakeholders, define a stakeholder as a group who has interest in a topic. In this case, the stakeholder for my topic of depression would be Health.com (371). The primary visual message is that people with depression usually place themselves in solitary positions to have time to think about their options and decisions. Ethos is present here because this individual has had experience with negative thoughts before and he has comfort thinking alone in his room. The visual cues that are used in this image are that the man is sitting on the edge of the bed where it looks like he has his hand on his head. From this cue, the reader can assume that this individual is upset. The man presents this emotion from the action of his hand propping up his head, representing distress, which happens to be a symptom of depression. Another visual cue presented in the picture is the neutral colors that are used in it. These neutral colors impose that the individual is indifferent to what is happening around him. The lack of bright color allows the audience to notice these neutral colors, because the man is not concerned with what is going on around him. The artist of this picture uses logos when he includes the colors of the image. Logos is used because normally people associate dark and neutral colors with unhappy feelings. The construction of this image helps the reader interpret what is going on in the image. In this image of the man, there is a window in front of him. The windows brightness contrasts with the dullness in the room, this represents the two options in his life. Those options are that he can either remain in isolation or go out and socialize. Another part of the design that helps the reader understand this image is that the man has isolated himself from the outside. One common Student 3 symptom of depression in adults is staying home, instead of going to socialize and interact with other people 1). In addition, the stakeholder uses a second image, which is focused on a gun. The primary visual message that the stakeholder is trying to convey is that people with depression can often have suicidal thoughts as one of their many symptoms. The Mayo Clinic staff states that suicidal thinking or feelings are common symptoms that can help diagnosis depression. These suicidal thoughts are more common in older women 1). When men are depressed, they are more likely to use guns to kill themselves so that they are able to kill themselves the first time around 1). One visual cue that helps the viewer understand this picture is the focus on the gun, while the background is a little blurry. Ethos is shown here because studies have shown that the most common suicidal method is by gun and bullet 1). The image of the gun is pointed towards the audience, representing that anyone can be going through depression and having suicidal thoughts. Statistics show that about 400,000 people attempt suicide in the United States each year 1). The artist also uses the design of having the gun focused. This makes the viewer realize that suicidal thoughts are common amongst people with depression. According to Health.com, more than 70% of older suicide victims saw their primary care physician within the months of their that includes more than half of the victims of depression commit suicide because of this mental disorder. Logos is present in this image because most people know that people who suffer with depression incur suicidal thoughts. This image also uses dull colors to point out that people with depression are not happy, as dull colors are typically Student 4 associated with unhappiness. Pathos is present here because it can be associated with the colors used, as the feelings present are unhappy ones. Moreover, these two images are similar because they both show signs of depression as shown through the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Ethos is shown in both images deal with the emotion of feeling unhappy. In the first image, ethos is shown because the man is experiencing negative thoughts. These negative thoughts can sometimes unfortunately lead to suicidal thoughts, shown by the second image of a gun. In addition, when we think of negative things or unhappy feelings we also think of dull colors. The dull colors are shown in both images, in the first image it is shown in the room while in the second image it is shown around the gun. Another similarity that both of these images share is with kairos. The timing of both these images are very important in determining the meaning of them. If the timing of the first picture were different we would have a different meaning. For example, if we saw him right after this moment we would not see the contrast from outside the window and the room. Finally, both of these images support Health.com in showing different treatments of depression. The stakeholder uses images that use the four components of rhetorical appeals to display this message, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos (Lee 20). This message is shown throughout both of the images in helping treat individuals with depression. Overall, this stakeholder emphasizes the treatments of depression with the help of these two images. (WC: 1138) Image 1: Student 5 Image 2: Student 6 Works Cited Gardner, Amanda. 12 Great Blogs for People With  Health.com. Health Media Ventures INC., 2017. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. Lee, Kendra Gayle, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides. The Rhetorical  Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. Noseworthy, John H. Depression (major  Mayo Clinic. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER, 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Royce, Katherine. is Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 269. Browning, Ella and Rea, Joshua M. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 371. E-text. Zamosky, Lisa. 12 Signs of Depression in  Health.com. Health Media Ventures INC, 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Zamosky, Lisa. 15 Myths and Facts About  Health.com. Health Media Ventures INC, 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Student 7