Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Encourage the Wounded Wounds deserve to be healed; especially for people who are suffering from depression. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America, also known as the ADAA, organization strives towards providing their patients with different effective treatments for depression. Receiving treatment for depression is important and needs to be considered because it will help improve a life, help reduce symptoms of the disorder, and help the person enjoy life again. The ADAA organization aims towards helping those with anxiety, depression, and other related disorders by providing treatments that have been studied upon by professional. Since anxiety and depression are disorders that both affect the individual person and those around them, the ADAA strives to debrief their viewers on the details of each disorder and how they can get started with treatments. Viewers can find this information under the the tab on the home page of the ADAA website. The ADAA have been working towards helping their patients for over three decades, and they are constantly trying to evolve with the changes and discoveries of the world to provide their patients with the best care possible. Depression makes people feel unmotivated in life. Thus, the ADAA provides their viewers with an encouraging image (see Figure 1) on their front page to motivate people with depression to seek treatments and help overcome their disorder. This image consists of a person standing in a victory-like pose at the top of a mountain overlooking the horizon, as the sun Student 2 begins to rise for a new day. The person and mountains are darkened, while the sunrise is a mixture of bright yellows and oranges, which gives of a vibrant, happy feeling due to the bright colors (Gerdes, Hopton, Joshua 350). The image is telling the viewers to fight against their disorder and fight for their future. Having the person stand in a victory-like pose portrays that they will feel accomplish after defeating their disorder. The mountains used in this image symbolizes the many obstacles a person is bound to face; however, he/she can overcome his/her challenges because it is possible to reach the top of his/her personal mountain. Thus, emphasizing to the viewers that they will feel accomplished once they defeat their depression will motivate the viewers to becomes more determined to fight their depression (Gerdes, Hopton, Joshua 347). Another detail about this image is the embedded text which states, over Anxiety and (see Figure 1). This piece of text helps the viewers understand the aim and allows the viewers to imagine the power they will feel after defeating their own disorder. Out of all the elements in the image, the sunrise is the most encouraging part. The stakeholder is using this image because sunrises signify the beginning of a new day; thus, using the sunrise helps convey to the viewers that conquering over their disorder will bring them to a new beautiful chapter in their life. The image shown in Figure 1 not only expresses the aim through visual cues but also with its use of rhetorical devices. Ethos are present in this image through the use of someone climbing to get to the top of a mountain. When one is at the bottom, getting to the top can feel like an impossible feat. This message becomes relatable to patients with depression because one will feel like it is the end of the world which can then make him/her feel hopeless. Thus, using ethos, helps connect and a sense trust with the to believe in themselves while receiving treatment to heal (Lane et al 20). While the image displays Student 3 credibility, it also uses pathos to emotionally bring in the viewers. Emotions make the issue more personal (Lane et al 22). The victory-like pose evokes the emotion that comes with accomplishment and determination. This will appeal to the audience because feeling accomplished and determined will evoke the emotion of happiness which is scarce in their lives while their depression is still around. Having the feeling of happiness will instantly help one enjoy life again and reduce symptoms such as negative thoughts. Figure 1 truly expresses the mission that ADAA has carried for the past three decades; which is, to help and encourage those with depression and/or anxiety to seek out or continue treatment. Through their website, the ADAA continues to use images to convey their mission. Figure 2 is another image that displays the aim in providing support and treatment for their patients. Figure 2 is located under their subtab which is under the tab This image consists of computers and small towns that all connect through roads. The image is displayed with the use of many different bright colors to help catch the attention (Gerdes, Hopton, Joshua 350). This goal is to express that one is not alone during the process of receiving treatment for recovery. According to the ADAA, support is a large part of recovery. If someone ever needs to talk, there is a network of people that he/she may contact. Through this network, one could end up finding someone that may have the same disorder and/or experience the same pain. The computers and Wi-Fi emphasize how technology has advance our abilities to connect over any distance, and for those who want to meet other people without having meeting face-to-face, this would be a helpful resource (Gerdes, Hopton, Joshua 338). The use of the roads to connect everything in this image makes the image more cohesive. This allows the viewers to feel more connected to one another. Student 4 Figure 2 also utilizes rhetoric devices to demonstrate the aim towards treatments. The use of ethos is present with the computers. Computers connect to the audience because they would be using one to view this image that is on website. Therefore, there is credibility towards this organization because the viewers know how strong and trustworthy communication is building over the internet. Having the viewers understand the strength of computers establish a sense of trust between the ADAA and the viewers. This trust allows the viewers to see the positivity in receiving or continuing support treatments to heal themselves from depression (Lane et al 20). The use of pathos is also present in this image with the roads connecting the towns and the computers. This allows the emotion of peace and happiness to be evoked as it allows the viewers to know that they are not alone. It demonstrates that those with the same disorder will be receiving similar treatments, and everyone can receive support from one another while going through recovery. This allows the audience to be more personal with one another (Lane et al 22). Overall, Figure 2 evokes the message of finding connections and support through others so they can help he/she get through his/her treatments. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America, the ADAA, carries meaningful mission to ease the pain of those with depression and other kinds of disorders. Their goal is the help their patients heal from their wounds and start a journey towards a new, healthy life that will be full of happiness. These two images cohesively promote this mission as they both utilize pathos and ethos to appeal to the audience. These images and the ADAA help guide the audience down the path that will heal their wounds and open their life towards a new chapter. (WC:1198) Student 5 Work Cited Free Online Anxiety and Depression Anxiety and Dpression Association of America, 2016, https://www.adaa.org/finding-help/getting-support. Accessed 20 Jan 2017 Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, 2010, https://www.adaa.org . Accessed 20 Jan 2017. Gerdes, Julie. Hopton, Sarah B. Rea, Jashua M. Understanding Visual Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEhu,2016.334-344.E-text. Accessed 20 Jan 2017. Lane, Emily. Lee, Kendra G. McKee, Jessica. Mclyntyre, Megan. Pantelides, Kate. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEhu,2016.19-46. E-text. Accessed 20 Jan 2017. Triumphing Over Anxiety and Depression. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, 2016, https://www.adaa.org. Accessed 20 Jan 2017. Student 6 Figure 1 https://www.adaa.org Student 7 Figure 2 https://www.adaa.org/finding-help/getting-support