Bastis 1 Courtney Bastis Ms. Hannah Lay ENC 1101.006 12 February 2016 Dial M for Murder or Medicine Imagine traveling on a windy road, dwindling down and coming to an end, the boulevard of End of Life Care. It splits into two paths, both passages possessing many obvious differences, yet sharing many similarities that are not seen promptly. The paths may start off going in opposite directions, but will nonetheless meet up together once again to what is known as a compromise. One path represents the National Association for Home Care and Hospice (NAHC), which is for continuing the use of Hospice and Home Care. The other path, Hospice Patients Alliance (HPA), which is for educating the public about how Hospice aids in death in an unprofessional manner. Looking at the two paths, the primary difference between the two stakeholders is slim. The NAHC believes that the care of patients under Hospice protection are receiving top of the line care within their respectable branches, contrarily the HPA believes that employees in Hospice care are mishandling the medicine and drugs administered to the patients. The care of patients in Hospice is viewed so asymmetrically amongst selective patient and home care stakeholders that both organizations should be willing to set aside their differences and come to a compromise that Hospice employers should go through an ample background check while implementing a methodology in the pharmacy department within each Hospice Care Center. Bastis 2 Believing that a needs and guidelines for what they want in regards to their healthcare is how the NAHC functions. The goal of the NAHC is to bestow proper and affordable health care for the elderly and disabled individuals across the nation, regardless of their position in their state of life. According to the NAHC, their mission statement is meant to stand for . . . described as being on the of elderly and terminally ill facing compound problems of illness in the twilight of life, millions of fragile children with major health problems in the dawn of life, and the disabled and sick, who are too often relegated to the shadows of (Garcia). Not only does the NAHC want to help provide and promote elevated standards of patient care in Hospices nationwide, but they also want to silence the myth . . . that dependence is a necessary state for the aged and disabled in (Dragolis). Hospices provide future patients and family members endless informational seminars, tours, and questions answered by other individuals that were connected with Hospice one way or another. The organization offers families consultation sessions and a strong emotional support foundation when, unfortunately, their loved one passes away while in Hospice (Chuck). The organization sponsors many educational events that promote the awareness for families and individuals that know or have loved ones that are in need of home care that only a Hospice facility could provide. Along with supplying the care that is wanted in home care, according to the NAHC, the organization wants to make giving back to the community an annual occurrence. Many of the purposes also include the new physiological and technological developments of medicine that could potentially allow for a brief delay of death. With this in mind, the NAHC and HPA do share many similarities. Bastis 3 With large interest in making sure Hospice workers do not take advantage of patients under care, the HPA aims to inform the public, families, and employees about the misuse and mishandling of drug treatments within Hospice organizations across the nation. The HPA is a newly founded organization that has been created on a platform of awareness in regards of others who cannot speak up for themselves. According to the HPA, their mission statement is aimed towards . . . increasing the knowledge of the public and help shine light on what is not talked about behind the harsh reality of what and where we are sending our loved ones (Munks). Though there has not been numerous cases reported on the mistreatment of patients in the news, the seriousness of patient care is still top priority to the organization, making it one of the core values. The stakeholder advocates for the right of knowledge about information that is not seen nor heard about on a day to day basis amongst current social groups. Along with being strong advocates for proper patient care, the HPA continuously connects with lower tiered organizations and foundations to help communities and families who are unable to use the amenities that are provided by Hospice. Not only does the HPA protect a well being, but they also help a widespread of other healthcare individuals in differing branches that are going through similar processes (Hien). According to the HPA, the main overall goal is to make sure that the public has the proper knowledge about the Hospice where they are sending their loved ones to. Regardless of the HPA and NAHC goals, both their mission statements stands on common ground, focusing on the overall health and well being of the patients at hand. The reason why the NAHC and HPA cannot compromise over the issue is because the stakeholder is so newly founded that there has not been enough solidified informational facts Bastis 4 supporting the HPA in contrast to the endless statistics that the NAHC has under their wing. A suitable compromise that seems best fit for resolving these subtle differences is that Hospice and home care facilities should allow for an in depth background check to justify the qualifications of all employees that work within their respectable Hospice centers and branches. background check will go over the employee history in order to make sure that health care workers contain no previous charges or incidences within professional medical care or falsely administrating patients the improper amount or types of medicines and drugs on their Along with the extensive investigations of each worker, the secondary part of the compromise is to a methodology in the pharmacy department within each respectable Hospice Care Center where there must be a process for checking out specific medicines or drugs for certain patients. The procedure that will be applied towards the pharmaceutical department within Hospice and home care will have a system where every definable treatment, diagnosis, and medical need is technologically linked with the proper dosage of medicine within a computer system that tracks what is assigned or deferred for each patient that is listed under a doctor within the medical This compromise would allow for these two organizations to meet amends and see each point of view and promote more advances on homecare. It is also beneficial for the patients and families, knowing that their loved one is in being taken cared of in wonderful and trusting hands that the family approves of. Providing top of the line health care for the ones who are in need, and a calm state of mind for the families who have loved ones receiving the care. With this compromise, both stakeholders would be able to help the individuals who are in need of care is what will be achieved when these two stakeholders accept this propose compromise. This compromise is what these two influential stakeholders should consider at this point of time. Bastis 5 Overall, these two stakeholders surprisingly have more similarities than differences then one may think. While the NAHC focuses on wanting the public to chose to use Hospice and home care, they are advocate for the push of technological advances to keep progressing on into the everlasting future in hopes to make perfected medical care. Though the main focus is to educate the public about Hospice and home care, the stakeholder also pushes for the ample health of individuals who cannot afford the benefits of Hospice. The NAHC and HPA both strive to make sure that the public, families and individuals are well taken care of under their organizations. Both the NAHC and HPA aim towards a greater good of providing knowledge about Hospice and home care for families of the public. All individuals and families in this world today should do extensive research on what facility they are putting their loved ones into. It should matter to the family in regards of how the care is administered and how other individuals feel about the certain type of Hospice and home care. With this compromise, anything thing is possible. Bastis 6 Works Cited Chuck, Philip, and Natalie Fernandez. and Aspirations of the National Association of Home Association of Home Care Organization . National Association of Home Care. 18 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Fernandez, Natalie. Patients Alliance . http://www.hospicepatients.org/. Dragolis, Danielle. Medical, Health Care, and Home Care Digest : Vol 14, No 9. Readers Digest. 20 Oct. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Hien, Lee. Care and the Differentials Between What Is & Schuster : Vol 5, No 2. Simon & Schuster. 29 Mar. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Garcia, Pedro. Association for Home Care & Hospice . http://www.nahc.org/about/mission-statement/. Lerry, James. the Sides, Under the Bridge, Meeting In the Mifflin Harcourt . Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. 9 Apr. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Munks, Assef. Beliefs And Goals of the Hospice Patients Patients Alliance Organization . Hospice Patients Alliance. 5 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.