Beaulieu 1 Jasmine Beaulieu Ms. Lay ENC 1102 9 February 2017 Animal Testing The phenomenon of animal testing is dates all the way back to the time of the Ancient Greeks; Aristotle and Erasistratus being some of the first to perform experiments on living animals. The topic of animal testing has become very controversial over the past few years, and it seems as if the controversy continues to rise as time goes on. Some people have the belief that the use of animals for experiments and product testing is both morally, and ethically wrong. Companies such as Covergirl, Pantene, and Febreeze say that they use animals to ensure that their products are safe for the consumer population; but organizations such as the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, otherwise known as the PETA, believe that the use of animal testing is inhumane and unnecessary in any circumstance. On the opposite side of the issue, there are also people who believe that animal testing is a necessary form of action. These people believe that the advancement of science and the field of medicine is the most important thing when it comes to animal testing. An organization that strongly supports this claim is the Americans for Medical Progress, or the AMP. The AMP is an organization that is dedicated to the furthering of medical research, which includes the use of animal testing to be able to do so. As a whole, both the PETA and the AMP have very different views on the issue of animal testing, but they do share a common goal: they both believe that the consumers deserve the best Beaulieu 2 and most beneficial products and research. Both stakeholders could be able to achieve this goal by setting regulations as to when animal testing is an appropriate course of action, and how the testing should be performed when done so. As an organization, the PETA is the largest animal rights organization in the world with more than 5 million members. The mission of the PETA is to ensure that all animals are being treated in an ethical and humane way at all times, no matter the situation (People for the They believe that animal testing is just one of the multiple ways that animals are wrongly treated, and they are determined to put a stop to it. The PETA is constantly fighting for what they believe in by working through public education, research, animal rescue, cruelty investigations, protest campaigns, celebrity involvement, and special events. These platforms are able to assist the PETA in getting their message to the consumer population. The population that may be unaware that laundry detergent and make-up that are used on a day-to-day basis, are also the laundry detergent and make-up that have been tested on (PETA and As stated by the PETA, they want the best for the people, and they believe that products that are tested on animals are not the best. The AMP is another organization that has taken a position in regards to animal testing, but it is clear that their beliefs are a lot different than the beliefs. As a whole, the mission of the AMP is to protect the investment of Americans in the process and progress of biomedical research (Home). They believe that the advancement of medical progress is vital, and that if they need to use animal testing to be able to make progress on that research then that is what they believe is the necessary form of action. medical advancements would not be possible without the use of animal (Jones). The AMP views animal testing not as something that is hurting the animals, but as something that is benefitting the human population. They strongly Beaulieu 3 focus on reaching out to the public to be able to build and appreciation and understanding for what they believe is necessary animal research. As a whole, the AMP is doing what they believe is the best for the people, and they believe that doing whatever it takes to further research is able to provide that. When it first meets the eye, it is clear that the PETA and the AMP have very different views on the topic of animal testing, but what may not be as clear is that they do both share a common goal that has the potential to be able to result in a resolution. At the surface it is easy to see that the PETA is strongly against animal testing, and the AMP is for animal testing; but as you dig deeper their common goal becomes clearer and clearer. Both stakeholders only want what is best for the human population; the difference is that they have very different ideas on how to do so. The PETA wants what is best for the people, and they believe that by ensuring the safety of animals it is ensuring that the best products and research are being provided to the people. On the other hand, the AMP has the ideology that to be able to give the people the best, they must do everything that they can to do the best research possible; and if that means that they have to use animals within their research, they are proud of that because it is giving the people the best. In order to be able to create a compromise between these two stakeholders that will stay in place, regulations must be decided upon between them. Regulations dealing with as to when animal testing is an appropriate course of action, and also how the testing of the animals should be performed when done so. By putting a set of regulations in place, it would insure that neither of the organizations had the ability to do as they pleased, but it would also give them the freedom to carry on in what they believe in. Beaulieu 4 This compromise has the potential to be able to please both of the stakeholders that are at odds, but for it to be able to do that it must be properly sought out. For this compromise to be able to be affective, without getting the government involved, both organizations would have to sit down together to decide what would be on the list of regulations. Some regulations that both organizations would have to agree on would be: in what circumstances is it okay to engage in the use of animal testing; and when done so, how should the animal testing be conducted. They would also have to format it in a way that is similar to a contract. By doing this it would make sure that both organizations were contractually bonded to it, and it would not just be words on a paper. According to the Animal and Legal Defense Fund, have been legislature that has been passed that dealt with animal testing, but it was not affective on such a large (Animal Testing and the Law). By creating a set of regulations that are just between these two major organizations, it would allow for more change to occur. Animal testing, just like many other things, will probably always be a topic of debate. Stakeholders such as the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals will always believe that animal testing is morally and ethically wrong; while stakeholders such as the Americans for Medical Progress will believe that animal testing is a necessary form of action. People will always have different ethical and moral values, but with the introduction of these new regulations, both stakeholders are able to appease their beliefs while still achieving their goal of providing the best to the people. As a whole, this compromise would be able to not only improve upon animal testing all together, but it would also be able to release some of the tension between the two sides of the issue. Beaulieu 5 Works Cited Testing and the Animal Legal Defense Fund. ADLF, n.d. Web. 14 Jan. 2017. Americans for Medical Progress. AMP, n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Jones, Lee. Pro animal  New Internationalist 2006: 34. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights PETA. PETA, n.d. WEB. 24 Jan. 2017. PETA and group ask for more animal testing  Laboratory Equipment 2015: 2. General OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Stumpf, Elizabeth. Animal Experimentation and Testing: A Pro/Con  School Library Journal 2000: Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Sullivan, K.M., J.R. Manuppello, and C.E. Willett. Building On A Solid Foundation: SAR And QSAR As A Fundamental Strategy To Reduce Animal  SAR & QSAR In Environmental Research 25.5 (2014): 357-365. Environment Index. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.