Ali Tekelioglu Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 28 January 2017 Technology amongst children Modern technology has managed to shape our lives in so many ways. Starting from television and cell phones to tablets and consoles, there are countless ways to use technology for entertainment and leisure. People of all ages have access to technology and can use it for multiple purposes varying from entertainment to communication. For the younger generation, technology has now become something they are accustomed to seeing every day. Children in the past only really had television as a form of technology based entertainment, but now they have more options than ever which are mainly internet based. Since technology has become so portable, children can entertain themselves almost anymore by taking their tablets or possibly their parents phones. It is common sight to see children sucked into their tablets doing various tasks such as playing games and watching videos. Sometimes, it almost seems like it could be a form of addiction for children, children can sometimes be seen begging their parents to give them their tablets. This might affect children mentally and degrade their social skills. While many might consider technology as a great educational tool, it is questionable if the benefits outweigh the negatives; whether it should be considered a learning tool or a distraction and how parents should monitor their activity. Purdy, Elizabeth Rholetter. Children And  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This purpose is to show research on how technology can affect children in either positive or negative ways. The article mainly points how technology has managed to impact children in a more negative manner than positive. The author starts out with how Children are exposed to technology at childhood causing them to interact and learn their surroundings. She also talks about how children have slowly moved away from watching TV and to spending more time on the computer. The author than moves onto talking about whether technology can actually become a form of addiction and suggests there is evidence. In the viewpoints, the author talks about some of the groups that have a counterclaim to the authors claim claiming that technology affects children in more positive manners. Lastly, the article states some of behaviors exposure to technology might cause for children. For example, technology could even trigger children to act in a violent manner because of the content they experienced on a video game or a video they saw. It is common sight to see current generation adults affected by early exposure to technology, whether it is gaming or just being on social media. What one does growing up usually can end up growing on the individual. Elizabeth Rholetter Purdy is a general editor who earned her B.A. from Columbus College for political science and her M.A from Emory. She also earned her Ph. D in political science from Georgia State University. Her articles are mainly based on subjects ranging from political science to studies and to economics and popular culture. Cooper, Patrick G. Children On The  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Modern technology basically relies on the internet and children tend to mostly do web based tasks. Another article known as Children on the Internet talks about how Children spend their time on the internet and the concerns it brings up. According to the author, children can expose themselves to technology at ages as young as two. Cooper mentioned amount of internet Children access is (Cooper 1) and children could be doing countless things on the web varying from educational purposes to games and social media. Without parental supervision, Children could even float off to content like pornography which can just be a few clicks away. The author mentions that one of the concerns he has for children on the internet is the anonymous interactions with others from services such as chat rooms and social networks. There is no way to tell the age of the person behind the wall and whether they might be trying to gain access to your account, most children are likely to be too innocent to understand. Another issue is that internet addiction can affected an individual socially, emotionally and physically. Lastly, one of the biggest concerns according to the author is Cyberbullying as it can cause emotional damage at such a young age and even alter the child to take drastic measures such as suicide and self-harm. Parents can take action with what their children might do with their digital resources by monitoring their time, putting web filters and give them items such as a mobile phone at a mature age. Parents should also encourage their children to find other activities to do in leisure time so that they spend all their time consumed in technology. The author of Children on the Internet is Patrick G. Cooper who was Born in North Jersey and Educated in Salem, MA. Aside from writing articles, he writes short fiction novels such as Jawbone and Thuglit Schrock, John Richard, PhD. Computer  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Health (2015): Research Starters. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Computer Addiction by John Richard Shrock is another article that talks about the use of technology and computers in an addictive manner. The author mentioned that such addiction is similar to (Shrock 1) and can cause children to decrease in academic and social skills. The author moves on to the causes of computer addiction by talking about how the Personal Computer reached the common household in the and the slow shift from Television and Videos games to computers. Since electronic media is getting more and more portable, Children can enjoy entertainment from their tablets and phones whenever they want. According to survey in 2013 by Nielsen, children under 12 use their technology up to 11 hours per day. The author than moves on to the risk factors and symptoms of technology addiction. Some of the symptoms that computer addiction caused for children are decline in academics and change in behavior. According to a survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 51% of heavy users made good grades meanwhile 66% of light users made good grades. Lastly, the author talks about governmental concern for computer addiction stating the concern for monitoring children are low. Technology can really impact children in a negative manner, unfortunately the government of most westernized countries are not concerned so parents really need to watch what their children do on the internet and set limits. The author of Computer Addiction is John Richard Schrock grew up in rural Indiana and attended Indiana State University in Terre Haute. Schrock later completed his Ph.D. in entomology working on insect ecology and systematics in the University of Kansas. He also went to Hong Kong to learn Chinese and earn his doctoral foreign language skill. Avramut, Mihaela, MD, PhD. Internet  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Health (2015): Research Starters. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Internet Addiction by Mihaela Avramut mainly focuses on the effects on internet addiction and how it might affect children over time. An example is shown in one page illustrating how internet addiction leads to decreased brain functional connectivity in adolescents who might have an addiction to the internet. The author than talks about how people with ADHD have a higher chance of developing an addiction to the internet because of the lack of control they have over their actions. The article than moves on to discussing the diagnosis of weather an individual might have an internet addiction. One of these tests are the IA Test which addresses the duration and frequency of online activities, productivity, and ability to form relations online or in the outside world. Lastly, the author talks about ways to limit internet use which is vital for children who might face internet addiction. The author suggests that parents should limit internet usage and that guardians and teachers should also limit internet usage. Internet and technology addiction can be a detrimental situation and parents and teachers should do their best to limit children at a young age so that they face issues in the future. Once an individual is addicted to using the internet, trying to get out is quite difficult, especially as one grows older. It is possible for parents to still monitor to their children as they are still young. The author of Internet Addiction is Dr. Mihaela Avramut is a pathologist in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania who graduated from the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine.