Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Pennies Need to Go Pennies are everywhere. From those on the ground to wishing fountains, there is no denying that they exist. But do people really need pennies? Nothing can be purchased with a single penny. It costs more than a penny to even mint a penny. If so many are found lying on the ground or sunken in wishing fountains, why are pennies still being minted? According to Citizens to Retire the Penny, Lobbyists and Congress officials are the ones who decide what is to be minted (Gore). The non-partisan stakeholder named to Retire the aims to persuade and educate people the benefits of removing the penny (Gore). The act of removing pennies from production is encouraged by Citizens to Retire the website because of the high production costs, time in-efficiency, and consumer inconvenience. Citizens to Retire the Penny has numerous information on why the penny should be out of the circulation. The organization is run by four people. Robert Whaples is the founder of the organization who has done extensive research into the penny. Greg Mankiw is an Economics professor at Harvard who supports the anti-penny movement. John Green is a New York Times best-selling author who also dislikes the penny. Jim Kolbe was a Republican of the House of Representatives who sponsored the Currency Overhaul for an Industrious Nation Act of 2006 (Kolbe). These four men have voiced their opinions opposing the penny within the pages of the website. Their intended audience is generally lobbyists and congressional workers because they are really the only individuals who influence the decision to keep pennies in circulation or not. Student 2 However, the website also encourages anyone to share their views on ceasing production of the penny through flyers or social media. The images on their website are simple. Most of the images are giant humanlike pennies doing human related activities. Most of these activities are generally done after retirement. This supports their view of retiring the penny. Their organization name directly states their feelings toward pennies, and believes citizens should share the same views. Citizens to Retire the Penny provides images to display their position on pennies and persuade people to accept their argument. The first image is a photo of previous president Barack Obama with a quote that states spending money on something that people use, something we should (Obama). The message conveyed here is that the Government is spending too much on the production of pennies, which people do not use. The image consists of a photo of Obama and his quote on a light color. The quote is the primary focus of emphasis because of there being nothing else in the image. The second image is another quote from The Wall Street Journal which states place little value on the penny, and costing us millions each (WSJ). Much like the first image, the message is addressing the large cost of the production of pennies and touches on how Americans think of pennies as undervalued. This image also features the quote on a solid color next to a variant of the logo of The Wall Street Journal. Both images share the same ideal purpose. Both images include the use of rhetorical appeals, such as logos, ethos, pathos, and Kairos. Logos is the use of logic and reasoning (Lane). The common message of both images is that the government is spending money on something that most people do not even use. This statement is not very logical. Citizens to Retire the Penny claims the United States Government spent roughly $13.6 billion to produce 8 billion pennies (Gore). This equates to $80 million Student 3 alone. This is a massive loss in funds that could be put to better use. If most people do not use these pennies, then there is no logical reason to produce such a deficit. Ethos is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the audience of credibility or authority (Lane). Both quotes come from very reputable individuals. One quote comes from the previous President of the United States, while the other quote comes from the largest newspaper company in the United States. Although it is not directly quoted, both sources are extremely credible. These individuals can get their anti-penny message across to millions of people. Pathos is the appeal to emotions (Lane). Both images indirectly touch upon how individuals feel about the penny. From image 2, one can point of that most Americans feel like the penny has very little value. Likewise, image 1 on how Americans do not feel the need to use the penny. This renders the penny as irrelevant. Kairos is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write, say, or perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing so (Lane). The quote in image 1 believes it is high time something is changed about pennies. The quote in image 2 indirectly believes change is also necessary. Both quotes believe change is necessary, and that it is feasible to cease the production of pennies. Citizens to Retire the Penny states that there will not be a penny recall or pennies would not go away overnight. Pennies would stop production and slowly fade away from circulation (Myths). Citizens to Retire the Penny is a stakeholder that is against the use of pennies. The images found on their website support their view on the penny, alongside the information found on their website. The images use all four rhetorical appeals and collaborate to persuade any viewer to see their perspective. Citizens to Retire the Penny feels as if the penny wastes time, bring higher production costs, and are very time consuming. Multiple countries Student 4 have already eliminated the lowest valued coin. Citizens to Retire the Penny have linked an article based on the economic effects of elimination of their penny. America in the past has eliminated the half cent (Mankiw). Citizens to Retire the Penny believes America can do the same with Pennies. (W.C: 1007) Student 5 Image 1 http://www.retirethepenny.org/images/obama.jpg Image 2 http://www.retirethepenny.org/images/wsj.jpg Student 6 Works Cited Browning and Rea. Understanding Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 371 - 374. E-text. Gore, Jeff. Can You Buy with a Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, Sept. 2013, www.retirethepenny.org/. Kolbe, Jim. Is with Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, Penny, Sept. 2013, Lane, Lee, McKee, McIntyre, and Pantelides. The Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20 - 58. E-text. Mankiw, Greg. Makes Citizens to Retire the U.S Penny, Sept. 2013, Gore, Jeff. Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, Sept. 2013, www.retirethepenny.org/myths.html. Obama, Barack. Obama Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, Sept. 2013, www.retirethepenny.org/images/obama.jpg. WSJ. Street Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, Sept. 2014, http://www.retirethepenny.org/images/wsj.jpg