Conklin 1 Makenzi Conklin Kristen Roussie ENC 1102 11 February 2017 Decriminalizing Sex Work What would happen if someone was assaulted while working? They would go to the police and tell them what happened. For sex workers this is not the case, as they would go to jail before the police could even think about investigating the assault. Whether you are for or against prostitution, you can not deny that it is wrong that sex workers cannot receive help from an assault. One group that believes that this is an issue is Amnesty International. They are an organization that is dedicated to fight for all human rights, including those of sex workers. They feel that legalizing prostitution would give more rights and safety to the women involved. Another group, Demand Abolition, feels that prostitution is dangerous and morally wrong and should be illegal in all circumstances. While they have differing opinions on sex work, they both believe that sex trafficking should come to an end. In order to come to a compromise, Amnesty International and Demand Abolition should advocate for the decriminalization of prostitution. Amnesty International is an international group that advocates for human rights for all. They act through research, advocating and lobbying, and campaigns (Murphy). This group believes that legalizing prostitution would give more rights and safety to the workers. Currently, workers face discrimination, abuse, and assault. Since prostitution is considered illegal in the United States, workers have no voice when these terrible acts occur. If they file a report to the police, they would be arrested for prostitution and could potentially be held longer than their offender. Due to this, many women are unable to speak out against assault, which is not only Conklin 2 traumatic for them, but it also gives the public wrong information about sexual assault. The current statistic is that one out of every five women are raped (RAINN). However if sex workers were able to report their assault without facing criminal charges, the number would be much higher. It is important that the public receives correct information about sexual assault so that people can understand the severity and do something about it, as well as have more women come forward potentially. In some cases, housing and even health centers can deny services to women that are known sex workers (Murphy). This not only affects the safety of the workers who need access to health care, but also to the men that are involved. If women are denied access to health services they can not be tested or treated for sexualy transmitted diseases, which then in turn risks the safety of the other person involved. Along with being concerned about the safety and well being of workers, Amnesty International is also committed to try to break the negative stigma of prostitution. Most people have a negative opinion of sex work, and they are trying to normalize it. This group only supports consensual sex, and does not approve of any sex or human trafficking. A group on the opposite side of the issue is Demand Abolition. They believe that prostitution lures in uneducated women who will get stuck and not be able to stop doing it. Along with this, they feel that it is morally wrong and damaging for a women to do. One way they want to combat this is to inflict heavier punishments on the men who pay for sex. If there are stricter punishments (more jail time), the group believes that men will steer away from buying sex. One study shows that although 78,000 people were arrested for prostitution, only 10% of them were the men that were paying for sex (Demand Abolition. Obviously the men who purchase sex are not as heavily punished as the women. Their belief that legalizing prostitution does not work is based off of studies from countries that have legalized or previously legalized Conklin 3 prostitution. They say that in countries that have legalized prostitution, that there is an increase in the amount of human trafficking (Demand Abolition). Reports from sex workers in New Zealand said that they did not feel that the legalization of their work reduced any of the violence that they faced. Demand Abolition feels that prostitution is an inherently dangerous job and that legalizing it will not stop any of the violence towards women. Although both Amnesty International and Demand Abolition have opposite viewpoints on legalizing prostitution, they both are against human trafficking and the abuse of women. Amnesty International only approves of prostitution that is between two consensual adults. Both groups work to try to stop the kidnapping and forcing of people into prostitution, while also preventing the assault and abuse of women. If Amnesty International and Demand Abolition were to join forces to create a compromise, it would be to decriminalize prostitution. Amnesty International would be giving up their belief that prostitution should be legalized, however, this would be a big step forward. If prostitution were decriminalized, then women could report to the police if they were abused or assaulted. This could also lessen the negative stigma against people who are sex workers. This compromise is similar to the Sex Buyer Law that originated in Sweden. The law decriminalizes prostitution, but criminalizes the act of buying sex, in hopes that this will reduce the demand for prostitution. The point of the law is to attempt to change the behavior of people, instead of criminalizing the women that are involved. This law clears any criminal records from prostitution, provides services to the women, and educates the public (Nordic Model). This is beneficial to the women involved, as now they can apply for jobs without a criminal record while previously this could have prohibited them from getting one. The state of Nevada takes another approach, as prostitution is legal and not just decriminalized. When prostitution is legalized by Conklin 4 the government it is regulated, while decriminalization has no regulation. Nevada has zoning requirements as well as mandatory testing for sexually transmitted diseases (Schwartzbach). Legalizing or decriminalizing prostitution could lower the amount of STDs, as proven by data from Rhode Island. The state legislature reworded a law that accidentally made prostitution legal for twenty three years. The reported cases of gonorrhea decreased by thirty nine percent in this time period (Ehrenfreund). Demand Abolition would be compromising a lot if prostitution were legalized, but there could be heavy restrictions and regulations in place so that it would not lead to more human trafficking. The decriminalization could help more women be able to apply for jobs and not be stuck in prostitution, which the group would approve of. It would also increase the safety of the workers and others involved, which they are also in favor of. Sex is part of modern society whether people choose to accept it or not. The demand for sex will always be there, so Amnesty International believes that prostitution should be legalized to reduce the negative stigma and protect the women. Demand Abolition does not agree with this and believes that legalizing prostitution would only harm the women and increase the amount of human trafficking. Both groups may have varying opinions, but they are both working towards combating human trafficking and sexual assault. In order to achieve their goals, Amnesty International and Demand Abolition should compromise and work towards decriminalizing prostitution. Word Count: 1204 Works Cited Ehrenfreund, Max. When Rhode Island Accidentally Legalized  The Washington Post. WP Company, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Legalization Is Not the  Demand Abolition. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Conklin 5 Murphy, Catherine. Sex Rights Are Human  Amnesty Internationa;. N.p., 14 Aug. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Schwartzbach, Micah. Decriminalizing Prostitution Criminal CriminalDefenseLawyer.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.  RAINN. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. What Is the Nordic  Nordic Model Now! N.p., 04 Dec. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.