Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative The Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative was established in 1986, initially named the Homeless Coalition of Hillsborough County The intended vision of their establishment was to alter the practice of the government towards the homeless services system to further improve the treatment of the homeless and help reduce/end homelessness. Over the next two decades, the organization has successfully expanded upon their purpose and has continued to help reduce homelessness in the community through the of combined use of effective strategies and efforts by compassionate individuals. One of these strategies includes the use of images on their website to present their efforts, as well as promote their purpose. Through the use of images with visual cues and rhetorical appeals, the Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative effectively informs individuals living in the Tampa-Hillsborough area of their dedication towards reducing/ending homelessness, also further persuading them to help reduce/end homelessness. The first image (see Fig. 1) depicts a black-and-white photograph of a homeless father and his two sons at an event hosted by the Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative The primary visual message the organization is trying to communicate is that homeless people can appear to look just like every other non-homeless individual and that homelessness can happen to anyone. This intended message is conveyed through specific visual Student 2 cues, such as how the family is dressed in normal attire and appear to be a normal family. To an individual without knowledge that they are homeless, it would not be apparent that this family is homeless. As well as the appearance of the family, one element of design and composition that stands out in the image is the fact that it is black and white, greatly impacting how the picture is viewed. The family appears to look happy; however, the lack of color signals the lack of happiness in their lives due to being homeless. These aspects of this image successfully support the purpose to help reduce homelessness and persuade the community to join them. The first image effectively presents rhetorical appeals in order to reflect the purpose of the Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative. As a result of the image depicting the family at an event hosted by the Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative, or the appeal to credibility, is established (McKee and McIntyre 27). Ethos is presented through the display of the credibility and how they actually aid the homeless. The organization proves that they are trustworthy and reliable because the image shows that they are taking action towards helping the homeless, through hosting the event for the homeless. As well as the showcasing of their credibility, the lack of color effectively displays or the appeal to emotion (Lee, McKee and McIntyre 37). This aspect of the image greatly impacts how the viewer sees the image. As a result of the difference in how the image is viewed, it is revealed to the viewer that, although the family appears happy and content, they are lacking something in their lives. The lack of color quickly brings the view to feel emotions towards the family, giving them a genuine feeling of sympathy and compassion. These emotions established towards the family and the credibility of the organization help to persuade individuals to help the homeless, further reflecting the purpose of the organization. Student 3 The second image (see Fig. 2) displayed by the Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative is a photograph of volunteers preparing to conduct the annual homeless annual count in which volunteers conduct a count of homeless individuals in the Tampa/Hillsborough County The primary visual image the organization is trying to communicate is that their volunteers are extremely dedicated and hardworking when helping the homeless. The picture displays visual cues that helps to convey this intended message. One of the visual cues is found through the appearance of all the volunteers, for they appear to be working hard in preparation for the annual homeless count, which supports the intended message of the image. All the volunteers are also wearing the same-colored t-shirts, which signals unity and order in the Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative. The colorfulness and bright colors the image reveals to the viewer that helping homeless individuals has the ability to make lives more colorful and joyful. The embedded text in the image states, prepare to take the streets to conduct the annual homeless count in Hillsborough The white color of this text makes it easy for the viewer to read, and also helps inform them of what is taking place in the picture. As well as visual cues, the second image also presents rhetorical strategies, in order to relay the intended purpose of the organization. Through the use of the embedded text, the image establishes or the appeal to logic (Lane, McKee and McIntyre 32). The volunteers in the image appear to be working hard, and the embedded text provides the viewer with logic and reasoning behind those actions. In addition to the use of the appeal to logic, the fact that the image was taken recently further establishes or the appeal to timeliness (Hoffman and Sawchyn 41). The image was taken in 2014, therefore is still relevant to this day in age because it was captured not too long ago. If the image had been taken too far in the past, it would lose its Student 4 timeliness, therefore, would also lose its effectiveness in presenting the purpose of the organization. Through the use of visual cues, elements of design and composition, and rhetorical appeals, the two images presented by the Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative work together to relay the purpose of the organization. The first image effectively highlights the fact that homeless people can appear just like any other non-homeless individual, through the use of the appeals to credibility and emotion. To help the first image, the second image showcases how the volunteers of the organization are hardworking and dedicated, by incorporating the appeals to logic and timeliness. Through the use of these two images, the purpose of the organization is successfully communicated, not only informing viewers of their desire to reduce/end homelessness, but also persuading them to help join the organization in the fight towards this goal. (WC: 1,035) Student 5 Works Cited  THHI. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. About  THHI. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27. E-text. Lee, Kendra Gayle, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text. Homelessness  THHI. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Lane, Emily, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32. E-text. Hoffman, Alyssa, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41. E-text. THHI Job Opening UNITY System  THHI. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Image 1: http://thhi.org/about-homelessness/ Image 2: http://thhi.org/about-homelessness/homeless-counts/