Sabek 1 Loren Sabek Adam Phillips ENC1102 28 January 2017 Guns: The Culture-Bound Theory Guns are undoubtedly one of the United greatest socially dissenting issues, making the debate of whether or not to sustain the Second Amendment impenetrable. As an article that explains the judicial review of concealed carry laws under the Second Amendment describes, are deeply engrained in the American ethos, prevalent in history and popular (Behne 1349). Every effort to deregulate or regulate firearms raises concerns of public safety and individual rights. According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the United States has the highest rate for the demand of guns compared to any other country. Also, according to statistics from the Justice department, year, 470,000 persons become victims of a crime committed with a (Behne 1349). This correlation would suggest that guns may be advocates of violence that can be prevented. The polarity of gun control downsizes from political parties to two major organizations, known as The National Rifle Association and The Brady Campaign. The NRA is the largest organization for pro-guns, and are recognized as the Second foremost defender. They strive to promote the usage of guns, by doing so they have formed strong congressional ties through lobbyists and provided members of congress generous PACs towards their campaigns for support in their organization. However, The Brady Campaign is pro-gun control and support mass restrictions on gun ownership and usage for activities such as hunting or shooting in shooting ranges. They reach their supporters through Sabek 2 social media and have congressional ties as well to pass firearm restrictive legislation. At first glance it seems like a zero-sum game consisting of a mentality that has been hindering the gun control movement. In order to establish a middle ground both organizations can rest on, there should be a law providing extreme vetting of those with records on their background checks and therefore preventing them from purchasing firearms. Thus, enabling the public to the freedom of bearing arms while keeping everyone safe. The first stakeholder is The Brady Campaign which was founded in 1974 as the National Council to Control Handguns. greatly impacted gun control throughout history, especially by the end of when (the founder of this organization) and other gun activists had mobilized considerable public support for a proposal to require a waiting period before a person could buy a (Henderson 25). Since then, the primary goal of this organization is to push forward a series of gun policies to make guns a safer instrument for everyone to use. One of the main policies they focus on is strengthening background checks on all gun sales. These checks serve as a verification of an record to see if been previously involved with domestic violence. This simple procedure ensures that a criminal walking the streets with the potential to cause harm to others with a probable weapon. There are some good examples of mass shootings that been prevented, such as the one that took place in a homosexual club located in Miami, Florida. It resulted in 49 killed and 53 wounded. The shooter, Omar Mateen had been previously investigated by the FBI twice, therefore the shooting could have been prevented if the gun had not been sold to an individual on the FBI watch list. The Brady Campaign strives to prevent casualties of this sort from happening, and in doing so urged the passing of a bill promoted by Senator Susan Collins. This bill is at preventing people on government watch lists including the list which Sabek 3 prevents certain travelers from boarding commercial flights in the U.S from being able to buy (Peterson and Hughes). Under the bill, federal authorities would be notified of any gun purchases by anyone on the watch lists over the prior five years, allowing the Federal Bureau of Investigation to put the person under surveillance. The opposing stakeholder is the National Rifle Association. Formed in 1871, the NRA a means to raise millions of dollars to fund gun safety and educational projects of benefit to the general (National Rifle Association). This organization has established rifle clubs at colleges, universities, and military academies. Additionally, they have created hunting organizations, police and security firearm instructors, and courses to aid learning how to fire multiple types of guns. Professor Allen Rostron composed Fire: A Win-Win Strategy on Gun Policy for The Obama for the Harvard Law and Policy Review, in which he comments on the presence within the legislature and why it is vital to support their stance on gun control. He explains that, Gun control proponents have many sensible concerns about these kinds of proposals, but they may be able to find some respects in which they could safely concede some ground while crafting restrictions that ensure additional legal leeway being given to gun owners will be used responsibly. (19) In other words, although guns should not be removed entirely, there should be a law to implement some restrictions on those who own them to ensure used properly. It is coherent as to why both organizations hesitate at the thought of a compromise. For example, the NRA may see it as a setback on their cause and something to prevent American citizens from their right to bear arms. The Brady Campaign may want lockdown on guns and Sabek 4 instead of their usage for hunting or shooting for leisure, they be used by military personnel or local authorities. Nevertheless, to completely strip the United States of firearms would not increase nor decrease violence, mainly because those who are disarmed in dangerous situations may be prospective victims. This could happen even with laws narrowly aimed at disarming subsets of the population at high risk of offending, since such groups are also at high risk of victimization. Consequently, when taking both organizations into account, and regarding Senator Susan compromise, be best to move forward with a bill that enforces strict background checks to vet out those who are more likely to inflict violence on others. Furthermore, when applying this bill, it would ease those who are pro-gun control as less violence will occur within society yet keep guns within reach as NRA supporters would like. Sabek 5 Works Cited Behne, Kevin. Heat: Judicial Review of Concealed Carry Laws Under The Second Southern California Law Review 89.6 (2016): 1347-1404 Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Henderson, Harry. in a Book : Gun New York, US: Facts On File (2005): ProQuest ebrary. Web. 11 February 2017. Peterson, Kristina, and Siobhan Hughes. Latest Senate Gun-Control Bill Hits NRA Hurdle; Measure Aimed at Preventing People on Two Watch Lists from Buying Firearms Faces Opposition from Gun  Wall Street Journal (Online), Jun 21 2016. Rostron, Allen. Cease Fire: A Strategy on Gun Policy for The Obama  Harvard Law & Policy Review 3 (2009): 347. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. National Rifle Association brief history of the The Brady Campaign Sabek 6