Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Visual Rhetoric in a Pro-Military Women Organization This paper is an analysis of the Service Action Network (SWAN) visual rhetoric through their claims to be the voice, or advocate, for all military women and their concerns. They strive to ensure that women are treated fairly in the military, and their needs are met and respected. They do this through a multitude of techniques, some through obvious statements or word choices, and others through subtler visual rhetoric. SWAN uses the rhetorical devices of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to both highlight and present the case that women in the military should be respected and treated equally, because it is well merited and morally sound. The website uses text and visuals to impress upon the viewer a sense of unity. The main menu uses often, but never or For example We They also have a banner image of a group of women in military dress. The mission of this organization is to speak up for a right to be in the military, and advocate to the end of meeting the needs of service women. The target audience is likely military women who have concerns about rights in the military. However their audience would also extend to people who would want to actively reduce role in the military, whether it be citizens with a gender bias, or people of high office who could make such policies. SWAN was founded in 2007. For such a young organization they have made great progress by collecting data and donations from women in the Student 2 military. They have used their funds to support programs like Operationalizing Combat Integration and Revisiting Selective Service. Figure 1: http://www.servicewomen.org/ This image, in Figure 1, was on the homepage of this website. It initiates the sense of unity in service women that SWAN is trying to foster. This message is communicated by showing women of different races, body types and military fields standing together in a group. The composition of the photo makes it eye catching since it has an attractive symmetry. The women are lined up in such a way that all are in the same line of sight so that no one stands out among the rest, yet all are individually noticeable. They all have the same importance in the layout of the photo. The colors in this image are used to complement one another, aiding in the message of unity. This can be seen because the dark blues, blacks, and whites of the uniforms have a seamless flow that does not make one stand out among the rest. This is partially achieved by the central uniform, which is not only an easy to match white, but is pined with a multicolored badge that helps tie in the flow of colors. Student 3 This image relies on your sense of logic in its visual composition. It is noted that all the women officers stand at the same level, with the same dignity. This appeals to both your visual aesthetics and your reasoning that this is how it should be in a greater sense. The uniforms that are present in this photo are a sign of military standing and demands respect, as it was designed to do. Ethically speaking, it would be wrong to degrade these women who are serving such a highly respected and important duty, simply because they are women. This image evokes pathos when you look at the dignity in which these women hold themselves while in uniform, with solemn faces. In the context of the website where this image is seen, a website that strives to ensure they are treated equally, it evokes empathy and sympathy in the audience for their struggle, as well as a vicarious sense of unity with these women, as they stand together. Kairos can be seen in the unity implied by the group placement of the officers in the picture. For example it may appeal to a female officer who is on the fence about joining the organization by leading by example. Figure 2: http://www.servicewomen.org/what-we-do/ This image, in Figure 2, primarily induces a sense of unity, however unlike the last picture, it also appeals to non-serving women. This image appeals to non-serving women by including them in the group, although the military women still hold strongly to the center. The sense of companionship among the women is also highlighted by their joined laughter. In Student 4 addition to the separation of color, it should also be noted that the serving women are still the center of attention, as seen by their placement in the photo. It is also taken in a wide shot, this prevents extra space in the corners and helps to emphasis the ongoing theme of unity, it should be taken into consideration there is no part of this image that does not have a person in it. The colors of this image are used to highlight the non-serving women rather than the serving women, since the civilian clothing stands out more. This helps draw non-serving women in and makes them feel included. This image appeals to your sense of logic by showing all individuals as equals. In its attempt to appeal to non-serving women, this helps draw them into supporting the organization by making them want to fight for their equality. Ethos is evoked by encouraging non-serving women to think of themselves in the places of the serving women, and making them think critically about what it is like being in their position, and the ethical treatment they would deserve. Pathos is achieved by helping non- serving women empathize with the serving women who are fighting for their rights, this was done by showing them in a close group together. Kairos is seen by the non-serving women standing among the serving women and showing unity with them. This leads by example to the non-serving women in the viewing audience. These examples combine to both communicate and contribute to the message they intend to impress upon their audience. It is ultimately part of their communicative process although it may not have been intentional, as these images were fully examined here, but it was irrefutably part of their communicative process. It is these subtleties that are used to pursued the audience to join their perspective. (Word Count: 1040) Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: exploration in rhetoric and argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Service Action Network. Service Action Network, 2017, http://www.servicewomen.org/. Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. Sheffield, Written By Jenna Pack. Jenna Pack  Writing Commons. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017.