Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Do treatments for depression really work? Treatments for depression is a difficult subject, some believe that these treatments work. Others believe they are absolutely necessary to recover. Unlike viruses or illnesses that show up on scans, depression is a mental disease that show up on scans and often leads people to believe that they exist. Because of this, many people go untreated and undiagnosed. One website that believes in the illness as well as the cure is https://www.adaa.org/, this is a nonprofit that believes in the existence of mental illnesses and seeks to educate and help find a cure/treatment. The stakeholders mission is over depression and Their website offers many outlets for education, a place to talk, or treatment options for you or whoever seeking it for. Treatments for depression are a good thing for people all over the world because it is a real illness and it is affecting people worldwide. Not only does depression affect you, but it affects your entire family as well as many others in your community. They have many images on their website that support their cause. One image is of three kids hugging each other with the words treatment and support your child can overcome in bold on the image. and ADAA) A second image that is displayed is of a veteran surrounding by his family with the words nightmares and flashbacks interfere with my family also in bold placed on the image.(posttraumatic stress disorder ptsd, Feb 12) Both of these images support the mission of the website. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America is a non-profit organization that seeks to educate as well as treat those with depression. They look for any opportunity to educate Student 2 the public on what depression and anxiety are and ways to receive treatment. This website uses numerous rhetorical and visual devices to help spread their mission to many across the nation. When entering the website, you see the images I described as well as many more that correlate with the topic. The first image I described of the three kids gives a sense of belonging which brings kids to feel unafraid about coming forward about their issues. The cues that bring that message out are the kids with their arms wrapped around each other. The elements that really make this image stand out is the fact that they chose bright kids with friendly faces and smiles that really make the viewer believe that the message is sincere. The color especially impacts the picture, they used bright, eye catching colors that complement each other and draw the viewer in. The use of logos in this picture is represented by the use of the word treatment. where the use of logic and reason come in, you believe someone would overcome anxiety and depression just with support. The credibility comes in with the fact that these are their own pictures, they use random ones from the internet. how ethos is represented in this picture. The emotion that stirs up, and the use of pathos, is that they used 3 different types of kids, showing that this could be happening to child no matter the race or gender. a picture that can strike with all parents. The use of Kairos in this picture is represented with how timeless the photo seems. They picked such basic clothing these kids could be from any time period. In the second image, I mentioned the message they are trying to convey through this image is families all over are being affected by the aftermaths of their tours. Depression caused from this effects the entire family. The cue that conveys this message the most is the fact that the father is in his uniform and has his arms wrapped around his family. The closeness of the family Student 3 really stands out, you look at the picture and you want anything to tear them apart. The way the color really impacts the viewer is the fact that the family is wearing the same colors. It really gives a sense of unity. The bolded text really brings out the meaning, that war affects not only you but your entire family. There are many rhetorical devices expressed through this picture. The use of logos is represented because people may try to block out effects of depression from the war but this brings it out in the open and says happening and there are ways to help. The ethos aspect of this picture is essentially brought out through the text in the image. The fact that the father is in his uniform really pulls on sympathy and where pathos comes into play. Kairos is represented in the colors of the image and the way it was set up. Overall, the stakeholders mission of treatment of depression is clearly represented through the images explained. They seek to educate the community that people just like you can experience depression and it can affect more than just you. If you suffer from a mental illness they want, you to know not alone and that there are treatments available. This idea is clearly expressed through the two images, by showing kids suffering from it as well as the father of a family. People just next door to you could be experiencing this. This is nothing to be afraid of as well, regular people experience these things and once your educated you know how to proceed and it becomes less scary. (W.C 1007) Student 4 Works cited Children and  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Posttraumatic Stress Disorder  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.