Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Mother Infant Bond: The Parenting Technique for All Regardless of whether a mother had a high risk pregnancy, a pregnancy in which the baby and/or the mother are at risk for life threatening health issues, or the baby was born healthy, maternal bonding is always an aspect looked at and valued by families and medical professionals (Staff). Though a baby can survive without immediate bonding from their mother, the first few days postpartum are vital to the emotional connection process (Steinfeld). Complex issues arise when there are points of view on the this one being childcare techniques (Browning 371). A stakeholder chooses a side and tries to sell it to their audience and are who have a vested interest in the topic at (Browning The stakeholder that will be discussed in this paper is Parenting.com, a site used by parents and soon to be parents who are looking for insight into the best and most proactive childcare methods that will benefit their newborn, infant, or toddler Families + Fresh The website Parenting.com emphasizes the need for a mother to bond with and take care of their child regardless of the health at birth. Mother infant bonding can be seen as one of the most powerful parenting skills a parent will encounter and the stakeholder, Parenting.com, provides the audience with examples as to how one connects with and loves their baby. The first image is of a baby grasping onto its single finger with all five of his or hers Newborn Vivid and light colors are used in the image in order to set the Student 2 tone. The first color noticed is the white on the sleeves of the baby; white is usually a color associated with purity and innocence which are both terms used to describe a newborn baby. By doing so, the stakeholder is claiming just that: newborns are innocent human beings who deserve all the love, care, and attention they can get in their fresh start. As a result, a hopeful tone accompanies the image. A visual cue used in the image is the fact that the whole hand fits comfortably around the single finger. This shows how small the child is compared to its mother. Size often is related to dependency; if a child is so small or young, they tend to depend more on a parent than a child who is entering his or her adolescent years. Dependency can only come after a bond has been created between a mother and infant Importance of Infant The most important rhetorical strategy used in the image is pathos. Emotion is a highly relevant in advertisements that deal with babies as their subject matter. By developing an emotional attachment between the audience and the image, the stakeholder can thoroughly relay their message of the importance of maternal care and bonding. Looking at a small hand along with the idea of innocence creates the emotional bond. The timing of the image is also very important because if this picture was taken at a different stage in the life, then certain elements such as proportion would not have as much of an effect on the outcome. A picture taken when the child is a toddler versus an infant would demonstrate growth in the hand size and make the comparison to the finger less prevalent providing the image with logos. The credibility comes from the idea that this mother is experienced because she knows how to gently interact with her child by giving them her finger to play with and experience a compassionate bond. Student 3 The second image is of a mother sitting in a chair while breastfeeding her newborn (Raymond). In this image a visual cue that stood out was the large french door behind the chair letting in majority of the light in the image. Normally people buy houses with large windows and glass doors because natural lighting is important in setting the mood. The natural light provides comfort for both the mother and baby. The relaxed position of both the mother and her child show how comfortable the two are with each other. Comfortability is an important aspect in nursing a child; if you are uncomfortable the baby will sense it causing them to become just as uncomfortable (Steinfeld). Ethos is the most prevalent rhetorical strategy used in the image because of the importance of breastfeeding in nursing a newborn. Breastfeeding has several health benefits for babies like its ability to against (Department of Health). Babies that breastfeed tend to have weights as they and higher on IQ (Department of Health). By using an image of such a notorious and respected ritual, Parenting.com is letting viewers know that they believe in the best childcare possible; this triggers an emotional appeal to the audience. The color scheme in this image lends to its logos; light pastel-like colors are associated with newborn babies. Though on remotely different topics, the two images from the stakeholder resemble each other in kairos and pathos. The importance of kairos in the images is that if taken at different points or stages in the life, the images would have different meanings and probably less of an effect on the audience. For instance if the first image was taken at a later point in a life, the size difference of the two humans would not have nearly as much of an effect. The kairos here works hand-in-hand with the pathos because the illusion of such a small hand grasping just one finger creates an awe factor for the audience, helping to portray the message Student 4 and convince the audience that maternal bonding is the most important part of infant care when they are this small. refers to the placement of images, graphics, and and without the use of this, the image would lack in meaning (Pack 348). The second image would not be taken past a certain age in the life because breastfeeding is typically done in the first six months postpartum. Likewise, the pathos built from the emotional relationships and attachments in mothers who view this image, help with making the claim more persuasive. Evidently, the claim is justified in the two images mentioned above. Both images relay the same message of maternal bonding being if not the most one of the most important parts of an life. The timing of this maternal bonding is key in the creation of this mother-infant relationship. The stakeholder properly uses pathos because as mentioned in Rhetoric Really Matters , if used incorrectly audience may feel frustrated, and even manipulated by an overload of (Lee 31). However, Parenting.com does not push their audience to this point. Instead, a proper amount of emotion is evoked by the images. (Word Count: 1152) Student 5 Figure 1 Figure 2 Works Cited Newborn , Meredith Corporation , 2012, www.parenting.com/gallery/newborn-reflexes?page=4. Browning, Ella and Joshua, Rea Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton,MA: XanEdu, 2016. 371-374. Print. of Is Breastfeeding Important for Your Baby? , New York State, 2015, www.health.ny.gov/prevention/nutrition/wic/breastfeeding/importance.htm. Lee, Kendra Gayle , McKee, Jessica , and McIntyre, Megan Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Student 6 Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton,MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. Print. Families + Fresh Parenting , Meredith Corporation, www.parenting.com/. Pack, Jenna Down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton,MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. Print. Raymond, Sarah. to Choose-and Use-a Lactation , Meredith Corporation, 2016, www.parenting.com/baby/feeding/how-to-choose%E2%80%94and-use%E2%80%94-lact ation-consultant. Staff, Mayo Clinic. High-risk Pregnancy: Know What to  Clinic . Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER), 1998. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Steinfeld, Mary Importance of Infant Bonding - UC Davis Medical Center - UC Davis Health The Importance of Infant Bonding - UC Davis Medical Center - UC Davis Health System , UC Davis Health, Public Affairs and Marketing,