Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 26 January 2017 How Trintellix Uses Images to Convince Consumers to Buy its Product The use of visual rhetoric allows the author to convey their message to the intended audience by using images (Downey 345). There are a variety of reasons why one may pick specific images such as being informative, persuasive, or for entertainment. In the case of the stakeholder, the images they selected illustrates a visual argument that their manufactured good, Trintellex, will reduce major depression of an individual within weeks; by using elements such as images, color scheme, and rhetoric devices: pathos, logos, and ethos. When the viewer first looks at the image of the man, the primary visual message the stakeholder is trying to convey is that it discusses the causes, symptoms, facts, and treatment options of depression. This is evident since it is stated in the image. In the other image, with the lady, the primary visual message is that once the individual starts using Trintellix their life should improve drastically. As the intended audience views at the image that contains the older man, they are able to recognize that there is something wrong with him. His facial expression suggests that he is distraught. Pathos is being used in this image because sympathy is evoked when looking at the man. In the other image with the woman she appears to be confident. The evidence that suggest this is that her fingers are crossed. Pathos is used here because it could be interpreted that she is in control of her life and is able to handle situations. The choice of these images allows its targeted audience to see the effects that Trintellex can have on the individual. Student 2 Another rhetoric device used in the image is logos. In the first image, of the older man, logos is being used in that a fact is stated in the text above him. It says that million people in the United States suffer from depression (MDD) in a given year stakeholder does this to capture its target attention. They are trying to inform the public that depression is a major issue in the United States that affects millions of lives. In the other image logos is used by providing information on how the manufacture good, Trintellix, reduces depression. The stakeholder also informs the audience that the reason why people may suffer from depression is that their brain does not produce a large amount of serotonin. This hormone is the reason why people feel euphoria. By informing the audience about what depression is, how it affects a person, and how Trintellix increases the amount of serotonin produced; the audience is able to see that the antidepressant can help lower their depression and should purchase the product. By providing this information to its audience it suggests that Trintellix care for them. Furthermore, the image of the man uses ethos in that the image displaces a healthcare provider tab. Not only does the image provide a healthcare tab it also has a trademark symbol and is licensed at the bottom of the website. This allows the viewers to see that the stakeholder is very credible. In the other image it does not contain a visible healthcare provider tab nor a trademark symbol; however, it does contain an anecdote. In the anecdote the lady is saying me, Trintellix made a This is coming from a firsthand source which makes it trustworthy. Although many would not stop to think about the color scheme on the images, it plays a large part in that it attracts the eyes to specific areas on the picture. In the first image the viewer is attracted to the cloud of multiple colors above the older head. This could Student 3 symbolize that the man does not think coherently. Being unfocused is a sign of depression so the stakeholder is trying to illustrate this concept in this image. In the image of the woman the cloud of colors appear to be smaller and less messed. This could mean, that after taking Trintellex the individual will regain control of their thoughts. The choice of having a white background and black text allows the viewer to read easily. Bold text notifies the viewer that the text is important. Having vibrant colors next to the bolded text makes it easy to view for the reader and it also indicates that there is a separation between the bolded texts. This is noticeable for both of the images. Many people would not stop and think about the colors the person is wearing in the images, but they are significant. This is because in the first picture the man is wearing dark colors such as a brown long sleeve shirt compared to the woman wearing a white shirt. The color brown represents gloominess which is a sign of depression. On the other hand the white shirt the lady is wearing represents purity or understanding. This could be interpreted that here depression has been reduced significantly and she is able to think clearly. The colors the stakeholders chose are essential for the images because people are attracted to bold and vivacious colors. The use of several rhetorical devices in photographs allows stakeholders to convey their message. In the case of Trintellix it allows the stakeholder to illustrate that depression is a serious matter that needs to be dealt. It also allows the stakeholder to introduce their product, Trintellix, to the public and state that it will reduce the depression of an individual over several weeks. The two images are a great way for the stakeholder to compare and contrast their points. The man represent gloominess and confusion and these are some symptoms of depression. On the other hand the woman represents understanding which are because of her taking Trintellix. The color scheme picked is another contributor for allowing the stakeholder to communicate Student 4 their message. It allows the viewer to identify key points in each image. Vibrant colors such as yellow and orange attract the eyes to specific areas on the image. Each rhetoric device is essential for the stakeholder. They emphasize what the stakeholder wants to say and without the rhetoric devices the message could be lost in the image or could misrepresent what they want. (WC1031) Student 5 https://us.trintellix.com/about https://us.trintellix.com/understanding-depression Student 6 Work Cited Downey, Brooke . The My Reviewers Guide to Style and Grammar. Tampa : University of South Florida , 2016. Print Hocks, Mary E. visual rhetoric in digital writing College composition and communication (2003): 629-656. Once-daily  About TRINTELLIX (vortioxetine). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://us.trintellix.com/about>. There are multiple symptoms associated with  Understanding Depression: Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment Options. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://us.trintellix.com/understanding-depression>.