Sloan 1 Maurice Sloan Professor Adam Philips ENC 1102.022 29 Jan 2017 Video Games: Are They a Blessing or a Curse on Adolescents? There is a vast split between two opposing sides who are concerned about video games and their effects on the development of adolescents. With the Mothers against Videogame Addiction and Violence believing that video games are toxic to children and are poisoning their minds. While the Electronic Software Association believes that video games are beneficial to children and enhance their minds. Even though it may seem unlikely the noticeable common ground stems from both sides desire to make sure children are safe. A great proposal would be that the ESA limits the amount of advertisements that appear for violent video games on certain child stations. This would greatly help improve relationships with parents groups such as the Mothers who have a negative opinion on violent video games moving forward and will help improve the given perception of the ESA. To begin, with the Mothers are a collection of concerned parents that feel that video games for the most part only cause negative effects in children such as being anti social and lower performance within school .To back up these concerns in Lawrence Kutner and Cheryl K.Olsons book Grand Theft Childhood they state how that play M rated games have double the chance of getting in trouble in school or engaging in violent behavior than boys who Sloan 2 do (Ch 3 pg 15). This stems from the fact that the media often promotes games that have violence in them, and also with certain crimes happening such as school shootings with sometimes kids being the people who enact them they see video games as the main components to these actions. The goal is to document the harmful effects of video games and the devastating effects that they can have on society. One of the main reasons why the association has not reached a mutual understanding with the ESA is due to a lack of wanting to understand the otherside.They feel that because certain violent things happen in society that it is primarily video games fault and that their children will follow suit but that should not always be the case, there are many external factors for why people perform certain actions but because they saw it in a video game should not be the primary excuse. To continue, for the ESA they are on the different side of the argument they believe that videos games are a great thing for society neither the less children. They are dedicated to serving the business and public affairs of companies that publish computer, handheld, and console games. Even though these companies are not in direct contention it is through indirect contention that their ideologies collide. The ESA helps handle public affairs such as advertisements and things of that like so putting advertisements of certain violent games at certain time slots on children channels can be very problematic for concerned parents. Despite this problem though the ESA constantly promotes the benefits of the video game industry and how it has provided many benefits, for example on their website it states 2014, the industry has sold over 135 million games and has generated more than $22 billion in Another good example of the benefits of video games is their contribution to schooling, in James P compilation Good Video Games and Good Learning he details about the ineffectiveness of current school learning compared to the amount a person can learn from a video game and what Sloan 3 he found was of research, however, have shown, that students taught under such a regime, though they may be able to pass tests, cannot actually apply their knowledge to solve problems or understand the conceptual lay of the land in the area they are 3). For the compromise, the whole argument stems from both sides wanting what is best for their children to allow them to develop in a healthy way. One of the most prevalent ways in which children learn information or are exposed to things is through television. So the compromise should be that advertisements for violent video games should not appear on certain child stations at certain times, this would help appease the concerned parents who feel that their children are being bombarded with ads from these violent games. The ESA will have to take a slight hit in revenue to compensate for this but this may cause the parents to learn how these video games are actually affecting their children instead of just writing them off. This argument majority of the time has always been left inconclusive or very polarized favoring one side or the other. But a recent study has leaned in favor of video games not being a negative outlet on adolescent development. For example in a study detailing media violence and its effects on children and for most children, physical aggression is either absent (nonaggressive) or decreases throughout childhood and adolescence. For instance, one recent study found that 64 percent of grade-school children can be categorized as nonaggressive, and another 14 percent desist in aggressive behaviors over the course of their elementary school Kirsh 26). Even children that engage in aggressive behavior at a younger age are more likely to desist in continuing these aggressive behaviors. This compromise can be easily implemented but the only thing holding it back is the two organizations that are not open to hearing the others sides point of view, the Mothers believing that Violent video games are evil and the ESA is wrong for thinking otherwise while the ESA feels that the Violent video games have their benefits and the Sloan 4 Mothers are being close minded in their views. I feel that if two representatives were to get into a room and talk that the situation could work out. In conclusion, this compromise can help bridge the gap that exists between concerned parents and the ESA. This will paint the picture that the ESA is actually showing care in what the current generation of children is watching, and the parents will be shown that maybe their way of thinking is too close minded and perhaps the video game industry is actually beneficial to their development into a young adult. Sloan 5 Works Cited Gee, James P. Good Video Games plus Good Learning: Collected Essays on Video Games, Learning, and Literacy. New York: P.Lang, 2007,Web Accessed 11 Feb 2017 Kirsh, Steven J.Children, Adolescents, and Media Violence: A Critical Look at the Research. Thousand Oaks, Calif: Sage Publications, 2006.Web Accessed 11 Feb 2017 Kutner, Lawrence, and Cheryl Theft Childhood: The Surprising Truth about Violent Video Games and What Parents Can New York: Simon & Schuster, 2008.Web Accessed 11 Feb 2017 Dec. 2002. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Entertainment Software Association.N.p. n.d. Web.30 Jan.2017.