Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 29 January, 2017 The Time of the Wind Power Since the beginning of the Second World War, the United States of America had begun to invest in wind power mainly to not waste fossil fuels. After that, the worry about environmental problems turn the development of renewable sources of energy into a priority. In this scene, the company Terra-Gen was created. Terra-gen is a renewable energy company focused on developing, owning and operating utility-scale wind. With these goals possible say that the company purpose is increase the production of renewable energy to protect the environment. Nowadays, in United States eight per cent of the consumed energy are renewable, and ten per cent of them came from the wind. The numbers may not look good, but the fact is that these numbers turned America in the second biggest producer of wind power. Terra-gem is now responsible for the production of more than 1650 MW of wind power and its operation occur in five different states but it is focused on California. Wind energy is a one of the most famous forms of alternative energy and recently has occurred many developments in this area making it cost-efficient, so the US Government should invest more capital on this energy source. The first image of the Terra-gen website is an informative graph (see Fig. 1) that shows all the locations where this company operates his project, including California, Nevada, Texas, Nova York, Colorado, Wyoming and Minnesota. You can also see in this graph the focus of operation of the company, which is located in the west side of United States. The author of the graph used different tons of gray to mark states where the company operate and different colors and shapes to solar projects, wind projects, geothermal projects and offices. Besides that, the author also cites the name of the main projects and their respective production capacity, including Alta Wind Energy Center, the third largest onshore wind energy project in the world, located in Tehachapi Pass, California. The technique of mark all the Student 2 state where the company has only one project is made to create an impression that the company is presented all over the state, even with only one project. The main reason of the graph is informing everyone who is interested about renewable energy production, especially possible investors interested in finance some projects in this area. Influenced by these visual appeals as colors and shapes, the author makes use of some of the rhetorical appeals. Two of this appeals are easily identified in the graph. The first of them is Ethos, a Greek word that means but when used in the rhetorical appeals aspect it is related to credibility and authority, so does not contradict with the origin of the word (Wiggs 25). Ethos is easily located because trying to inform to the target audience with data of the own company, giving them total credibility to the source of the information. The second rhetorical appeal noticed is the use of logos from the Grecian word in other words, the use of logic and reason in the graph (Wiggs 21). The logic retracted by logos is not the same of used in labs or math and experiments, but is the consistency and clarity of how an argument is used by the author. In this graph you can see logos because the graph is well done and give to the audience a lot of information in an easy and clear way. Another characteristic that can be analyzed as logos in the Figure One, is the logic of operation by the part of the Terra-gen focused in the west market. In the other way, the second picture (see Fig 2.) was chosen by Terra-gen to be in the top of all pages of the company website is a collage of four pictures, the logo of the company, a wind power project, a solar power project and a geothermal project. So, this picture is an overall of all the operation area of the company and its logo to demonstrate to the visitor what is the company about. The primary message when the author see the picture collage is the good impression about Power of Renewable The choice of the picture is good because its composed only by light colors what make a good connection with the website layout and the purpose of the company. The colors used in the Terra- gen logo is green and yellow, so only light colors are used too, and besides that are colors intimately related to the environment. Student 3 With the support of the visual appeals, the author also made use of some rhetorical appeals. All the four rhetoric appeals can be identified in the second image (logos, ethos, kairos and pathos) but two of them are more predominant. The author made use of pathos, a communication technique representing an appeal to the emotions of the audience (Wiggs 35). The use of this rhetoric appeal can be noticed in many aspects, at first by the use of light colors in all pictures including the logo. Another pathos aspect is the use of pictures of the projects in a beautiful environment retracting what everyone can lose if the population keep using the fossil fuels. The last appearance of pathos is the use of the smoke in the geochemical power project, this smoke make people see that the pollution is real and is present everywhere. Another impression caused by the smoke is the impression that the pollution is normal and make people think that the time to invest in renewable energy is now, because if wait more, can be too late for the environment. This feeling of time is another communication technique used by the author, and is named by Kairos (Wiggs 23). Both images used in the company website keep the website light and clean, keeping the idea of a good environment. With these both images together, the company can show to your possible investors the purpose of the company and why this company is the right investment. Another idea disposed by the both images together is that one is informational and the other one is more aesthetic and it makes the website with only the necessary information and just with a few images. (WC:1038) Student 4 Works Cited John, and Caroline Noblet. Does green consumerism increase the acceptance of wind  Energy Policy 51 (2012): 854-62. Web. Jan. 2017. Lantz, Eric, Trieu Mai, Ryan H. Wiser, and Venkat Krishnan. Long-term implications of sustained wind power growth in the United States: Direct electric system impacts and  Applied Energy 179 (2016): 832-46. Web. Jan. 2017 Lane, Emily, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides. Rhetorical Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. University of South Florida, 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Pack, Jenna. Down an Writing Commons. Creative Commons, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.  Terra-gen. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.terra-gen.com/>. Student 5 Figures Figure One: http://www.terra-gen.com/getattachment/home/Revsied-Terra-Gen-Footprint-12-30- 15.jpg.aspx?lang=en-US&width=650 Figure Two: http://www.terra-gen.com/getattachment/home/New-TG-Logo-White-(2).jpg.aspx