Student 1 Student Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Depression Through a visual strategy appealing to families and individuals who are impacted by depression, the ADAA incorporates color imagery, symbolism, and rhetoric strategies. After further reviewing the number of Americans that suffer from this silent disease known as depression, treatment is very much needed. Helpful options are available to the public through this organization and ways to combat this mental illness can be found on its website, www.adaa.org. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America dedicates time and money to help those who are suffering. This non-profit organization was founded in 1979 and has come to excel in education, training, and research for anxiety, OCD, PTSD, depression and other disorders (About ADAA). ADAA uses specific appealing images that emphasize on the importance of treatment options for depression. ADAA serves the purpose of researching and working to find a way to help people who suffer from depression. The primary messaged that is relayed in Image 1 is that therapists are available worldwide and are only a click away. The light blue iridescent glow that encircles the globe is a symbol of hope, trust, and loyalty. Trusting an individual to provide aid during a depressed state is step one. Viewing the world in this image shows how bright and cheerful the globe can be- unlike the lives of people suffering from depression. The blue of the ocean is a calming and signifies emotions that people feel. Per Colors Matter, blue is also a symbol of sadness and Student 2 depression and is often associated with these emotions. Comprehension of the extent of how powerful blue is crucial when understanding depression. The large hands encompassing the globe prove that help is always near and because they are much bigger than the world, they also have a sense of protection. When reviewing the rhetorical appeals in the picture, pathos is most prevalent. The emotion felt through the visual aid of the helping hand is extremely significant. Pathos is also a perfect rhetorical appeal to this topic due to the fact that it revolves around emotion. Encompassing emotional imagery is the main way that it is expressed in this particular case. Logos is used at the bottom of the image where it states Over Anxiety and using logic to persuade the reader that it is possible. The world is becoming more responsive to mental issues like depression. Kairos is seen in this picture due to the timeliness of the importance of this issue. Credibility is due to the organization at hand and its past in aiding those suffering from depression. Depression seems as though it is on the rise and fixing the issue in a timely manner will be effective to those suffering. Image two is related to image one in its subdued colors to signify the dull way that those with depression feel. The difference in the pictures is the presence of humans in image two while image one avoided putting any faces at all. There is very strong emotion shown in the faces of the man and woman. Depression is not only an internal battle, but it also affects those the people surrounding your life. Being open with loved ones is the first step in achieving the positive persona that is inside. The lack of emotion on the face of the male in the image leaves the woman worrisome. The male is wearing a dark colored shirt; the dark creates a sullen environment that places the woman in a similar aurora. The woman is acting as the backbone and support system of the male. By observing the image, the male is assumed to have depression. The lost, dazed Student 3 stare of the male is extremely impactful. The greenery surrounding the individuals is creating a parallel between nature and internal battles. When reading the words sleep, I worry about the man could be suffering from other illnesses related to depression such as anxiety. The woman with the man helps provide familiarity by knowing someone is available always. Learning how to cope with depression not only can benefit the individual, but also help those surrounding the person feel more positive The logos shown in image two comes through the quote stating, sleep because I worry all the time about The reasoning behind this impactful image is because of his illness and how it is impacting his life, as well as those around him. In most cases of depression, it changes the lives of the people around the sadden soul. The ethos is displayed because he has experienced depression first hand. The woman is experiencing the pain because of how the male is feeling as well. Pathos is exemplified through the empty stare that both adults have in their eyes. The prevalence of Kairos is shown in this image through the conveyed message of how it affects people second hand. The time that the depressed individual is upset is not only making them worse, but affecting his surroundings as well. In order to combat this issue, it must be addressed in a timely manner- before it gets too severe. Depression and mental issues continue to encompass the lives of many. The first step is to acknowledge the struggle at hand. ADAA is a confidential company who is always willing to help. The testimonies on its website state how safe families feel during this trying time. Witnesses and past sufferers highly recommend for people to utilize this great tool in enhancing the lives of those suffering from this silent disease. Certain communities lack the information that is crucial to combat issues with mental health. The non-profit organization strives to reach the families and individuals that are suffering through mental disorders. The goal is to Student 4 augment the quality of life of those impacted by mental illnesses. The effect of mental disorders go beyond a wiped smile. Major depression is one of the most common mental illnesses, affecting 6.7%(more than 16 million people) of American adults each year according to, Substance Abuses and Mental Health Services Administration. Through impacting visual strategies, the stakeholder supports the claim of how to utilize depression help near you. (WC 1020) Image 1 https://www.adaa.org Image 2 https://www.adaa.org Student 5 Works Cited America, M. H. (2014, March 13). Depression. Retrieved January 18, 2017 Bram, Lisa. About  About ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. Morton, J.L. Welcome to Color  The Meaning of Colors. N.p., n.d. Web.