Gurgues 1 Adel Gurgues Professor Mariama Changamire English 1102 7 February 2017 Intermediate Draft In the last decade or so, a popular controversial topic has been on the uprising. Should college athletes mainly football players, be compensated for the entertainment they provide to the media? They also bring in billions of dollars in revenue to the NCAA and other programs, but get zero percent of the profit and margins. I believe both the CAPA and the NCAA want what is best for the sport and come to a sensible compromise which can both benefit the sport and the employees that work hard to provide quality entertainment. The NCAA is the main organization for college sports primarily college football and basketball. They firmly believe that college athletes in general should not be paid and that it could ruin the structure in which college sports was built on. The president of the NCAA quoted, convert college sports into professional sports would be tantamount to converting it to minor league (diverse). Minor league sports in the United States attract a big enough audience and due to that generate enough revenue to really explode in the media world. Also, another reason why the NCAA does not want to pay college athletes is that it would lose a lot of legitimization that it has gained over the course of a hundred years. It also gives an advantage to schools that can afford to pay more and acquire the best players. This would make the college football scene boring as it would only make the richest schools competitive and they have all the best players and other schools have to scrape by to even get players for them to play. Gurgues 2 On the other side of the spectrum is the CAPA. The CAPA or the College Athletes Player Association, is an organization that stands with college athletes and advocates for pay towards college athletes. This organizations believes that college athletes are employees and should have the same benefits and pay as if they were working at a job. The CAPA have been around for more than 15 years and has fought the NCAA about the topic at hand. In 2012, the CAPA successfully integrated and passed a law in California that would make schools pay for medical related injuries, not retract scholarship money from permanently injured players and help increase scholarship to low graduating schools (CAPA). This is what they believe to be a step in the right direction and what they hope they can accomplish all around the United states. Not only does the organization fight for football players, but every single college athlete in the nation. Ranging from the most physical sport football to the safest sport this organization fights for college athlete benefits and have petitioned and fought against the NCAA. Both these organizations have completely different philosophies and beliefs and completely contradict one another. Finding a middle ground where both organizations can come together and agree would not be an easy task but not impossible to achieve. I believe that if both companies came together and really worked towards a mutual goal that they can find one that can benefit every college athlete around the globe. First, a good thing to do is for the NCAA to pay for every single medical expense a college athlete must deal with. Especially in football, players get hurt all the time and medical bills now a day are very expensive. This should be both organizations number one priority and goal. At the end of the day the health of a person is much more important than school or money and should the goal for every organization to take care of their employees. The second thing I think both organizations should agree on is that there should be some form of compensation for risking your life on the field. That being money or anything at Gurgues 3 all, there should be some form of compensation for the player so that they are working for something. The third and final thing both organizations should agree on is that both organizations should see what the media and the employees want and not them. College football is not about the organizations but the audience and the athletes. Whatever the majority of the vote goes to is what both organizations should agree on and work towards that goal. In conclusion, I believe that a compromise from both organizations is not possible but very probable. Today, everything is about money and if something is not making enough money or is losing money it should stop. Lots of organizations and people just see college athletes as pawns for their games and not as real people or employees. Health should always come before wealth and I believe that when the NCAA stops worrying about if they should pay their players or not is when the NCAA will make the most money and the CAPA will be the most satisfied. Gurgues 4 Works cited Dahlberg, Tim. NCAA President: Paying Athletes Could Destroy College  Diverse. N.p., 19 June 2014. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Patterson, Tiffany. Should College Athletes Be  SmartAsset. N.p., 03 Feb. 2017. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Viewpoint: College Athletes Should Be  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Watch, Jared. Should Athletes Be Paid to  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 20 Oct. 2016. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Who We  College Athletes Players Association (CAPA). N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017.