Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Arts for All In July of 2002, Arts for All was approved by the Los Angeles County Arts Commission, the Los Angeles County Office of Education Board, and the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors About Arts For ). L.A. County Arts for All is an organization that strives to create a community that is heavily educated in the arts, specifically schools. Within this past school year, Arts for All has been able to bring in 62 out of the 81 school districts in the L.A. County, which makes up 1.3 million out of the 1.6 million students Progress to ). They believe that it is important to teach children about the arts because the skills developed through them are needed in work environments. L.A. Country Arts for All has a website where they are able to discuss their approach to funding the arts in school and incorporate pictures of students interacting with art. The photos L.A. County Arts for All use to accompany their writing show people visiting the website that children enjoy being involved with the arts and that it is important to keep teaching it. Keeping the arts funded in schools is good and beneficial to students because it is crucial for developing skills in workplace, helps with communication later in life, and lowers the high school dropout rates. One of the images (Figure 1) on L.A. County Arts for website was shown on the homepage in a slideshow and it is of a little girl drawing. This photo was used on the website to Student 2 show that children enjoy the arts. The reason this photo stood out was because of how it was taken. It was not posed for, but rather it was caught in action. The girl has a look of pure joy on her face, making the viewer see that she is wholeheartedly enjoying the arts through her drawing. If the photo was taken with the girl smiling at the camera holding her drawing, it may seem as if her smile was forced instead of being genuine. If the viewer then directs their attention to what she is drawing, they will see how much emotion is in the drawing. For some people, the arts are a way to express how they feel when they are not able to put it into words. The girl is most likely drawing how she feels and expressing herself through her drawing. The love between the two subjects of her drawing is something that she may not know how to say, so she is saying it through her drawing and the photo is able to capture how she feels. Through rhetorical analysis, we can see how the director of L.A. County Arts for All was trying to show her audience why the arts are so important to keep in schools. In the use of ethos and pathos stood out to me the most. Ethos is when an author is able to sound credible to his or her reader Rhetoric ). Ethos is portrayed in this image through the way that the photographer took the picture. The girl is not looking at the camera, instead she is enjoying her time drawing. Because the photographer captured an action photo of the girl drawing, the viewer can see that the girl has a passion for the arts and can conclude that children enjoy it. Pathos is used to appeal to a readers emotion Rhetoric ). In this photo, the little girl is drawing a picture of what looks like a father and his child. The child is nestled up in the face and they both show a lot of love for each other. When the viewer looks at the image sees what the little girl is drawing, they can see how passionate the girl is about drawing. The picture she is drawing has so much love to it and it is able to make the viewer feel that love as well. Student 3 The second image (Figure 2) was found under the drop down menu tab Our  and then it accompanied the Focus on  section. The purpose of this photo was to show viewers that children are interested in learning about art. All of the children are looking to the front of the classroom and listening to what the musicians are teaching them. Because the photo was taken from the point of view, the viewers are able to see what the children are seeing and that they are intrigued by what is in front of them. When children are not interested in something, they will not pay attention to it. The fact that the viewers can see how the children are paying attention to the musicians shows them that the children are truly enjoying learning about the arts. The little boy who has his hand raised also brings the viewer to believe that they want to learn more about music and have questions about what the musicians do. In this figure, the use of logos and kairos stood out the most. When using logos, the goal is to appeal to the audience with logic and reason Rhetoric ). Through this photo, logos is presented through the angle that the photographer took the photo. As we are looking at the photo, we can see the back of all the heads, showing that they are paying attention to the musicians at the front of the class. Seeing this will show a viewer that the children are interested in learning about the arts. Through kairos, people are persuaded through timeliness, such as the right place at the right time Rhetoric ). Kairos is shown by the time that the photographer took the photo. The photographer knew that it was important to take a photo while everyone was paying attention to the musicians in order to get the point across, being that children are interested in learning about the arts. It was good that he or she got the photo while the hand was raised, because it shows that the children want to be interactive with the musicians. If the photographer had taken the photo while no one was looking at the musicians, it would have seemed as if the children did not care for learning about the arts. Student 4 After reviewing the L.A. County Arts for All website and visually analyzing a couple of their pictures, it is clear to see that the photos they use are successfully portraying their goal; to keep funding the arts in schools. Through ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, L.A Country Arts for All is able to connect to the people who view their website and show them that the arts are important to children. Children can find joy in participating in the arts and are able to express themselves and show their true feelings in a way that they might not have been able to do without the arts. They enjoy learning about the arts, and are interested in what is being taught. Teaching the arts is something that will help the younger generation of children grow and thrive as they get ready to enter the real world. (WC: 1,193) Student 5 Figure 1 http://www.lacountyartsforall.org/ (Picture number four) Student 6 Figure 2 http://www.lacountyartsforall.org/our-approach/focus-on-quality Student 7 Works Cited Bolick, Amy. Written Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 179-277. E-text Childs, Cassie. Rhetoric & Effective Presentation Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 309-361. E-text Creativity in every  LA County Arts For All. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily, et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-52. E-text. Royce, Katherine. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 363-379. E-text