Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Can Keep Up With In the first two decades of the current century and millennium a major social and sex based conflict has arisen within our society and culture, and especially within our military as well. It is all based around one conflicting question, women serve in the military in a combat based occupation and skill in the same manner that men can, and if so should they be allowed to do Our society appears to be divided on the subject with some individuals saying that the physical and mental demands and obstacles that would require men to endure combat successfully are too demanding for women to endure as effectively as the male counterparts, and it feels as if some other individuals who support the idea would say that sex does not matter as much as the physical and mental abilities of the individual soldier who has to engage in combat and the horrors of war that often times accompanies it. One of these stakeholders or organizations who would not support the idea and the actual act of placing women in combat is the Federalist which is a media organization which is division of FDRLST (Federalist). Many posts and articles contained within this website include Women in Combat Endangers More (Neven), Believe the Hype About Women in (Smith) and Science Says Putting Women Into Combat Endangers More (Scott), which would all point to the fact that they do not only not support the role of women in combat, but also have decided to imbed themselves and take a Student 2 stand on one side of the argument as well, which is that women do not belong within combat alongside men. Fig 1. http://thefederalist.com/2015/12/07/dont-believe-the-hype-about-women-in-combat/ The stakeholder uses strong images within their articles, such as the one provided above, to help sway the audience and those that may come across the articles contained within their site, to view their argument against women in combat as legitimate and correct. In the above image you can see a female soldier in an U.S. Army uniform with the American flag in the background. This image uses a great amount of Pathos which according to the text, Rhetoric Matters, is which pertains to the experience of or sensitivity toward (Hoffman and Wiggs 22). This is accomplished by the stakeholder through emphasizing the somber look of discontent and discomfort which can be seen in the face of the female soldier, which would lead us to believe that she is either unsatisfied or uncomfortable with her role and current position within the army. They also establish a sense on Ethos which is to or the moral principles of the writer: ethos is the way of establishing trust with his or her (Hoffman and Wiggs 20). This is accomplished through placing the soldier in the proper uniform Student 3 for the time and the proper branch as well. On the other hand though, it could show a lack of Ethos through not having the soldier salute the flag while in uniform, which and veteran or current service member would know, goes against the uniform code of military conduct. This could lead to some readers who know this information, to not take the stakeholder seriously. Fig. 2 http://thefederalist.com/2016/12/09/science-says-putting-women-combat-endangers- national-security/ In the above image, which is provide by an article located on the website, we can see a soldier resting on a rock while in a field or training operation. He is in a full combat loadout with a plate carrier (body armor) and is holding his weapon which is a SAW, or squad automatic weapon, which is classified as a light machinegun. This image portrays Kairos which according to the book, Rhetoric (Really) Matters, is type of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right This is done through the fact that it shows the current time and place that our military is in, such as having to carry large, heavy and expensive gear into combat, which may not have been required before, and by also showing the current environment in which our forces have to fight in, i.e. the desert, which a very hot and inhospitable environment. Also, Student 4 the image portrays a sense of Logos which according to the text Rhetoric (Really) Matters, appeals to logic and (Hoffman and Wiggs 23). This is visualized in the above image by appealing to the audiences logic of the fact that if we can see that this soldier is exhausted and needs to rest, from probably all of the heavy gear that he is carrying, including his weapon, and the hot environment that he is currently in, and he is a man, then they would like us to question whether or not a woman, with a smaller frame, could do the same job with similar or the same results. Also the image appears to Pathos, through showing us the look of exhaustion on his face and through his body language, which would appeal to our sense of empathy to the soldier being in this kind of environment. The Federalist has clearly made a stance through their website and their articles that they do not either support or believe that it is in the countries best interest to further incorporate women into a combat oriented role within our military. They have published and posted many articles on their site that would enable them to persuade us to believe that their point of view and agenda of making sure that the women of this nation never have to see or step foot on a battlefield with alongside the men in the military, is a just cause and argument. They have also managed to accomplish this goal or to meet this personal agenda of theirs through incorporating images that would help the audience to see this as well, such as the fact that they may post images of women in uniform, but will never, so far, show images of women in combat gear or even in training exercises. On an overall note, they have been more focused on promoting a strictly and uniformly male fighting force for our nation, and do not support our women in a combat oriented role. (WC: 1041) Student 5 Works Cited The Federalist: A Division of FDRLST Media. The Federalist, 2013, http://thefederalist.com/. Accessed, 10 February, 2017. Neven, Tom. Women in Combat Endangers More The Federalist, http://thefederalist.com/2015/12/07/putting-women-in-combat-endangers-more-lives/. Accessed, 10 February, 2017. Smith, Amber. Believe The Hype About Women In The Federalist, http://thefederalist.com/2015/12/07/dont-believe-the-hype-about-women-in-combat/. Accessed, 10 February, 2017. Scott, Travis. Science Says Putting Women Into Combat Endangers National The Federalist, http://thefederalist.com/2016/12/09/science-says-putting-women-combat- endangers-national-security/. Accessed, 10 February, 2017. Hoffman, Allyson and Wiggs, Kimber. Rhetoric (Really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Vol. Ch. 1. Acton, MA: Xan Edu, 2016, Print.