Hebert 1 Raina Hebert Professor Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102.105 2/2/17 Sex is a natural part of our lives that happens with or without sex education. Nonetheless still important to inform adolescents on sex education and on how to prevent STDs, STIs, and pregnancy. Although sexual knowledge is important to most, only 20 states require sex and HIV education be taught in schools. Sex education is very controversial between various organizations. Abstinence programs believe sex should be saved until marriage yet sex education should still be taught. Non-abstinent programs believe sex education should be taught but up to the adolescents what they want to do with the information. The organizations should teach the adolescents abstinence sex education since being taught sex education have an effect on whether the adolescent remains abstinent or not. Programs assisting in teaching sex education to adolescents strive to make sex education at assisting young people to make healthy decisions about and to teach them how to adopt healthy sexual behaviors. Abstinence programs do not show a difference in a teens delay of initiation of protection during sex, yet the US government billion dollars supporting abstinence-only-until-marriage The Advocates of Youth see that as very unnecessary. When the organization researched the abstinence programs they found no delay in having sex in six evaluations found no changes, two found sexual activity from pre- to post-test, and one showed mixed The organization sees abstinence programs as giving Hebert 2 out false information about the effectiveness of what contraceptives are able to do, about the risks of abortion and the various ways they can be conducted, and they express religious beliefs as scientific facts which can be harmful. The program believes adolescents have human right to accurate and comprehensive sexual health for their sexual protection and knowledge. Although sexual knowledge is obviously very important to the organization, the organization feels it matter if the adolescent is taught abstinence sex education because do what they want to regardless of the information. The Advocates of Youth shows comprehensive sex education rates of sexual initiation, lower the age at which youth initiate sex, increase the frequency of sex or the number of sex partners among sexually active The Advocates for Youth provides evidence that sexual education is effective to give young individuals sexual health information not prevent them from having sex. Being taught sexual education in a comfortable environment helps the individual feel more safe to talk or to ask questions about any particular subject relating to sex. When adolescents feel safe to ask questions when they begin to trust a feedback. Not only does sex education teach you about ways to use protection, it also teaches you how to develop communication, refusal, and negotiation skills pertaining to sex. The Advocates for goal is to continue training and giving sex education. The Advocates of Youth gives HIV education with informing conversations to help adolescents develop basic HIV knowledge. STDs and STIs are very important when discussing sex education. One of the main points of teaching sex education is to give adolescents ways to prevent them from receiving STDs and STIs. The AIDS action council also provides Sex worker awareness and LGBTI aged care training. Their goal is to continue to improve treatment of HIV like they have over the past 30 years. Hebert 3 Abstinence classes are required to teach the risk of obtaining STDs and getting pregnant. According to The National Abstinence Education Association, abstinence is shown to be the most effective way of prevention. The National Abstinence Education Association has found that individuals do initiate sex after being in an abstinence-centered program, they are no less likely to use condoms than anyone The organization believes that having sex can affect a state not only physically but emotionally and socially too. For this reason, topics in the abstinence sex program include how to identify a healthy relationship, how to avoid or get out of a dangerous, unhealthy, or abusive relationship, [and how to skills to make good The program also gives information on pregnancy and contraceptives and how to say no to sexual advances why saving sex until marriage is Under the program, all teens are required to receive sex information to make the healthy choice of staying abstinent. The program believes that they should spread knowledge on contraceptive choices and how they can reduce the risk of acquiring STDs or getting but should still stress the best health choice is abstinence. In a study [of want their children to know about the risks associated with casual sex and the limitations of Similar to the Advocates of Youth sex education is very crucial, but unlike the Advocates of Youth program the National Abstinence Education Association favors abstinence as the best overall choice. The National Abstinence Education Association exists to ensure every teenager waits until marriage to engage in sexual activity. The organization feels abstinence helps individuals prepare for a healthy and happy marriage. The organization believes that refraining from sex until you are married leads to a more successful life. Hebert 4 The organizations both believe important that adolescents are taught about sexual protection or prevention. The National Abstinence organization agrees with the Advocates of Youth and AIDs that important that students receive knowledge and background of what being sexually active can do to an individual and how to prevent and treat a situation when things go wrong. Sex is obviously a very important topic to all of the organizations the only difference is how the information should be applied to life. They all hold very strong opinions of what adolescents should and be taught. The Advocates of Youth organization believes that they should be taught about sex education and that abstinence education has no affect whatsoever on an individual. The National Abstinence organization believes abstinence is the best form of sex education and the adolescent will want to refrain from having sex until evident that sex education should be taught to an adolescent the problem is just in what way it should be taught. Sine the Advocates of Youth organization feels abstinence sex education has no effect on the teen they can allow it to be taught but still stress the important of sex education is the adolescent does decide to take part. The National Abstinence organization would then be fulfilled abstinence is being taught along with the safety of having sex. Sex education be required due to the feeling that definitely necessary to teach adolescents safety precautions. Regardless of what kind of sex education adolescents are taught it has no effect on whether or not they engage in sexual activity. Since the National Abstinence Education Association identifies itself with abstinent education it should be allowed. If the Advocates of Youth see no change in adolescents sexual behavior if abstinence is taught in sex education or not, then abstinence education be a problem. more important to educate adolescents on protection from STDs, STIs, and pregnancy than to tell them to wait until Hebert 5 marriage. While teaching abstinence sex education could be controversial, the adolescents still get the important information they need to engage in healthy sexual decisions. Works Cited Effective Sex  . N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. NAEA - National Abstinence Education  - National Abstinence Education Association - FAQs . N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Sex education and its association with teenage sexual activity, pregnancy and contraceptive  education and its association with teenage sexual activity, pregnancy and contraceptive use. POPLINE.org . N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. NAEA - National Abstinence Education  -Age of First Sexual Experience Affects Future Relationships . N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Advocatesforyouth.org . N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.