Forbes 1 Shannon Forbes Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 2 nd February 2017 Health Care Reform The single payer system is a controversial topic in the United States. Two main stakeholders that have a specific view on this matter are the American Medical Association (AMA) and the Physicians for a National Health Program (PNHP). The American Medical Association is an advocate of health care reform in America, however they do not stand by the single payer system. The Physicians for a National Health Program is also a supporter of health care reform in the United States, but they believe that this should be done through the single payer system. These two organizations have opposing views on how the health care system should be managed. Therefore, having a mixture of both private and public sectors of healthcare coverage will ensure that all people in the United States have access to medical coverage. The Physicians for a National Health Program would like to establish a single payer system. The PNHP believes that implementing this system would be beneficial for the overall health care. They exclaimed that this arrangement would allow all Americans to have the access to healthcare services that they need and there will be no financial blockages to people who cannot afford it. Forbes 2 In an article written by Woolhandler et al. (2003), administrative costs between the United States and Canada were being compared in the public and private sectors of healthcare provision. It was suggested in the article that the private healthcare sector does not provide individuals with better healthcare services or cheaper rates, when compared to the public sector. In his discussion Woolhandler et al. (2003) concluded that, system with multiple insurers is also intrinsically costlier than a single-payer Here, it is being indicated that having a single-payer system is beneficial to the country as it is a cheaper route to be taken. The American Medical Association is also strongly associated with health care reform in the United States. This is projected in their mission statement, which they proclaim; mission is to promote the art and science of medicine and the betterment of public However, they want to achieve this by staying away from the single payer system. The American Medical Association also has several other objectives set out for the year two thousand and seventeen, some of these include: ensuring that all individuals, including low-income earners have access to an insurance coverage plan that is affordable as well as ensuring that all covered individuals stay covered no matter what becomes of their financial situation. In an article written by Dirnfeld (1996) he stated that were benefits for privatizing the healthcare sector in the United States and Canada. He implied that having a healthcare system that is based solely on the single payer system would cause the public sector to become overstressed, as medical expenses for all individuals of a country are very costly. Even though Dirnfeld (1996) is pro privatization of the healthcare sector, he believes that having both private and public sectors is an even better choice. He explained Forbes 3 why he thinks this by stating in his article that, system works effectively in other countries because the private option serves to decrease waiting lists for public facilities, thereby improve access for those using the public These two stakeholders have seemingly similar goals about health care reform. Both organizations want what is best for the general health and wellbeing of the public but they would like to achieve these goals in different fashions. The Physicians for a National Health Movement wants to accomplish their goal through the single payer system whereas the American Medical Association does not, they prefer to keep health insurance coverage in the hands of the of the private sector. As a result of this major dispute on how the healthcare system should be run, these two organizations have yet to come together and work on an agreement. Even though these two organizations have yet to work together to come up with an agreement, a solid compromise would be to allow the implementation of a public healthcare service provider as well as maintaining the already established private healthcare insurance sector. This suggestion will be highly beneficial to both organizations, as definite coverage for all individuals within the Unites States will be established. Individuals who are able to afford the private health coverage may stay with their private companies if they wish to receive extra coverage. Other individuals who are no longer willing to, or cannot afford to pay for private health coverage can obtain public health coverage. The state will pay for all medical necessities that are needed by their residents. This ensures that all people are being provided with medical care. Forbes 4 Even though the Physicians for a National Health Program will have to give up the hope of the entire country being under a single payer system, they still obtain part of the healthcare coverage system being run by the government, should any individuals feel inclined to take advantage of the free medical coverage. The American Medical Association will have to accept the fact that the entire country will not be under the private healthcare coverage. However, people will still have the option to be covered by private healthcare companies should they want to do so. Therefore, even though both organizations, the Physicians for a National Health program and the American Medical Association had to give up part of their respective goals, they both benefitted from the compromise as their two ideas were merged into one. This solution will prove to be effective, as it has worked with other countries in the western hemisphere. The United Kingdom is one country that it has been particularly beneficial for. According to a research article written by Bishop et al. (2011), in the UK typically access health care through the National Health Service (NHS), which is free to all at the point of use. They also have the option to access healthcare through the private sector, which is paid for through private insurance schemes or directly out-of- People of the United Kingdom have a choice and the free will to decide how they would like to be covered. Having both private and public systems in operation is also beneficial to the country as Dirnfeld (1996) stated, the regions of the United Kingdom with long waiting lists, there is more individually purchased private This also makes it easier for people who cannot afford the private insurance as there are now even less people trying to earn a spot. Forbes 5 The Physicians for a National Health Program and the American Medical Association coming together to achieve this compromise can make a major change made in the health sector of the United States. Even though the entirety of the country will not be privatized or under the single payer system, a mixture of both will be granted. This will give the American people a choice, they can choose the private health coverage if so desired or they can be covered by the public health system which will not be required to be paid. These two types of coverage will not offer better care than the other and therefore, will make people less sensitive to choosing the public health care system should they need or want to. Forbes 6 Annotated Bibliography Dirnfeld, Victor. benefits of ncbi, 15 August. 1996, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1488055/pdf/cmaj00100-0053.pdf. Accessed 1 February 2017. This article gives insight into the benefits of privatization. This author is not for the single payer system and tries to explain is his article why working towards a private health care system is necessary. This article is relevant to the research conducted in this paper as the whole paper is based on health care reform in America, and the two main sides that are taken, either the private health care insurance companies or the public single payer system. Woolhandler, Steffie. of Health Care Administration in the United States and The New England Journal of Medicine, no print publication available, 2003, http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMsa022033#t=article. Accessed 1 Feb. 2017. This article gives information on the Administrative costs of the health care system in the United States and Canada. This article is giving reasons as to way a single payer system in more attractive in comparison to a public system. This article is highly relevant as it is discussing health care reform in the United States. Since this scholarly article is pro single-payer system it is related to this research paper as the paper is based on one stakeholder pro privatization and the other, pro single-payer. Forbes 7 Vision on Health ama, 2016, https://www.ama-assn.org/ama-health- reform-vision. Accessed 1 Feb. 2017. The American Medical Association is an organization that advocates health care reform in the Unites States. They want all people to have access to the a health care, not matter what their financial income is. However, they want to achieve this through keeping the health care system in the private businesses hands. The organization is relevant to the topic of health care reform because the American Medical Association goes out to advocate the change in the healthcare system; ensuring healthcare is available to all people. pnhp, http://www.pnhp.org/about/about-pnhp. Accessed 1 Feb. 2017. The Physicians for a National Health program is an organization that wants healthcare reform in America. They want reform to take place in the form of the single payer system. This is where the public sector provides health care coverage for the country. This organization is relevant to the topic of health care reform because the PNHP want change in the system. They want all people to have access to health care no matter what. Bishop, Felicity. as healthcare consumers in the public and private sectors: a qualitative study of acupuncture in the BioMed Central, http://bmchealthservres.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1472-6963-11-129. Accessed 1 Feb. 2017. Forbes 8 This article is about the health care system in the Unites Kingdom. Since the health care system there is made up of both a private and public sector, this article analyzes the differences between the two systems. This article is relevant for this research as the compromise suggested for the two stakeholders was to have a mixture of both private and public systems of health care. Therefore, it provides information on the two types of systems co-existing in one country.