STAKEHOLDERS IN BEES It is a well-known fact that honeybees have been the most important pollinators for centuries. In the pollination process, the bees move from plant to plant, spreading pollen along the way and helping plants grow the fruits and vegetables we eat. Per Honey by PETA, the honey bee (also called the apis mellifera, as sourced by Honey Bee written by National Geographic) was brought to America in the 1600s by colonists. The bees then began to spread all around the country creating hives and, with the other 3,500 native species of bees, pollinating much like birds and even mammals do. Unfortunately, partially due to the use of neonicotinoids by farmers, the population is declining by as much 42% in the year leading to May 2015, per reveals increase in bee deaths; USDA says decline in population linked to infestation of virus-bearing mites, winter starvation and neonicotinoid written by Eric Atkins. As a stakeholder in all instances related to animal harm and protection, PETA acknowledges that the government needs to do more to help the bees. The EPA, as another important stakeholder for bees, several programs that contribute to protecting bee according to and EPA Should Take Additional Actions to Address Threats to Bee by Barbara Boxer, Kirsten Gillibrand, and Dianne Feinstein. These programs, however, have not stopped the use of harmful pesticides. With passion for bee lives and the environmental impact, these two stakeholders must come together to compromise by creating a new, harmless pesticide. The United States, the EPA regulates the pesticides, as well as their effect on the environment and surrounding wildlife. The EPA was established to regulate the emissions from big businesses, such as car manufacturers, and their impacts on human health and the ecosystem, as told in Our Mission written by the EPA. The most commonly-used pesticides by commercial farmers contain neonicotinoids, or chemicals that have been linked to the death of bees around the United States. These are the same pesticides that have been approved to use by the EPA. In fact, the use of these pesticides caused the Government Accountability Office decided to investigate the EPA and the correlation with the use of pesticides and the increase in bee mortality. As written in and EPA Should Take Additional Actions to Address Threats to Bee by Barbara Boxer, Kirsten Gillibrand, and Dianne Feinstein, officials said they had not coordinated with other agencies to develop a plan for monitoring wild, native bees because they were focused on other Stated in the exact same report, pollinated by honey bees directly or indirectly account for up to one-third of the U.S. The USDA know the importance of bee and decided that their extinction was not a priority. They did so, knowing that the bees are predisposed to have a weakness for certain chemicals due to their genetics, meaning that the use of certain pesticides can cause bees to have weakened immune systems and more viral outbreaks, in reference to Poisoning of Honeybees: A Review of Symptoms, Incident Classification, and Causes of written by Tomasz Kiljanek, Alicja Niewiadowska, and Andrzej Posyniak. Considering the importance of honeybees stated and the fact that the GAO had to interfere, it is proven that the EPA is not doing all they can to protect the bees. When it comes to animal rights, everybody knows PETA, or People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Whether it be for their obnoxious and radical claims slandering companies for animal rights violations, or their Rather Go Naked Than Wear campaign, PETA tends to be an interest group in any animal-related case. They are a non-profit organization who are known to protest violations of animal rights, which makes them perfect bee stakeholders. In the article Honeybees Suffer Another PETA even gives readers tips on how to avoid using products that come from bees by purchasing alternatives. Some examples include using agave nectar or maple syrup instead of honey and candles made without beeswax. involvement as a stakeholder in the and indirect treatment of bees is obvious, as they are animal rights activists and the decrease in bee population is something they care about. When it comes to compromise, the EPA and PETA have never held a stakeholder meeting to discuss bee conservation, but the USDA (United States Department of Agriculture) and the EPA have met to discuss the efforts of the EPA concerning the steps towards a safer pesticide and the harm the current pesticides cause for bees. The best way to compromise would simply be to create a new pesticide. If the USDA and EPA are already researching a new pesticide that cause any harm to honeybees (Boxer, Gillibrand, Feinstein), then that means there may already be research underway. If not, then there are a few ways to advance the process. The first way would be to begin researching alternatives to the neonicotinoids. A natural example of what Elizabeth Bublitz mentions in her article and Harmless Alternatives to Garden is used coffee grounds. Examples like these can be field tested easily. If natural options like coffee grounds are too expensive to use commercially, or work with large fields of crops, then research for a new chemical pesticide may be the only option. As for role in this, PETA could provide funding for research. Since they are a non-profit organization, part of their donations could be given to those who are researching the possibility of a new, safer pesticide. An even better way of raising money would be a campaign or a fundraiser. This way, both the EPA along with PETA will have part in the efforts to save the honeybee population. To conclude, the population decline of bees is the concern of PETA and the EPA. As stakeholders, the EPA and PETA are concerned with the continuous decline in bee population because it impacts the environment and the lives of other animals, including ourselves. If these two organizations come together, they could come to an agreement on how to produce a new, safer pesticide. For the future of humanity, they must do so quickly. With the rate of decrease in the population of bees being as high as 42% (Atkins), this should be considered a pressing matter. With the help of these two stakeholders, who both have such a monumental impact on the lives of bees, the bee population could bounce back from danger of extinction. Society, National Geographic. Honeybees, Honeybee Pictures, Honeybee  National Geographic. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Kiljanek, Tomasz, Alicja Niewiadowska, and Andrzej Posyniak Posyniak. PESTICIDE POISONING OF HONEYBEES: A REVIEW OF SYMPTOMS, INCIDENT CLASSIFICATION, AND CAUSES OF  USF Tampa Library. N.p., 19 Aug. 2016. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. The Honey  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. United States. Government Accountability Office. By Barbara Boxer, Kirsten Gillibrand, and Dianne Feinstein. United States Government Accountability Office, Feb. 2016. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Atkins, Eric. Survey Reveals Increase in Bee Deaths; USDA Says Decline in Population Linked to Infestation of Virus-bearing Mites, Winter Starvation and Neonicotinoid  USF Tampa Library. N.p., 14 May 2015. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Bublitz, Elizabeth. Natural and Harmless Alternatives to Garden  PETA Prime. PETA, 28 June 2011. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Our Mission and What We  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 21 Jan. 2017. Web. 02 Feb. 2017.