Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Stay Calm, Together Dealing with depression is a very difficult task to take on alone. With only 6.7 percent of the world being diagnosed with depression yearly, it does not leave much room for an effective treatment (Facts). Ads for the of depression are often inaccurate and leave the depressed feeling more helpless than before. As a result, there is only trial and error for each individual. With the help of the USF Counseling Center, a person suffering from depression can get multiple treatment options, to aid them in beating their illness and allowing them to truly enjoy life. One popular option is In-group counseling. In-group counseling offers emotional support for people suffering from depression, as well as being led by counselors and filled with other students that sought out help, it is the number one advertised therapy at USF. The University of South Florida is a very known and well-respected university. With multiple services offered to all students, one particular service offered is the Counseling center, which serves to help culturally sensitive counseling, consultation, prevention, and training (to help) student academic and personal (Counseling Center). Overall the website is easy to navigate, on each tab in the menu it provides specific descriptions of the help offered and contact information. According to the University of South Florida Counseling Center website roughly fifty three percent of student population suffer from depression within the last Student 2 year. That percentage represents the students who have sought out help, which means that there are more students who have not come-forth to get the help needed to begin to treat depression. Figure 1 (Counseling Center) The image above is an ad off the Counseling website. When one first comes across this image, the first thing that catches the eye of the audience is the contrast from the image and the woodgrain behind The colors used in the image are two main contrasting colors; green and orange, as well as other light shades. These specific colors draw in the attention of the audience and entice them to read the message, which also uses a complimentary color to the orange of the background. The dark text colors beside the bright green and white of the stream image allows for the audience to read the message of the stakeholder without any problem. The second item on the image that catches the eye of the Student 3 audience is the text, The counseling center wanted to evoke the emotion of calmness and serenity, which is why the non bolded text is perfect. Bold text is often used for serious content, and bolded text in this scenario is too abrasive for the calmness they want attributed to the group. The obvious message the stakeholder is trying to convey is to come to this class and learn how to use meditation as a de-stressor and, in turn, as a tool to help treat depression. The stakeholder adds credibility to the ad by examining the ethos of modern times and seeing that meditation is already widely known for its benefits for the treatment of depression. The message sent by the counseling center to students in need of help, provides all the information necessary in order to partake in the treatment of their depression. Placing the time, date, location and contact information on the ad uses Kairos, as it encourages someone that they can join. Furthermore, the image does not send any unethical information, which means that logos is used in the image, however it is used as a tool to persuade the targeted audience to feel at peace and to feel that they can go to a safe place to connect with others. Student 4 Figure 2 (Counseling Center) The image above was also found on the Counseling website. Similar to the image mentioned before, this image is also directed to students in need of help. The counseling center has done a great job in creating multiple images/ads to capture the eyes of the audience and send the same message in various ways. In the image above the words are the first item to grab the attention. The message the text communicates is to attend the counseling groups, and learn to let go of the past, to let go of anything that is causing you sadness. The balloons floating away symbolize this, they remind you when you were a child, and you inevitably let go of your balloon, just to watch it float into the sky. Pathos is used in the image above though the use of the balloons and their symbolism. Through the use of different backgrounds for the texts, the stakeholder draws your eyes to two words The method of contrasting text and backgrounds is a simple, but effective hook to grab the readers attention. Simplicity is always effective in an ad, especially and ad directed at a person dealing with the Student 5 rollercoaster of depression. The colors used in the image are plain greens and blues, which are often noted as causing the audience to feel calm. The font used is a very straightforward and distract the reader from the images focal point. The ethos in this image is also tied to the balloons, as the image and symbolism is timeless. Similar to the previous image, Kairos is used by providing the same information; time, place, date on the image. The University of South Florida Counseling Center created these two images to show the services they provide, as well as reach out to the individuals that need them. The images are effectively a window into what the groups are, and looking through that window they appear to be calm, well organized, and safe places. When dealing with the treatment of depression, one must realize the difficulty and the isolation that the patients are going through. That is why by offering in-group counseling as a suggestion to begin the journey of treating depression in both images the department sets themselves for success. (Word Count: 1016) Student 6 Work Cited Counseling  Counseling Center University of South Florida. University of South Florida, n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http://www.usf.edu/student-affairs/counseling-center/>. Facts &  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://www.adaa.org/about-adaa/press-room/facts-statistics>.