Student 1 Student Instructor ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric Most people associate rhetoric with only the spoken or the written word. However, just like words can have coded messages used to communicate to specific classes of people, pictures are also capable of rhetoric. Such images include the ones used by Paper Recycles in their website. A rhetorical analysis of the images on the website reveals that the images are geared towards convincing the audience to recycle paper. The stakeholder, who have a vested interest in the topic at hand (Browning and Rea 371), in this case, is an organization known as Paper . As the title suggests, the organization has a primary motive of assisting in the recycling of paper (Paper Recycles). The website explains that the organization seeks to provide information to people who have an interest in the paper industry and how to improve the efforts and resources on paper recycling. The stakeholder Paper  claims that the business of recycling paper is one of their most important ways to keep the environment clean, protect it and develop sustainability (Paper Recycles). In the main page of the website, recycling paper seems to be the main emphasis with several recycle bins, which are apparently full of shopping bags made up of paper (Paper Recycles). The words it dry, keep it clean, put it in the are prominently in the image (Paper Recycles). Figure 1 Student 2 http://www.paperrecycles.org/home This image shows several recycle bins which contain shopping bags made up of paper. The bins are green while there is a green background with grass. In the image, the words Keep it Dry, Keep it Clean and Put it in the  written in white in contrast to the green background (Paper Recycles). The visual clues in the image are the recycle bins, the papers, the grass and the propaganda. It is also apparent that both the image and the words are in the middle of the picture. That way, they seem more prominent and stand out. The use of color in the image also made in such a way that it can have the maximum impact on the viewer. The dominant color is green, which most people associate with environment and sustainability. This might have been to increase emphasis on the message (Gerdes, et al. 334). The green contrast with the white which has been used to write the words. There is also the brown color of the papers in which alludes to the way the environment would look if there is no recycling and sustainable use in contrast to when used sustainably. The text in the image is a propaganda call that asks people to recycle paper. In a rhetorical analysis, four issues are important: the logos, the ethos, pathos, and the kairos. Images, like speeches, are laden with hidden meaning (Gerdes, et al., 331). The logos refers to the part of the rhetorical argument that draws on the reason or logic. In this image, the logos is the visual argument that paper can be used for the keeping the grass green. It is also apparent in the text that calls on the public to keep the papers dry, clean and in the bin as, Student 3 without that, there is a possibility that the paper will not be good enough for recycling. The ethos seeks to validate an argument based on his or her good reputation. In this case, the image uses ethos by seeking to convince whoever sees it believe the message as it comes from a credible organization. Pathos seeks to appeal to the emotional instincts of the intended audience. The clean grass, in contrast to how it would look if the papers were strewn all over, coupled with the text in the image appeals to the emotions of the audience who will want to recycle after seeing it. Kairos is how appropriate, in both context and timeliness, an argument is for the particular audience. In this case, an image is not only well-organized and legible enough for the audience to see, but it is also one that most people can relate. Figure 2 http://www.paperrecycles.org/sustainability/af-pa-member-spotlight The primary visual message that the stakeholder is passing through this message is the benefits that accrue to both individuals and organizations that seek to recycle paper. There are Student 4 several visual cues that appear individually in the image, but which have to be interpreted as part of the entire image according to the Gestalt Theory (Gerdes, et al. 334). The first is the image of the recycle bin (Paper Recycles). Secondly, the stakeholder has also used an image of receding trees to indicate the impact lack of recycling will have on the trees (Paper Recycles). There is also a piece of crumbled paper (Paper Recycles). Lastly, the image has several prominent numbers that the stakeholder has used to highlight several statistics on the recycling process. There are several instances of design and composition that stand out in the image. The recycle bin is placed to the left of the numbers (Paper Recycles). This draws the audience towards the numbers. The color of the image is green where the numbers are highlighted while it is brown in other instances. The size of the recycle bin also stands out as it is the most prominent part of the image. The stakeholder has used the color so as to have maximum effect. The two most prominent colors are brown and green. While the crumbled piece of paper, the trees and some of the text are in brown color the recycle bin, and the statists that show the possible advantages of the recycling are in green that signifies sustainability. The text in the image is a highlight of the benefits accrued from recycling paper. The image displays logos by alluding to the potential benefits that organizations and individuals could get from the recycling. This is apparent in the statistics included in the image. Ethos is apparent in that the image contains the well-researched data on the benefits of the recycling process. Moreover, the information also comes from credible organizations which in footnotes in the image including the Environmental Protection Agency and the American Forest and Paper Association (Paper Recycles). Pathos is apparent in the image in that the image contains data and the apparent success of the recycling process. This creates an emotional appeal in that it is supposed to inspire others to do recycling also. Kairos is also apparent in the image as Student 5 the stakeholder has ensured that there is a good flow of information in the image which most people can relate. From the analysis, it is apparent that the images the stakeholder has used have advanced the goals of the paper recycling. This is apparent through the various visual clues in the images, the composition and design of the image, and the color the stakeholder has used. The stakeholder has used the rhetorical appeals of logos, ethos, pathos, and Kairos to great effect in the images. Consequently, these images are likely to have a great rhetorical value to the stakeholder and help in pushing forth the message of paper recycling. (WC:1175) Student 6 Works Cited Browning, Ella and Rea, Joshua. Understanding . Vol. CH. 8.2. p371-374. Printed. Gerdes, Julie, et al. Visual  Understanding Visual . Vol. CH. 7.5 7.6. p331-351. Printed. Paper Recycles. Home, 2013, www.paperrecycles.org/. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017.