Haley Robbins U71541448 Intermediate Draft ENC 1101 Roth All around the world, women are lining up to compete for trophies and titles to be the or most worldwide. However, little do these women know what they are actually getting themselves into. For some women, these beauty pageants or contests are a way of them escaping reality and getting into a world where they feel most comfortable, as for others it is just a way for them to have fun. However, some individuals go in it for the fun, and unfortunately get to the point where they are no longer happy with themselves because of all the competition they are surrounded with day by day. Research shows that as of January 2016, out of the 2.5 million girls who competed in beauty pageants each year in the US, a recorded 6% of them have suffered from some kind of depression. Showing how the beauty pageant world has affected mental being, many questions have risen about the purpose of this contest in society. Is it only serving a purpose to those who need this for a confidence booster? Or do these contests really just tear the individuals who do not win down, and cause them to spiral toward a depression? Source 1: http://www.statisticbrain.com/beauty-pageant-statistics/ In this source, statistics about beauty pageants and their data on how many people each year compete are posted. It states how many pageants are held each year in the US, how many girls hire coaches, the amount of girls who have suffered from depression, and an average BMI of the contestants. Showing these statistics may cause girls to feel like they have to live within these boundaries and not go out of them in order to win the competition that they are competing in. Soure 2: http://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/2016/08/03/13-biggest-beauty-pageant- scandals.html In this source, 13 of the biggest beauty pageants scandals are revealed and explained through a little five-sentenced paragraph underneath a picture of each contestant being discussed. This source shows how even after beauty pageants are over and the winner may seem perfect to everyone watching, these people are actually real and they have messed up in their past. It also shows how these things that they may have done will come back to them in the long run, making people think of them as completely different from the way they actually are. Source 3: http://www.oxfordbibliographies.com/view/document/obo-9780199791231/obo- 9780199791231-0132.xml In this source, the controversy behind child beauty pageants is brought to light. Between talking about how it is a form of child  to how it brings others complete joy, the view on these pageants are never going to level out and be thought of the same by everyone. This source shows how everyone thinks differently, but there are plenty of others who would definitely agree with what some have to say about it. Source 4: http://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2000/06/the-whys-and-woes-of-child-beauty- pageants/ In this source, an view is shown. The character of the parent is being judged, questioning if they really want their kid to have fun or just learn poise and  This source shows how the parents prove to their children that beauty pageants are all worth the money, and that the thousands they pay is okay due to their confidence being racked up. Source 5: https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/food-thought/201108/child-beauty-pageants- what-are-we-teaching-our-girls In this source the mental health of a child and their parents are put to question. The mental ealth of the child is tested to make sure they are not encountering any depressions or eating disorders. The mental health of the parents is brought to question by reaching out and seeing if they are stable enough to handle their child winning and losing pageants, not flipping out and getting the child and themselves thrownout of competitions. Source 6: https://prezi.com/flvmxwp3nofz/the-negative-effect-of-beauty-pageants/ Int his source the negative effect of beauty pageants are presented. The degradation of women is discussed as well as . Bad mouthing women by slut-shaming them and saying the nastiest things you could think of about them is unfortunately used and seen worldwide. The need for a perfect child is presented as  them to not get bullied, rather than not wanting them to get bullied.