Allowe, 1 Adam Allowe Smith Composition I February 2, 2017 Police Prejudice in the Black Community Police prejudice in the black community hurts the relationship between the two communities as well as creates civil unrest. African Americans have been unfairly treated by the police by being racially profiled, arrested at a higher rate, and also higher rate of violence. Some states have started issuing body cameras, to police officers, to combat the prejudice experienced by the African American community. The experiences of the African American community is not only affect them directly, with physical violence, but also indirectly, by discouraging the act of reporting crimes. What are the main effects of police prejudice on the black community? Desmond, Matthew, Andrew V Papachristos, and David S Kirk. Police Violence and Citizen Crime Reporting in the Black  American Sociological Review, 81.5 (2016): 857-876. This article analyzes the case of police violence on Frank an unarmed African American, in Milwaukee and how it affected 911 calls related to police. After attack by the police was released to the public the number of 911 calls from predominantly black communities sharply decreased. Numerous other cases of police violence have also affected police reporting in fear of backlash from the police, and after attack there was over 22,000 less calls to 911 and 56% less calls from minority communities. Matthew Desmond, one of the authors of Police Violence and Citizen Crime Reporting in the Black Community, is a Sociologist, professor at Harvard University, and author of Poverty and Profit in the American City. Andrew V Papachristos, the second author for Police Violence and Citizen Crime Reporting in the Black is an associate professor at Yale Allowe, 2 University and focuses on neighborhoods and interpersonal violence. David Kirk, the last author, is part of the Sociology department at the University of Oxford and he researches conditions on criminal behavior. Hadden, Bernadette R, Willie Tolliver, Fabienne Snowden, and Robyn Brown Manning. An Authentic Discourse: Recentering Race and Racism as Factors That Contribute to Police Violence Against Unarmed Black or African American  Journal of Human Behavior in the Social Environment, (2016): 1-14. The article studied race in relationship to police violence towards men, where it was concluded, via the 2012 General Social Survey, that the people who approved of police violence also had negative cultural views, such as lack of motivation and willingness to learn, of African Americans. The police violence stems from cultural racism and a significantly large portion of police shootings happen to african american men opposed to caucasians or women. Bernadette R Hadden, one of the authors for An Authentic Discourse: Recentering Race and Racism as Factors That Contribute to Police Violence Against Unarmed Black or African American  researches quantitative social research at the university of New York. Willie Tolliver, another author of the article, has his Ph.D in Social Welfare. Robyn Brown area of expertise is multicultural social work and she has her Ph.D in social work. Rembert, David A, Jerry Watson, and Rickey Hill. A Trilogy of Trepidation: Diverse Perspectives on Police Violence Targeting African American  Journal of Human Behavior in the Social Environment, (2015): 1-9. Trilogy of Trepidation: Diverse Perspectives on Police Violence Targeting African American focuses on the violence that African Americans experience due to racial discrimination and prejudices of some police officers. The group threat states that the main cause for the police violence is to minority groups who threaten their economic, political, and public safety (Blalock, 1967; Chambliss, 1969, 2001; Grettenberger, Beatty, & Weathersby, 2014; Quinney, 1973; Spitzer, 1975; Weitzer, 2010) This Allowe, 3 can be seen in any case of police discrimination, where a victim was wrongfully killed or attacked, to create a fear in the community. David A. Rembert, a member of the department of criminal justice at jackson state mississippi, and co-author of Trilogy of Trepidation: Diverse Perspectives on Police Violence Targeting African American studies statistics in relation to social justice. Jerry Watson, another author of this article is a member of the department of social work at Rust College, and has his masters in social work from the University of Illinois. Rickey Hill, the last author of this article, is a member of the department of Political Science at Jackson State University, and he specializes in black politics and political theory.