Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Mental Illness is Treatable Mental illness is something that does not seem to be talked about in the public. Many people believe that mental illness is a not a major issue (ADAA). People often view those who suffer from a mental illness as weak or as weird, but what many do not realize is that having a mental illness is a serious issue and without proper treatment and help, it could lead to other things that are far more serious. In The Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA) website, it clearly states their mission is to help, prevent, and cure mental illness as a whole (ADAA). On the website they use many images to convey a message. Two images from the website that particularly stood out includes a person standing in front of a sunset (Figure 1) and of the earth being held in the hands of a person (Figure 2). Both Figure 1 and Figure 2 are similar in the fact that they both give off a positive message about finding help and overcoming a mental illness. Founded in 1979, the ADAA is an nonprofit organization dedicated to the prevention, treatment, and cure of anxiety, depressive, obsessive-compulsive, and trauma-related disorders through education, practice, and (ADAA). This association focuses on the improvement of lives for those who suffer from mental illness. Another goal this website has is that it works to reduce the stigma that surrounds mental illness. The intended audience can either be those seeking help due to their mental illness, somebody who may not understand these illnesses and want to learn more about them, or even somebody that is trying to help a friend out Student 2 the best way possible. On this website, anybody can find information on a specific illness. Then by incorporating the information found, people can find the right treatment options for their specific illness. They can also go on the website to find emotional support or just to speak to somebody. In Figure 1, it shows a person with their arms extended upward looking into the sunset and they seem to be on a cliff. The caption of the picture says over Anxiety and From this image, it is clear that the message being communicated is that mental illness is something difficult to handle, but it is something that can be overcome. First thing that is noticed is a person with their arms and hands up, which stands for victory. You can see something similar at a competition event; usually the winner is the one with the arms up celebrating. The next thing that is noticed is a sun shining which can mean success. Behind the person is what can be assumed as rocks, but they are very dark. This could signify the anxiety or depression the person may be feeling. They are facing away from the rocks into the sun, which can signify that they overcame their respective illness and that they are looking forward to days. The use of color is very effective in Figure 1 with the use of lights and darks. This affects the way the viewer may feel about the image. The viewer gets a positive message just from the use of warm colors like yellow and orange. Pathos is defined in the text Rhetoric Really Matters as appeal to (Lee 37). The use of pathos is very apparent in this picture since viewing the image gives off a positive feeling. Figure 1 helps show the message of the organization by giving the aspect of it. Figure 1 uses kairos, which is the appeal to timeliness, because the sun would have a different symbolic meaning if the sun were not setting. This picture is taken at the perfect timing. Student 3 In Figure 2, it shows the earth in the hands of a person. The primary message being communicated is that you are not alone in this world and there are many therapists that can help. It is also saying that you have your own world in your own hands. Figure 2 is captioned with a Therapist Near First thing you see is a world that is glowing which could signify that this planet is big and there are plenty of people going through this too. Also there are hands holding the planet, which could mean that these therapists could you The scale of both the hands and the earth really stands out from this image. The reason why the scale is so large is because they want the viewer to understand that there are billions of people in the world; the possibilities of getting help are endless. Figure 2 uses light colors to give a more positive attitude and to allow people who suffer from these illnesses to have more motivation to seek treatment. The use of heavy blues gives the audience a calmer attitude, almost like the image is trying to comfort the audience. Ethos is defined in Rhetoric Really Matters as to (McKee 27). Ethos is present in this image because it is coming from a legitimate website that has content related to mental illness. It is also recognized by the government, which adds to the credibility aspect. Figure 2 helps convey the message by giving an example of the aspect of it. The use of logos, or the appeal to logic, is seen here since logical to go seek help when you need it. Figure 1 and Figure 2 support the mission of the ADAA, which is the treatment, and cure of mental (ADAA). Figure 1 explains being from mental illness while Figure 2 offers information on finding nearby. The use of both the images helps the audience feel more comfortable with the topic and allows people to feel welcomed. It allows those seeking help to not feel ashamed and to not feel like they are different. The creators of the website makes sure to use the right colors to give off a more positive attitude. Student 4 The use of rhetorical appeals (pathos, kairos, ethos, and logos) is very prominent on this website as it tries to invite people to check out the website. This association informs the audience about the true dangers of an untreated mental illness and it is time that we take this topic more seriously. (Word Count: 1,058) Student 5 Work Cited Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Find a Therapist Near You. Digital image. ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gayle Lee, Kendra, McIntyre, Megan, and McKee, Jessica. Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and McKee, Jessica. Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27. E-text. Triumphing over Anxiety and Depression. Digital image. ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Figure 1 https://www.adaa.org/node/2608 Student 6 Figure 2 http://treatment.adaa.org/