Ferrari 1 Melissa Ferrari Professor James Josue ENC1102 22 January 2017 Cosmetic and Household Product Testing on Animals When it comes to using cosmetics and household products, many Americans want to ensure that the products are effective, but also safe. To please the demands of the people, the companies that own the cosmetics and household products, run several research experimental test. A majority of these tests include testing the products on animals. Researchers use the results from these tests to help improve the products for humans, but usually end up harming or killing the animals in the end Product Testing: Toxic and , 2016). Many disagree with animal research due to the harm and stress it puts on the animals, while also agreeing that the results gathered from the research are usually useless and not significant to humans, making the research meaningless and only putting the animals in harms ways. Countries such as, Europe, India, Israel, Norway, also organizations such as PETA, and customers who support animal rights agree that the companies should stop animal testing and that measures should be taken. Companies such as Revlon, Raid, Johnson & Johnson, Clorox, Glade, Bobbi Brown, Neutrogena, Maybelline, and Pine-Sol, all agree research should be conducted because it ensures human safety and helps improve the products. If pro-animal testers, such as, Revlon Cosmetics could change its formulas and agree to test its products on animals only in necessary extreme conditions and PETA, a pro-animal rights organization, could agree that in certain conditions Ferrari 2 animal testing could be allowed, animal safety would be ensured and business could increase for Revlon Cosmetics. For Revlon Cosmetics, they perform the test on animals to ensure that the chemicals within the product would not cause harm on human skin. Revlon want to ensure the safety of their consumers, since it is their primary concern. Revlon wants to make sure they are only selling safe products, using safe ingredients, and comply with the regulations to the other countries their products are sold in. Revlon stated they would stop testing on animals, but since the company still sells their products to China, which is a country that tests all products on animals, that means that Revlon still test its products on animals and promotes animal testing. For example, to test toxicity of the chemicals put into the product or to see how much irritation a cosmetic may cause to the skin, usually rabbits are used to perform acute toxicity test Product Testing: Toxic and , 2016). Researchers would put the product on the skin of the rabbits and over a long period of time would check if a irritation reaction has occurred this helps protect humans and help change the products formula to be better and to have the least amount of reactions as possible (Hajar, 2011), . For organizations against animal testing, such as PETA, they disagree with animal testing and attempt to prevent it from occurring. PETA was created in order to stop the mistreatment of animals, this includes animal testing, animal abuse, animal fighting, the use of fur and leather, animal suffering, the consuming of animals, and more Mission They believe that animals should not suffer and that these actions of animals being used and abused should be stopped. PETA believes the research done on animals is insignificant, because based on several new research discovers, such as the discovery Pound and others discovered in 2004, which showed that animal research is a inaccurate, due to the animal research being poorly conducted Ferrari 3 and not evaluated through a systematic review. Also, even though it is stated how animals have helped research, there is really no proof to support the statement; no research has proven this yet (Pound et al., 2004). If Revlon Cosmetics and PETA can come together and be willing to compromise, both can meet a large part of their main goal. If Revlon, is willing to give up using chemicals and begin using natural essential oils in their products and test on human volunteers instead, they will be able to help PETA accomplish their goal of helping save animals from suffering. Revlon would have to change their formula and begin testing on human volunteers or test their products on in-vitro alternative, which is proven by Borenfreud and Puerner to be more accurate than animal testing. With these changes, Revlon may also loose China as a business partner, but will gain, Europe, India, Norway, and Israel, which only sells cruelty free products to their citizens, as their business partners. In addition, if PETA is willing to agree that in certain conditions rodents can be used to test products. These conditions could be similar to which allows animal testing to be conducted if to see if there is an environmental risk with the product when disposed of or to see if the product has any hazards to the workers creating the product. If Revlon Cosmetics and PETA can come to an agreement where Revlon would change their testing procedure, which stops animal testing completely, while PETA will allow animal testing in only extreme conditions, both would benefit from each other, both can succeed and work to accomplish their goals. Revlon can gain customers and a profit, while PETA can save animals and remove them from the laboratory. Ferrari 4 Annotated Bibliography Borenfreund, Ellen, Puerner, A. James Toxicity determined in vitro by morphological alterations and neutral red  Toxicity determined in vitro by morphological alterations and neutral red absorption - ScienceDirect. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0378427485900463>. Cruelty Free  EU ban on cosmetics testing Cruelty Free International. CrueltyFreeInternational, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.crueltyfreeinternational.org/what-we-do/corporate-partnerships/eu-ban- cosmetics-testing>. Hajar, Rachel. Animal Testing and  Heart Views : The Official Journal of the Gulf Heart Association. Medknow Publications Pvt Ltd, 2011. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3123518/>. Pound, Pandora, Shah Ebrahim, Peter Sandercock, Michael B. Bracken, Ian Roberts, and Reviewing Animal Trials Systematically (RATS) Group. Where is the evidence that animal research benefits  BMJ : British Medical Journal. BMJ Publishing Group Ltd., 28 Feb. 2004. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC351856/>. Product Testing: Toxic and  PETA. 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-experimentation/animals-used- experimentation-factsheets/product-testing-toxic-tragic/>. Mission PETA. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 <http://www.peta.org/about-peta/>