Wynter 1 Jaye Wynter Ms. Poston ENC 1102 28 January 2017 The Affirmative Action Debate in the U.S. Affirmative action is a set of rules and guidelines designed to end or lessen the effects of a specific type of discrimination. According to Nancy Stein, it is a complex policy, designed to end discrimination in hiring, college admissions, and the awarding of  (Stein 1). It is a highly controversial topic which has been debated since it was established in the following the legislation of the Civil Rights Act (Niederle 1). The primary stakeholders in this argument are minorities in education and the workforce and white students or white people searching for scholarships or jobs. While some dispute affirmative action such as David Sacks and Peter Thiel who are white students themselves, explaining the possible setbacks the policy may have against its intended purpose, some scholars place their confidence in it. One such person being Sami Chedli Nighaoui who argues that affirmative action can be an effective approach to abating prejudice and provide equal opportunity for minorities in the employment and educational system. Affirmative action should be enforced in school and work systems because, if implemented properly, it will lead to the long term improvement of multi-racial relations in employment and education once marred by historical events such as oppression. The opposition of the maintenance of the affirmative action policy in the U.S. and other countries has several points of concern, the foremost of which is the difference in conception of the idea. Nicolaus Mills in his 1994 book explains saying that there are two major Wynter 2 perspectives to be taken, looking to race as a proxy for remedial justice and the other looking to race as a component of (281). Many people will agree that affirmative action is also ineffective because it does not take such factors as behaviour and decision-making trends of the people the program is attempting to benefit. In DiTomaso et. survey, a select group of white people were interviewed about their views on equal opportunity versus affirmative action in the workplace. One man, when asked about the implementation of progression policies like affirmative action commented saying, personally know a friend of mine that got ... passed the stuff for med school but there were no white slots left, so he get to go and the black slots that were held open never got This is to suggest a problem with either the number of qualified black students who were willing to apply or with the selection process: trying to find qualified black students to fill the racial quota. Muriel Niederle addresses a similar point in her study Costly is Diversity? Affirmative Action in Light of Gender Differences in The study was gender based, with women as the minority. Participants were put in a controlled environment where they were to operate as if they were in an employment setting and the effects and of affirmative action were tested. Niederle et. al concluded that, mentioning affirmative action has a limited effect on men, it does affect (24). The objective of the experiment was to gauge the effects of disadvantage in the workplace The reason affirmative action had a larger effect on women is because, as minorities in the sytematic experiment, they felt more threatened when the term was introduced, causing more women to ask for payment on their piece work than men. The piece also takes into account the issue of reverse discrimination, the next biggest arguments against the topic at hand. Results to identify reverse discrimination in ex-ante (expected effect of affirmative action if it were implemented without women and men changing their Wynter 3 behaviour) and ex-post (when implemented causing them to change their behaviour showed major differences). This means that the degree to which affirmative action affected the behaviour was high; the results imply that the very mention of affirmative action causes undesirable changes in employees and students in real-world applications. Sacks and Thiel present a compelling argument against affirmative action in their 2013 publication, After 25 Years, Affirmative Action Has Not Succeeded in Ending Discrimination, Perhaps it is Time to Try Something calling it, strange cure that generates its own (1). This was the belief held by Sandra Day when she took her case against Michigan Law School in 2003. Her case was based on the premise that the school had violated the fourteenth (14th) Amendment which the court finally decided against. The case summary, relayed on the IIT Chicago-Kent College of Law website says, . . the Court held that the Equal Protection Clause does not prohibit the Law narrowly tailored use of race in (Grutter v. Bollinger). Hence, by law, the law school was not at fault. Those opposed to the imposition of affirmative action cite (which means actions or policies favoring groups which have previously been discriminated against) and perspective as their main concern, those in favour have valid points to dismiss these notions. On the point of reverse discrimination, the idea is refuted by scholars, making it clear that the concept is a fallacy. The matter is misinterpreted by opponents who deem discrimination against whites in the face of the reverse is wrong. Stein counters this borrowing Stanley words, Only by ignoring the context of history and the persistence of racism in this country, however, is it possible to equate the two (Fish, 1993). Historically, white people have benefitted more from acceptance and admissions policies, and now journalists are positing affirmative action as the tool to level the playing field. Nighaoui surmizes that the escalation in over the years Wynter 4 was unlikely to be through civil rights legislations alone. He says, . . .850.000 blacks got permanent employment in the public social welfare sector over a relatively short time span (1960 to 1976) (Nicholas Lemann  and this cannot be wholly accounted for by only civil [and rights legislations. Some other strong activists have labelled affirmative action, most meaningful and effective means devised by government for delivering the promise of equal (Noguera 1). Affirmative Action, A Popular Movement for Social makes it clear that without such an important policy in place, the pledge to maintain prejudicial neutrality is meaningless; there is a good chance of many organizations their staff and populations again. Noguera challenges opposing writers supposing that racism is not as prevalent as it was some time ago is challenged by Noguera saying that it would be slackness to believe that university admissions offices and employers do not need to be held accountable in ways affirmative action would ensure. Evidently, both the opponents and proponents of affirmative action have well supported arguments for their positions. Affirmative action, if not instigated properly will lead to many problems, even counter productivity; however, the conversation about it is traditionally based on race, when there are many other minorities which need attention of the authorities, such as class, status and basis of qualifications (like skills). A change in acceptance approaches from race to class will be beneficial to all stakeholders involved. Some of the benefits will include: increased minority representation, academic standards will be maintained and create opportunities for economically underprivileged youths who have great potential or interest in academics despite their circumstances 1). The debate over class based affirmative action would be a more practical, reasonable one as it possesses more sound dialectics behind it. It is safe to assume that Wynter 5 all the major stakeholders involved in this discussion will come to a controlled agreement upon this new issue. Though the debate over affirmative action is sure to continue, each side desires to maintain fairness in their respective environments. With that goal in mind, Enforcement of class based and other types of affirmative action would be the best solution. People zone into racial discrepancies, ignoring that there are other types of minorities struggling and in need of a program like affirmative action. It brings a compromise between those who defend affirmative action and those who oppose it. Legislation should be put in place to urge institutions to provide more need-based incentives for students and prospective employees to benefit from. Wynter 6 Works Cited DiTomaso, Nancy et.al. Attitudes Toward Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Critical Sociology, Vol. 35, no. 5, 2011, pp. 616-29. Grutter v.  Oyez, https://www.oyez.org/cases/2002/02-241. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. LeBeauf, Ireon, et al. Affirmative Action Still Journal of Employment Counseling, vol. 44, no. 3, 2007, pp. 98+. Questia, www.questia.com/read/1G1- 168507957/is-affirmative-action-still-necessary. Mills, Nicolaus. Gender, Ethnicity, and the Politics of Debating Affirmative Action, Viet D. Dinh, Bantam Doubleday Dell Publishing Group, Inc., United States, 1994. (http://www.bancroftpllc.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/30.-MultiracialAffirmative- Action-1994.pdf). Fish, S.1993 Reverse Racism, Or How the Pot Got to Call the Kettle  Atlantic Monthly (November). Lemann, Nicholas. (1992.). The Promised Land: The Great Black Migration and How It Changed America. New York: Vintage Books. Wynter 7 Niederle, Muriel et.al. Costly is Diversity? Affirmative Action in Light of Gender Differences in Management Science, 2013. pp. 1-23. Nighaoui, Sami Chedli. Action: Why We Should Consider The Western Journal of Black Studies, vol. 31, no. 1, 2007, pp. 33+. Questia, www.questia.com/read/1G1- 192586268/affirmative-action-why-we-should-considerreform. Noguera, Pedro. Affirmative Action a Popular Movement for Social Motion Magazine, 10 Feb. 1996. pp. 1-2. Gabriel. An Effective Compromise: Class-Based Affirmative Action in Boston  New England Journal of Public Policy: Vol. 16: Iss. 2, Article 7. 2001. Sacks, David, Peter Thiel. after 25 Years, Affirmative Action Has Not Succeeded in Ending Discrimination, perhaps it is Time to Try Something Stanford Magazine, 2013, pp. Smith, Buffy. No College Student Multicultural Education, vol. 11, no. 3, Spring 2004, pp. 48+. Questia, www.questia.com/read/1P3-595572911/leave-no-collegestudent-behind. Stein, Nancy. Action and the Persistence of Social Justice, vol. 22, no. 3, 1995, pp. 28+. Questia, www.questia.com/read/1G1-18285711/affirmative-action-andthe-persistence- of-racism. Wynter 8 Tollett, Kenneth S. Testament of Hope: Strategies for a New Era in Higher The Journal of Negro Education, vol. 68, no. 2, 1999, pp. 227+. Questia, www.questia.com/read/1P3-64826980/affirmative-action-s-testament-of-hope-strategies.