Esposito 1 Haylie Eposito Professor Poston ENC 1102 January 30, 2017 Mental Illness Stigma The prejudice surrounding mental illnesses begins with those without mental illness not being educated. Mental illness has a poor reputation surrounding it from Hollywood inaccuracies. This type of misinformation incorporated into such a global media has the ability to have severe negative effects. Doctors and medical professionals could stand up for the facts in order to be known and by means of doing so advocate for the purpose of their patients. Said adults with weighty college degrees invest into their wellbeing in many ways so there is no reason for doctors to not defend their patients to the general public. Medical professionals, as well as the family members of those afflicted with mental illness, have the ability to make a change in regards to how those with mental illness are viewed and treated. The families involved usually happen to be driven by means of concern for the afflicted member of the family unit. Considering stability and recovery to be the primary goals for the family of a patient with mental illness, should they not also be protecting the patient from prejudice? Small things such as informing a coworker as to the true nature of the illness or even speaking to a large audience in regards to the topic will increase awareness. No one deserves to be prejudiced against for something that is not at all his or her fault. Those prejudiced against for the purpose of having a mental illness simply want to receive medical assistance for their individual affliction. People with mental illness are still people as well, they are just sick. On the opposite end of the spectrum, the individuals that do not have mental illness, but do have a strong prejudice, have as their aim to be separated from those that are afflicted often believing them to be evil or demonic in nature. This prejudice was fueled by means of Hollywood more so than any other factor. The prescribing doctors as well as various other medical professionals Esposito 2 approach mental illness from the unbiased, fact based point of view. Essentially, those afflicted have very sick brains and/or a chemical imbalance that has the ability to be treated. Some patients display suicidal tendencies requiring the goal to be to keep the patient alive. Some individuals may not be as at-risk than others; being kept stable is the priority. Most families of individuals with mental illness are unsure of how to care for the purpose of the individual. Similar to the doctors in wanting the patient to get better, the family is also there as moral support and to encourage the individual to seek treatment. If the patient happens to have suicidal tendencies, the family often flounders in their attempts to help the individual without medical intervention. Persons with mental illness are at odds with those without mental illness due to the fact that there is a lack of understanding between the two groups. Those with mental illness, for the most part, are seeking treatment to get on the road to recovery and therefore understand that they are not bad people, just sick. However, those people who do not suffer from any mental illness display a fear of those afflicted and/or a strong opinion against them. People who are not well informed as to the true nature of mental illnesses have the capability to easily form strong prejudices based with reference to misinformation distributed via various forms of media. A possible solution for these two parties butting heads is that in elementary and intermediate schools, with reference to the occasion of puberty being discussed, mental illnesses should also be touched upon. Middle school aged students are more likely to experience some sort of mental illness, as this time in their lives is one of growth and internal changes. Many schools offer a waver for the purpose of those parents that do not wish for their child to partake in the lesson and this would still apply. Many intermediate school aged students suffer with the onset of a mental illness in silence, thinking that what they are feeling is simply a part of puberty. In a way, mental illness does correlate to puberty in the way in which there are chemical changes. However these students need to know that they are not alone and that there is a way for them to feel better. A natural incorporation of information has the potential to be an outstanding step in the right direction. Esposito 3 Another way in which this spread of information has the ability to be applied is between a family unit and the attending doctors. More often than not mental illness is genetic and in the event that a younger family member is diagnosed the family unit may turn to denial as their response instead of taking responsibility and seeking treatment. In these types of situations it is the position to educate the family of the patient. Being a health professional, the doctor(s) are better equipped to explain the gritty details of the mental illness, medication options, and emergency measures in the event that there be a need. Some families are too prideful to seek treatment for the afflicted family member. In situations such as these, the sick individual suffers greatly. Out of the families own ignorance and pride they may isolate a loved family member and force them to cope on their own. In order to assure awareness, a possible step that could be implemented is a regular psychiatric evaluation beginning at the age of ten. Every two years between the ages of ten and twenty individuals should be evaluated as a part of an annual checkup along with a physical evaluation, eye exams, dentistry visits, etc. After the age of twenty the evaluations should be scheduled for every five years. This ensures that there is a known family history in order to have the ability to better treat any offspring that are exhibiting any symptoms of mental illness. It also helps to ensure that individuals get the help they need before it is too late. Individuals that suffer from an assortment of mental illnesses want nothing more than to have the ability to feel in the nature of their old selves again. Mental illness takes a toll not only in regards to the mind of the patient but also the body and personality, not unlike cancers or other ailments. Similarly, cancer survivors are seen as brave where as suicide survivors are seen as weak and dangerous. This prejudice stems from the idea, implemented by means of Hollywood, that only crazy people are so self-destructive. Those who are not comfortable around individuals with mental illness wish to have mental illnesses known, however this would only amplify any preexisting prejudice via segregation. The integration of information is key in order to come to a mutual understanding and comfortable coexistence. Doctors should instate regular psychiatric examinations in order to maintain Esposito 4 an accurate medical history for all patients, as well as family members and offspring. Medical professionals and those related to a mental illness patient purely want the patient to regain stability and recover.