Eberline 1 Landen Eberline Professor Emil Smith ENC 1101 015 January 25, 2017 The Impact of Deforestation on Climate Change Research has continually proven that increases in the quantity of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere leads to the increase of surface air temperatures. Graphs of temperatures starting since the beginning of the industrial revolution lead one to believe that the new use of fossil fuels are the cause for increased temperature. This data leads scientists and people across the globe to point towards fossil fuels as the main catalyst for the changing climate. However, many people discuss the impact that deforestation has on the atmospheric carbon dioxide. People neglect that starting around the time of the industrial revolution the population has been increasing dramatically and in turn forests have been cut down to accommodate the larger population. When one removes these trees and plants, one increases the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by removing the lifeforms that use carbon dioxide in photosynthesis. This paired with the new release of once-buried fossil fuels produces an inevitable increase in carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. To get to the roots of this issue, one must consider how impactful deforestation is on climate change in comparison to other climate change contributors such as fossil fuel emissions. The implication of this research is to determine the significance of deforestation as a contributor to climate change and the possible solutions humans can undertake to reverse or reduce the effects of climate change. Eberline 2 Bala, G. Planting New Trees Help to Reduce Global Editorial. Current Science, 25 June 2014: vol. 106, no. 12; 1623-1624. Web. 24 January 2017. editorial discusses the possibility of reducing global warming by planting new trees. He then states that plants, including trees, approximately remove 130 billion tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. He compares this to the 9 billion tons of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere by fossil fuel emissions. Additionally, he factors in the excess carbon dioxide released by plant respiration and decomposition. These combined factors make the net removal of carbon dioxide nearly zero. Bala concludes that afforestation is a step in the right direction, but trees take time to mature so results may take several decades and may be minimal in impact. However, this will lead to lower global surface air temperatures and reduce the effects of climate change even if by a small amount. editorial is important to the research on impact on climate change because to study the effects of deforestation one must address the antithesis, afforestation, and study its effects on atmospheric carbon dioxide. Bala is qualified to speak on the issue of climate change because he has obtained his doctorate in Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences in 1994 and since then he has conducted many research studies on climate change. Additionally, his editorial has been peer reviewed. Eberline 3 Longobardi, P.; Montenegro, A.; Beltrami, H.; Eby, M. Induced Climate Change: Effects of Spatial PLoS ONE, vol. 11, no. 4, April 21 2016, 1-35. Web. January 24 2017. These researchers studied the effects of deforestation on global and local surface area temperatures (SATs) in varied latitudes. Latitudes being the angular distance from the equator. Using a global climate model, they removed in trials of 5% to 100% of forested areas in high, mid, and low latitudes. They documented that high latitude deforestation scenarios reduce the mean global SATs. Conversely, low latitude deforestation scenarios increase the mean global SATs. They concluded that for high latitude deforestation fractions of 45% and above causes an increase in soil carbon large enough to create a net decrease of atmospheric carbon dioxide. This research study is crucial to the research of impact on climate change. The study presents data of the effects of certain levels of deforestation on global and local SATs which will be important to note in future research. Longobardi is a science teacher at Calgary Academy, Montenegro is the director of atmospheric sciences program in Ohio State University, Beltrami is the research chair of Climate Dynamics at St. Francis Xavier University, and Eby has taken part of contributing to climate models and has published 80 peer reviewed papers on climate science. All these researchers have the qualifications to present research on this topic and this specific study has been peer-reviewed. Eberline 4 Sohngen, B.; Beach, R.; Andrasko, K. Avoided Deforestation as A Greenhouse Gas Mitigation Tool: Economic  Journal of Environmental Quality 37.4 (2008): 1368- 1375. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This study focuses on analyzing the potential marginal cost of reducing net carbon emissions by avoiding deforestation in tropical countries. The researchers used global forestry and land use models to conduct this research. They estimate the economic costs of avoiding deforestation by introducing hypothetical incentives. They conclude that for a fine of five dollars per metric ton of carbon over the course of thirty to fifty years could reduce emissions by 0.1 billion tons of carbon per year. This incentive could produce 300 million additional acres of forestland. Likewise, if the fine of one hundred dollars per metric ton of carbon over the same timeframe could result in the reduction of emissions by 1.6 billion tons of carbon per year. This would then produce 42,200 million additional acres of forestland. This study will aid in research because it focuses on avoiding deforestation rather than suggesting afforestation. It provides an alternative solution to deforestation and climate change. Brent Sohngen is a professor of environmental economics at Ohio State University and has conducted research on land effects on climate change. Robert Beach has a doctorate in economics and has specialized in the development and application of economic models designed to analyze land use, as well as other factors, on their economic impacts for climate change and possible adaptations. Kenneth Andrasko is the senior director of environment at Winrock International. He jointly received the 2007 Nobel peace prize for his contributions to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Eberline 5 Sookun, A.; Boojhawon, R.; Rughooputh, S. Drivers of Climate Change: Carbon Budget Index for Ecological Indicators 46. (2014): 340-350. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This study focuses on carbon dioxide sequestration by trees and plants. These sequestrations form carbon sinks. Deforestation has led to the diminishing quantity of carbon sinks and a decrease in net removal of atmospheric carbon dioxide. They conducted this study to index districts to measure national or regional achievements in meeting targets to reduce emissions. The index was developed to track the extent of the carbon balance. The index measured carbon emission versus sequestration where positive values mean more carbon emissions than sequestration and negative values mean a net sequestration. Research on highly densely populated areas had high positive index values. The inverse is true of highly dense vegetation areas, of which had high negative index values. This research study will lead to important references and targeting of certain regions as net carbon emitters or carbon sequesters. It is important to recognize which regions are of concern for development of solutions to climate change. Anand Sookun is a climatologist whose doctorate research was in the mitigation of climate change. Ravindra Boojhawon has contributed to 35 research articles on climatology and works at the University of Mauritius. Soonil Rughooputh is an experimental physicist at the University of Mauritius who has been focusing on environmental physics. This article has been peer reviewed.