Running Head:ACCESSIBILITY IN PUBLIC TRANSIT AND CIVIC DESIGN Crino 1 Calvin Crino Emil Smith First Year Composition 1/29/17 Socioeconomic Progression and Accessibility in Public Transport and Civic Design Accessibility is the idea of making our world accessible to people with disabilities such that no one is left behind. While often thought of as just ramps or elevators for those without working legs, it also includes braille for the blind, bright signs for the deaf, and even trained civil servants for the mentally challenged. Without these things people with disabilities cannot use public transport to work around the cards been dealt to improve their lives. Comparing what we have now to that of the past we can see that society has improved in helping the disabled but we have not done all we could. To this end how has time and socioeconomic development changed the focus on accessibility on public transport and civic design? A., V., & N. (2016). Urban Public Transport Accessibility for People with Movement Disorders: The Case Study of Vilnius. Procedia Engineering, 134, 48-56. doi:10.1016/j.proeng.2016.01.038 This article is a case study of the state of public transport in the city of Vilnius Lithuania. It discusses the state of the public transit system using many scoring systems relating average wait time, accessibility to people with disabilities, and other additional conditions to values and then using them in calculations to give a final grade. Over all the source grades the city rather low on its scale showing Vilnius as example of a unaccessible city with little systems in place for accessibility ACCESSIBILITY IN PUBLIC TRANSIT AND CIVIC DESIGN 2 however the source also explains how each of its metrics represent quality forms of transit such as listing expectations and qualitative grades along with the numbers. The source is useful for answering the research question because it both gives an example of valid public transportation grading scales and therefore ideal conditions as well as an example of less well developed public transit which shows how the socioeconomic scale may affect accessibility in respect to public transit. Additionally this article comes with a credible backing, one of the authors Alina is a doctoral researcher of transport and logistics while another one of the authors has a doctoral degree in transportation engineering. Vasiljevic-Tomic, D., & Obradovic, R. (2015). Architecture - inclusive culture: Protection of persons with disabilities. Facta universitatis - series: Architecture and Civil Engineering, 13(1), 47-56. doi:10.2298/fuace1501047v This article discusses the importance of civil to create situations of highest accessibility as well as preventing against people with disabilities. In the article mindful civil design refers to designing with all people in mind. While mainly focusing on the concept of discrimination by ignoring and how by designing for everyone and therefore increasing accessibility leads to improved democratic standards of equality. Overall this article is less relevant in its discussion of social ,cultural cognition and discrimination, but it does touch on some rather good points relating to social wealth to the treatment of people with disabilities. Its credibility is less than perfect due to the political verbiage. Additionally one of its authors Radojko is the vice president of the serbian national assembly which means that it is likely this paper is less informative of research and more of a guidance of policy as well as more opinionated. However the paper still has worth due to its utility in both description of accessibility and its discussion of social wealth. ACCESSIBILITY IN PUBLIC TRANSIT AND CIVIC DESIGN 3 Ahmad, M. (2015). Independent-Mobility Rights and the State of Public Transport Accessibility for Disabled People. Administration & Society, 47(2), 197-213. doi:10.1177/0095399713490691 This article discusses the accessibility condition of rural Pakistan using a grading system similar to the Vilnius however it focuses on a less strict numeric score and instead uses a statistic and perception score. The overall tone of the article is the judgement of the treatment of people with disability in rural public transportation. This includes perception of the operators of transit systems the people with disability, and other passengers. The article discussesses equality more so than the grades in its conclusion choosing to focus on ideals and less on solutions. The author Mahtab Ahmad seem to have many qualifications or at least has not been recognised for his work. However I doubt this indicates his inadequacy as an author. The article gives a counterexample to the first article discussing a more rural situation. Preston, J., & F. (2007). Accessibility, mobility and transport-related social exclusion. Journal of Transport Geography, 15(3), 151-160. doi:10.1016/j.jtrangeo.2006.05.002 This article discusses UK policies implemented in 2007 referring to the treatment of people with disabilities in society. Additionally this article tries to understand the topic of social exclusion, both giving a definition of terms and a discussion of the overall applications of it. In earnest the article is less useful for discussion of public transport in particular and more on the subject of people with disability, however it really digs into the topic of exclusion and therefore is meaningful in the discussion of accessibility. The author has some renown as an irish politician but this is expected due to the political nature of the paper. Considering the nature of political works it should be taken with a bit of caution but otherwise is a useful paper.