Keller 1 Justin Keller Professor Emil Smith Composition 1 January 29 th , 2017 Do violent video games relieve or promote aggression among adolescent players? Within the past decade, the world of technology has overwhelmingly progressed. Every year, an abundance of new games and devices are unveiled to appease the entertainment demands of crazed consumers. However, with some games come everlasting side effects. In the realm of gaming, there is a rating system known as the Entertainment Safety Rating Board (ESRB) which evaluates video games prior to their release and determines a rating for each game. The rating system starts at (EC) and progressively works its way towards (AO). Between these two extremes are (E), (E 10+), (T), and (M) in that order. The main purpose of the ESRB is to assist parents in making informed choices about video games for their children as well as deem the suggested age group best suited to play that game. On this scale, the more violent games tend to fall under the Teen or Mature rating. But what is it that constitutes a violent video game? Violence in video games can be anything from strong language to blood and gore. The effects of video games with these heightened elements often lead to negative outcomes while occasionally helping the player in ways not explicitly evident. With this in mind, do violent video games relieve or promote aggression among adolescent players? Hilgard, J. (2016). Video game violence and aggression: A proven connection?. Significance ,13(5), 6-7. doi:10.1111/j.1740-9713.2016.00955.x Keller 2 In this piece, Hilgard discusses the correlation between playing violent video games and heightened aggression. Hilgard is a secondary source because he is reporting results from the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) which is who was responsible for conducting the experiment and gathering the results. The main experiment discussed in this article involved subjects playing two different video games one violent, one not and running tests to ensure the only difference between the two is the violent content. The objective of each game was not relevant to the tests as they were only evaluating the levels of aggression and hostility due to the games. There are an infinite amount of games in existence that involve excessive and unnecessary gore just like there are games that are just the opposite and could use a little blood to add to the level of realism. Based off of this, Hilgard suggested modifying the code and graphics of games already in existence to make them more or less violent. This article is relevant to the conversation due to its factual support as to why violent video games promote aggression. The author offers a statistic from the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) that states, is a proven scientific connection between virtual violence and real-world In addition, Hilgard addresses how violent video games and apps can not only harm the mind, but also how they can harm the surroundings. As for the credibility of the author, Joseph Hilgard achieved doctorate status while double-majoring in Neuroscience and in Russian Language and Literature at Dartmouth College. Also, he studies the positive and negative aspects of media as well as game addiction. DeCamp, W. & Ferguson, C.J. J Youth Adolescence (2017) 46: 388. doi:10.1007/s10964- 016-0561-8 This journal entry provides research and different statistical data regarding the causes of aggression in youth. The article provides a study conducted by the American Academy of Keller 3 Pediatrics(AAP) and compares numerical values such as averages, standard deviations, maximums, and minimums on a bell curve for various categories that can influence youth aggression. These categories include but are not limited to violent video game play exposure and propensity, parental attachment or lack thereof violence within the household, parental enforcement, yelling between guardians, parental abuse, or getting into fights at school and among peers. The authors point out that some criticizers believe that small correlations between violent game play and violence-related outcomes may be due to other factors, which include a wide range of possible effects from gender, mental health, and social influences. The study uses a large and diverse sample of male and female youth in eighth and eleventh grade to examine this issue. This article is related to my research question because it involves the notion that violent video games are not always a source of aggression in adolescent players. The study conducted supports the implication that video game violence is not a meaningful predictor of youth violence. Likewise, the study suggests that factors such as family and social issues impact and increase aggression more than violent video games. Dr. Whitney DeCamp is an associate professor of Sociology at Western Michigan University. DeCamp has been involved in a wide range of research projects and has research interests in statistics along with technology and society. Dr. Christopher J. Ferguson has his Ph.D. in clinical psychology from the University of Central Florida and in 2013 was awarded a Distinguished Early Career Professional Award for media psychology and technology from the American Psychological Association. Engelhardt, C. R., Bartholow, B. D., Kerr, G. T., & Bushman, B. J. (2011). This is your brain on violent video games: Neural desensitization to violence predicts increased aggression following violent video game exposure. Journal of Experimental Social Keller 4 Psychology,47(5), 1033-1036. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.jesp.2011.03.027 In sum, this article brings up the point that no other studies to date have attempted to prove the correlation between exposure to violence and desensitization to violence and an increase in aggression. With this pointed out, the researchers opted to run an experiment in which the participants played a violent or nonviolent video game, viewed violent and nonviolent photos, and then gave a fictional opponent unpleasant noise blasts. The hypothesis predicted that there would be a connection between those exposed to violent content and more unpleasant, lengthy blasts of noise dispersed. The participants that were shown the violent content proved to give the virtual enemy worse noise blasts than those who were not shown violent media. The experiment proved that there is a link between violence desensitization and increased aggression, and exemplified the causal link between violent game exposure and increased aggression. This article is relevant to my research question because it identifies the link between violent video game exposure and elevated aggression. Also, this article is significant because of it being the first to identify the medium between violent video games and increased aggression desensitization. Desensitization, to violence, can be anything from lack of empathy to negative cognitive and physiological responses. Christopher R. Engelhardt is a Doctor of Philosophy and works in the Department of Health Psychology at the University of Missouri. Brad J. Bushman is a professor of communication and psychology and has a Ph.D. in social psychology as well as an M.A. in statistics and psychology. Geoffrey T. Kerr achieved doctorate status in social psychology from the University of Colorado and studied psychology at University of Missouri while being advised by Bruce D. Bartholow. Bartholow works in the field of psychological sciences at the University of Missouri. Keller 5 Gentile, D. A., Lynch, P. J., Linder, J. R., & Walsh, D. A. (2004). The effects of violent video game habits on adolescent hostility, aggressive behaviors, and school performance. Journal of Adolescence ,27(1), 5-22. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.adolescence.2003.10.002 This article focuses not only how much the average American child plays video games, but also the effects that they have on the child. In addition, it poses the idea that the amount of time spent playing video games may impact certain things whereas the content of the game can impact entirely separate things. For instance, evidence indicates that amount of play affects school performance, whereas violent content affects aggressive outcomes. Analysis found that across 54 independent tests of the relation between video game violence and aggression, involving 4262 participants, there appear to be a set of five consistent effects that stem from playing violent video games. They are: increased aggressive behaviors, increased aggressive cognitions, increased aggressive emotions, increased physiological arousal, and a decrease in prosocial behaviors. In sum, the article points out the harms of adolescents playing violent video games and identifies the positive correlation between increased aggression and violent games. The relevance of this article stems from the ample amount of evidence it provides as to how violent video games result in an increased level of aggression. Not only does this article prove that aggression is increased, but also levels of hostility amongst peers and school faculty. Those who divulged in violent video games were reported to be more argumentative with teachers and parents than those who did not. This ties into my research question because it not only answers my question, but also backs up that violent video games promote aggression among adolescents. Douglas A. Gentile is a developmental psychologist who has won numerous awards for his research and expertise on the effects of mass media on children, adolescents, and adults. Keller 6 Paul J. Lynch graduated medical school at the University of Oklahoma and is an anesthesiologist in Phoenix, AZ. Professor Jennifer Linder received her doctorate in child psychology from the University of Minnesota and specializes in developmental psychology, including parent-child relationships, friendships, aggression and media effects. Specifically, Dr. Linder has conducted research related to aggression and conflict in friendships and the effects of media (e.g., television, video games, the Internet) on child development and is especially interested in topics related to children and adolescents. David A. Walsh is an American psychologist who focuses on parenting, family life and the impact of media on children and teens.