[Type [Type Nauert 1 Mark Nauert Emil Smith Compostion 1 29 January 2017 Football has long been one of the most beloved sports in the United States. The National Football League is where all football players hope to be one day. It is the pinnacle of sports leagues, and the best of the best end up playing every Sunday. However, as time went on, many have begun to look into how damaging the game can be to a body over a career of playing football. The NFL is still extremely successful today, but over the last 10 years the league has continued to be questioned over how safe they are really keeping their players. Recently, players have started to voice their opinions over the issue. While some seem to care about discussing the issue, others are quite aware of the dangers. Players often decide to retire early now, or even talk about shortening their careers in the long run. Many doctors have conducted research on what effect the constant hits to the head have on a player, and the results are revealing. The two sides that are mainly involved in the situation are obviously the NFL, and also the NFL Players Association. The two are currently still discussing the problems with the game and what can be done to make sure the players are kept safe. The NFL is very confident in their concussion protocol, but a lot still needs to be discussed. For instance, what exactly are the effects of a long career of playing in the NFL and how could this affect the League as a whole? The article Can Pro Football remain the No. 1 Sport? written by Reed Karaim discusses whether or not the NFL can stay ahead of all the emerging sports in the United States. [Type [Type Nauert 1 Currently the NFL is by far the leader. This article dives into TV ratings over the past years and looked into how much money the NFL is making compared to other sports leagues in the United States. It was found that in fall of 2014, the NFL was one of the most watched shows on television accounting for 45 of the top 50 viewed shows. Also, the NFL makes the most money per year of any sports league in the United States. These statistics alone prove that the popularity is still there. So what could if anything could slow down the NFL? This article points out that soccer while a world sports is becoming more and more popular in the United States. However, for this to happen the NFL would need to take a loss in some area. This is where the article begins to discuss the issues of head injuries in the NFL. There is scientific evidence that playing football increases a risk of having a long term brain injury. The article points out that many people believe that Roger Goodell, the commissioner of the NFL, has not responded properly to the information that is coming out. Within the article is results regarding a study done by Boston school of Medicine on brain damage in former players. Much of the research focused on CTE a disease associated with memory loss, confusion, and impaired judgement. Boston University found that 59 of 62 deceased former NFL players tested positive for the disease. What is even more scary is that CTE has been found in many former NFL players that committed suicide. In Ken article N.F.L. Introduces New Rules to Back Concussion Protocol, he writes about what changes the NFL decided to make to their concussion protocol. The change is that teams in the league will be fined thousands of dollars or even lose draft picks if they do not take a player out of the game after enduring a concussion. The NFLPA was in accordance with this as they did agree to the penalties that could come from it. This article also reveals that the [Type [Type Nauert 1 NFL plans to spend millions of dollars in law suits, and for developing new safer equipment. What is interesting is that before this new change, teams were not fined one cent for not following the concussion protocol. That is not keeping your players safe. This article provides many examples and figures to prove its credibility. There are real example of teams that did not follow protocol in the past. The NFL in on constant pressure to make the game better and safer for their players. This change that came in the summer of 2016 seems like a good one. The author points out that it takes a long time before the NFL decdes to make a change in their protocol. This needs to be looked at closely. This next article focuses on the medicine that players are taking because of football related injuries, including concussions. It involves many numbers and statistics that show just how many different meds these players are taking. Opioids are very prevalent among NFL players as over half have said that they have taken them. Also, many of these players have reported to misuse the drug which can lead to a numerous amount of health issues. Misuse of opioids is a major issue in general not just sports alone. It often causes physical and mental impairment, or even death. This relates back to whether or not the NFL is doing everything in their power to make the game safer. Many players said they took opioids because of concussions. Plus, to make matters worse, many even said that a lot of those concussions they sustained were undiagnosed. This brings up the point of the NFL concussion protocol. The league must make sure that all players are checked for concussions after taking a big hit. It is so important that the misuse of drugs becomes something that is not associated at all with the NFL. Players still have a life after [Type [Type Nauert 1 retirement, and this article displays how a life during their career takes a toll on them in the long run. The next article titled Report disputes NFL on Concussions writes about a correlation found between depression and concussions. Many players in the NFL suffer from clinical depression. A study by the University of Connecticut shows the correlation between the two. The University had a general health survey of over 2,000 retired NFL players.