Hawkins 1 Kirsten Hawkins Emil Smith Composition 1 1/29/2017 The Effects of Breed-Specific Legislation on a Community Over the years, the legislation on breed-specific dogs has been altered in many different ways due to new and upcoming research. Many dog issue cases have been brought to court in the hopes a ban will be set and remain set for the safety of community. These cases consist mostly of dog bites or attacks. The United States is not the only place where incidents with canines occur, however recently in the news we see more and more news broadcastings of the incidents that have taken place and what the person involved in the case would like to be done about the issue. With the rise of publicity, legislation has begun to create new rules and limitations on owning and handling a dog that can be considered under breed-specific. Breed- specific legislation is a law that restricts dogs based on their appearance; this is set into place because some people see the dog as There comes a time when people believed stereotyping people is frowned upon, so why should we stereotype dogs? How does breed- specific legislation determine who can and cannot own a dog? Why is this important? Hawkins 2 Biggins, Caitlin. Strictly Liable Landlords Could Mean the Pound for Pit Bulls. University of Baltimore Journal of Land & Development, Fall 2012, Vol. 2 Issue 1, p83-89, 7p, Database: Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson) In this article, we are told about a pit bull escaping and attacking a young boy which resulted in the boy needing multiple surgeries and needing to be hospitalized for a week. This resulted in the case involving Tracey v. Solesky a certain verdict then allowed landlords to begin to put a ban on pit bulls, or any other animals on their premises. According to the article, Liable Landlords Could Mean the Pound for Pit it states that the, strict liability standard was specific to pit bulls because the court held that pit bulls were inherently (pg.84) With that being said those who had a pit bull present in their house could potentially get evicted if one did not get rid of their dog due to the new laws. Not only could the homeowner lose their house if not wanting to agree to the laws, the landlord could then increase the insurance. Before the ruling, when the case first came out it was brought to the attention that many people in Maryland began to give away their pit bulls to shelters in the hopes to not lose their house, or have their insurance increased. This article is just one example of a pit bull attack leading to a court ruling to ban pit bulls on certain premises. Breed-specific legislation has a huge toll on this article because there are guidelines homeowners need to follow dealing with their pit bulls, and if these requirements are not met one would face many repercussions. Caitlin Biggins, the author of this article graduated from University of Baltimore School of Law, she is reliable when it comes to talking legally because of Hawkins 3 where she graduated. The author does a great job at describing the incident and the reason behind Breed-specific legislation, which gives readers a better understanding on the topic. Dayan, Colin. Dead Dogs: Breed bans, euthanasia, and preemptive justice. Boston Review, Mar/Apr2010, Vol. 35 Issue 3, p26-28, 3p, Database: Humanities Full Text (H.W. Wilson) Pit bulls have always had a certain reputation among Americans. The pit bull was once known as according the newspaper article titled, But once the word got out that those specific types of breeds were used to fight against each other for money the breed got a stereotype of being very dangerous. Two men were arrested for accusations on dog fighting their multiple pit bulls. When the pit bulls were taken to the shelter the team of staff decided the dogs were and needed to be killed. On record, more than half of those dogs were puppies under a year old. Dogs temperaments reflect the way they have been raised by their owners. For example, any breed of dog will be mean or if it is being treated poorly in a way they know any better. Whereas if a dog is shown love and affection the dog will never turn out to be dangerous. Those dogs did not have to be put down because of a stereotype. Breed-specific legislation not only can restrict people from owning a specific breed of dog, but it can also be used in order to put down dogs who seem to be Colin Dayan is a professor in multiple professions at Vanderbilt University. Here, she has written many articles, and books on dogs, and many different topics dealing with dogs. She is seen as a very reliable source due to the immense amount of work created on dogs alone. This Hawkins 4 article can be seen as relevant because of the fact we are shown an example of why dogs are put down based upon their breed. Cohen, Judy; Richardson, John. Pit Bull Panic. Journal of Popular Culture, Fall2002, Vol. 36 Issue 2, p285-317, 33p, 2 Diagrams, 6 Charts; DOI: 10.1111/1540-5931.00007, Database: Humanities Source In the article, we are shown multiple more examples of the way Pit Bulls are viewed however this time we are shown from the eye of the news media. a huge controversy against pit bull owners for purchasing such a dog. With the help of news media pit bulls became more in the spotlight of being known as archetype of canine evil, predators of the 285), according to the article Pit Bull Panic by Judy Cohen and John Richardson. The news media did in no way help the stereotype placed on pit bulls, for they would only show the mean and aggressive side, when there was another whole side to this animal. Not only was the pit bull portrayed as a violent dog breed, but they were also associated with the harsh situations of dog fighting. If the media continues to only focus on the negatives people will never be able to get over the controversy of this dangerous breed. Judy Cohen and John Richardson worked together in the hopes to explain the reason behind the news media targeting pit bulls. Although Judy Cohen has many other articles she is not as reliable as other authors because she have much to do with the breed-specific legislation movement. With that being said, John Richardson is also not a truly reliable source when it comes to breed-specific legislation however the article titled is very useful in the understanding behind breed-specific legislation. Hawkins 5 Many articles could explain the aggressive behaviors canines can have but this article explains the reason behind the aggressive behaviors. In the article, dog aggression: Epidemiologic aspects: In memoriam, Rudy de Meester by Gina Polo, Nestor Calderon, Suzanne Clothier, and Rita de Cassia Maria Garcia, we are provided with background information on dog bites, dog bite statistics, and steps taken in order to prevent the aggressive behaviors canines put out. The article states, behavior is one of the main reasons why dogs are given away, abandoned, or With that being said, readers can conclude some dogs given a fair chance to change their behavior after one act of aggressiveness. The workshop presented in the article would be based out of areas in which dog owners could reach them if needed. These places include shelters, veterinary office, and specific breeders. This workshop would hope to change the dog from being labeled as aggressive. This article does not talk specifically about breed specific legislation, however it is relevant because of the fact people out there hope to prevent the euthinization, and or the giving away of a canine because of an aggressive act. The authors of this article worked together in the hopes to provide reliable information on statistics, and the process of what could potentially help the situation out.