Bricker 1 Madeline Bricker Professor Hanson Composition II January 29, 2017 Immigration Taxation In the United States of America, there is an existing concern on the amount immigrants pay in taxes to the American government. Some believe that immigrants are contributing largely in taxes annually, such as the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy (ITEP). Others, including the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), consider that the annual contributions to the government are not as great as the cost. While these two organizations disagree on the specifics, it is clear that they both are interested in how immigrants are affecting the American economy in hopes that it is a positive one. However, before a compromise can be made, it is important to understand something about immigrants in the United States. There are many types of immigrants and multiple step in the immigration process. For one, there are immigrants who come here illegally, who are undocumented. Then, there are people who are here legally, but do not have Some immigrants with legal status are granted citizenship. Based on the two beliefs and goals, there is something that can be done, that would satisfy both organizations and immigrants as well as being beneficial to the country. The American economy would benefit more if legal immigrants were given legal status, and if more immigrants with legal status were given citizenship. To begin, the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy (ITEP) believes that many of the facts gathered, concerning immigration reform, are affected due to the fact that many immigrants Bricker 2 are undocumented. This affects numbers concerning how much immigrants are truly providing the American government in taxes. According to Lisa Gee, an employee of Institute on Taxation Economic Policy with active involvement in social policy regarding taxation on immigrants, undocumented immigrants contribute 11.64 billion dollars annually in state and local taxes (3). These staggering numbers could possibly indicate that there is a misunderstanding about whether the revenue that immigrants generate is greater than their expenditures. Not only that, but immigrants pay percent of their incomes in state and local (Gee 3). The large portion of paychecks may surprise some, but immigrants pay sales tax when purchasing any goods or services, as well as income tax, and property tax, whether they own a house or are only renters. In addition, according to Gee, fifty percent of undocumented immigrant households file income (4) meaning that the other half are having taxes deducted from their paychecks but are not receiving returns in their income tax, therefore increasing the amount immigrants supply in taxes. The fact that many contributions are undocumented proves difficult in deciding whether they are contributing enough in taxation. However, in research, she provides the hidden figures behind these questions. Through this research, it is easier to get a grasp of how much revenue is honestly being received by the United government in taxation from immigrants, including previously known and undocumented individuals. On the contrary, the Federation for American Immigration Reform provides another side to the situation. Now we know how much immigrants are contributing, but how much money are they costing the government? As stated in a report by Jack Martin, who is actively involved in the political world and has a career campaigning for politicians, annual costs of illegal Bricker 3 immigration at the federal, state and local level is estimated to be 113 billion (4). This number certainly exceeds the 11.64 billion that is contributed in taxes. In addition, Martin brings up one of the costs that immigrants have on the American economy. Some of the numbers about undocumented immigrants can be misleading because many immigrants have American jobs, essentially taking away the opportunity for the currency to go to people with American citizenship. This scenario costs the government in multiple ways. It decreases the opportunity for employment for current citizens, while simultaneously lets money leave the United economy. The biggest cost, says Martin, is the education that immigrant children receive from taxpayers, amounting to 52 billion dollars annually (4). The costs of immigrants to the United States are 101.36 billion dollars greater than their tax revenue. revenue does not exceed the expenditures it poses on the United States government. Both organizations, the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy and the Federation for American Immigration Reform bring up reasonable and real points concerning immigration taxation. Although, immigrants bring in a considerable amount of undocumented revenue to the government, they cost the government over a trillion dollars more than they help annually. Although the Federation for American Immigration Reform concerns themselves mainly with costs, while the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy focuses on the revenue, it is clear that they both share a goal - to have immigration positively affect the American economy. A compromise that would satisfy each organization includes making many of the legal immigrants American citizens. By being more flexible in granting legal immigrants citizenship, their revenue would increase and therefore, their income taxes would increase. Both Martin and discusses this possibility. Gee states that legal status was granted to all undocumented Bricker 4 immigrants in the United States as part of a comprehensive immigration reform and allowing them to work legally would increase their state and local tax contributions by an estimated $2.1 billions a (4). For those immigrants who are not living in America with a legal status, if they were given legal status, it would decrease the amount of undocumented immigrants. This would not change the numbers, but rather reveal them. Undocumented immigrants are silent contributors to the economy through taxation. This solution makes it more likely for immigrants to have documented revenue, meaning the number of immigrants who do not currently pay their income taxes would decrease. This is because many immigrants get paid the meaning they are receiving income that is not recorded, and they are not charged with income tax. If more immigrants were granted legal status, more immigrants would then be paid with knowledge to the government and they would be able to pay income taxes if they were automatically deducted from their paychecks. This solution has common ground between both the Federation for American Immigration Reform and the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy because it increases the amount of revenue received by the government. Also, immigrants would be pleased to become American citizens. There is one potential downside to this solution that the Federation for American Immigration Reform mentions. If these immigrants are granted American citizenship, they will then receive benefits as any American citizen would, including Social Security. The concern for them becoming citizens, while they may bring in revenue through income tax, their costs would still be high due to large expenditure benefits such as Social Security. While this is a valid point, this would then reflect on how much America spends on their citizens, rather than costs concerning immigrants. If they are given citizenship, they are afforded the same benefits we are and all costs after that would be not concern immigration, but Bricker 5 rather American citizens. Due to all of these considerations, the best compromise between the Federation for American Immigration Reform and the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy would be for more immigrants to be granted legal status or citizenship in order to increase tax revenue to the American government. In conclusion, the Institute on Taxation Economic Policy focuses on the revenue from taxation on immigrants, while the Federation for American Immigration Reform is attentive to the expenditures immigrants cause the United government. Although the organizations have conflicting focus and opinion on the situation, they clearly both are interested in the American economical status. The compromise proposed is that immigrants have more flexibility in being granted legal status or citizenship. This action will then have a chain effect causing incomes to increase, therefore increasing their income tax amounts. This revenue would increase their tax revenue by over 2.1 billion dollars (Gee 4). With this solution, both goal to positively affect the American economy would be met and in addition, some of the legal immigrants would be pleased to be given the opportunity to have American citizenship. Increasing flexibility to grant legal immigrants American citizenship or legal status benefits everyone in the end. Bricker 6 Works Cited Gee, Lisa C. State & Local Tax Institute on Taxation Economic Policy . Feb 2016. Jones, Jefferey. Changing Faces in the Poll Tuesday Briefing. Gallup Poll News Service, 2002, Washington DC. LeMay, Giseli. Paying Taxes for the Chance of Legal Immigration Status of Thomas Law Review , Summer vol. 27, no. 2, 2015, pp. 22, 309. Lopes, Ana Cecilia, and Alex Kornya. the Intersection of Taxation and Quarterly, vol. 34, no. 3, 2015, p. 13. Martin, Jack. Fiscal Burden of Illegal Immigration on United States Federation for American Immigration Reform . Feb 2011.