Espada 1 Elise Espada Martha Heiser ENC1102.069 12 February 2017 Puppy mills in the United States The Humane Society of the United States and the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals are two animal protection organizations. They both founded on the belief that animals should be protected under the law and deserve respectful treatment by humans. Both of these organizations encourage people to adopt dogs instead of buying them from pet store owners since they usually get the dogs from puppy mills. There is no legal definition of a puppy mill but what a puppy is but ASPCA defines them as large scale commercial dog breeding facility where profit is given priority over the well being of the The dogs are housed in overcrowded and unsanitary conditions without proper veterinary care, food, water or socialization. Puppy mills focus on profit which means that the dogs are often bred with little regard for genetic quality. These puppies are prone to congenital and hereditary conditions which include heart disease and blood and respiratory disorders due to this.. They also often arrive in pets stores and sometimes in their new homes with diseases or infirmities ranging from parasites to pneumonia. They also often suffer from anxiety and fear as well as other behavioral problems due to them being separated from their mothers and littermates at a young age. These organizations have similar goals but are not working together to shut down puppy mills. If the Humane Society and the ASPCA were to collaborate then people would be aware of the puppy mills and how it is considered animal cruelty. Espada 2 The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals encourages people to make adoption their first option. Though if the person has their heart set on a purebred, they ask them to visit their local shelter or find a breed rescue group before searching for a breeder. Then if they can not find what they want through a shelter or breed group to then learn how to recognize a responsible breeder. When they are buying a dog from a breeder to be sure to meet the parents or at least the mother, and see where the dogs Many pet store owners who show people papers or licenses to prove that the dogs they have are from humane sources. Many breeders would not sell a puppy through a pet store since they usually want to screen potential buyers to ensure that the puppies are going to good homes. Meanwhile the Humane Society do not provide as much information as ASPCA does. The Humane Society of the United States says that puppy mills contribute to pet overpopulation. They also say that also cause countless dogs lifetimes of suffering in squalid wire mills: The Humane Society of the United The organization asks people to do their research and to look into adopting a dog from their local shelter or rescue. They also have a video about an investigation they did of the pet stores in Virginia by visiting them and asking where they get their puppies to. They prove the answers they were given false and provide where they actually get them from. They also show an example of how puppies arrive in the stores with diseases by showing a dog with upper respiratory infection that was cleared for sale by a veterinarian the day before. In the Problem of Puppy Mills: Why the Animal Welfare Bark is Stronger than its Robert Garner, who is a political scientist and a leading animal welfare scholar, explains past failures of activists as failures of political (260). He Espada 3 says that scholars and movement participants have paid little attention to the political-institutional dimension of animal (Garner 261). Its due to the movement that has adopted a whole range of strategies that dependent upon influencing national decision makers. Puppy mills have caused animal welfare activists concerned in moralistic terms. federal Animal Welfare Act (AWA) requires breeders who have more than three breeding female dogs and sell puppies to pet stores or puppy brokers to be licensed and inspected by the U.S Department of Agriculture There is a loophole in the AWA, its regulation apply only to animal dealers. That means that breeders can sidestep mandatory registration by selling directly to the public. This means that retailers to operate without the oversight of federal inspections and there is a limited number of federal inspectors which means a number of breeders go uninspected (Garner 261). Puppy mills are different from breeding facilities which attempt to produce one or two litters of the healthiest puppies they can get while the mills breed without consideration of genetic quality says Mitch A. Montgomery, who is J.D. candidate from the Elon University School of Law (452). This way of thinking treats dogs as commodities just like crop with their only concern to produce as many puppies as possible in a short amount of time. As long as people are willing to that adorable puppy in pet stores or puppy mills, there will be a profit to be made, and irresponsible breeders will continue to produce as many (Montgomery 454). The AWA requires dealers to obtain a license from the USDA and to maintain humane care standards which are to provide minimum projections. The dealer is supposed to provide facilities need to be sufficiently heated and cooled when necessary: a Espada 4 which must be at least six inches higher than the head of the dog when it is in a normal standing position and contain floor space at least six inches longer than the length of the dog as well as the opportunity for Exercise. The animals must also must be fed at least once each day and have access to water often as necessary to ensure their health and (Montgomery 455). These are just survival standards for dogs.The dogs from these mills can legally be kept in cages that are only six inches wider than the dog in each direction for their entire lives. While the Local governments are trying to the market for puppy mill dogs through the enactment of local ordinance that ban or severely limit the retail sale of cats and says Krysten Kenny, who is a J.D candidate from Albany Law School. These in turn will decrease the amount of dogs produced and result in people going to more humane places to get a companion like shelters and rescue groups. ordinances to have an impact on puppy mills and pet overpopulation which start from the premise that local initiatives play a crucial role in changing public and governmental perception of the social and moral issues involved in the abusive puppy mill (Kenny 380). Kenny argues that it should be prohibited to sell dogs in pet stores instead of regulating the pricing of dogs that are sold by pet stores. If they prohibit the sale of dogs in pet stores it would tighten the market pressure on commercial dog dealers since the federal regulation is proven to be ineffective. In conclusion, puppy mills still exist in the United States and to some extent is considered animal cruelty. They exist due to loopholes in the Animal Welfare Act, lack of regulation and registration of the mills. Both the Humane Society of the United States and the American Society Espada 5 for the Prevention believe that animals should be protected under the law and deserve respectful treatment by humans. If the two corporations worked together, they would be able to spread more awareness of puppy mills. The fact that puppy mills still exist is probably due lack of news coverage over them and that not many people do not know where the pet stores are getting their dogs from. If both organizations would get more information out there such as with commercials, articles and videos posted on social media more people would donate to their cause to stop puppy mills and would probably protest for a revision on the Animal Welfare Act to provide more protection for animals. Espada 6 Work Cited Burger, Kailey A. Solving The Problem Of Puppy Mills: Why The Animal Welfare Bark Is Stronger Than Its  University Journal Of Law & Policy 43.(2013): 259-284. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Kenny, Krysten. A Local Approach To A National Problem: Local Ordinances As A Means Of Curbing Puppy Mill Production And Pet  Law Review 75.1 (2011): 379-406. Search Alumni Edition . Web. 1 Feb. 2017. MONTGOMERY, MITCH A. North Puppy Mill Problem: New Commercial Breeding Standards Solve The Problem, But A  Law Review 7.1 (2015): 449. Provided Full Text Searching File . Web. 1 Feb. 2017. ASPCA, 10 Nov. 2016. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. mills: The Humane Society of the United 26 Sept. 2016. Web. 1 Feb. 2017.