Student 1 Student Derisi ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Project One: Stakeholders Visual Rhetoric GMO (genetic modified organisms) are foods that have been genetically engineered to produce more yield, become more resistant to pests, grow without seeds, grow larger, or have traits that make them look and taste better and more desirable. Some believe that the concept of GMOs is the answer to solving world hunger because of increased yield, more food can be produced with less cost. The counter argument, against GMOs, is that genetically modifying the foods eaten can effect the DNA of humans and damage to the environment (GMO Awareness.com, 2016). The stakeholder GMO Awareness is an organization that makes it their mission to educate the public about the risks and dangers of eating genetically modified food. The organization is founded by Robert Schooler, a Cornell student who realized that his university was in a shocking amount of ecologically (Schooler). This stakeholder is an anti-GMO stakeholder, not believing that genetically modified organisms are bad for the environment and human health. Two images provided by the website both promote the idea that GMOs are toxic and artificial. They work to manipulate different organisms to an extent that no one knows how it will effect the human race and its health. The photos from the stakeholder show this through the use of different rhetorical devices. The first image (see figure 1) is located on one of the tabs on the website titled and is the first picture on the page that is seen. The image has many aspects Student 2 that make it effective in conveying its message. There is no font on this picture so the message is inferred by the audience. The bright colors against the plain white draws the attention to the objects on the screen, the tomatoes that are increasing in size, the largest of which is being injected by a large syringe, giving the implication that the injection has something to do with the growth of the fruit. Although the reader may consider this a good thing, the ominous, anonymous nature of the contents of the syringe provides a sense of uncertainty of what is going into our food. The red of the tomatoes represent blood and death that could possibly surround the injecting of substances into our food that we know the consequences of. Figure one is interesting in how it uses its rhetorical devices of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. The only ethos that this visual has is the placement it has on the page. The placement of the picture on the website gives the photo some credibility and establishes a reputation. The logos in this visual is unspoken. The audience finds the logic themselves, solidifying the rational thought because they came to it themselves. Audiences will piece together that the syringe is the cause of the growth of the tomatoes. This sends the message that there is an outside force that acts upon the natural food that we eat. Pathos is present with the hidden fear that the realization that the food we eat is full of an undisclosed substance. The second image (see figure 2) shows a field of wheat or some type of grain with a large biohazard sign placed in the foreground. This image tells the message of how the fields, representing the large yield of a common ingredient, can be tainted because of the inference by humans in their genome. Though this image is used as a link to the page of the website describing the risks of GMOs, the font is clear and visible. The font is white against a black background, the words are clear and clean so they are easily understandable. The font reads Student 3 risks of which leads the audience to make the assumption that this picture is indeed about GMOs. The natural colors give the allusion of safety but the use of the sign and the bright red draws attention to the hazard symbol on the sign, draws the eye to it and forces the recognition. The location of the image on the right hand side of the screen makes sure that the eye is drawn to it automatically when looking at the website. Human nature automatically draws the eye to the right, most people being right handed are drawn to that side. Rhetoric devices are also utilized with this image. Ethos that this image has is the placement on the page. Being present on the page of a organization adds to its credibility. The words on the bottom of the image stating got the studies to prove make the arguments seem more believable. The use of the biohazard sign adds to both the ethos and pathos of the visual. The usage of the official symbol adds to its credibility and plausibility while also stirring up emotions. The idea of a biohazard symbol in regards to what we eat, can stir feelings of uneasiness and fear in regards to what we are putting into our bodies. The logos comes into play with the composition of the image, the sign in front of the field leads the audience to the logical belief that the sign is speaking about the field before it. Both images are from the same source, a website for an anti-GMO organization, and they show the stance they show in the messages the visuals display. Both images use color and composition to lead the audience to their own conclusions about what they represent. Figure one shows tomatoes being physically manipulated by science through the use of injection and direct contact while figure two shows a field of wheat after having being tampered with, showing the possible consequences of what is happening in figure one, a biohazard to ourselves and loved ones. The combination of these two images and many others on the GMO Awareness page, Student 4 accurately depict their stance on this issue. The two images from GMO awareness use their rhetoric devices to accurately and effectively display their points on their stances on the issues they report on. They effectively use logos, pathos, and ethos along with careful composition of the photos. GMOs have an unforeseen and unknown consequence to the human body and the environment. With the goal of GMO awareness to make sure that citizens are able to make informed choices about how they carry on with GMOs, I believe that this organization has competently displayed their beliefs. (W.C. 1067) Student 5 Works Cited 8.1 What Is a Rhetorical  ENC 1102 EText. N.p.: n.p., n.d. N. pag. Web. GMO  GMO Awareness. N.p., 11 May 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1 Student 7