Butterfield 1 Brittany Butterfield Ms. Heiser ENC 1102 069 12 February 2017 The Battle of Sex Education Preteens across the nation are being taught a controversial curriculum called sexual education. Sexual education, commonly known as is the teaching of human sexuality topics. The National Abstinence Education Association, ASCEND, is an organization that promotes the practice of abstinence-centered education. Abstinence-centered education teaches the restraint of all sexual activities until marriage and stresses the morality of different forms of sexual expressions in teenagers. While some may say, this is the best way to education children the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, SIECUS, has taken stands on educating children about sex to promote safer sex and decreases teen pregnancy. Despite the ongoing disagreement with the two, there is hope for a compromise. To begin with, the National Abstinence Education focal goal is to promote abstinence-only-until-marriage programs. This organization has strong religious views and perceives comprehensive sexual education as a factor that increases the likelihood of teens having sex at a young age. The council of this organization is comprised of united individuals who meet to discuss methods to further the abstinence-centered education field. ASCEND encourages adolescents to make healthy decisions in their relationships through sexual risk avoidance techniques. risk avoidance is an educational approach based on the public health model of primary prevention to empower youth to avoid all the risk of sexual (http://weascend.org). Through these techniques, teens feel liberated to continue to remain firm Butterfield 2 on their pledge of purity until marriage thus, retaining adolescent pregnancy rates and transmission of sexually transmitted diseases in youth low. Specifically, Southern states endorse ideology the most. In southern states, comprehensive sex education is customarily perceived as a gateway to sexual activity. In Tennessee, for example, stringent laws are implemented in secondary school that forbids non- based abstinence presentations (Zhao 1). In Negative: when my state passed one of the most rigid abstinence-only sex education laws in the nation, I went back to former student Becca Andrew explained how she benefited from the strict abstinence preaching. Andrews stated friends and I knew the consequences of sex: ruined reputations, questioned faith, and the most unthinkable of all, She believed being instructed about the advantages of abstinence helped push her to remain strong on her purity. Along with the abstinence-centered education, Andrews parents continually informed her that sex was only for reproduction. Over time, data has accumulated that support that this form of sexual education is ideal. Such as, The one, of many, positive outcomes of abstinence education are that middle schoolers who were in an abstinence program were more likely to delay their first sexual (Benefits of abstinence). These reports, and similar reports, aid underlying goal of furthering abstinence-centered education. On the other hand, the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States is an organization that actively advocates for comprehensive sex education. has the right to accurate information and age and developmentally appropriate education about (www.siecus.org). SIECUS believes that comprehensive sex education is a critical course of study that should be taught regardless of the cultural background of each child. Topics including, human development, sexual relationships, sexual expression and sexual health, are all Butterfield 3 taught. These topics are positively expressed, encouraging adolescents to be comfortable in their sexuality. In furtherance of ensuring accurate and respectful teachings, SIECUS has a training program for teachers. The teachers learn exactly how to present sexual education information and remain well up-to-date on emerging information. Consequently, adolescents become more prepared for when they choose to partake in sexual activities. Despite the numerous data that supports ideologies, there is some resistance among society on whether children should be taught comprehensive sexual education. Dr. Christine Markham, University of Texas Prevention Research Center in Public Health employee, explores the positive effects of comprehensive sex education programs in middle schools. In the article, Behavioral and Psychosocial Effects of Two Middle School Sexual Health Education Programs at Tenth-Grade Follow-Up, Dr. Markham reveals that comprehensive sex education delayed sexual intercourse and reduced other sexual risks in ninth and tenth graders. This was uncovered through extensive studying of fifteen middle schools and the conduction of follow-up surveys of the same students that took the course previously. The students were asked how well the sex education was in reducing sexual risks, which all agreed that it played a great role in. This exemplified the importance of continuing the education in high school to increase the success rate of delay of sex and reduced sexual risk behaviors, which SIECUS stresses. Additionally, Dr. Laurie Meschke and Christina Peter, current staff members of the public health department at the University of Tennessee, conducted a survey that assessed how parents felt about the discussion of adolescent health issues. In Views on Promoting Adolescent Sexual Health, the parents all agreed that they wanted their child to remain healthy and encouraged sexual education topics that avert teen pregnancy. The parents and SIECUS ultimately share the same goal of wanting to decrease teen sexual risks and teen pregnancy rate. Butterfield 4 As time has progressed, it is apparent that there needs to be a solution between the two forms of sexual education. A plausible solution is to implement abstinence-plus-education programs. Abstinence-plus-programs are a happy medium between the two because it includes information about contraception methods, along with strong abstinence preaching. Sexual activities are discussed in a positive manner while teaching methods to reduce the risk of unintended pregnancy and infections of STDS. Abstinence will also be taught in a positive manner, reassuring adolescents that this is the best method to avoid the havoc of unplanned pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases. This proposal works because study showed that most students felt their abstinence-only sex education had mixed value and low overall impact in their lives. However, those that stressed in abstinence-only curricula and drew in themes with had themes with strong support for comprehensive instruction and less for emphases on strictly negative outcomes of sexual (Gardner). The only way to guide adolescents in high and middle school is to have a sexual education with substance, material that provides information that would help if the inevitable happens and they partake in sexual activities. The different teaching of sexual education is a topic that has been discussed thoroughly. The National Abstinence Education Association and Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States intentions are to lower the rate of teen pregnancy and prevent the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. Both focus is to education adolescences about the importance of life decisions, emotionally and physically. Society needs to help tear down barriers for affirmative sexual health. Sex education standards help one partake in sexual activities in an empowered and responsible way. Without any form of sexual education, Butterfield 5 adolescents have a strong foundation. This strong foundation can be later used to guide them to building healthy relationships and more comfortable in their sexuality. Butterfield 6 Works Cited We Ascend, weascend.org/about-us-2/. Andrews, Becca. Sex negative: when my state passed one of the most rigid abstinence-only sex education laws in the nation, I went back to  Mother Jones 2016: 28. Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Gardner, Emily A. Abstinence-Only Sex Education: College Evaluations and  American Journal of Sexuality Education 10.2 (2015): 125. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Meschke, Laurie L.1, and Christina R.2 Peter. Hmong American Views on Promoting Adolescent Sexual  American Journal of Sexuality Education 9.3 (2014): 308- 328. Education Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. - Comprehensive Sexuality SIECUS - Comprehensive Sexuality Education, www.siecus.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=Page.ViewPage&pageId=514. Williams, Elizabeth A., and Robin E. Jensen. Conflicted Identification in The Sex Education  Qualitative Health Research 26.11 (2016): 1574. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Your Life  Benefits of Abstinence Your Life Counts. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Zhao, Emmeline. Tennessee Sex Education Bill Promotes Abstinence-Only, Warns Against Sexual  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.