If you follow sports, then you know a major problem with majority of the sports are injuries. In majority of contact sports the main type of injuries are concussions or some sort of head injury. The reason behind my topic was to find something that will help gain better knowledge on the type of injuries this sport is heavily involved with. While doing research, learn many valuable things like what are concussions? The psychological symptoms and treatments, research technology being used for it, etc. In this paper, I will be able to explain how to identify a concussion (and possibly other head injuries), how to treat and manage a concussion, and also the post-concussion effects an athlete may face. Erlanger, David M. FORUM Neuropsychology Of Sports-Related Head Injury: Dementia Pugilisticato Post Concussion  Clinical Neuropsychologist 13.2 (1999): 193. Academic Search Premier. Web This article mostly explains the effects of concussions and post concussions syndromes. It explains many of the different head injuries you can get with hard contact sports and the life time effects that can possibly come with those head injuries. It goes into detail about each of them and basically explains how you would know if you had one and what you could do to treat and prevent them. It also explains what can happen post injury, the neuropsychological testing, and how the return to play decisions work out. David Erlanger is important because he is a doctor that focuses on the brain. Also This relates to my research question because it tells the actual injury part of it. It tells how it works, how you would know if a serious head injury, the testing, and the decision making. It also goes into detail about the many other types of head injuries you may encounter and briefly explain which sports have the highest risk of encountering one of the injuries. This article will best help me when I decide to explain the long-term effects of the injuries and how it gets handled. Collins, Michael W., Mark R. Lovell, and Douglas B. Mckeag. Current Issues In Managing Sports-Related  JAMA: Journal Of The American Medical Association 282.24 (1999): 2283. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. In this article, it explains the issue of determining when an athlete is absolutely ready to return to their respective sport following the diagnosis of a concussion. Like others it also goes into detail of the description of what a concussion is, and it also explains how someone could properly identify one. It also explains the important details and things to consider when managing an athlete that show signs of a concussion or one with a concussion. And last this one also shows the return to play details that should be followed and other studies of athletes with concussions. The Authors of this are relevant because they focus their topics on brain research. This work is key to their research. Also This article relates to my question because the basic management of a concussion. I can use this because it informs on the basics of diagnosing a concussion and how to properly manage one. It tells what to do if you or an athlete are facing concussions symptoms or even if you have one. I can also use to the other case studies that are given to back up my ideas. Guay, Julie L. The Era Of Sport Concussion: Evolution Of Knowledge, Practice, And The Role Of  American Psychologist 71.9 (2016): 875-887. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Sport concussions had become a serious topic in the world. Over the last few decades research has been conducted to find ways to treat the injuries and prevent concussions from occurring during a sporting event. It has lead to educating people on concussions and how to prevent them from mismanaging the injury. There have been many changes made and new developments due to the increase in research. Although alternatives have been made to prevent concussion injuries, there has still been a dramatic increase in funding to further the research for more developments to come. Lastly, it also discusses ways of discipline within psychology that will play a significant role in the care. Julie Guay is relevant because she is a psychologist who has dealt with many patients facing problems with head injuries. This relates to my topic because the basic background of what researching. With my topic, I am searching for the basic background of concussions and how the effect the players. In this Article, it explains most of all I need to know. It explains what a concussion is, the technology used to further research it and ways to combat it. Doucette, Mitchell L., et al. The Massachusetts School Sports Concussions Law: A Qualitative Study Of Local Implementation  Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics 44.3 (2016): 503-513. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. In this article, it explains much of what the state of Massachusetts are trying to do to combat concussions. They explain many of the methods they are going to in the different levels of sports starting with youth sports. The focus is explaining decisions on concussions during the implementation process, which is the basic strategizing for concussions. They plan to do specific things like using school athletic trainers, doctors, and a concussion protocol Mitchell Doucette is relevant because he focuses on law related to head injuries. This information will relate to my article because it explains the combat process many are beginning to take. It explains how serious the issue is beginning to be and what is being done about it. They believe the addition of many helpful sources will slow down the rate of concussions, and also help them to gain more knowledge on the serious issue.