Student 1 Student Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Improving the Lives of Veterans The American Legion is the largest nonprofit war-time organization. It was founded and chartered by congress in 1919 and focuses on serving veterans, service members, and communities. There are currently over 2.4 million members and they have made numerous changes to veteran care over their 98 years of existence such as drafting the original GI Bill, creating the National Association for Mental Health, and launching the national, Am Not A campaign for veterans. The American Legion focuses on issues most important to the (Mission), with the help of monetary donations and volunteers. The website contains many captivating images that encourage sympathy for the viewers to donate money or join the efforts. Many of the photos on this website portray veterans in specific positions to suggest the work that the Legion does, as well as call to attention the main problem of veteran care. Along with images are links, articles, and events which promote correct care for all veterans and add to the influential effect of each accompanying image. With the use of specific persuasive appeals, the American Legion uses images to bring awareness to their journey of improving the underlying problem of veteran care in the United States. The first image, Figure 1 is a picture of five gentlemen standing together in what appears to be a basketball gym. The image uses several visual appeals to draw attention to the main Student 2 aspects. At first glance to the image, it is apparent that two veterans that are physically injured. The two injuries immediately emphasize The involvement in the care for The viewer is able to identify that they are veterans because of their hats and covers which contain what looks to be military insignias. When looking at the faces of each person in this image, it is easy to tell that they are in a cheerful mood. These two elements alone demonstrate that The American Legion takes care of all veterans despite being visibly injured. The Legion was able to use composition by strategically placing one of the disabled men in between the two men dressed the same to draw attention to the disability, as well as the similarity of the men in uniforms. The uniforms are an important part of this photo because they represent Legion members intermixed with other Veterans. Another visual appeal is the use of color which, enhance an readability depending on the level of contrast (Hoffman and Wiggs 350). The background of the image is white with a bright floor and the subjects are wearing contrasting colors which help to stick out as the main subject of the picture. The man in the black wheelchair is also placed in front of the tan bleachers as opposed to the black ones so his disability is easy to see. By bringing the disabilities to the eye quickly, it becomes much easier for the viewers to empathize with the men and want to support The mission to care for Veterans. In addition to visual appeals, images within a website are a useful way to include rhetorical appeals without having to explain each individual component. The American Legion registers credibility for themselves through the use of ethos in Figure one by ensuring that at least two of the men in the image are wearing their previous covers from when they were in the military. The covers prove their place as a veteran and allow for the assumption that the other men are also veterans, demonstrating The close association to their cause. The most Student 3 prominent rhetorical appeal in this image is pathos because of the two missing limbs. The injuries make the viewers sympathize for the individuals as well as make them happy because the men look cheerful together despite their differences. These appeals allow for the viewers to trust that this organization is working to improve the lives of veterans. Another way The American Legion uses images to influence their viewers is by representing a scene that uses visual appeals to encourage change for veterans. The main aspect of Figure 2 is the truckload of supplies which immediately sparks curiosity as to where the supplies is going. According to Jenna Pack Sheffield, the use of scale indicates that, designer wants to viewer to focus on [the not getting distracted by other text or There is also a shine from the cover that points out the connection to veterans and The American Legion. It can be assumed from this that the American Legion is donating items to a local VA because of their goal to care for Veterans. The use of the red gate from the truck draws the eye in and leads up to all the supplies. The specific brand names of food, utilities, and toiletries gives the viewer a better idea of what supplies the members of that VA will receive. In contrast to the physical components of image two, the rhetorical appeals pathos and Kairos target the mental aspects of the figure. Many of The photos contain pathos because it often makes the viewers more interested in the organization. This image appeals to pathos because the gentleman is smiling very large whilst delivering the supplies. It makes the viewer feel good to know that their donations are being used to help veterans directly and delivered by the actual organization as well. The viewers feel satisfaction and trust for The American Legion because the image provides proof of their goals and promises. The use of Kairos comes into play by showing how helpful it can be to donate supplies and money. Many people know that veterans receive poor care from the government for the service they provide Student 4 and this picture makes the audience want to participate in improving care. After being stricken by pathos, the image is more likely to influence the decision to donate or volunteer for The American Legion. Thus, the viewers can personally provide a meaningful contribution to a company that focuses on caring for the nations veterans. By conveniently placing images with persuasive appeals on their website, The American Legion is able to demonstrate their credibility for Veteran care. The first image represents The nondiscriminatory actions regarding all veterans while the second image gives an example of how The Legion contributes to Veterans. Both Figure 1 and 2 work together to influence veterans, current service members, and civilians to become involved in reforming and improving Veteran care. The visual appeals such as color and composition highlight specific elements within each photo that relate to the work that The Legion does. They also use rhetorical appeals that call the viewer to action for supporting their mission of improving the lives of Veterans. The use of Ethos, Pathos, and Kairos provide credibility for the organization and an emotional connection that the viewer has with the images, as well as creates the idea to become involved with The Legion. (W.C: 1306) Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Down an Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Pgs 345-351. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. not going to leave your  The American Legion. The American Legion, 27 Aug. 2014. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <https://www.legion.org/operationcomfortwarriors/photos/224428/im-not-going- leave-your-side>.  Mission The American Legion. The American Legion, 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <www.legion.org/mission>. OCW donates $10,000 worth of supplies and gift cards to Salisbury, N.C.  The American Legion. The American Legion, 25 Aug. 2014. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <www.legion.org/operationcomfortwarriors/photos/224332/ocw-donates-10000- worth-supplies-and-gift-cards-salisbury-nc>. Sheffield, Jenna Pack. Breaking Down an  Writing Commons. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Jan.2017.<writingcommons.org/breaking-down-an-image>. The American  The American Legion a U.S. Veterans Association. The American Legion, 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <www.legion.org/>. Student 6 https://www.legion.org/sites/legion.org/files/styles/scale800w/public/082520148816.jpg?itok =BWlIe3v9