Derik Ware Karen Hanson ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Solar Powered Nuclear Plants Creating energy is easy but creating clean energy without polluting the environment is another issue. In society energy companies are arguing over land and how to produce power. Scientists have agreed that we are running out of fossil fuels and need to look for alternative energy options. This has predominantly come down to a battle between renewable energy sources and nuclear energy. Clean Energy Associates also referred to as CEA was established in 2008. It is based in Asia but reaches worldwide searching to help companies find a clean way to solve their energy needs. CEA specializes in the deployment of solar energy. On the other hand, Nuclear Energy Institute also known as NEI was formed in 1994, promoting the use of nuclear energy. NEI was the creation of four older organizations called Nuclear Utility Management and Resource Council, U.S. Council for Energy Awareness, American Nuclear Energy Council, and Edison Electric Institute. After the merger of these organizations they had more resources to advocate for Nuclear energy. Both NEI and CEA want to provide clean energy to the consumer, by collaborating together they can increase energy production along with consolidating the land required to generate the energy. Clean Energy Associates mission statement is to deploy solar solutions worldwide to many different companies and individuals(Introduction). In accomplishing their goal it would increase publicity along with creating a profit. CEA does quality control checks on all the pieces of solar panels before they are put on site and does post checks to make sure they are Ware 2 functioning as purposed. CEA does not manufacture the solar panels they are merely the middle man so to say. To surmise CEA is an intermediate business linking producers to buyers and users providing clean energy to the world. In Is it all over for nuclear power? Michael Brooks talks about how nuclear power is beginning to be phased out. While it is a large part of power supply if new reactors brought on line as other are closed due to age and safety checks. Therefore another source of power will have to take their place such as solar or wind. This allows CEA to create a name for themselves in the dying market. Michael also states towards the end of the paper that one fifth of the energy already comes from renewable, so why not have that number increase. However, the overall goal of NEI is to promote nuclear energy to the United States congress and the general public showing how it can be safely used along with how much power can be generated from each reactor. On their frequently ask questions page they have many relevant inquires such as what happens after Fukushima disaster. NEI answers this question by saying generators, batteries, water pumps and other emergency equipment have been purchased at each along with other improvements. The biggest push they have for nuclear is the amount of power that can be generated in such a small area. The smallest reactor in the US generates 582 megawatts which is enough to power just over 95,000 homes assuming one megawatt can power 164 homes (US Nuclear). When reviewing Recent Advances in Ocean Nuclear Power Plants it talks about how nuclear energy be removed from the energy grid nuclear power has the smallest full-lifecycle carbon footprint among all energy sources and is one of the cheapest available energy (Kang-Heon). The Ocean Nuclear Power Plants (ONPPs) can be used in a variety of ways not just for power generation such as providing clean water from the amount of Ware 3 heat that is created by the reactor to boil salt water making it drink able. Kang-Heon also mentioned placing reactors floating on the water as to keep stabilized from earthquakes and would be able to float over a tsunami. After closely looking at both organizations objectives and why other companies would want to back them Renewable and nuclear electricity: Comparison of environmental impacts article seems very appealing because it addresses the issues with all systems and the advantages each pose. Such as nuclear creating on average 4000 Watts/square meter(W/m 2 ) and solar being that is creates energy with very little to no byproduct. Although nuclear requires enriched uranium and for solar panels to be effective they need a large amount of space and adequate sun light. If nuclear sold solar companies depleted mining uranium quarries once filled back in it would provide a fairly large open area to gather energy along with preventing the need to clear cut land for space. On top of earning back some of the money for the quarry land, nuclear power plants would allow solar panels to be installed on and around the plant. This land has decreased value to the public because of the fear that meltdown may occur driving people away the real-estate. In part of this agreement solar companies would allow the power they produce to be used as part of the backup system for the nuclear power plant in addition the generator on site. If these compromises go through it would save space and produce more energy solving a portion of our energy crisis. Over time both companies would profit from the co-use of land and might consider having other renewable resources join them. The compromise helps both companies because they are trying to clean the planet and not necessarily focused on creating revenue. Ware 4 Work Cited Nuclear Energy Institute, https://www.nei.org/About-NEI/History. 25 Jan. 2017 Brooks, Michael. Is It All Over For Nuclear  New Scientist 189.2548 (2006): 33- 37. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. About Nuclear Nuclear Energy Institute, https://www.nei.org/Knowledge- Center/FAQ-About-Nuclear-Energy. 1/26/17 Clean Energy Associates, http://www.cea3.com/Introduction.aspx. 25 Jan. 2017 Kang-Heon, Lee, et al. Recent Advances In Ocean Nuclear Power  Energies, Vol 8, Issue 10, Pp 11470-11492 (2015) 10 (2015): 11470. Directory of Open Access Journals. 29 Jan. 2017 McCombie, Charles, and Michael Jefferson. Renewable And Nuclear Electricity: Comparison Of Environmental  http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301421516301240. 29 Jan. 2017 Nuclear Power Plants - General U.S. Nuclear Nuclear Energy Institute, https://www.nei.org/Knowledge-Center/Nuclear-Statistics/US-Nuclear-Power-Plants 26 Jan. 2017