Daniel Garcia Enc 1101 2/5/2017 Overwhelming Student Debt: A college education is important and many believe that receiving a higher education will bring a good life and financial stability. Supporting themselves, their families, and future goals they wish to accomplish becomes difficult when accumulated a massive amount of debt.. Student loan debt is truly horrifying and is a huge burden on college graduates especially when your only given six months after graduating to begin paying off your loans. The cost of education has greatly increased the past decade. Student loan debt has reached an astounding 1.4 trillion dollars collectively, and is starting to become an even bigger problem (Christina Beck). Students who are deemed fit for loans are given an unnecessary large amount, which entices them to spend the money unwisely causing the debt to grow even more. Many college graduates suffer from a large amount of student debt and it effects the way they live. Important life decisions such as owning homes, and starting families are put on hold because of the burden these student debts put on them, and the dreams many graduates hope to accomplish stay dreams. With that, how much influence does a student debt have in their lives? Bibliography: .Christina Beck, Staff. Average student loan debt increases  Christian Science Monitor 19 Oct. 2016: N.PAG. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article talks about the increase in student loan debt, and how it has reached an astounding 1.4 trillion dollars. It focuses on how graduating students are having to postpone important life decisions such as having families or owning a house because of these debts. This article also discusses ways in which students should go about using these loans to decrease the amount in which they need to payback. It discusses how more information should be provided to the student to give a better understanding of how loans work and how it would affect them later on after graduation. It also states that in 2015 there was a record high average of $30,100 in student debt according to a study done by the institute for college access and success. This article would be great for my essay because it discusses how it effects college graduates directly. I can use this information for my body portion of my essay which talks about how it is difficult for graduates to achieve crucial goals such as buying a house. Its great because it also talks about how big of a problem student debt has become and stated previously how its accumulated over a trillion dollars. This article is a great source because a peer reviewed journal in which I obtained through the USF library database. Sullivan, James, and Melissa Towell. Student Loans: What You Need To Know Before  Journal Of Accountancy 223.1 (2017): 49-52. Business Source Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The reason I choose this as another one of my resources is because it gives great insight on how to manage the loans that are granted to you before starting college. It gives information that I wish I was aware of during the beginning stages of my college career. It shows which loans give lower interest rates, and how to plan your money accordingly to reduce the amount of needless spending. It gives information to graduating students about how to pay back loans and what is needed from us the students to have a less stressful time after graduation. This article would be great to use throughout my essay because it discusses all the ways in which students can avoid being in such a sticky situation after graduating. It gives advice as to which loans to take on and which give low interest rates. It discusses how easily it is to miss use your loans and how to avoid that. As for the credibility of this article. I have searched through the USF database and found this article under peer reviewed which leads me to believe the author has done extensive research to acquire the data and information present in this article. This article is also a peer review journal. Rose, Clarence C. Overcoming The Obstacles Student Debt Presents To The Ability To Buy A  Journal Of Financial Service Professionals 70.5 (2016): 72-80. Business Source Premier. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. The article is about how its difficult for people with student debt to qualify for home mortgage financing. It discusses how been very little home buying activity among college graduates under the age of 35 in the past decade. It says having a high amount of monthly debt to pay compared to gross monthly income can have a negative effect on an credit report, credit score, and the ability to get certain types of future financing. This article would be great for my paper because I can discuss how easily it is to be denied financial help to purchase a home. It discusses who among college graduates usually qualify for home mortgage insurance and why it is they qualify. It gives me insight on how one is able to qualify for these financial loans. It also goes on about how to prevent future issues regarding mortgage financing, and how one can start to repair their credit to apply for these loans. This article is a peer reviewed journal located at USF library database. Wilson, Robin. A Lifetime Of Student Debt? Not  The Chronicle Of Higher Education 37 (2009): Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article is about how students reach high amount of debt, and how it is possible to overcome these large amounts of debt. It talks about a major reason as to why debt amount is so high , and that reason being the school one attends. It is true that my debt as a USF student would be significantly less than that of a student who goes to New York. The more prestigious the school the more expensive. We also need to take into account the cost of living in certain states. The main focus of this article is borrowing money to higher your education is a good thing, and student loans can easily be paid back with smart decisions and the fact that you typically get a decent salary with a degree. This article would be great for my essay because it discusses ways in which students who struggle with debts can alleviate their debts by simply making smart decisions and working. I can use this as a counter argument for my main topics. It gives insight for me personally because I am currently affected by these debts. As for the author, this article is a peer reviewed journal straight from the USF library data base. I would consider this a very reliable source. Burd, Stephen. Most Graduates Repaying Student Loans Have Manageable Debt, Report  The Chronicle Of Higher Education 16 (2001): Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article states that student loan debt is manageable if treated correctly. That college graduates are usually more than capable of paying of loans received throughout their college career. However, there is also a part in the article in which college graduates discuss how this is not the case for a majority of people who attend college. The reason I choose this article however, short it gives students opinions and how paying back loans are not as easy as it seems because it take certain cases into consideration. For example, what about college drop outs? How are they supposed to deal with these ridiculous amounts of debt that schools impose on us when they receive the degrees they need to get a decent salary. As for credibility this is a academic one file located in the USF library database. Nadler, Mark. Helping New Grads Understand Student Loan Repayment Options Can Aid Retirement Planning  23.11 (2009): 51-52. AgeLine. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This paper is about how graduates can receive help for loan trouble. It discusses the resources available to you as a graduate to help understand what it means to repay your loans. It talks about the steps needed to recover from such a large amount of debt and how to go about this quickly to live a less stressful life. I think an article like this would be vital to my paper because it discusses options graduates and students can take to make life easier when it comes to debt. Students realize the amount of information and resources there are to help them overcome these large amounts of debt. It talks about another important aspect of borrowing money which is interest rates. Interest rates are so important when It comes to borrowing money because this interest can grow exponentially throughout your college career. As for the credibility of this article. I have found it under the USF library database, and the author Nadler, Mark has many entries about similar things.