Curley 1 Eileen Curley Mark Nusspickel Composition I 26 January 2017 Standardized Testing In the United States, we pride ourselves on being a mixing bowl. Full of people from across the globe with different backgrounds and languages making every person here unique. But in this country, we are all assessed and labeled by the same tests that overshadow our individuality. Almost every student around the country is impacted by standardized testing. These tests determine the colleges we attend and ultimately our futures. Although standardized testing has been around for over 150 years, this issue has become more prominent in recent years after the passing of the No Child Left Behind Act. This law passed in 2002, requires students to be evaluated by standardized tests on a national level. This requires states to look at how their students measure up compared to the average student, identifying their strengths and weaknesses providing information to help reform education. Many educational experts disagree on this topic, some feel a fair measurement of a intelligence while others feel these tests put minorities and children with disabilities at a disadvantage. This heated debate raises the question: are standardized tests an accurate measurement of a academic performance? Curley 2 Dishke-Honzel, Catharine. To Whom? Teacher Reflections On The Relationship Between Creativity And Standardized Testing in Critical Education 5.3 (2014): 1-16/ Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. In this article teachers are asked to reflect on their teaching processes and how they have been effected by standardized testing. The teachers indicated that to prepare for these tests it takes time away from valuable learning material. Classroom curriculum has been uprooted to focus on improving standardized tests scores. Creativity is increasingly being recognized as an important aspect of a education, with the increasing emphasis on standardized test creativity is being ruined in the process. Teachers discuss their mixed feelings about prepping for high-risk testing while promoting creativity along the way. The results of this interview are referencing the effects of a high-stakes testing environment on students in the United States and Canada. This article addresses the research question by exemplifying how tests affect the classroom curriculum, learning environment, and staff. Teachers discuss how they have had to cut and change their curriculum to improve test scores. While acknowledging that standardized testing enhances the basic skills of students in areas such as reading and math (Hondzel 1). The Education Quality and Accountability office states that test measure students can understand what they read, clearly communicate their thoughts in writing and use grade- appropriate mathematical knowledge and skills to solve (Desbiens 2). Tests are now being used to determine whether teachers are rewarded or punished for students who meet the standards set by the U.S Department of Education. Teachers discuss how a education will fall short when resources are directed at test taking and not mastery of a subject. Ryan, a 7 th grade English teacher explains he must limit the creativity kids can write with to make sure his students are writing to meet the tests expectations. Curley 3 LEVIN-EPSTEIN M. TESTING IN FLUX. (cover Principal Leadership 16.3(2015):34-38. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article reflects on the positives and negatives of standardized testing and how it effects students in our schools. Many argue standardized testing is an essential aspect to education in the United States, while others reject this idea claiming standardized tests are a burden on our nations educational improvement. Standardized testing has created a classroom environment where instructors to narrowing curriculums and killing creativity. Testing has also been known to limit course offerings in schools across the country. These tests only measure a small portion of what makes up the entirety of a education. The author of this article covers both sides of this debate, discussing both pros and cons of standardized testing and asking educational administrators to weigh in as well. MaryEllen Elia, New York state education commissioner and president of the University of the State of New York stands behind standardized testing and makes it her priority to help parents understand why they test, believe in rigorous assessment that challenges students to show that on track to meet high Elia also praised New York tests for being a precise measurement of how prepared students are for future success. On the other side of the debate Robert Miller, a Principal of the Year finalist in 2014 and is currently the assistant superintendent of schools in Sand Springs, OK, argues there are very few positives to the current state of standardized testing in our nation. Curley 4 Sternberg, Robert J. Phi Delta Kappan 98.4 (2016): 66-71. Education Full Text: (H.W. Wilson). Web. 4 Feb. 2017. As our society focuses on the advancement of intelligent and the focus on standardized testing increases we are inversely reducing the importance of creative thinking and wisdom. Human creativity and original thought keep us growing. Our intelligence as a nation has improved and thus, our IQs have increased about 30 point in the 20 th century. This could be correlated to many different factors such as: better nutrition, more and better educational opportunities, technology, reduction in disease and so on. Another reason being that students are being tested more and testing improves the skills on which students are tested (Sternberg 2). In our preparation to do better on testing we have seen a rise in our overall general intelligence. This article, written by Dr. Sternberg a professor of human development in the College of Human Ecology at Cornell University, relates to my research question because it addresses both sides of standardized testing, how it helps and hurts us. It increases our intelligence and the more we practice for these exams the better equipped we are for them and the higher we perform. Education needs to aim at equally assessing: creativity, wisdom, and intelligence. Wagner, Elvis. Of English Learners Left Behind: Standardized Testing As Language International Journal Of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism 12.6 (2009): 721-725. PsychINFO. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. The No Child Left Behind Act was passed and signed into law in 2001, requiring all students in American public schools to demonstrate mastery in many different academic standards. The NCLB act is aimed to raise the bar for educational standards, and hold schools and their faculty responsible for making sure each student reaches these standards. These tests have grown in Curley 5 population and have been used not only to meet NCLB requirements, but also to make high-stake decisions, including high-school graduation. In New York, all students must pass these tests to receive a high school diploma (Wagner 2). Leading to many students who are bilingual being punished because of their test scores. Dr. Wagner teaches in the Curriculum, Instruction, & Technology in Education Department at Temple University, he is critiquing the book written by Kate Menken learners left behind: standardized testing as language He writes about how students who know English as a second language are being disciplined for not demonstrating competency on the same standardized test given to students who speak English as a first language. describes how the need to pass the English Language Arts Regents has led schools and teachers to change the way they teach ELLs. Teaching to the test has essentially become the curriculum for ESL classes, rather than pedagogically sound practices that result in second language writes Wagner. This reveals how standardized testing has changed our educational system, with higher importance on scores than actual proficiency.