Buschle 1 Charlie Buschle February 5, 2017 Research Topic: The impact of concussions in the NFL Introductory Paragraph: In the world today, sports remain at the forefront of American popular culture, with no sport being more popular than the National Football League. The NFL is a billion dollar industry that makes is name off of Hail Mary touchdowns, one handed catches, and earth shattering hits. We look up to these teams and their players as if they are indestructible, larger than life superheroes. Because of this, we fail to recognize the effects the game has on these players long term health. Of these effects, the most concerning is the games effect on the brain, more specifically, concussions. This report will analyze the long term effect of concussions on both active and retired NFL players and the lengths the league is going to reduce the frequency of concussions and prevent the impact of further injuries. Annotative Bibliography Michael, Elise. School Of Hard Knocks -- The Impact Of The Nfl Concussion  Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal 33.1 (2014): 289-319. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article makes for a solid source because it contributes to my research because it discusses an instance where NFL players acted out against concussions. It contains the details of a 2012 lawsuit filed by thousands of former NFL players against the NFL. The players, including hall of fame quarterback Terry Bradshaw, were seeking financial compensation for chronic long Buschle 2 term injuries, along with financial losses suffered by the former players. The litigation created awareness for the long term effects of concussions and the responsibility to prevent said effects. Reich, J. Brad1. When Getting Your Bell  May Lead To Ringing The : Potential Compensation For NFL Player Concussion-Related  Virginia Sports & Entertainment Law Journal 12.2 (2013): 198-231. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article compiles several cases of long term brain damage caused by concussions in former NFL players, including the unfortunate story of Junior Seau. It chronicles the history of concussions in the NFL along with the strides the NFL has taken to prevent long term injuries in current and retired players. The details of this piece are great additions to my research topic. Lou disease linked to concussions, NFL players need to raise awareness  Brain Injury Canada. N.p., 13 Sept. 2010. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://braininjurycanada.ca/2010/09/13/lou-gehrigs-disease-linked-to-concussions-nfl- players-need-to-raise-awareness-level/>. This article continues with the trend of the dangers of these severe head injuries on NFL players. This piece centers specifically around possible link to a condition that closely resembles ALS, better known as Lou disease. Those same proteins have been discovered in the brains of athletes with CTE, another disease linked to brutal head injuries. CTE is known to cause cognitive decline, abnormal behavior and dementia. Statistics show that NFL players are eight times more likely to contract ALS than the average person. With at least 14 Buschle 3 NFL players being diagnosed in the past, ALS caused by head injuries could be more of a threat than the NFL gives it credit for. The information in this piece makes a great addition to my research because it furthers the arguments that concussions can have life threatening effects and can lead to life threatening diseases like CTE and ALS. These are details that need not be taken likely, making them great additions to my project. Kain, Daniel J. Just A The National Football Denial Of A Causal Link Between Multiple Concussions And Later-Life Cognitive  Rutgers Law Journal 40.(2009): 697. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 This piece further discusses the impact of concussions on current and former NFL players, describing violent collisions in the NFL as primary ingredient behind the incredible success of the Unfortunately these collisions, more often than not, lead to concussions. This piece addresses the prevalence of concussions in the NFL and the long term health effects and possible diseases that they could lead to if not treated properly. It also explains the previous notion that concussions, because they were so common, were looked at as commonplace and taken lightly. This piece makes a great addition to my research because it continues my insight into the long term effects of improperly treated concussions and the possible diseases that it could lead to. Buschle 4