Brautigam 1 Ryan Brautigam Ms. Lay ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Why So Hostile? One of the hot topics in news is police brutality. Everyone sees this topic in a different way and experience different feelings towards it so much so that they created groups to support their feelings and beliefs. Many have heard of the group black lives matter also the opposing view of that which is the group of Blue Lives Matter. For many, this is a hard topic to talk about because view is so biased towards the way they feel about police brutality. This topic is hard to talk about because lives and careers are on the line, but the problem get better with everyone going about the topic in an argumentative manner. Everyone should try to talk about this topic in a controlled manner so the conversation can get somewhere. If everyone were to look up the facts about police brutality it would be clear why they have created these group. In 2015 2,080 complains toward police officer checked out to be true, that sound like a lot but out of all the police reports those 2,080 complains comes out to only 0.0039% of all police reports in the USA(Snuffy,1). But there is a solution to clear up this topic and have both Black Lives Matter and Blue Lives Matter to come to peace at once. Black Lives Matter does not just support all the people in the street that are believed to be victimized because of their color. They are going in to school saying they are not being treated right. At Dartmouth college Black Lives Matter wants to make black lives matter a class on campus. One day in 2015, A group from Black Lives Matter were outside Dartmouth library chanting Lives Brautigam 2 we get it, shut it down, we study, you Goldthree 21). protest like these that cause the police to engage and make sure no one gets out of hand and that is usually when things get bad for both groups. But there should not be a problem, If these groups of people find a common and safe ground where they accept that there is going to be a few bad apples in every industry, and that not every police officer target black people every shift. These groups can accomplish this goal by holding a meeting in most of the towns where Black Lives Matter and Blue Lives Matter are highly recognized. The groups would become more at peace if they took this action. The Black Lives Matter group was created in 2012 after the murder of Trayvon Martin(BLM 1). The mission of the black lives matter is are broadening the conversation around state violence to include all of the ways in which Black people are intentionally left powerless at the hands of the state. We are talking about the ways in which Black lives are deprived of our basic human rights and 1). They believe that black people are not getting treat as equal as they should. They feel like they have been shorted of their rights of humans of America. Although this group does focus on the entire topic of black people getting treated wrong by other citizens, other groups, and the government, they have a focus on the black community not treated fairly by law enforcement. They believe that they are targeted just because they are black. Although this puts a lot of stress on the police officers, a big problem that a lot of people did not agree with was police officers have a quota to meet, on how many tickets they give out and how many arrests they make. Now that is no longer a requirement for police they made the change to help render the problem with the people and police. This problem was a big issue that the Black Lives Matter group fought to get rid of it. Brautigam 3 The group Blue Lives Matter is not as recognized as much as Black Lives Matter but is just as important. The group was created in 2016, after the recent lash back of the people against police officers. Active and retired law enforcement officers started the group. Their mission is to these wrongs to law enforcement and once again shed positive light on heroes to help boost morale and gain much needed (BLM 1). They want to change the way law enforcements acts during calls with the exception of the bad police officers that follow how they are supposed to act. They just want the target lifted of police officer backs so they can go to work without feeling like everyone is targeting them. Also many people stereotype police officers, is a fear that cops are lazy and need to be watched like they are little The main reason of they stereotype is because in older shows and even some of the newer shows show police officers eating doughnuts and drinking coffee, being lazy and not doing their jobs well. This is not at all what police officers nowadays look like they have a high risk job and most of the time always doing something. The reason why police are trained to act more harshly when dealing with an arrest is because of the rising crime rates in the and 3). In some cases the way police handle an arrest comes off as too much force but they have to do a job that keeps them safe because they need to get back to their families just like everyone else in this world. The sad truth is and Latinos will remain particularly vulnerable to police misconduct no matter what shape law enforcement takes; history supports that (Ossei-Owusu 84). not right and that is the reason why the black lives matter group does what they do because they want to get rid of that mindset completely. That is a big battle to win but black lives matter group knows that and is ready for that long hard battle to make that happen. Brautigam 4 Everyone wants peace throughout the nation and right now we are anything but at peace. These are two of the many groups that are at because of conflicted beliefs. There is a solution to becoming at peace for once. That is accepting the opposing sides views of the issue at hand and fully understanding why they feel that way. The next to becoming at peace is to bring the two groups together and understand why there is a clash of interest in the topic. Then the topic will resolve its self by everyone coming together and becoming one nation. The best way to accomplish this goal would be to have both groups hold meetings in the town where each group is highly populated. Then have a meeting about the issues each group is having and then what each group can do to fix the problem. These two groups are a great example how a problem that can be solve by just the two-side understanding one another and trying to fix what is broken. The Black Lives Matter want the black community to be treated better by others especially by law enforcements. On the other hand, the Blue Lives Matter want police officers to go to work feeling safe. Both groups want safety through their daily lives. With the work of everyone helping to make that happen it can become reality. Brautigam 5 Work Cited About  Blue Lives Matter. N.p., 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Cullors, Patrisse. About the Black Lives Matter  Black Lives Matter. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2016. Goldthree, Reena N., and Aimee Bahng. #Blacklivesmatter And Feminist Pedagogy: Teaching A Movement  Radical Teacher 106 (2016): 20-28. Education Source. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Ossei-Owusu, Shaun. Race And The Tragedy Of Quota-Based Policing: Arrest Targets Compound The Risk Of Racially Biased  The American Prospect 4 (2016): 81. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Porter, Nicole D. Expanding Public Safety In The Era Of Black Lives  University Of Miami Law Review 2 (2016): 533. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Snuffy, OfficerJoe. YouTube. YouTube, 10 Feb. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.