Rahman 1 Alexandra Rahman Instructor Martha Heiser ENC 1102 Section 068 12 February 2017 The Examination of the Legal Drinking Age in the US Alcohol consumption has been a large part of American culture for a long time. Years ago, it was the norm to see young adults drinking in public, oftentimes with older adults. Today, the scenery is considerably different. When one pictures young adults drinking they might imagine dim lights, loud music, large crowds, keg stands, and lots of heavy drinking. Questions have been raised regarding whether the current system is working efficiently or if it is imposing negative effects on young people. Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) is an organization that hones in their focus on maintaining the current legal drinking age of 21. In opposition, Choose Responsibility (CR) is an organization that aspires to lower the drinking age to 18. Both views on this controversial topic have the same desire to rid the negative effects of alcohol on young adults. Because the consumption of alcohol can aid in dangerous decision making and cause health-related issues for young people, MADD and CR can work to eliminate these risks by lowering the legal drinking age to 19 while maintaining the age of 21 to purchase alcohol. Continuing to enforce the current laws that set the legal drinking age of 21 is a method that some argue will decrease the hardships of alcohol on young adults. The idea is that with more law enforcement and control, young people will have less access to these substances, therefore decreasing the likelihood of drinking before the age of 21. A big supporter of this idea is MADD, which is a non-profit organization that was formed by Candace Lightner when her daughter was killed by a drunk driver. Due to this incident, the main purpose is to Rahman 2 bring drunk driving to an end to prevent future accidents. In MADD board officers David Strickland, Mahesh Shetty, Steven Benvenisti, and Barbara Brodt discuss the advantages of the present-day laws, generally stating that the legal drinking age of 21 reduces traffic crashes, protects young maturing brains, and keeps young people safer overall Strickland and his board members use their business leadership skills to create simple language like this to educate the public with information that is straightforward and easy to understand. A supporter of MADD is physician Drew Saylor; he wrote an academic journal that focused closely on why the legal age shall remain the same. In Heavy Drinking on College Campuses: No Reason to Change Minimum Legal Drinking Age of Saylor advises that changing the law would shut down an extremely researched and proved-to-work-better system. He adds that and international experiences with a lowered MLDA [minimum legal drinking indicate there are serious social and public health In other words, he is expressing that the US should take notice of this and not make the same mistakes. On the other hand, some believe that lowering the legal drinking age would be of greater benefit for young people. An advocate of this is Choose Responsibility (CR), an organization that promotes the discussion and introduction of alcohol in an alcohol-central culture in which Americans live. This organization views the issue of alcohol consumption in a different manner than organizations like MADD. They see the current age as unfair and limiting, such in that one is officially an adult at the age of 18, meaning they will be tried as an adult and have the ability to go to war. It is limiting in that parents (in most states) do not have the right to properly introduce alcoholic beverages while they contradict themselves by drinking in front of their kids. As claimed by John McCardel, former President of Middlebury College and current director of Rahman 3 Choose Responsibility, CR that combines appropriate incentive and punitive measures for illegal, irresponsible behavior (McCardel In short, CR aspires that changing the current system will induce positive results by decreasing binge drinking and other irresponsible acts by the usage of education and other unused techniques. Scholars are involved in this topic of discussion and process their thoughts and research through academic journals. Seddon Savage is one of these scholars who currently holds a position as the director of the Dartmouth Center of Addiction Recovery and Education. Before this, she was the president of the New Hampshire Medical Society, awarding her knowledge and experience in the field. In Lower Drinking Age? a Complex Issue: The Forces Driving the Global Epidemic of Harmful Youth Drinking Run Far Deeper Than the Age of Majority for Savage explores the idea that research is hard to deny, stating impulse of those of us in the public health community to respond by citing data on increased drinking-related harm associated with a lower drinking age does not fully address them She is saying that even though the data is there, important aspects are still not being addressed. For example, parents cannot be legally present when their kids are drinking. This can force a strange situation that inhibits communication among parent and child on the topic of alcohol in an alcohol-centered culture. Closely linked to this, in Will Increasing Alcohol Availability by Lowering the Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking and Related Consequences Among scholars from Harvard School of Public Health Henry Wechsler and Toben Nelson use research to create an unbiased overlook of the effects that are succumbed by the age in which alcohol consumption begins in young adults. Provided is a graph that displays an increase in binge drinking of people of age 21-24 in the past 10 years, while those aged 18-20 has had no increase Rahman 4 (Wechsler 9). With this evidence it is observable that younger age does not always entail higher risk of danger with alcohol usage. After discussing the different methods in which viewers opinionate themselves on the topic of the legal drinking age in the US, it is noticeable that both organizations have the same task. MADD and CR similarly work to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol on young adults. Since both argue polar methods of action, a well-thought out compromise can generate a solution that may even provide better results than both original plans. In Lower Drinking Savage says, cannot realistically evaluate the net effects of changing (or maintaining) the current drinking age unless both sides bring equal measures of science and moral and socio-cultural consideration to bear on their arguments Her reasoning is very balanced and true; finding a fair compromise is the answer to this issue. Lowering the legal drinking age to 19 would be a good middle as it would leave extended room for the introduction period and the developmental maturity window. Sustaining the age of 21 to purchase alcohol is important in decreasing personal possession of large amounts of alcohol by young people. It also impels organizations like MADD to agree with this plan by providing mutual incentives. Overall, the two parts making up this proposal-the minimum drinking age of 19 and the minimum purchasing age of 21- work together to create a new formula of balance and order for young alcohol usage. With alcohol being a part of American culture, it is important for this society to have the best-working law to secure and promote safe practices of consumption by young adults. Future generations will be leading the country one day as medical doctors, lawyers, and business managers. Therefore, if the US wants to have succession in the future, then social, mental, and physical health must not be disrupted during such an important developmental time. Health is a Rahman 5 serious matter and needs to be dealt with correctly. Creating a method that works through compromise is be the smart thing to do, and if the plan fails, a new one should be made until a law that properly works is found. Rahman 6 Works Cited McCardel, John. Choose Responsibility. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Saylor, Drew K. Heavy Drinking on College Campuses: No Reason to Change Minimum Legal Drinking Age of  Journal of American College Health 59.4 (2011): 330-333. PsycINFO. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Strickland, David, Mahesh Shetty, Steven Benvenisti, and Barbara Brodt. MADD Support 21. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Wechsler, Henry, and Toben F. Nelson. Will Increasing Alcohol Availability by Lowering the Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking and Related Consequences Among  American Journal of Public Health 100.6 (2010): 986-992. General Science Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Savage, Seddon. Lower Drinking Age? a Complex Issue: The Forces Driving the Global Epidemic of Harmful Youth Drinking Run Far Deeper Than the Age of Majority for  New Hampshire Business Review 2008: 19. General OneFile. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.