Watkis 1 Phillip Watkis Emil Smith ENC1101 26 January 2017 Dangers within Rugby and American Football The world of sports has been evolving over the past few decades and the more these sports evolve, the more the rules and safety regulations are changing to ensure the safety of players as well. No matter what sport you play, there are chances of you getting injured. It can range from a simple sprain of your ankle while playing tennis to getting a severe concussion while playing football. A controversial research topic discussed throughout several articles is the topic of the dangers of American football in comparison to rugby. Compared to rules and safety regulations, NFL Football is a whole different ball game compared to Rugby Union. A lot of people would think that Rugby is way more ferocious than American football due to all the padding they wear in football. What we know is that American Football is on the same level of intensity as Rugby, if not even more dangerous because the hits the players receive in football are far more unexpected compared to Rugby (Martyn Williams, 2015). The dangers in American football are fairly similar to the dangers of Rugby Union. Khaleeli, Homa. American football or rugby: which is more  Shortcuts. Guardian news and media, 28 Jan. 2013. Web. 28 Jan. 2013 This article informs readers about how similar the dangers are in each sport and gives us a brief detail about the specific injury a player gets while playing their sport. The author explains that in football, players suffer repeated head injuries and concussion compare to Rugby where Watkis 2 players suffer from spinal injury instead. In the article the stats showed that by the year of 2013 4,000 players have brought cases against the NFL due to concussion and head injury and 110 players have reported being paralyzed by playing Rugby. These numbers show that football injuries occur more often than Rugby injuries. The article also informs the reader about the concern that Barack Obama (the former president of the US) and David Cameron (former British Prime Minister) have for the players going through these injuries. Khaleeli Stated the president is more worried about Rugby players than he is about football players because of their style of play, but research has proven that American football players tackle with their head, therefore causing their injuries to be severe, therefore David Cameron should not be as fretful as President Obama. Telegraph. Is Rugby or American Football More  The Telegraph, Telegraph media group, 2017. Web. 28. 2017. This article covers the injuries in American football and the injuries in Rugby and also the changing of both games so that the players would be more safe while they are playing. The Article mentioned that overtime the players are evolving by getting bigger ad faster which might cause more injuries so therefore they add new rules in order to protect the players. The article also mentions that big players go for big hits because that it excites the crowd and whoever that is watching at home. The article also talks about how Rugby players can teach American football players how to tackle because playing without helmets and pads they are trained to tackle without injuring themselves or their opponents. The changes that are being made is making it easier for researchers to conduct their research for example, in American Football, researchers Watkis 3 are now able to identify what position gets exactly what kind of injury and in Rugby the teams are coming together to distinguish the different injuries so they conduct a better research. Kevin Young, Philip White, and William Mcteer. Body Talk: Male Athletes Reflect on Sport, Injury, and  Sociology of Sport Journal the Official Journal of the North American Society for the Sociology of Sport 11.2 (1994): 175-94. Web. In this article the author talked about the masculinity of the football players. In other words, the author is talking about if players should return to football games after receiving serious injuries and if the players do return it shows great masculinity. If players should take themselves out of a game after an injury they worry of being criticized by their peers and also the fans. The author stated, ultra-masculine gesture is accorded even greater status if by returning to action the athlete puts himself at risk to be permanently disabled if he is For example, safety Freddie Joe Steinmark who played for the Texas Longhorn had his leg amputated after playing a full season with an injury in his leg without telling his teammates or any of his coaches. Joe Steinmark died a year later, because his leg was amputated up to his waist. In my opinion I believe players should careless about how others would view them if they take themselves out of game, because they would be many other games to show their skills. Scott L. Cresswell & Robert C. Eklund (2006) The Nature of Player Burnout in Rugby: Key Characteristics and Attributions, Journal of Applied Sport Psychology, 18:3, 219-239, DOI: 10.1080/10413200600830299 Watkis 4 The author of this article talks about the different experiences that rugby players go through of how demanding and exhausting it is to play in the rugby league. The author also mentions that training itself for the rugby players is on a whole different level of intensity so there the game brings out the character in the players. The author stated, demands with the introduction of professionalism to rugby union in 1996 has resulted in an increased injury rate among With this being said, it would be similar to what the players go through in the NFL because both players face serious judgment and high demand for what they do. The players talked about their experience of fatigue feeling that the players get that not only affects them physically but mentally as well. Players would describe this feeling as being sick and having lack of performance success. The feeling that these players get could be very detrimental to their careers, because of the lack of performance it could cause them to not play like themselves.