Ajayi1 Hadijat Ajayi Ms. Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 13 February 2017 Impacts of the Digital Social Revolution The emergence of an easily accessible, worldwide web has led to the frequency of internet related outlets to increase exponentially. As the internet has become commonplace in nearly every American household, and amongst a vast number of various cultures around the world, websites and the recent invention of smartphone applications, have centered around leisure, business endeavors, educational advancement and any number of other focal points. Social media has emerged as an open avenue to post and comment based on the personal inclination. This results in a heavy burden falling on the own discretion; exposing and allowing critique from anyone with computer-access, on the posts. The monopoly of internet based activities has inevitability lead to the arrival of new, unprecedented benefits and drawbacks of a digital society. Despite the rapid advancement of technology and internet usage, research supporting the long term effects of social media and social networking has not had the time to be fully developed, thereby hindering any in depth studies where data over the course of multiple generations is to be observed. However, as this paper will show, there have been a number of studies to support the advantages of social media and/or social networking mainly through use of surveys. Data presented will also address the negative associations of social media and social networking based on the information volunteered from each sample population. These sources will ultimately address the idea of social networking, defined for this paper as, the use of social, web-based outlets for business or marketing purposes, is just as effective, if not more effective, than the use of social media, defined for this paper as, the use of social, web- based outlets used strictly for leisure and connecting with members of community. Ajayi2 An online volunteer survey of the perceived benefits or disadvantages of social media usage was administered, via email, to the population of Alder Graduate School. This survey requested demographic information and data regarding the use of social media. The participant then continued to answer the research question, What are the perceived benefits and disadvantages of using social media in higher education, professional development, and in general human  (Belangee, 124) Researchers dissolved the broad statement into seven sub-statements, which survey takers responded to, using the Likert scale. (Belangee et al., 124) Based on data retrieved, social networking is a seemingly appropriate form of successfully coordinating employers and other professionals, with potential colleagues. (Belangee et al., 128) This particular statement was worded and framed with the least bias and clearest focus. This statement easily calls for the experience of each individual, rather than the individual inferring about the community as a whole. Dr. Susan Belangee is not only a Ph. D, but is more specifically a Licensed Professional Counselor. She holds a few other professional classifications, however this is most relevant to her credibility within this specific study. Marina Bluvshtein is a Ph. D LP from the University of Alder, along with Daniel Haugen, who earned a Ph. D in social work from the University of Minnesota. Belangee, Susan, Marina Bluvshtein, and Daniel Haugen. Connectedness: A Survey of Perceived Benefits and Disadvantages of Social Media The Journal of Individual Psychology 71.2 (2015): 122-34. Web. This article dug into the effect of social media use on loneliness, sense of community, and general health in participants 55 and older. This survey was conducted over a Ajayi3 period of six months in Australia and aimed to have candidates rank how they associated their use of the internet and social media to their overall happiness with their place in their lives and in their communities. Results show a positive correlation between internet use and a heightened sense of online and offline community, reducing the feelings of loneliness and alienation. (Sum et al., 238) Sum et al. do make the point of effective and ineffective uses of the internet. Researchers conclude that using social media improves sense of community and involvement when they use the internet to associate with known associates and friends. On the contrary, when the internet is used to communicate with strangers or unknown people, the advantage of using internet is diminished, and anxiety and loneliness are concentrated. (Sum et al., 238) This study is unique in the specific age demographic targeted. This community holds the leverage to make the least biased analysis of their perception of the internet. Being that this is an older community, they would have had the luxury of experiencing a society completely independent of such advance use of the internet in the way of social interaction, as well as the experience of the progression of social media and the opportunity to either participate or refrain based on what many could call All four authors of this work are credited Ph. Ds within the field of health science. Shima Sum, Mark Mathews and Ian Hughes are all graduates of the University of Sydney, with focus within the School of Behavioral and Community Health Sciences. Shima Sum and Mohsen Pourghasem both are also associated with the Biomedical School of the University of Sydney, while Pourghasem is recognized at the Department of Medicine at the Babol University of Medical Sciences. Sum, S., Mathews, R. M., Pourghasem, M., & Hughes, I. (2009). use as a predictor of sense of community in older Cyberpsychology and Behavior, 12(2), 235-239. Ajayi4 Aside from the harmless intentions of social media, the boom in the frequency of social media activity has resulted in the appearance of detrimental effects, namely, addiction. A web- based survey of a large Norwegian population allowed three researchers to analyze social media use in relation to addictive behaviors, narcissism, and self-esteem. The main goal of this study was to analyze how demographics and other individual factors played a role in the association with social media addiction (Andreassen, 291). Studies concluded that women, those who are single, those who are less educated, younger generations, current students, and those who, on average, have a lower income, scored higher on the Bergen Social Media Addiction Scale, BSMAS, than their opposite counterparts (Andreassen, 290). Narcissism seemed to have a positive correlation with the addictive use of social media as an activity, reinforced through the idea of feedback from potentially large numbers of other (Andreassen, 291) Although this study yielded limitations due to the open-access, self-reporting study design (Andreassen, 292), it was still effective in understanding what type of person or lifestyle may lead to an addictive approach to social media avenues. This study is also helpful to understanding, in part, how such addictive behavior could be a reality. This study cannot prove causality, however, the researchers were able to infer how narcissism and self- esteem play a role in the conclusions accumulated from the survey results. Cecilie Schou Andreassen is a professor at and earned her Ph. D at the University of Bergen in the department of Clinical Psychology. Pallesen is also a credited Ph. D from the University of Bergen and holds expertise in psychosocial sciences. He is also noted for his background in clinical psychology, behavioral science, and abnormal psychology. Mark D. Griffiths is a professor at the School of Social Sciences at Nottingham Trent University. He earned his Ph. D at University of Exeter, and is notable for his abundant presence within the Ajayi5 research community, authoring over 1000 articles, over 140 book chapters, and a number of other research projects. Andreassen, Cecilie Schou, Pallesen, and Mark D. Griffiths. The relationship between addictive use of social media, narcissism, and self-esteem: Findings from a large national survey. Addictive Behaviors 64 (2017): 287-93. Web. The concept of advertising through social media sites and online marketing are recent strategies that have evolved into what has often proved to be a sustainable avenue for reaching consumers. A study conducted by three students of South Korean colleges examined the effect of marketing within domestic search engines. The experiment took place over the course of five years, lasting from 2009 to 2013, and was able to track data in regards to the growth of the audience when introduced to a domestic search engine. (Choi et al., 982) The data, overall, suggests the presence of a domestic search engine aids to the expansion of the online advertising market (Choi et al., 992). This is in turn interpreted as useful to business and marketing managers, as they are able to expand their market while introducing and reinforcing the presence of their product. Choi et al. did not ignore the influence of globally dominant search engines, such as Google or Yahoo. Data from the experiment suggests that compared to the global search engines, domestic platforms help establish an cultural which are more reflective of the local culture. These domestic platforms help promote not only the product of the locals, but also which can be understood as political, economic, or other social views shared by the current natives (Choi et al., 992). Ajayi6 The authors of this article are each students of different colleges in South Korea. Sung Wook Ji had earned a Ph. D in Telecommunications, while Young-jun Choi has earned a Ph. D in Economics. Both have experience attending both colleges in South Korea, but also within the United States. Min Ho Ryu has earned a Ph. D in IT Business and also worked at a school within the United States. Ji, Sung Wook, Young-Jun Choi, and Min Ho Ryu. The economic effects of domestic search engines on the development of the online advertising market. Telecommunications Policy 40.10-11 (2016): 982-95. Web.