Terrell 1 Rebekah Terrell 1 February 2017 ENC 1101 How does living in captivity affect the lives of killer whales? Over time there has been a worldwide debate on whether keeping animals in captivity is helping them to survive longer or killing them faster. When we think about sea world, or any other amusement park that is home to captive animals, we think about the entertainment these animals bring to us and the enjoyment we get out of seeing them, very few people actually think about how these animals feel living in these conditions and how it effects their lives. Now specifically talking about killer whales it was found that when compared the lifespan of killer whales in captivity is significantly lower than those in the wild. There are also many health and behavioral concerns that researchers talk about with keeping these whales in captivity. On the other side of the argument however, some believe that the lives of the killer whales are actually better and healthier in captivity. There were two studies done in 2015 about the lifespans of killer whales in captivity and those in the wild where two different researchers came to two completely different conclusions. One found that the lifespan was shorter in captivity, while the other found the opposite to be true. Another study done in 1979-1980 showed how the behavior of killer whales changed negatively after they were trained to work for Sea World. These studies are just a couple of the many that have been done over time about this topic, and each one has had different results. This shows that for a long time people have been debating this topic and there is no sign of a conclusion being found any time soon. So how does living in captivity really affect the lives of killer whales? Terrell 2 Callaway, Ewen. over killer whale captivity: lifespan of animals kept in parks is at centre of  Nature 531.7595 (March 24, 2016): p. 426-427. Web. This source is comparing the lifespan of killer whales in captivity to in the wild. It talks about with the last major published study before 2015 was in 1995 and since then the lifespan in captivity has increased but it is still lower than in the wild. This article also mentions how there are dramatically different conclusions on two studies that were done in 2015 on the lifespans of killer whales in captivity. This source relates to my topic of how living in captivity affects the lives of killer whales, because it talks about the lifespan of killer whales comparing living in captivity to the wild. Also this article shows the different opinions and results that have come from different studies on this topic. Ewen Callaway has been a reporter for nature since 2010 and is currently the senior reporter in London. Before this he spent 2 years at the New Scientist as the Boston-based biomedical reporter. He attended the science writing program at the University of California, Santa Cruz and earned his masters in microbiology at the University of Washington. Anderson, Robert; Waayers, Ryan; Knight, Andrew. Behavior and Subsequent Aggression Associated with Oceanarium Animals 6.8 (Aug 2016): p 1-21. Web. This article is talking about how it is difficult to study orcas in the open ocean, so in 1979-1980 researchers were able to interact with juvenile orcas in an unstructured way and were able to find emotional self-control, and empathetic behaviors, but they found that when these Terrell 3 same orcas were trained to work in SeaWorld their behavior became more aggressive and less friendly. This article relates to my topic because it is talking how the behavior of juvenile orcas went from friendly to aggressive after being trained to work in Sea World. It is showing that by having them go into captivity affects the behavior of these animals. This is a reliable source because it is a peer reviewed article and all three of the publishers have a background in animal behavior. Michael. Keiko, Shamu and Friends: Educating Visitors to Marine Parks and  Journal of ecotourism 6.2 (Dec 22, 2007):127-138. Web. This article argues that keeping marine mammals like killer whales in captivity is a good source of education especially for younger children, and all the marine parks offer different programs geared towards education. talks about how killer whales bring around 500 visitors each show to marine amusement parks. This article talks about the different methods used in the parks and the different education programs that use these animals at these parks. It compares the educational systems that these parks have in the western parks to the parks in Japan. This article relates to my topic because it is showing a different side to the argument that maybe keeping the killer whales in captivity could be a good thing, while most of the articles are against it. It is showing how the killer whales in captivity are benefiting us with education about them and therefore it is educating us to save them more in the wild. has published many articles and papers on the topic of marine tourism and marine life in general. He is a reliable source because of his knowledge on this topic. Terrell 4 Morgan, Kathleen N. Sources of stress in  Applied animal behaviour science 102.3 (2007):262-302. Web. This article talks about the many different conditions found in captivity that cause the animals stress. Some of these include the lighting, sound, inability to hide, and the constant interaction with humans. Morgan talks about how these factors play a role in causing stress for these animals living in captivity and also why it is not good for them to live like this. While this article may not be talking specifically about killer whales, it is showing the factors that lead to stress in captive animals which include killer whales so this article relates to my topic because it is talking about how living in captivity affect these animals. Kathleen N Morgan has a PhD in comparative psychology from Wheaton College, she also has background in Neuroscience, Zoology, Biological Psychology, and Animal Communications. With this background Morgan is a reliable source for this topic.