Dean !1 Casey Dean Sarah Basil ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Reform in Healthcare Healthcare has been an issue in the United States for several years. The U.S. is one of the most powerful and richest of countries but ranks 37th in the world in terms of fairness and quality of its healthcare system (World Health Organization). While the Affordable Care Act (ACA) created by President Obama in 2010 is not perfect, it has gotten the United States closer to a fair and well-rounded healthcare system than before. With Obama, not in office anymore controversy is rising about what the future of United States healthcare will hold as President Trump plans to repeal the current system. Along with most citizens, women especially are fearful, as all the provisions made under the ACA to help improve healthcare for women are at risk of being revoked. Many organizations centered around healthcare are standing up to fight the repealing of the Affordable Care Act. Two major organizations involved are the National Health Network and Planned Parenthood. Both organizations will face repercussions if the ACA is in fact repealed thus a way for these organizations to make a greater impact is to collaborate and build together. While they do have differences that set them apart they share similarities with one another that if combined could make them an exceeding power in the reform of healthcare. Dean !2 The National Health Network (NWHN) focuses on improving the health of all women and they seek to accomplish this by and promoting a critical analysis of health issues in order to affect policy and support consumer the National Health ). The NWHN is non-profit network that devotes their time and research to monitoring federal agencies and the healthcare industry to reveal and identify any health issues that may be occurring. By doing so the NWHN has become a trusted resource for women when it comes to health policies and consumer decision making. The NWHN has been successful in improving healthcare for women. Since 1975 the NWHN has made several advancements in healthcare like abolishing quotas for women in medical school and bans on fathers in the delivery room, they made sure protections against coercive sterilization were put in place along with establishing the right for women to be informed about their healthcare the National Health ). The NWHN is very devoted to the healthcare of women so getting rid of provisions that support healthcare is an important issue to them. On their official website, they have a tab that reads voices for the healthcare we and on this page, it discusses what women who are at risk of losing coverage can do. Since the National Health Network was started it has successfully made numerous reforms for the healthcare of women and continues to improve the lives of women nationwide which makes them a very important stakeholder in the current issue of healthcare. Along with the National Health Network, Planned Parenthood is equally concerned with healthcare and taking affirmative action to make a change. Planned Parenthood (PP) focuses primarily on reproductive healthcare for women and men alike. PP is Dean !3 responsible for providing primary care services including contraceptive and abortion services, sexually transmitted infection testing and treatment, and cancer (Planned Parenthood). In a single year PP services prevent 579 thousand unintended pregnancies, provide more than 270 thousand pap tests and 360 thousand breast examinations and they also provide 4.2 million tests and treatments for STIs. Along with all the services PP provides for women they also offer reproductive and sexual education and information to people of all ages nationwide (Planned Parenthood). As part of the Affordable Care Act most of the federal funding for planned parenthood services comes from Medicaid reimbursements which means that repealing the ACA will ultimately eliminate funding for Planned Parenthood as well. In addition to the National Health network PP is also equally devoted to the healthcare of women. Planned Parenthood has a separate website with a sole purpose informing those of the issues PP is facing under the current circumstances and providing individuals with information on how they can get involved and help support PP. The Planned Parenthood Action Fund is a nonpartisan, not-for-profit organization formed as the advocacy and nonpartisan political arm of Planned Parenthood Federation of America (Planned Parenthood Action Fund). Being a major healthcare organization concerned with providing healthcare services and education for everybody of America including women, Planned Parenthood is another very important stake holder in the issue of healthcare. The National Health Network and Planned parenthood are already noted allies with one another. The NWHN lists Planned Parenthood as a resource for women on their website. With this connection in place there is a foundation of support between the two organizations that could be a starting point for the potential collaboration between the two. The Dean !4 NWHN is already currently working with partnering foundations that are starting a social media campaign that is raising awareness of what consequences women will face from losing coverage. PP is a worldwide organization combined with the PPAF has over 8 million activists and supporters, so the NWHN could benefit greatly from actively working with Planned Parenthood. Both organizations are non-profit, so a collaboration between them would be for the benefit of women with the incentive to make a difference and not due to a financial motive. While the name clearly states their purpose towards health the name Planned Parenthood can be misleading. It is not obvious to the public that PP is associated with the improvement of healthcare for women. If the two were to merge and create an even bigger organization that associates the ideas and purposes of both organizations, the information and services they could provide for women all over the world would be limitless. Collaboration between organizations and companies has been seen countless times all over the world. As written in the New York Times by Paul Sullivan organizations need to merge or consider other partnership strategies if they want to grow, improve services and become more effective or in some cases, just remain (1). An example of this happening was in 2012 when the Chicago Foundation for Women took over the Eleanor Foundation. Thus, the organizations could strengthen their commitment and double the amount of money the Chicago Foundation for Women gives away every year. K. Sujata the president of the Chicago Foundation for Women noted that crisis is of women struggling for economic security. I think what this does is put the attention on the women, not on the organizations. We have a bigger commitment (Harris 1). The Chicago Foundation for Women explained that the two organizations would come together by stopping the standalone activities of the Eleanor Dean !5 Foundation and bringing their 7 million dollars in assets and the successful grant making program to the CFW. After, the CFW overtook the Eleanor Foundation and they continued to collectively operate as one organization, still known as the Chicago Foundation for Women but now much stronger than before. This applies greatly to the situation at hand with the repealing of the Affordable Care Act, if the NWHN and PP were to merge they would be able to center one big organization around the healthcare of women and together they would be a much more powerful organization and have an even greater chance at making a difference. They would be successful in modeling their merge after the Eleanor Foundation and the Chicago Foundation for Women. The NWHN could bring their extensive network of activists and means of monitoring and exposing federal agencies of healthcare to Planned Parenthood. Because Planned Parenthood is a much bigger organization they would continue to be known as Planned Parenthood but would be much stronger after taking in the NWHN. According to Joseph Bolton organizations that have shared goals and understand each expectations work the best together and are often the most successful in merging with one another which is why the Chicago Foundation is more successful than ever after merging with the Eleanor Foundation. Planned Parenthood and the NWHN are two organizations that are very similar in the sense of their goals and expectations for healthcare in America, this makes them perfect for a collaboration. Bolton further explains that in addition to this benefits for all stakeholders include improved efficiency and cost effectiveness, increased opportunity for innovation in problem solving and the continuous improvement of quality services for all the individuals (1). Thus, PP and the NWHN would undoubtedly be successful in Dean !6 partnering with one another and would be able to fight for improved healthcare and continue to provide helpful services and information to women. Granted the National Health Network and Planned Parenthood do have differences in their purposes what they have in common is the goal of creating a health system that reflects the needs of all women. Both organizations currently being successful while independent of one another only shows that together they would be insuppressible. Millions of women are at stake to losing their healthcare coverage of the Affordable Care Act is repealed and with power in numbers merging two major organizations is a sensible solution to facing the nationwide issue. Dean !7 WORKS CITED the National Health  NWHN. www.nwhn.org/about-us N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Bolton, Joseph M., and Brian J. Lewis. The Challenge Of Merging And Consolidating  Journal Of Management In Engineering 14.1 (1998): 9. Business Source Premier . Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Harris, Melissa. Eleanor Foundation to Merge into Chicago Foundation for  www.articles.chicagotribune.com. N.p., 07 Sept. 2012. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Parenthood, Planned.  www.plannedparenthoodaction.org/about-us N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. About  www.plannedparenthood.org/about-us N.p., 07 July 2016. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Sullivan, Paul. For Public Nonprofits or Family Foundations, Mergers May Hold  New York Times 05 Nov. 2016: B4. Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. World Health Organization Assesses the Health  WHO. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.