Guzman !1 Daylees Guzman Martha Heiser ENC 1102.068 12 February 2017 Animal Rights: Creating Federal Concern In the past couple years animal rights has shown to be a highly controversial topic in the United States. There have been organizations such as the United States Department of Agriculture and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals that have contradicting views regarding the use of animals for food production in an inhumane manner. As stated by Joyce the director of public affairs for Compassion in World Farming, and John Webster, a professor at the University of Bristol, meat and animal products are longer the special occasion (1). With the extensive amount of meat being produced and sold came the emergence of the animal rights movement headed by PETA. The sparks have been flying over the discussion whether animals come before the need for food abundance brought about by the United States Department of Agriculture. In order to come to an agreement over this argument, these organizations must come together to create laws to balance the opinions being expressed regarding this topic. The United States Department of Agriculture is an agency within the United States government that regulates the farming industry. The USDA plays an important role in their overall mission by protecting the businesses of the American people creating meat and animal products. Farmers and ranchers are the backbone of the American food industry and because of this the USDA takes it upon themselves to make sure those businesses stay afloat in the changing Guzman !2 economy. The USDAs overarching mission is to hunger and improve health in the United (USDA). This goal rests in the hands of the farms and ranches they assist with the hope that they can keep producing meat, eggs, and crops. With health as a top priority, the agency insures that food created by those farms and ranches are safe for consumption by the American public. Another outspoken voice regarding meat and animal rights is PETA. PETA is an international nonprofit organization that focuses on and defending the rights of all (PETA). With their large number of supporters, PETA attempts to curve the suffering of animals by insisting that animals do not exist for human food, entertainment, or clothing. Members of PETA hold strong that animals should be free of harm and suffering. Those members dedicate themselves to a vegan or vegetarian lifestyle which limits the amount of meat and animal products they consume. By not eating or wearing things made from animals PETA is hoping to bring down the number of animals suffering everyday. Although there has been a large outcry from the people fighting for animal rights, such as PETA, basic thrust in the U.S.A. continues to be towards maintaining a cheap food supply by increasing the intensification of livestock production (Mench 299). Meat has been an important and reliable food source for humans since the beginning of their existence. Animal rights advocation has only begun to appear in the media recently. According to Joy Mench, a professor of Animal Science at the University of California, the first push for animal law come until the Even after that push meat and animal products continue to be a billion-dollar-per-year industry and a significant part of U.S. (USDA). That being said, many Americans and individuals throughout the world continue to believe that humans Guzman !3 easily able to survive without resorting to (Blaz 30). This belief has lead to the emergence of veganism and vegetarianism. Vegans and vegetarians insist on living a animal product free life which does not include meat, fur coats, and even milk. Vegan and vegetarian restaurants, grocery markets, and even clothing stores have popped up all around the world in immense numbers. Therefore it is logical to state that a large population in the U.S. values the lives of animals over the stability and existence of the meat industry. Nonetheless many Americans believe animals have rights but still continue to consume animals for their meat and fur. It is clear that animal rights advocacy is gaining momentum in the media but it is also clear that the need for meat/animal products is just as strong. Although the market for animal products and the rising number of ethical complaints about the animal product industry are at odds, there is a possibility for a middle ground which would benefit both parties. PETA values the lives of animals while the USDA values the health of the American people and the food industry. For both of these stakeholders in the meat industry controversy to be satisfied it is clear that the animals should be treated humanely and ethically before they are used for food and other products. To achieve this compromise more laws should be created to keep animals from suffering. Laws that would ensure all farm animals would have proper housing and nutrition before they are killed. These laws would also make physical abuse on farm and ranch animals illegal and come with steep fines. This addition to the law would force farmers and ranchers to be held accountable for how they treat the animals they raise. The government would require farm animals to be healthy and content before they eventually meet their end. With this compromise the American people can still enjoy meat and animal products while still being able to know that the food they are consuming from a sick or poorly Guzman !4 treated farm animal. Moreover, regulation pertaining to the way animals are treated and slaughtered is not a highly talked about topic in the government even though there has been an outcry for it from the public. In fact, professor Joy Mench states that has been almost no change in U.S.A. federal legislation related to farm animals in the last 40 (300). Legislation has rarely been used to protect the rights of animals. There is an abundance of regulation and legislation being created concerning how food is to be handled and packaged before it is given to the American people but there are no such abundance of regulations on how the animals are treated before they are slaughtered. To quench the thirst the American public has for animal rights the government, including the USDA, must take it upon themselves to create laws that eliminate the cruel and unusual treatment of animals. The new laws would crack down on animal cruelty inflicted upon farm animals and create a new environment where protection of animals from suffering of any kind, and terrible living conditions would be taboo and illegal. The American public would also be clear of doubt as to whether or not the meat they consume is from a healthy and ethical background. It is highly important for the United States of America to find a sustainable and ethical food source to feed the 318 million individuals residing within its boundaries. Without a dependable food source the health of the U.S. population would decline. Although meat and animal products are not the only available food sources to end hunger on a large scale it is a important component. Arguably, animals should not have to live painful and traumatic lives just for the sake of feeding the population of the United States. With laws and regulations to eliminate the number of animals subjected to inhumane handling the government can still produce the food needed to end hunger while keeping in mind the rights of animals. For people Guzman !5 to feel completely guilt free about what they consume on an everyday basis, the way in which animals are treated from when they are born to the day of their death needs to be a painless and humane experience. Guzman !6 Works Cited Blaz, Michael. Serious About Animal Humanist, Vol. 43, Issue 4, July/Aug 1983, p30-30. Mench, Joy A. animal welfare in the U.S.A.: Farming practices, research, education, regulation, and assurance Applied Animal Behaviour Science, Vol. 113, no. 4, 2008, pp. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals  PETA, http://www.peta.org/. Accessed 22 January 2017. U.S. Department of  U.S. Department of Agriculture, https://www.usda.gov/wps/portal/usda/usdahome. Accessed 23 January 2017. Webster, John and Joyce The Meat Crisis : Developing More Sustainable Production and Consumption. Routledge, 2010.