Staggers 1 Alexandria Staggers Emil Smith ENC1101 27 January 2017 More than black dots What does it mean to be successful? Is it simply waking up in the morning, or making six figures on your salary? A wise one once said is like reaching an important birthday and realizing exactly the You can assume this is saying if you can look at yourself and see no room for improvement you have been successful. That was Audrey Hepburn, definitely more of a philosophical approach to what success really is. But just focusing on academics success is very easy to define. It can be determined by a single letter grade or number out of a hundred on a standardized test. But there are more ways to look at overall success in schools, music and extracurricular activities involving music, playing a role as well. Studies have shown that participating in extracurricular activities improve academic success. Does music in particular makes a difference. They say read between the lines, but can you read between the notes? Is there more to it than little black dots i.e music notes? exchange the five line music staff for actual faculty and see how it plays out. Does music education help benefit student academic success in school? Staggers 2 Winter, Heather Nicole. The Link Between Music Lesson And Iq In  Music Teacher 66.2 (2016): 14-18. Search Premier . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This article aims to measure success in students that participate in success. The Author attended Indiana University and majored in vocal music at the prestigious Jacobs School of Music up until she received her Doctorate degree. Now she is an associate professor and the director of the Lyric Theatre. This source is valuable because not only does it give examples of how students are proven to perform better in school, it gives examples of specific studies that were done to prove it. Some of the topics she discusses on improvement are reading ability, test scores, and vocabulary. It takes a statistical approach with explaining the results in testing. Because IQ is a difficult way to measure change in intelligence due to the fact it rarely changes over lifetime and it is almost impossible to show causation (Winter 1). The article also addresses several factors that could mislead any information that they find to narrow down the research that is found and true. This article gives precise and credible information on the fine print in between those tiny black dots in the grand scheme of things. Odegaard, Denese. Music Education Is Key To Success In School And  Educators Journal 103.2 (2016): 6-7. Search Premier . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This article discusses the factors and specific skills directly related to participation in school music education programs. The author is nationally known as one of the presidents of the Staggers 3 National Association for Music Education and has taught music for thirty three years. In the text it offers a variety of ways to look at success in students. Not only can it be measured in test scores but it can also be measured in the valuable skills that the students learn on a daily basis. She lists these under four main 21st century skills. These are Creativity, Communication, Collaboration, and Critical Thinking (Odegaard 1). 21st Century skills are what a lot of jobs look for in their applicants. She mentions that as well describing some other topics she has noticed like project based learning, self-reflection, self-discipline, perseverance, respect for others and the work of others, along with college and career readiness (Odegaard 1). This article takes a different approach to the idea of academic success. It looks at fundamental skills rather than universal measurements yet is still very reasonable and credible. Johnson, Christopher M., and Jenny E. Memmott. of Relationships between Participation in School Music Programs of Differing Quality and Standardized Test of Research in Music Education , vol. 54, no. 4, 2006, pp. The article cited above was written on behalf of the National Association for Music Education. It looks at the relationship between participating in school music programs and standardized tests (Johnson and Memmott 293). Christopher M. Johnson, a professor of music education and music therapy, teamed up with Jenny E. Memmott faculty in the same University medical center to research and create this informative article. Johnson received his Phd at Florida State University. Staggers 4 Within the text it looks at specific age groups and academic achievement with a statistic scientific approach. They have a sample size of 3,630 middle school students, and a sample size of 1,119 elementary students. They focus on 3-4th grade in the elementary group and 8-9th grade in the middle school group. Some factors that they take into account in their experiment are instructional quality as well as the initial end goal, test scores and level of participation. They found that the elementary group of students data showed higher english and mathematics scores than the kids who were in lower quality music programs. On the other hand they found that level of instruction was not a differential factor in test scores for the middle schoolers, however it was better than no music classes at all. Shin, Jihae. Investigation of Participation in Weekly Music Workshops and Its Relationship to Academic Self-Concept and Self-Esteem of Middle School Students in Low-Income to Music Education , vol. 38, no. 2, 2011, pp. This source, brought to you by the Ohio Music Education Association studies how a specific music program helps promote self-concept and self-esteem for middle school students in low income communities (Shin 29). The Author Jihae Shin is a professor and cellist at the College of Columbia University. The main idea of this source is that the most prominent non-musical benefits or music education are academic success. They want to show that there is a positive correlation between music and cognitive domains such as visual analysis, memory, dexterity and etc. (Shin 32). This Staggers 5 study took an approach more directed to the people. It focused on finding information using three different techniques. A questionnaire, parent survey, and student interview. These findings led to the conclusion that general school concept and math self concept increased. The big idea of self-concept here is belief, feeling, and attitude toward performance in the category it address. Out of self-concept as a whole and self-esteem they got mixed results. Vitale, John L. Makes You Smarter: A New Paradigm for Music Education? Perceptions and Perspectives from Four Groups of Elementary Education Journal of Education / Revue Canadienne De , vol. 34, no. 3, 2011, pp. The Canadian Society For the Study of Education brought this article to us to educate us on the study exploring the perceptions and perspectives of the makes you notion created by the Author John L.Vitale. Dr. John Vitale is now an associate professor at the Schulich School of Education with twelve years experience in secondary music education. In this article the Author has this idea of the makes you notion, where he asks the following questions for his study. He aims to find out these points with a small sample size of 100 teachers, students, parents, and non-music teachers. These questions ask about the effects of cognitive skills, the effect on ,math and science skills, particularly the popular STEM category, the students knowledge of music in general, and the students value in music towards their education and society (Vitale 320). He looks at these main topics through the perceptions and perspectives of the different groupings of people he selected. Staggers 6 Richerme, Lauren Kapalka. We Educators Journal , vol. 98, no. 1, 2011, pp. Lauren Kapalka Richerme is the Assistant Professor of Music Education at Indiana University Jacobs School of Music with works published in many different Music Education outputs. This Article was written for the National Association for Music Education as well. It focuses on another side of Music Education highlighting the fact that it is less prominent and saying data saying music enhances knowledge is inconclusive. In the text it gives multiple examples of media and public claims about how there is a decline of music education programs in school. It gives specific locations like saying in New York a lot of schools stopped hiring music teachers completely. But within all this she also states that it is not fact and music education is still around with statistics like 90% or higher of elementary schools and public schools offered music in their programs (Richerme 36). Along with general facts about the amount of music offered and not offered, it talks about positive and negative perceptions of music education through the media highlighting the benefits of academics but claiming evidence is fickle.