Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Ending Homelessness in Arizona Who is homeless? Convicted felons, recovering addicts, veterans, men, women, children, families, those living in poverty, victims of domestic violence, and victims of mental illnesses make up only a few categories of the demographics of the homeless population. Nine thousand, nine hundred and eighty-six men, women, and children in the state of Arizona are homeless on any given night. Thirty-six thousand, four hundred and ninety-seven people in the state of Arizona at one point or time in their lives, have needed and received some kind of assistance for homelessness. To address this serious problem and epidemic, the Arizona Coalition to End Homelessness (AZCEH) was founded. AZCEH is a nonprofit organization who is dedicated to ending homelessness and empowering the homeless in the state of Arizona. To promote their mission, they strive to work with individuals in the community to educate, spread awareness, and teach others how to be an advocate for adults and children who are homeless Coalition to End AZCEH uses their website to increase awareness, share reputable facts and information, and provide solutions on the prevalent issue of homelessness. One image (see Fig. 1) that is seen on the homepage of AZCEH, is a majestic picture inside a library with an embedded quote by Mother Teresa This image holds great persuasive power with its large size and dominant location at the center of the page (Pack). The image seen is representative of a large library, which is often a place of refuge for the homeless. A quote reads from the middle of the picture think sometimes that poverty is only Student 2 being hungry, naked, and homeless. The poverty of being unwanted, unloved, and uncared for is the greatest by Mother Teresa. The font is all white and capital letters. The middle sentence is highlighted, placing additional emphasis on the definition of poverty. The word is almost unreadable and practically hidden from the placement of the bright white light from the windows. Viewers help but notice the significance of the disappearing word and mission to eradicate homelessness. Powerful influences that help encourage the community to join the mission of ending homelessness include using a visual rhetoric and rhetoric appeals. One of the most important rhetorical appeals noticed in Figure 1 is ethos, the ability of developing trust with the viewer (Lane). In this example of ethos, this organization is borrowing credibility from one of the greatest and well known humanitarians, Mother Teresa. This powerful quote purposefully embedded in the library is another example of ethos and how the organization is establishing credibility with the use of a symbol, representing authority and knowledge. The rhetorical appeal, kairos, is also present in this image. The quote by Mother Teresa proposes a type of powerful, intentional persuasion to viewers. Use of this specific quote creates a sense of urgency. It proposes an ultimate goal to beginning within your own home (Lane et al 25). Another way AZCEH works to endorse their mission is through the use of an powerful (see Fig. 2) that encourages viewers to get involved and take notice of the problem of homelessness within their community (Pack). The homelessness overview page presents with a large, brightly colored image, streaming across the entirety of the top page. It reads and in similar, clean white print at the bottom, you or someone you know in need of 101 This image showcases two very young Student 3 girls, one holding a teddy bear and the other holding a suitcase, constantly unsure of where they will stay for the night. Two juvenile children on the side of the road paints an empathetic picture for the viewers. An important element displayed here are the missing faces of the girls. The idea invites that these girls represent the many faces of homeless children in the community. Children and the separation of families is a tangible crisis that make up of the homeless epidemic, this image captures this focus and the role of the organization. Visual appeal has a strong impact on the rhetorical or persuasive effect of an influential image. This image (see Fig. 2) used by AZCEH strongly appeals to stimulating an emotional response (Lane). Looking at this image, it most certainly could make viewers feel empathy toward the homelessness crisis, especially with the involvement of children and the dramatic separation of families. Additionally, the image presents an appeal to logos, appealing to logic and reason (Lane). The statement of invites and summons the viewer to find out more about the factual aspects of homelessness in the community, the state of Arizona, and the United States. Encouraging others to recognize that this crisis is not only evident in Arizona, but everywhere else in the country too. Use of logos in this image is purposefully designed to engage readers to become educated on the facts of the homelessness epidemic and the mission. Furthermore, logos demonstrate proof that there is a real problem. Together, these two images work in harmony to bring awareness to the community and promote mission. The target audience is everyone within the community and state. More specifically, AZCEH encourages homeless, formerly homeless, students, and anyone else who wishes to advocate for the homeless, to participate and become members in their mission. The library image with the quote by Mother Teresa appeals to the homeless person himself. It Student 4 proposes an idea of hope and encourages more than one definition of poverty. The image of the two juvenile girls, appeal to those who wish to be advocates for children and the homeless. The image represents the often-forgotten victims of homelessness. These children are not who we typically imagine standing on the street corner, begging for money and aid. Instead, these are the faces and bodies of the forgotten children and underrepresented victims of homelessness. The strategic application of images on their website embrace effective rhetorical appeals and successfully reaches the targeted audience with the intended mission. (WC: 1005) Student 5 Works Cited Arizona Coalition to End Homelessness. Arizona Coalition to End Homelessness, 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. http://www.azceh.org. 101 Arizona Coalition to End Homelessnes, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. http://www.azceh.org/overview. Arizona Coalition to End Homelessness, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 http://www.azceh.org. Lane, Emily, Gayle Lee, Kendra, McKee Jessica, McIntyre, Megan, and Kate Pantelides. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-31. Print. Pack, Jenna. Breaking Down an . Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. Print. Student 6 Figure 1. Student 7 Figure 2. http://www.azceh.org/overview