Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 02 February 2017 Combatting Food Waste through Activism Food Waste is a problem that plagues much of the world including both the first world and developing world, this essay will discuss solutions and visual rhetoric to bolster these positions. The stakeholder is End Food Waste Now. The goal is to help motive action, that helps reduce food waste worldwide. End Food Waste Now is an organization based on a website founded in 2012, by Diane Hatz. The site focuses on showing consumers where they can reduce their waste and showing areas win the food system where food is wasted. End Food Waste Now, the stakeholder, primarily works to inform the audience, whom mostly come from online. One important piece of information to note while on the site is the intended audience, which seems to be youth who are into activism. While on the site, you can access campaigns and resources if you want to be more active in helping prevent food waste. The site also contains many visual elements that have rhetoric appeals made specifically to help convey information to the audience. The audience should feel a call to action after spending sufficient time browsing the site. Overall the experience is an emotional appeal showing that each person can help solve the issue of food waste. End Food Waste Now is an organization whose goal is to improve the food waste situation currently present in the United States of America and to promote food waste activism (Hatz, Diane). The first image (see Fig.1) is picture with food waste and a sign for the price of a food. The image is seems to connect well with the audience, since the trash also present helps us Student 2 realize that food waste is also indirectly trash. The other trash present in the photo is also related to food waste, many foods come in packaging or are served in some kind of container. These containers can become waste and trash themselves, by reducing food waste in total you could also reduce the waste of regular trash too. The photo is present on the front page, alongside two other photos in a slideshow. The image helps to illustrate what waste is specifically being talked about in the more text oriented parts of the website. Image 1 To demonstrate the visual rhetoric present, I will dissect the elements present in the website. Visual analysis is key to correctly identifying the main appeals to the audience. The first appeal that is made in this photo is pathos, or an emotional appeal (Gerdes, Julie; Hopton, Sarah and Rea, Joshua page 335). The appeal is directed at our innate emotions to help protect and extending this protective nature to include protecting the environment. The appeal comes from seeing so much trash of different sorts scattered about on a public side walk. The goal is to fill the audience with the urge to help clean up food waste in the public sphere. The second appeal that is made in the photo is Kairos, or an appeal to timeliness. Student 3 At first it may be hard to spot, but the vegetables shown in the photo are not spoiled. The food waste shown is still bright red and green, these colors represent the fact these foods were wasted due to littering. The timeliness aspect of the photo is very important, it shows how with proper education that this not spoiled food could have been saved from becoming food waste. The combination of the two appeals leaves the audience with motivation to help be the change that ends food waste. The second image is a worker who is sifting through food waste while wearing gardening gloves. The image is very simple, yet has a lot of depth to it as well. The image depicts green vegetables being grabbed by a worker over a pin, presumably to dump them into the bin. The person is actively helping to solve the food waste problem. Meanwhile in the background of the photo there is a blurred mass of trash present. This helps illuminate the massive undertaking it is to help end food waste. There is a lot of work to be done, but with enough people who actively donate their time it can be fixed. The background being blurred, but the hands being focused on helps illustrate the view. The stakeholder is focused on people being active in the battle against the massive food waste present. Image 2 Student 4 The second image has two major rhetoric appeals: logos and pathos. Logos or logical appeal manifests itself in the image a few ways. The first being that logically, the most straight forward way to solve the food waste problem we are having is by volunteering with organizations that combat food waste. Also if many people were to work together, the food waste problem is a manageable and solvable problem. Volunteering is the most direct way to help combat food waste. The second rhetoric appeal in the photo is pathos or an emotional appeal. Ethos appeal is directed at seeing someone else toil away, trying to help combat food waste. The audience should feel encouraged to help volunteer and combat food waste, as well. There is a lot of work that needs to be done, and the emotional appeal should feel like a call to action to the audience members who are interested in making an impact. Visual appeals described were both found on the front page of the website. The rhetoric appeals found in the two images shared the emotional appeal, but one had more of a Kairos appeal while the other had more of a logos appeal. The visual analysis of these photos help elaborate the purpose they serve on the website. The appeals are a call to action to help motivate the audience browsing the website to take action and combat food waste Student 5 in their local communities. The visual aspect to websites is often as important, if not more important than the textual resources present. It can be a very subliminal way to inform the audience of the goals. The visual elements also present and opportunity to use the rhetoric appeals to help convince our audience to do certain things in response to seeing such photos. One important thing to realize with the visual appeals the images have brought is that the images show both a problem and a solution, which work in tandem to persuade the audience. The End Food Waste Now organization promotes their agenda very well. The visual components are interwoven very well. The site is very user friendly and more importantly does a good job of achieving the purpose. (WC: 1003) Works Cited Gerdes, Julie; Hopton, Sarah and Rea, Joshua. 7.5 Rhetoric Really Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2017 pg. 331-337 Gerdes, Julie. 7.6 Understanding Rhetoric Really Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2017 pg. 338-344 Hatz, Diane. End Food Waste  Home. N.p., 2012. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.