Gore 1 Maribeth Gore Professor Sarah Basil ENC 1102 25 January 2017 Decriminalization of Prostitution Feminist groups, such as the Sex Workers Outreach Project-USA and the United States Legislative branch are at odds upon decriminalizing prostitution. The Sex Workers Outreach Project-USA is deeply committed to ensuring the safety of sex workers and aim to decriminalize prostitution. The United States legislative branch is becoming increasingly more conservative and wishes to block the decriminalization of prostitution. The decriminalization of prostitution is a matter of morality and freedom. If the Sex Workers Outreach Project- USA and the United States government were to collaborate to legalize and decriminalize prostitution in America in a morally and ethically satisfactory way, the lives of prostitutes and their customers would be greatly improved, rates of sex trafficking would be greatly reduced, and not to mention the economic boost the American economy would experience. The Sex Workers Outreach Project- USA (SWOP-USA) are strong supporters of the fundamental human rights of those involved in sex work and hope to end violence and stigma through educating and advocating within communities Home SWOP-USA provides community support lines for current or former sex workers, and activists can receive peer support, directly respond to news that affect sex workers, advocate on a national level, fund local chapters and provide mentoring and leadership development to new organization and initiatives SWOP believes decriminalization would help to decrease harm and promote action with those involved in sex work Through nonviolent action SWOP Gore 2 hopes to reduce violence and achieve dignity and rights for sex workers. SWOP committed to the respect, safety, and autonomy of all sex workers, and seeks to amplify the voices of those who are often left out of discourse around the issues address collectively as a social justice In the case of SWOP-USA, their justice movements are oriented towards the decriminalization of prostitution to improve the physical, sexual, and mental safety of sex workers and their customers, as well as reduce sex trafficking. The United States legislative branch has become increasingly conservative recently. The policy makers and law enforcement currently use research to set up interventions for prostitutes, investigate homicides related to prostitution, and examine the relative costs and benefits of focusing on arresting prostitutes versus arresting their clients Prostitution: Pathways, Problems and ). The legislative can pass laws, as well as block them. Their stance is greatly influenced by the delegates potential reelection. Thus a lot of bills that are passed are oriented towards the desires of the majority voting population. The American crusades against prostitution are directed towards the powers of the legislative branch. Crusaders call upon political elites to do something about the problem, and successful crusades result in some kind of (Weitzer 33). The legislative branch is made to reflect the desires of the American population, so as the American population become increasingly conservative, the legislative branch does as well. If the American population believes decriminalization of prostitution is immoral and unethical, the legislative branch is built to facilitate the continued criminalization of prostitution. Decriminalization is characterized by the government involvement and removes any laws or regulations regarding voluntary, consensual (Rayborn 132). The Netherlands took a relaxed approach to decriminalization by lifting bans on brothels and pimping Gore 3 but requiring licensing, as well as not subjecting patrons to criminal penalties for purchasing sex (Rayborn 135). This approach targeted abuse suffered by sex workers by acting against businesses operating without a license, as well as institutes health requirements and condom usage (Rayborn 135). National law makes licenses mandatory in order to properly regulate policy throughout the country. The Association of Netherlands Municipalities created for the regulation of prostitution, covering topics such as brothels, sex shops, and (Rayborn 136) to create national uniformity while local authorities monitor licensing on a smaller scale. Consequences exist for the failure for a brothel to conform to any regulation, and prohibited forms of prostitution, such as fines and withdrawal of licenses. Moreover, who attempt to operate a brothel or similar business without a license would commit an offense under the Economic Offences Act and would be subject to (Rayborn 136-137). Regular inspection of brothels by law enforcement ensures compliance to licensing conditions and raises awareness of human trafficking. Also for safety prostitutes are given a button that is wired to local police for protection from violent (Rayborn 135-136). The institution of this approach in America would help decrease violence towards sex workers, morally making it the correct approach for the American legislative branch to take. Cooperation between the Sex Workers Outreach Group-USA and the United States legislative branch towards the decriminalization of prostitution similar to the model provided by the Netherland, would further benefit both parties. Furthermore the legislative branch will be able to institute a moral and ethical approach to decriminalizing prostitution. Following the Netherlands model, the government to exercise more control over the sex industry and enforce (Rayborn 136) seen to be fit. Also, the required registration of all prostiutes would by the localities, and not just (Rayborn 136) to further Gore 4 enforce morality within the process of decriminalizing prostitution. Additionally the recognition of prostitution as a legal and viable occupation is accompanied by the compliance with labor laws, tax obligations, and social insurance obligations. The acknowledgement of sex work as legal labor reintroduces approximately to 1.6 dollars of underground revenue back into the troubled economy. In the case of American legislative branch, the reduction of sex trafficking, the removal of negative connotations brought on by the back door nature of illegal prostitution, the full representation of sex workers and their customers within the government, and the truthful presentation of the sex industry in labor would morally and ethically clarify the decriminalization of sex work. Meanwhile sex workers and the Sex Workers Outreach Group-USA would also reap benefits with the decriminalization of prostitution. The cooperation to decriminalize prostitution under the Netherlands model would fulfill the overall goal of the Sex Workers Outreach Group: the decriminalization of sex work to reduce violence against workers. Dutch policy on sexual violence is based on the belief that rights and infrastructure for women in the sex industry are the to prevent sexual (Rayborn 136), mutually so does the Sex Workers Outreach Group-USA. In addition to the achievement of their main goal, there would be further benefits, such as improved hygiene, and working conditions; forbidding brothels from forcing prostitutes to consume alcohol with patrons; and giving control to prostitutes regarding the work they are willing to (Rayborn 137). Equally the recognition of sex work as an occupation ensures equal rights and obligations as other professionals, such as complying with labor laws, tax obligations, and social insurance obligations. Labor laws also the most effective protection [for against Gore 5 exploitation, violence, and (Rayborn 137). Further, studies show that the decriminalization of prostitution improved the sex industry. Therefore, it is possible for these groups to cooperate to morally decriminalize prostitution in America. Even though Netherlands approach does not abolish prostitution, it encourages a more moral and safer way of sex work. Increased safety for sex workers and equality under the law expresses the morals that were laid out in the ground work of the American government. The legislative branch and the interests of the Sex Workers Outreach Group are both pleased and improved by the approach to decriminalization. Gore 6 Work Cited About  Sex Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Project. SWOP-USA, 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Home  Sex Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Project. N.p., 2016. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Prostitution: Pathways, Problems and  National Institute of Justice. USA.gov, 29 Sept. 2009. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. RAYBORN, JARED R. Regulated Prostitution as A Component In The Fight Against Human Trafficking In  Willamette Law Review 50.1 (2013): 115-162. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 23 Jan. 2017. TANZI, V.. The underground economy in the United States: estimates and  PSL Quarterly Review 33.135 (1980): n. pag. Web. 23 Jan. 2017 Weitzer, Ronald. Moral Crusade Against  Society 43.3 (2006): 33-38. Academic Search Premier. Web. 23 Jan. 2017.