Shaheen 1 Ferris Shaheen Karen Hanson ENC1102 28 January 2017 Intellectual Property and Liberty on the Internet In the age of data streaming through high-speed wireless internet highways, protecting digital property can be a difficult task. Roughly 213 million people stream video online every day in the United States alone and With all that data whizzing through the air at every moment nearly impossible to tell if every download on every device is legal. So what can be done by these intellectual property (IP) owners to defend themselves from being taken advantage of? IP owners can copyright their property in order to ensure that their data is lawfully protected from illegal distribution. infringe said copyright would be to distribute intellectual property that does not belong to one. Though copyright infringement occurs every day on small scales, large scale cases of copyright infringement can reach courtrooms and cost companies millions of dollars. A prominent example of this is in the case of Viacom International, Inc. Viacom is a large multimedia conglomerate company and cable television provider whose views on intellectual property on the internet are implicitly defined by its actions Since Viacom was responsible for filing a civil case lawsuit on the grounds of copyright infringement, along with a few other IP owners, safe to say they oppose the idea of their content floating around online, accessible by anyone On the other hand, Frontier Foundation a nonprofit organization committed to defending civil Shaheen 2 liberties in the digital world and advocates for free expression, policy analysis and grassroots activism One of those liberties is to be able to access information that behind a paywall, or a digital obstruction requiring viewers to pay to view content. Since the lawsuit Viacom filed in 2007, times have changed and new methods have become available on the internet for IP owners to host their copyrighted material. The simplest solution to this dispute would be for Viacom to host its content online in collaboration with other media companies, such as Netflix, Youtube, or Hulu. The Electronic Frontier Foundation was founded in 1990 by John Gilmore, John Perry Barlow and Mitch Kapor as a response to actions by law enforcement agencies that convinced the three that the government was unaware of emerging forms of online communication Gilmore, Barlow, and Kapor all believed that there was a need for increased protection of internet citizen liberties of New Media ). On their website, the Electronic Frontier Foundation describes themselves to user privacy and free expression on the internet With their involvement in many cases at all levels of the US legal system related to technology law -- including Century Fox v. Cablevision, Authors Guild v. Google, and Tiffany v. eBay to name a few -- the Electronic Frontier Foundation has certainly earned this title. There was no way the Electronic Frontier Foundation would not get involved when Viacom demanded the release of viewer information from Google. In March 2007 Viacom International, Inc. filed a $1 billion lawsuit against Google and YouTube for what Viacom called exploiting the infringing potential of digital technology to willfully infringe copyrights on a huge scale and profiting from the illegal conduct of others as States District Shaheen 3 was based on the grounds that YouTube allows members of its website upload video to their personal accounts for people on the internet to view. After winning the first court ruling, Viacom demanded that YouTube hand over video viewing habits of who has ever used and that YouTube take down one hundred thousand videos containing copyrighted content, which YouTube complied with The Electronic Frontier Foundation criticized this ruling, with concerns that individual users could be identified through IP addresses and usernames and called it a to privacy Shortly after this case, numerous other media companies followed suit; filing class action lawsuits on YouTube for copyright infringement. Throughout the case, numerous pro-internet liberty nonprofits led by the Electronic Frontier Foundation filed amicus briefs to urge the court not to undermine safe harbors set by the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in favor of the plaintiffs V. Title II of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act creates a or exception to the Act for online service providers such as YouTube to protect them from copyright infringement liability, provided that they meet certain requirements Media ). The case would finally be settled in March 2014 when the court favors YouTube for a final time V. Policies regarding the internet and the liberties of its users need to be updated more frequently as technology grows exponentially in order for every party -- legislators, IP owners, online service providers, and users -- to be on the same page. Though the court ruled in favor of YouTube, copyright infringement is still something to be worried about on the internet. There are many ways to profit on the internet and not uncommon to see copyright infringement involved in some of these. Perhaps the best solution to copyright infringement issues is for Shaheen 4 corporations to work together and profit mutually. Instead of competing for a place in the internet market, companies would sign contracts with one another to allow content sharing amongst one another. In the case of Viacom and YouTube, Viacom would partner with YouTube and allow YouTube to host its copyrighted content, in exchange YouTube also hosts advertisements for Viacom and shares profits. Again, this is not a compromise solely for this specific issue but can work for many media companies in the future, rather than exhausting time, money, and the attention of the legal system in lawsuits. And if the matter does happen to evolve into lawsuit, media companies should respect the liberty of internet users enough to not demand identifying information such as IP addresses. This way companies can enjoy the elbow space allowed to them in the same market on the internet. Although organizations can have fallouts and disagreements, not impossible to reach middle ground. Intellectual property can be difficult to manage in this era, however through collaborative work companies can mutually benefit and continually grow into the future. Viacom and the Electronic Frontier Foundation may disagree on civil liberties of the everyday person on the internet, but they can both agree on better ways to deal with these types of issues. not always the most efficient to proceed to court, and compromises between companies could strengthen relationships in the corporate world and allow them to see the opportunity for growth. George Herbert said it best, lean compromise is better than a fat Shaheen 5 Works Cited Frontier Foundation Accessed 12 Feb 2017 Viacom Accessed 12 Feb 2017 Digital Media Copyright Act of 1998, U.S. Copyright Office Accessed 12 Feb 2017 Herbert, George. Accessed 12 Feb 2017 Jones, Steve (2003). Encyclopedia of New Media. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications. ISBN 0-7619-2382-9 Orders Google To Give YouTube User Data To 3 July 2008. web.archive.org/web/20100702111029/http://afp.google.com/article/ALeqM5gvFPgT3M Accessed 12 Feb 2017 and Facts About Online Video and Facts: Online Video, 2015. Accessed 12 Feb 2017 United States District Court For The Southern District of New York, International Inc., V YouTube Inc. Web. Accessed 12 Feb 2017 V. Electronic Frontier Foundation Accessed 12 Feb 2017