Markovits 1 Gabriela Markovits Sarah Basil ENC 1102 07 February 2017 Animal Parks and Animal Rights Advocates Animal rights organizations, such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, are commonly known for having strong views about the issue of animals being used in the entertainment industry. They are often at odds with commercial businesses, such as SeaWorld, when the issue of animal welfare is discussed. Instead of working together to advance the cause, these two stakeholders have been fighting for a long time to promote their own views. Although they present different opinions about animal welfare in the entertainment industry, if PETA and SeaWorld could work together to create a plan for the protection of animals and establish a new concept of animal theme parks, they could increase the awareness and increase the funding of these projects through donations. Animals are being used in the entrainment industry for various reasons: from animal actors, such as the German Shepard in A Purpose and Winter in Tale, to animal shows in aquatic parks, such as the recently deceased orca whale, Tilikum, at SeaWorld. The controversy regarding animals being used as entertainment is partially due to the lack of protective legislation to ensure their wellbeing. Stories like the ones of the German Shepard and Tilikum display the harm animals can go through if their rights and wellbeing are not the priority when these films and shows are made. Unfortunately, people only start acting once the damage has already been done. A footage of this German Shepard being pushed into a water tank against Markovits 2 his will was recently released and the public expressed their contempt by calling for a boycott. Likewise, people only started being concerned about the wellbeing of whales in aquatic parks after Tilikum killed one of his trainers, showing his instability due to captivity. The goal of animal rights and welfare organizations, is to attempt to prevent these crimes from happening by educating the public in each unique way. PETA is a non-profit animal rights organization that aims to protect animals in the clothing, entrainment, scientific research, and food industry. Their motto are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other strongly emphasizes their commitment to protecting animals on several different industries PETA has strong views regarding animals being used for human gain. They are completely against people using animals for their entertainment in circuses, zoos, marine parks, rodeos, animal actors, and all others kinds of entertainment that are harmful to them. Their position comes from a line of thought explained by the David A. Fennel in his article and Animal Fennel argues that the animal position, differently from the animal welfare position, can be explained by a contemporary theory created by Tom Regan which based on inherent (Fennel 159). Regan explains that all animals are deserving of rights and have equal value as living beings; stressing that all living beings should be treated equally and with respect (Fennel 159). He used three criteria to assign rights: intentionality, and (Fennel 159). Because animals fall into these three criteria, they should be treated with the same dignity human beings treat each other and, therefore, be protected by more laws and not only as property. PETA is an important stakeholder in the issue of animals being used in the entertainment industry due to their notability and influence in Markovits 3 society. Because of their unique, and sometimes called extreme, views their actions and beliefs often differ from those of big commercial businesses. SeaWorld Parks and Entertainment is one of the leaders in the entertainment industry today. Their mission as a company is personal, interactive and educational experiences and enable guest to celebrate, connect with and care for the natural world we Along with promoting the awareness, they also serve as a rescue organization, rehabilitation center and refuge to animals in need. Because they are an entertainment company that aims to educate the public, one of greatest attractions is a personal encounter that allows guests to see the interaction between trainers and big aquatic mammals, including orca whales. These animal shows are one of the biggest criticism to the company and the reason it is often in the media. SeaWorld believes that these personal encounters benefit the perspectives of nature and makes the public more interested and willing to help in their cause. This idea is defended by the analysis done by Giovanna Bertella in the article Nature in Animal-Based Bertella writes that and the perception tend to be strictly related and reinforce each (Bertella 24). Her study links the way people experience the environment and becomes more connected to it with the presence of animals. When SeaWorld allows a guest to watch a giant mammal interacting with a human being, doing tricks and splashing water at a visitor, they are putting this animal in the role of a representative of their species. Their goal is to make the guest learn and care about the animal, so they will also care for the ones in the wild who are not seen. Although the views of big corporations, such as SeaWorld, differ from the views of animal groups, such as PETA, they still have a lot in common. A compromise has never been achieved in the past because they fail to see the many similarities in their goals. PETA has Markovits 4 often directly attacked SeaWorld due to their conduct regarding the animal shows. One of its biggest complains is the treatment of the orca whales, such as Tilikum. However, both these organizations are trying to help animals in need and promote the education of society in regards to animal welfare and nature. Because of their different views, they attempt to educate the public in different ways. A compromise can be achieved if they both agree to make concessions regarding their beliefs. SeaWorld, in order to appease PETA, must stop their animal shows and start treating the animals in conditions similar to that of their natural habitats. If the main purpose of the organization changed from entertaining the public, to rescuing, caring and acting as a refuge for animals, they could remain in business and start being supported by animal rights organizations. Although PETA is against animals being kept in zoos, it recognizes the need to rescue and transport injured animals to facilities where they can be rehabilitated. PETA must understand that although this is not an ideal solution, because the animals will continue to be on display for guests, this is a step in the right direction. Through these changes and the publicity brought forth by SeaWorld, animal welfare will also become the main priority of several other organizations, leading to more changes and improvements. If the animals at SeaWorld, even though on display, remained there only long enough to receive veterinary care and then be reintroduced to the wild, both sides would agree. This compromise has been proven to be feasible due to a similar institution, Clearwater Marine Aquarium, being managed with a similar principle to the one proposed above. According to their official website, the motto of this non-profit marine rescue center is to Rehab, animals in need Marine This aquarium has gained worldwide renown due to one of its greatest success stories in helping animals, Winter, being portrayed in the movie Dolphin Tale. Regarding this movie, Pete Porter wrote the review Markovits 5 True Rescuers: Big Miracle, Dolphin Tale, and where he commented about the role of the movie on promoting the idea that marine parks are helping animals in need. His review can be used to understand the opinion regarding such institutions. According to Porter, might, therefore, view Dolphin Tale as an apologia for aquatic (Porter 214). story, as an actor and rescued animal, is proof that organizations such as these can remain open to the public, but, at the same time, focus their work on the care for the animals and make their welfare the priority. To sum up, based on the work done by the Clearwater Marine Aquarium in saving animals and educating the public, it can be concluded that if and views were aligned, they could create a similar institution and change views on what is the correct conduct of animal theme parks. By establishing a new concept of aquatic parks, they would be changing views on how animals should be treated. By coming together to create a single institution, SeaWorld and PETA would also both benefit from an increase in public awareness and, because of it, an increase in funding for their projects allowing them to care for a greater number of animals. Markovits 6 Works Cited Bertella, Giovanna. Experiencing Nature in Animal-Based  Journal of Outdoor Recreation and Tourism vol. 14, 2016 pp. 22-26. ScienceDirect. DOI: 10.1016/j.jort.2016.04.007. Accessed 23 January 2017. Fennell, David A. Tourism and Animal  Tourism Recreation Research, vol. 38 no. 3, 2013), pp. 325-340. EBSCOhost, DOI: 10.1080/02508281.2013.11081757. Accessed 23 January 2017. Clearwater Marine Aquarium, 2017, www.seewinter.com/#. Accessed 04 February 2017 People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. PETA, 2017, www.peta.org/. Accessed 23 January 2017 Porter, Pete. The True Rescuers: Big Miracle, Dolphin Tale, And  Society & Animals vol. 22 no. 2, 2014, pp. 211-217. Academic Search Premier. doi:10.1163/15685306- 12341306. Accessed 25 January 2017 SeaWorld Orlando. SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment, 2016, www.seaworldparks.com/en/seaworld-orlando/. Accessed 23 January 2017