Miller 1 Brandon Miller Professor Basil English Composition II February 11, 2017 The Argument for Education The Florida Department of Corrections (FDOC) and the Student Aid Alliance (SAA) are two organizations that recognize the immense value of a college education. Both groups are designed to provide college education to the beneficiaries - prisoners and students - who seek to better themselves by obtaining a degree. The main difference between these organizations, and where they find themselves at odds with one another, is the cost. The FDOC is a state-funded organization that provides many free educational opportunities to its inmates. There are a myriad of programs offered by the FDOC including GED, vocational, and collegiate level courses. Opponents of these programs, including the SAA, argue that providing free education to the incarcerated is a conflict of interest considering that there are millions of students struggling to pay for college. It is estimated that the average student will graduate with 25,000 dollars in student loan debt (Prison Education). Though it seems that these organizations have very little in common, both entities can work together to help provide pell grants (need based financial aid) to prisoners and students. By releasing non-violent drug offenders, via parole, from the 56 overcrowded prisons that occupy the state, this will free up millions of dollars that can be reinvested in a mutually exclusive manner. Therefore, the answer is not simply to get rid of prison education in favor of college education. Rather, the two groups must work together to find a common ground. Miller 2 In a nation with the highest prison population of 2.3 million, 1 million more than China (King, Mauer, Young), crime is proving to be a cancerous epidemic plaguing the United economic infrastructure. The Department of Justice has indicated that the US prison budget is roughly 70 billion dollars annually, with roughly 50 billion of that coming from state funding (PrisonEducationNews). In Florida, according to the FDOC website, the budget is roughly 2.3 billion dollars. Inmates cost the state roughly 49.49 dollars per day which totals to 18,064 dollars annually. Though the recidivism rate dropped 26.3 percent in 2014 from 33 percent, Florida is still home to the third largest prison population in the country with 100,873 inmates. That is 5.2 percent of the US prison population and half a percent of the world prison population (FDOC Website). With such a massive prison population, it leads one to ask the question: is there a solution to the United States problem with crime? The one seemingly proven method of crime reduction is education.The benefits of prison education are seemingly undeniable when examining its effect on recidivism. Recidivism is a concept in criminology that refers to repeating criminal behavior. The national recidivism rate is 54.4 percent (PrisonEducationNews), which means that half of all inmates who are released from prison, will return in three years or less. But these rates are reduced drastically when a college education is obtained. When inmates receive an degree, a degree, or a degree, the recidivism rates drop to 13.7 percent, 5.5 percent, and 0 percent respectively (Prison Education News). There are economic benefits in addition to this. For every dollar that is invested in prison education nationwide, there is a 2 dollar return. In Florida specifically, the Costs Consequences Analysis (CCA) model, developed by TaxWatch indicates a return for every $1.00 (Allen, Hallam, Dewey). But this education is costly. It Miller 3 is estimated that prison education programs cost roughly 5,000 dollars per prisoner, per year for those who choose to engage in it (FDOC Website). With such a large amount of money towards the prison budget going towards education, it seems highly unfair to charge college students for a right prisoners are given for free. In stark contrast to the large amount of state money invested in Florida prisons that lead to free education for inmates, college students are struggling to finance their own future educations. In 2014, loans more than $1.2 nationwide (FloridaCan!). In an NPR article titled Cut Student Debt, Florida College Cuts Off Some Student the author, John highlights the massive amount of debt that students acquire in pursuit of a four year degree. The article tells the story of the Broward College (a Florida community college) admission process. Kent Dunston, a teacher at Broward College, tell his future students about past students who have acquired unfathomable amounts of debt. Including story of a young woman concerned about how her $137,000 student In response to this, Broward and many other colleges have begun to block unsubsidized loans as a form of aid. The national default rate - which is defined as a failure to meet the legal ramifications of loan - is roughly 13.7 percent Because of high college costs, students are forced to obtain massive amounts of debt just to go have the option to go to school. The Student Aid Alliance (SAA), is an organization that seeks to protect federal student aid programs are at risk of being According to their website, Student Aid Alliance supports a package of proven student aid programs to help students achieve their higher education goals without excessive One of these programs is the Pell Grant, a need based source of financial aid that provides low income students with money that their parents do Miller 4 not/cannot provide for college expenses. In 2012, 40 percent of undergraduates received some form of need based grant totaling to 34 billion dollars nationwide (King, Mauer, Young). That number was cut to 31 Billion dollars in 2014. That is nearly half the money of the 2014 United States 70 billion dollar prison budget. If you do the math, the United States invested 39 billion dollars more in Prisons than college education. 11.5 (5,000, the estimated education cost per prisoner, multiplied by 2.3 million, the prison population) of that 39 billion went towards educating prisoners. The Florida Department of Corrections (FDOC) and the Student Aid Alliance (SAA) seem like such vastly different and divided organizations, one may begin to wonder if collaboration and compromise are at all possible. Well, both organizations, as previously mentioned, recognize and understand the importance of education. Though the government currently supplies more aid to its prisons than it does to its students, there is no reason that this cannot change. Vital problems that affect both coalitions can be solved with a simple compromise: release imprisoned non-violent drug offenders and place them on Parole. This type of legal reform seems drastic, but there is precedences for both concepts . In 2016, 12,000 incarcerated offenders received Pell grants that went towards their college education (FloridaCan!). 50 of those inmates were from Florida. This was due to a partnership between the FDOC and Florida gateway college, Florida College System institution based in Lake In 2015, the Federal Bureau of Prisons released 6,000 non-violent inmates early from federal prison making it the largest one-time release of prisoners in US history (Stevenson). They did so to help overcrowding and provide relief to drug offenders who received harsh sentences over the past three Interestingly enough, those are some of the same issues previously Miller 5 mentioned in this paper. Obama also helped to contribute to this total by granting clemency to over 1,000 offenders throughout the duration of his presidency (Horowitz). In Florida, when a prisoner is granted parole, they are required to pay for the program themselves. According to Florida Statute 945.30, on probation or parole shall be required to contribute $10 per month to cover the cost of his supervision and rehabilitation beginning 60 days from the date he is free to seek (FDOC Website). Parole in Florida is granted by a commission known as The Commision on Offender Review. They define the purpose of parole as allows an inmate who has been granted parole to serve the remainder of his or her prison sentence outside the confines of the institution. Once released, the parolee is subject to strict conditions of supervision, and if those conditions are violated, the Commission may return the parolee to With a set of specific criteria laid out for each released non-violent offender, they would still serve the remainder of their sentence. But, instead of serving it in prison, they would serve in the community, under stringent supervision. Non-violent drug offenders represent half of the 2.3 million total US prison populations. The average US prisoner cost roughly 31,286 dollars. By releasing all of the non-violent drug offenders in the US, and placing them on parole, the government would free up roughly 34 billion dollars instantly (31,286 multiplied by 1.1 million). In Florida, non-violent drug offenders account for 13.6 percent, or 13,696, of the total prison population (FDOC Website). If the Florida government were to commute the sentences of these non-violent drug offenders it would slash 247,404,544 dollars from the 2.3 billion dollar FDOC budget that could be reallocated and used for pell grants for both florida college students and commuted offenders. Miller 6 So, not only is it beneficial to both the Florida Department of Corrections and the Student Aid Alliance to grant the conditional release (parole) of non-violent drug offenders, but there is plenty of legal precedence that supports the merit of such actions. These organizations that look to be unrelated on the surface can work together to create a total of 247,404,544 dollars that can be dedicated to helping Florida students, including prisoners, achieve their dreams of one day obtaining a college degree. This type of collaboration could lead to vital criminal justice and education reform that would, in theory, save the country billions of dollars. Miller 7 Works Cited About  Aid Alliance , 21 Jan. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Allen, Rob; Chris Hallam; Dave Bewley-Taylor. Incarceration of Drug Offenders: An Centre for Prison Studies , Kings College, University of London. March 2009. King, Ryan; Marc Mauer; Malcolm Young. and Crime: A Complex Sentencing Project. 2005. Prison Education News - Prison Education - Helping Inmates and Their Families during Time in Prison. Job Training and Inmate Locator  Education News - Prison Education Helping Inmates and Their Families during Time in Prison. Job Training and Inmate Locator Directories . Middle Street Publishing. Web. 13 Oct. 2014. Miller 8 Stevenson, Bryan, Policy, Criminal Justice and Mass Web. 24 Jan. 2011. 29 Jan. 2017. Second Chance Pell Grant Program to Allow Inmates to Seek Degrees at Florida College Access Network . Florida Can, 6 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.