Shyler Willett 1/25/17 English comp 1 using animals in medical research necessary and Authors: Bill Henry1 and Roarke Pulcino2 Source: Society & Animals, Volume 17, Issue 4, pages 305 324 Publication Year: 2009 In this book the author discusses what influences people to believe when is ethical for animals to be tested on and when it is unethical. They found research on how the three study specific characteristics effected how people felt about using animals in laboratory research, which included the types of animal used, the level of harm and the severity of the disease being injected into the animal. They as well tested the participants on their attachment to pets, as well as giving them scenarios on animal research and then asking them to fill out a survey one how they felt about it. They found that men were more opposed to using animals in the laboratory then women. This will help my research paper because it points out how people feel towards animal testing and up to what point and degree do they rate it as unethical. This will help my paper because all the people they surveyed are different, which will show my reader both sides of opinions on animal research. Creating no bias for the reader. Wadman, Meredith. CHIMPANZEE RESEARCH ON  Proquest. N.p., 16 June 2011. Web. This article argues that using chimpanzees to further our knowledge in medical research is necessary and very important. It argues that the amount of money that united states used to care for chimpanzees in captivity could save millions of lives if it was funding the research of medical issues. Proponents argue that testing on chimps is necessary for finding vaccines for Hepatitis-C, as well as improving drugs for Hepatitis-B. The author argued that chimps were vital to research because they have T cells in their immune systems. This article is very important to my research paper because it points out the benefits of animal testing on our knowledge as humans. It points out the facts that things would be easier if we could test on animals, but not necessarily necessary. Also, this article talks about how using chimps was banned and I can do further research on how this banning impacted other animals. Rienwald , Susan . Review of Nonprimate, Large Animal Models for Osteoporosis  Review of Nonprimate, Large Animal Models for Osteoporosis Research - Reinwald - 2008 - Journal of Bone and Mineral Research - Wiley Online Library. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. This article states that large animals are required for the research of osteoporosis research and its preventions and inventions. However, no animal perfectly resembles the progression of this human-specific chronic condition. Primates are the ideal subjects for this research but they are expensive so many labs resort to canine and other large animals. Each animal is important because they all have different hormones, skeletal structure, and metabolic structures. This article is important to my paper because again this gives examples of why some argue that animal testing is necessary for gaining research and knowledge. It also describes some of the reason why certain animals are used for specific things and why some animals are not. Along with a lot of other important facts like expenses, bans and more. Fraser. Animal Suffering: The Appraisal and Control of Depression and Distress in  Animal Suffering: The Appraisal and Control of Depression and Distress in Livestock - ScienceDirect. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. This articles says that animals can experience suffering, to diagnosis suffering in use must use clinical judgment and behavioral manifestations. Sometimes it hard to tell if they are suffering because physically nothing changes. The behaviors must be observed, look for signs of reduce activity, pacing, repetition of the same movement and more. Many animals need to be socialized or have a companion and when in labs they have this connection which causes then to feel suffering and anxious. This article is important to my research because it explains and proves that animals have emotions just as animals do. This article will help me to prove that animals should not be tested on and appeal to my emotions. I can also connect this with stories of how the animals to behave in the laboratories to prove that they are indeed being emotionally scared. Although out time animals have been there for humans as companions and subjects of admiration. It has been proven that animals feel compassion, sorrow and guilt just as humans do, making breeding them to live in a laboratory to be poked and manipulated with a very questionable action. The ethical treatment of animals has seemingly always been a controversial topic. Many argue that testing on animals is necessary to acquire knowledge in science, medical research and overall survival of the human population. While others argue that testing on animals is unethical and a violation of their rights as a living creatures, and unnecessary because there is alternatives and just because we are at the top of the food chain does not mean we can violate other creatures for our own benefit. In this project, I ask is using animals in medical research necessary and ethical?