Student 1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 2 February 2017 P1 Intermediate Draft Can Parental involvement impact a Education? Parental involvement is something that all kids should have when it comes to helping them succeed in school. Students are less like to fail when parents are advocating and being involved with their children education. On the other hand, what happens when this is not done for the child whose parent is not involved, let see what this looks like. Cordry, Sheila, and Janell D. Wilson. Parents as First  Education 125.1 (2004): 56-62. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. In the article as First Cordry, Sheila, and Janell D. Wilson, argues that parental involvement can increase a chance of graduating if the parents are involved and gives these statistics, 88% received their diploma 93% attended a vocational school, 97% received a bachelor degree (p57). In the article is also states that teachers are being parents to students, whose parents are not involved in the education of the student and that brings down the morale in the work place (p61). When the parent is absent from the academic school life of the child, they tend to fall way behind to that of their peers causing a twofold effect, one the student tends to need the extra help that the parent should have given and two the teacher is having to become a co-parent for the student. (Word Count:163). Student 2 Bui, Khanh, and Ryan A. Rush. Parental Involvement in Middle School Predicting College Attendance for First-Generation  Education 4 (2016): 473. Academic OneFile. Web. 4 Feb. 2017 In this article, Parental Involvement in Middle School Predicting College Attendance for First-Generation Students a study was done with a group of 8 th graders and college students who were followed for about 8 years. It looked at the generational effects of parents who had no college education, those with some college education, and those with a bachelor degree or higher. It compared different economic backgrounds as well (p473). The article argued about what level of parental involvement effects the education, such as participation in school activities and programs, communication with their child about school, restrictions at home that support learning, and the educational expectations for the student (p475). To me communication would be the most important factor in all the others represented above because it let the student tell the parent the struggles they may be having, then the parent will know where to begin helping the student, where as a parent with no real formal education may not communicate at all with their student because of the home environment, economic factor, and the parent being able to understand the students challenges themselves. (Word Count:215). Malone, Debra. Culture: A Potential Challenge for Parental Involvement in  Delta Kappa Gamma Bulletin 82.1 (2015): 14-18. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Debra Malone article Culture: A Potential Challenge for Parental Involvement in  In the editorial portion of the article it gives a very honest approach to how the Student 3 culture and teaching kids should have a holistic approach making sure that the teacher addresses the whole need of the student by sparking hope by building each belief in a bright future and the ability to make it happen; teaching before building a collaborative culture in the classroom and the school; and addressing the needs of the whole child (p5). The editorial article also warns those who educated to not misunderstand the culture and background of the student because it will clash with parents and their involvement in the education (p5). If educators are having a difficult time fostering parental involvement in the classroom, then the student chance of succeeding is reduced leaving the child and parent in a difficult situation (p16). Educators must find ways to foster parental involvement in the classroom more because of the different cultures and different background that have come about in the 20 th century. (Word Count:208).  ASHE Higher Education Report 33.6 (2008): 1-5. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. In this report from Higher Education College/Millennials students seem to have a close relationship with their parents, they talked about many things and wanted advice on several including education, most of the communication was done through technology, but some staff and administrators of colleges seem to think that this level of closeness and involvement of the parent tends to brings conflict with the autonomous (p8). This study also indicated an economic difference in lower and middle income families, many middle-income parents of college/millennials were very close because of the structure of the home and how they intentionally spend almost all their time together, the parent took them to most of all their events and actives. Lower income Student 4 parents wanted to best for their kids as well but the stress and strain of paying bills brought about a different home structure in the student, instead these students were left to choose their own free time, to me this gave them no real opportunity to further their education without the involvement (p17). (Word Count:192).