Gonzalez 1 Nicholas Gonzalez Professor Hernandez English Composition II 12 February 2017 Should College Athletes Be Paid? In day and age there are over 460,000 student athletes under the NCAA (National Collegiate Athletic Association) board of regulations. These students must abide by the rules set by the board in order to be able to play for their teams and accept the universities scholarships that have been granted to the students. Many of the regulations put on the students are restrictive and do not allow students to benefit monetarily from their athletic collegiate careers, therefore the organization of CAPA (College Athletes Players Association) has been formed. Both organizations have different views on the idea of allowing students to be monetarily supported by their careers, but do strive for the same goal, which in this case is to better the lives of college athletes. The NCAA and CAPA are both responsible for enhancing the experience of a college athlete and in this case, should allow for the granting of money to athletes who garner the most revenue for their respective schools. CAPA, an organization formed to represent the student athletes of today explain that the scholarships given to the students do not cover everything the student must pay for, and that by not being able to profit off their names some expenses cannot be paid. The full cost of living is not fully covered by the athletic scholarships, as the NCAA does not cover medical cost if an athlete is to succumb to an injury, this means that a player who has sustained an injury in a game or practice is forced to live off money that is not being granted for them. This is an Gonzalez 2 especially problematic situation in families where students come from low income backgrounds where they may not be able to pay for the medical expenses. The NCAA often points to the fact that if athletes are given money like CAPA wants, how will they differentiate how much money each athlete earns? There are three Divisions in which college sports are played, Division I with schools like Duke, Kentucky and USF, Division II schools like Florida Institute of Technology and Division III schools like Amherst College. Now there is a big discretion in how much popularity each school garners and the level of talent of their student athletes, a school in Division II or III will gain significantly less revenue from their sports programs then the schools in Division I. There is also a large difference in the amount of popularity each sport garners, the two most popular sports, basketball and football dominate the ratings and are responsible for the most revenue in college sports. Should these players be paid more than players in other sports such as lacrosse and wrestling, furthermore male players who generate more popularity then females cannot be paid more because of Title IX of the 1964 Civil Right Act (Garda). Secondly how will student athletes spend the money if they are paid? If they were to get paid, student athletes would create an imbalance between them and their fellow students. In many cases college students are financially irresponsible, if they were to get paid financial problems would only be exacerbated as about 62% of students at a four-year school check their bank account balances and only 39% of these students use a (Allie Bidwell). The NCAA states that by paying athletes the whole meaning of collegiate sports would be diluted, because they are essentially amateurs many believe they deserve to get paid. However, it is important to point out that college athletes are indeed paid for their athletic Gonzalez 3 services and tuition, in that they often receive full or partial scholarships for their services (Garda et. al.). In compared to the revenue of the school however their scholarship amount is miniscule, just in the 2012-2013 season in which the NCAA made approximately $1 billion, the collegiate basketball tournament alone garnered $769 million (Garda). The difference in money is enough to point that the conversation is a valid one that should be happening but the question remains what is a valid conclusion? Those nearest to the athletes meaning coaches and assistants often are among the most paid at the universities, just this past season Willie Taggart, former football coach had a $1.7 million salary, a $500,000 raise from last year, while acknowledging that there are much bigger programs than (Johnston). The main debate for the pay of athletes is the money that could be going to them is instead going all to the NCAA. As earlier stated some of who agree with the present situation say the innocence of the game will be lost, but there are different opinions such as that of Scoop of ESPN. Jackson states that by agreeing to take a scholarship from the school to learn and play at the university the student is knowingly accepting that he or she is to abide by the NCAA regulations (Garda). Thereby allowing the universities to make as much money from them as possible. Under these rules the athlete is not allowed to make a of him or herself meaning they are not permitted to gain profit from their name as a merchandise. Many athletes such as Reggie Bush and Cam Newton (The Week Staff) have been suspended or fined in some way because of how they have accepted money for merchandise or to persuade them to go to a certain university out of high school. Knowingly accepting the regulations of the NCAA has other effects as well, many athletes must reschedule their classes to fit their game and practice Gonzalez 4 schedule. Former quarter back Kain Colter of Northwestern University explains advisors encouraged him to take easier classes that were more conducive to his hectic football (Garda), thus disallowing him to complete his goal of becoming a doctor. The compromise between both organizations seems complicated but possible. If both the NCAA and CAPA can come to an agreement on the amount of money to be given out to students it can be a reality in the future. Collegiate athletes should be paid according to the division that they are in, meaning players from Division I will be paid more than Division II, and players from Division II will be more than Division III. Specifically, all players from Division III should earn $15,000, all players from Division II should earn $25,000 and all players from Division III should earn $50,000. This way all students in each respective division earn the same amount and no student is given no more or no less than others. This is reasonable enough because per the National College Players Association the average college football player is worth $178,000 and the average college basketball player is worth $375,000 (Koba). The NCAA makes so much money a year that paying student athletes should not be a problem, also the recommended amounts are far below the amounts that are projected that the average basketball and football players is worth. Keeping the salary below $100,000 also keeps the students from completely becoming labeled as a professional athlete as they on average make over $1,000,000 per year. In this compromise the NCAA continues to make money as they always have while also paying the athletes for the money they make off them. The innocence of the game will still be present as the student athletes will be making nowhere near the amount of money that professional athletes make while the core values of the NCAA will carry on as Gonzalez 5 both its and goals are synonymous as student athletes continue their of excellence in both academics and (NCAA Core Values). To conclude, both the NCAA and CAPA are vital in the life of a college athlete, both are responsible for enhancing their lives to prepare them for the future. While both have different views on the distribution of money they have the same goal in mind. If they both choose to work together in the near future, the life of student athletes would be the best it has ever been and athletes would have a more meaningful college experience. Gonzalez 6 Works Cited NCAA Core  NCAA.org. NCAA, 06 July 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.org/about/ncaa-core-values>. Osborne, Barbara. The Myth of the Exploited College  Journal of Intercollegiate Sport, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 143-52. Garda, Justin D. Paying College  Research Starters: Education (2017): Research Starters. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Koba, Mark. Top College Players Could Be worth $1M on Open  CNBC. Getty Images, 14 Apr. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.cnbc.com/2014/04/12/whats-a-college-athlete- worth-in-pay-on-the-open-market.html>. Gardner, pay-and-play solution for college Reporter 2014: 52 General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan 2017 Why Doing  College Athletes Players Association (CAPA). Trilogy, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.collegeathletespa.org/why>. Gonzalez 7 How and why college athletes can and should be  UWIRE Text 2014: Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.