Name: Faisal almeshhen Composition I January 27, 2017 Digital Movements Social media is a relatively new concept to the world, it has been here for almost half decade, but it exploded in the last five years. It used to be somewhat inclusive with every group of people using one site. However, now things changed websites like youtube, twitter, and Facebook has spread so wide that it almost seems that the whole world is connected. This affected most of our daily lives, and one of the effects of social media is in our political systems. Governments can no longer control where the people get their news. Which resulted in revolution across multiple countries around the world, For example, the Arab Spring which was anti-government protests that involved eight countries. One of the main reason theses protests wore so widespread in every country and around the world is social media. In fact, in some of these countries, social media website like Facebook was the main tool the protestors communicated and set up data for the protest without the government finding out. Most recently the presidential election was over, and to say social media had a small impact on the result would be an understatement. Some people may say the reason why Donald Trump the current president of the united state was elected is because of the widespread of false information in social media website. So social media might have negatively affected politics. My research question would be how can social media website affect our politics. My first source Politics: Toward a Process Model for Achieving Political Source Credibility Through Social is a study about how important it is to establish a credible presence on social media, and how it can be vital to a political candidate if he does not have a social media presence. Both presidential candidates used Twitter to communicate with their supporters; actually, there was an exchange between them on twitter. This study will provide examples on the effect social media has on our politicians. It also discusses how the credibility of a candidate can effect their supporters, for instance, if a candidate lied about something related to his job or even personal lives, paying taxes, staying faithful to their significant other. My second source is an article How Social Media Is Ruining Politics. This article discusses how can social media ruin politics and what are the negative effect of social media. How are our politicians are using social media and what is the correct way of using. I believe this article will answer equations on how social media is changing our politics; it might not be a positive article, but we have to know the negative impact of social media. This article also mentions how technology, in general, shaped our politics. In the 1920s when radios were just introduced politicians immediately used it to their advantage. Instead of going home to home and traveling by train they used the radio, and the same thing happened to TVs My third source is an article titled How social movements are using the internet to change politics. In this article, it explains how can social media be used to recruit people for meeting or even protest. It goes into details on how people use social media to support their movements. It also discusses that echo chamber that we see in social media, and how it came to be. Political activist uses social media to prompt their big idea like is equal, and he or she downplay any controversial idea in his or her movement. It also mentions how American parties are using social media, democrats, and republicans both use social media to recruit and also encourage their supporters to go to the polls to vote. My fourth source is a study conducted by The Media Insight Project it is titled Millennials Get News: Inside the habits of first digital In this study, they research how millennials get their news a. It shows that more than 69% of millennials get news daily, that is a huge number of people probably one the highest group of individuals that consume news, if not the highest. They tend to consume the news multiple times a day. That is because of the distribution of time is all over the place. For example, millennials might go to social media read the headline of a couple of news agency and close it; this happens multiple times a day. There is a negative thing about consuming it that way because most individuals read the headline and they think it is enough for them, which usually lead to incorrect conclusion and misinformation. Because most news agency tries to make the headline way more exaggerated than it actually is, they do that because of internet traffic and that means more revenue to them. Citations Housholder, Elizabeth E., and Heather L. LaMarre. Facebook Politics: Toward A Process Model For Achieving Political Source Credibility Through Social  Journal Of Information Technology & Politics 11.4 (2014): 368-382. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Carr, Nicholas. How Social Media Is Ruining  POLITICO Magazine. N.p., 01 Sept. 2015. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Rohlinger, Deana A. How Social Movements are Using the Internet to Change  How Social Movements are Using the Internet to Change Politics Scholars Strategy Network. N.p., Jan. 2012. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Insight Project, The Media. How Millennials Get  American Press Institute. N.p., 01 Oct. 2015. Web. 06 Feb. 2017.