Cortez 1 Daniel Cortez Professor Davis Comp II 26 January, 2017 Net-Neutrality The internet is considered one of the most open spaces for thoughts and ideas, of our generation. Traffic through the internet, due to its wide use, has caused concerns regarding efficiency and stability. The internet as we use it now is guarded by what is called net-neutrality, the right that ISPs (Internet Service Providers) may not throttle or hinder our internet use no matter what sites we visit. This causes problems for the ISPs including one person consuming most of the bandwidth in a community and overall performance drop when many people are streaming their favorite shows online. If net-neutrality was taken away they could solve this problem and save companies money. Coming to a compromise between these two different points of view of how the internet should be utilized is the goal that is trying to be achieved. Net non-discriminatory nature champions the rights of the consumer over anyone else. The openness of the internet allows anyone to access anything they want in a matter of seconds, which places high demands on the ISPs. Right now the internet is like a highway, the more people that get on it the more congested it is. This is sometimes inefficient but makes it equal for everyone whether they are with a different company or not. Without net-neutrality, as stated in Journal of Economic Perspectives: Net Neutrality: A Fast Lane to Understanding the Trade-offs, there would be and of the internet. Imagine if there were two lanes on the highway one for normal commuters and one for because of their employers. These fast lanes would be for companies who have a contract with the ISPs to ensure their users Cortez 2 have the best experience on the provider as possible. Slow lanes would be for non-demanding sources and companies that have not contracted with others. Also in neutrality on the Internet: A two-sided market Nicholas Economides purses the idea that Internet service providers have also expressed a desire to be able to apply different prices to different content providers, even for the same type of information transmitted to This provides favorites and partnerships that benefit companies, but consumers with non-favored providers could get punished. This tie between companies is something that can create monopolies or create a balance if used correctly. ISPs use have been pushing against net-neutrality for years in many different court cases. They argue that the way the internet is processed right now causes congestion and limitations. The FCC (Federal Communications Commission) passed something known as the the Open Internet that effectively prevented them from blocking or slowing competitor websites and services. Verizon challenged this in court saying that it upon First Amendment and also accused the FCC of trying to limit their services in the future. This creates a problem for both the consumer and the provider as the First Amendment protects both of them. During the court case the judges conferred that First Amendment analysis of access regulations must therefore be updated to reflect these technological which is found in Stephanie Split Net Neutrality: Applying Traditional First Amendment Protections To The Modern Interweb. The First Amendment originally included the press and other forms of publication to stop censorship from government. The internet is a major source of information so people believe it falls under the same principles as the press. eBay and other online retailers have taken a strong stance for net-neutrality and have partnered to help keep it in place. eBay has a website that displays why they believe net-neutrality Cortez 3 needs to stay in place. One point they make is that providers should not be permitted to double  by charging consumers twice for high-speed Internet access and This means that fees would be charged because the partnership contracts would produce an exchange of money between ISPs and online service providers. In response to this, Judge Thomas, a judge on the case of Verizon for its use of free speech, asserted that different services on the internet should be categorized the consumer the service being Judge Thomas is stating that instead of the determining what is a service that should be charged it should be the customers that use the internet instead. To explain this, we have to look at the most prominent forms of internet usage. The four main types of internet are browsing/email, video streaming, VOIP (Voice over Internet Protocol), and Peer to Peer connections. If the consumer where to choose between these they would most likely choose to have the best speeds on video streaming and browsing. This would leave companies and local businesses in the slow lane because they rely on VOIP. In other countries, the government allows ISPs to create data caps, limiting the amount of internet consumer can. The more a consumer pays the more internet they can use. This is currently used by cellular providers and some internet providers. T-Mobile allows some services such as HBO Go and Netflix to not be counted to your overall internet data usage. Other networks soon copied this for music streaming apps such as Pandora, iHeartRadio, and Spotify. They do this by lowering the quality so that it will not strain its service of other users. This could be a possible solution to the problem of bandwidth usage that ISPs face. The problem is that most customers do not value data caps and look for a more subscription based options that allow them to have unlimited internet at the speed they wish to have. Both sides have two things in common making a profit and allowing the internet to run as efficiently as possible. Two stake holders that seem to be at odds the most are the ISPs and the Cortez 4 online retailers. These though never have to conflict if they are excluded from being throttled or hindered. eBay specifically stated that if the net was regulated then it would the Internet as we know it and reduce the ability of Internet users to reach a global If online retailers were excluded the market would continue the way it is while allowing ISPs to help streamline video website data and create partnerships that encourage competition. As explained in Debate on Net Neutrality: A Policy other countries seem to benefit from the competition that is created. It emphasizes that fierce competition among broadband service providers has led to the introduction of download bandwidth speeds in excess of 100 with prices for the consumers significantly lower than that in the United The competition created a faster and more reliable market that other people could more readily use. At speeds of 100 mbs online video streaming, gaming, and VOIP could run better and more efficiently. In conclusion, both sides want to come to find a medium that satisfies both of their needs. After many years of battling back and forth there are two solutions I have found with two different stakeholder situations. One being that ISPs should be able to throttle video websites and block competitor ISP adds. They would not be able to constrict any other services. This would allow the market to remain open and run efficiently for both consumer and provider. The would gain the control and regulation they want, but not be able to touch online market places and hinder commerce. The consumer would benefit and be able to have the advantage of an open market with more competition. This would give them higher speeds in the future for a small cost. The consumers though would lose some freedoms and potentially have video streaming hindered, but higher speeds on other sites would make up for that. Keeping the internet open and free should be the goal of any internet user, but its efficiency and effectiveness lies in the provider. They deserve Cortez 5 the same rights as the consumers do and should have the goal to make the internet run as efficiently as possible. Cortez 6 Work Sited Greenstien Shane, Martin Peitz, and Tommaso Valletti. Net Neutrality: A Fast Lane to Understanding the  Journal of Economic Perspectives. Spring2016, Vol. 30 Issue 2, P127-150. 24p 30.2 (2016): 127-50. USF Library. USF, Spring 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=6692a58f-a0ee- 44b5-a35f-e09d5aeaa6f0@sessionmgr120&vid=2&hid=120>. Kan, Stephanie. Split Net Neutrality: Applying Traditional First Amendment Protections To The Modern  Houston Law Review 53.4 (2016): 1149-1177. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Net  EBay Main Street. EBay, 26 June 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ebaymainstreet.com/issues/net-neutrality>. Economides, Nicholas. Network neutrality on the Internet: A two-sided market  Network neutrality on the Internet: A two-sided market analysis. Science Direct, 6 Feb. 2012. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Cheng, Hsing Kenneth, and Hong Gou. The Debate on Net Neutrality: A Policy  Information Systems Research: INFORMS. Pubs Online, 1 Mar. 2010. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/isre.1090.0257>.