Xinyu 1 Xinyu Kang Mark J Nusspickel Composition 1 February 5, 2017 Oil Pollution Brought Bad Influence to Ocean Environment If you can choose, you will want to live in the past or now? With the development of science and technology, our living and marine environment has become increasingly worse. Nowadays, we have to face a serious problem: oil pollution. When oil leakage and emissions, it can float in the sea and the rapidly spread to form oil film. gills can be attached the kind of oil which will lead to fishes suffocation. This oil can also inhibit waterfowl spawning and hatching, so it causes a great destruction of the marine plankton growth, marine ecological balance and coastal landscape. According to and Health: Will the BP Oil Spill Affect Our It said that the worst environmental disaster America has ever faced because of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill (McCauley, Linda A 54-56). Therefore, we can get a information that the destructiveness of oil spill is unimaginable. In this article, Pollution In the Marine Environment: Effects and Facts of Oil John W. Farrington introduces some reasons lead oil spills and pollution (3-13). With this said, the guiding question as it pertains to this issue is: What are the reasons of oil pollution and the influence? McCauley, Linda A. and Health: Will the BP Oil Spill Affect Our AJN, American Journal of Nursing 110(9), September 2010, 54-56 Print. This article and Health: Will the BP Oil Spill Affect Our focuses on the hazards and impacts of an oil spill on human society and the environment. This event became one of the most devastating environmental disasters in American history. Eleven Xinyu 2 workers were killed in this event. The government determine the extent of the economic impact on the Gulf Coast, and the impact of its ecosystems and wildlife. In addition, the author also mentions the major effects of several for human health. The article is relevant to my topic because it briefly introduces some big influences of oil spill for human society and the environment which relates to oil spill. Then, summarize several of the major effects for human health. A few of the effects listed are, physical effects. It refers to people will encounter respiratory diseases, headaches and skin irritation. Another one is mental health effects. Because a large number of people rely on the fishing business, the oil spill led to their inability to make a living. This resource is credible because it was found in the University of South Florida library database. The author name is Linda A. McCauley who worked in Emory Nell Hodg son Woodruff School of Nursing. She is dean and professor in this school so that she was knowledgeable. Farrington, John W. Pollution In the Marine Environment: Effects and Facts of Oil Environment November/December (2013): 3-13. This article Pollution in the Marine Environment: Effects and Facts of Oil mainly talks about oil pollution in the marine environment. It is divided into three parts to discuss the problem. The first part introduces that oil forms a number of complex chemicals. This chemical is harmful to humans and the ocean. The second part focus on some oil spill events and it causes bad influence in the marine. The main reason is that chemical factors and biological processes lead to the leakage of oil. The last one focus on the fates and effects of chronic inputs of oil, which are both natural seeps and human inputs. This source is related to my research question because it said the impact of marine life and marine systems. This pollution will be poured into some of the toxic substances leading to Xinyu 3 the extinction of marine life and the destruction of the marine system. It also touches briefly on the obvious security and human health. The oil leak will cause a huge explosion led to the death of the marine staff and injuries. This resource is also reliable because it comes from the same source - the University of South Florida library database. The author name is John W. Farrington who worked in Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. He became a Dean so that we can believe that he was knowledgeable. Wiens, John A. Crist, Thomas O. Day, Robert H. Murphy, Stephen M. Hayward and Gregory D. Canonical Correspondence Analysis of the Effects of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill on Marine Ecological Applications, June 1 2001, 11, 828-839 Print. This article Canonical Correspondence Analysis of the Effects of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill on Marine was a research paper. It mainly discussed whether marine birds was serious affected and evaluated whether the impact of oil spills can be restored. They used the most primitive information to analyze and examined the impact of marine birds. According to these information, marine birds were the most affected by the oil spill. As the oil spill occurred, it resulted in thousands of marine birds died. And according to these analysis, people wanted to find a way for the ocean can return to the initial state which was very difficult. The article is relevant my research question because it focused on the impact of marine birds and marine environment. This resource used a rigorous analysis and research for oil spills, they found that these marine birds can reveal the characteristics of the impact of oil spills and the recovery of the region. They did some researches through birds, and included some birds that were not affected to begin studied.So the answer is more obvious. This resource is reliable because it comes from the University of South Florida library database. These authors name are Xinyu 4 John A. Wiens, Thomas O. Crist, Robert H. Day, Stephen M. Murphy and Gregory D. Hayward. They worked in Ecological Society of America so I believe the source was knowledgeable. Mercer, K. and Trevors, J. of oil spills in temperate and tropical coastal marine Environmentalist. Sep2011, 338-347 Print. 10 Print This article of oil spills in temperate and tropical coastal marine highlights the importance of oil as a vital source of energy. Then, the author talked about the impact of oil spills on marine ecosystems, some examples of oil spills to compared and biological remediation method reduce the destruction of oil spills. Finally, the authors analyzed the ingredient of the oil to define which is the most destructive or not. This source is related to my topic because it said oil spill polluted ocean coastlines and some ways can help ocean to recover. The authors used a lot of oil spills for research and comparison, such as A coastal oil spill on April 27, 1986 occurred along the opening of the Panama Canal in the . And the author proposed a way which is Bioremediation. When people put this microorganism to marine, it could deal with toxic and hazardous waste. This data makes the reader more convinced. This source comes from the University of South Florida library database, so we can make sure it is credible. Its author are K. Mercer and J. Trevors. They worked in Laboratory of Microbiology, School of Environmental Sciences and University of Guelph, therefore I believe that they are knowledgeable.