!1 Instructor Brenden Jackson ENC1101 2/5/17 The impacts animal agriculture has on the environment Around the globe, consuming animal products has become a normal part of many diet. There is plenty of information that is in favor of having a meat-based diet but do not take into account of what impacts animal agriculture has on things other than humans. EPA.gov defines animal agriculture or (animal feeding operations) as, operations where animals are kept and raised in confined Many people mindlessly consume these foods without even realizing what kinds of effects it has on the environment. The waste these farms produce do not just disappear and being in these is not always sanitary. Farmers have their ways of keeping things relatively disease-free but at what cost? With the growing global population and an increase of living standards, the world is being forced to produce more food at a faster rate. This demand for food is almost unprecedented and alarming. I am curious to see if animal agriculture is truly healthy for the planet and if the costs outweigh the benefits when looking at it in an environmental perspective. My research question for the semester is: what kinds of impacts does 21st century animal agriculture have on the environment? Abdalla, C.W., and J.L. Lawton. Environmental Issues In Animal  Choices : The Magazine Of Food, Farm, And Resource Issues 3 (2006): AGRIS. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. In this periodical, it draws from an article called The Future of Animal Agriculture in America and for my study I am focusing on a section called It describes how !2 animal agriculture can impact water sources such as ground water and surface water causing contamination. This pollution can come from animal waste such as manure, bedding, feed, and dead animals not being regulated properly (Abdalla and Lawton, et al, 177). Aside from water quality, air quality is another issue linked to animal agriculture. include the possible effects of ammonia and particulates on respiratory systems (e.g., asthma) and prolonged exposure to odors on mental health effects (e.g., (Abdalla and Lawton, et al, 177). Concern is also rising from airborne particles that contain microorganisms or their (Abdalla and Lawton, et al, 177). These bioaerosols can have negative effects on human and animal health when released into the air. The periodical also mentions how cattle release high amounts of methane, a greenhouse gas (GHG), from their manure. The increase of the amount of cattle being raised only further increase the amount of GHG emissions (Abdalla and Lawton, et al, 177). Charles W. Abdalla received his PhD in Resource Economics from Michigan State University in 1985. He is currently a professor of Agriculture and Environmental Economics at Pennsylvania State University. His areas of expertise include: natural resource economics, environmental and energy policy analysis, water resources management, institutional economics, and public issues education. The authors examine what animal agriculture does to the environment and associated risks of mismanaged farms. The periodical goes through 3 major environmental impacts animal agriculture has and even relate it to human health impacts which can also raise concern in readers. This text is also helpful because it specifically focuses on current animal agriculture which is what I am studying. !3 McAllister, Tim A., et al. Greenhouse Gases In Animal Agriculture--Finding A Balance Between Food Production And  Animal Feed Science And Technology (2011): AGRIS. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article concentrates specifically on greenhouse gas emissions. The information is based off of a conference held in Alberta, Canada in 2010 to discuss the greenhouse emissions from animal agriculture (McAllister, et al, Abstract). meeting addressed microbial aspects of ruminal CH4 production, and methods to measure GHG from livestock and manure. Strategies to mitigate enteric CH4 emissions from ruminants, as well as CH4 and N2O emissions from (McAllister, et al, Abstract). According to the article, these GHG emissions are linked to more severe weather patterns around the world which is beginning to spark concern of anthropogenic origins of It also mentions that global population increases will then create higher demand for food production and increase the amount of livestock which will then create more GHG emissions. (McAllister, et al, Introduction). Tim A. McAllister received his PhD from the University of Guelph and is a Principal Research Scientist. His research area is rumen microbiology and nutrition as well as beef production. He is currently working on almost 20 projects that all pertain to animal agriculture and has published countless research publications. This article ties in with my research question because it focuses on a huge environmental impact. Since there are going to be six sources that I am able to use for this paper, I decided to use a few that will have information on a single large impact. !4 Sharifi, Mohammad, et al. Environmental Impact Assessment Of Chicken Meat Production Using Life Cycle  Information Processing In Agriculture 3.(2016): 262-271. ScienceDirect. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. 10.1016/j.inpa.2016.10.002. According to the article, this study examines the environmental impacts of chicken meat production during the summer and winter months where production is highest. The people who studied these effects used assessment (LCA) a technique to assess the environmental impacts of a product, process, or activity over its life (Sharifi, et al, 2.3. Life cycle assessment methodology). The areas of environmental impact that was being studied included depletion potential, acidification potential, eutrophication potential, global warming potential, ozone depletion potential, human toxicity potential, freshwater and marine aquatic ecotoxicity potential, terrestrial ecotoxicity potential, and photochemical oxidation (Sharifi, et al, Abstract). According to the article world population is expected to reach 9.2 billion by 2075 which means increased agricultural productivity. The article then mentions that agricultural emissions include CH4 and N2O and half of GHG emissions are from the agricultural sector. Mohammad Sharifi has a PhD and a MA in Agricultural Mechanization Engineering, as well as a MA in Agricultural Machinery Engineering from Tehran University. He has done numerous supervised theses and dissertations, has written multiple articles, and has attended many international conferences mostly discussing energy and agriculture. This article is great for my research because it focuses on a specific kind of animal agriculture that is used in many countries around the world. The article looks at many different areas of environmental impacts !5 and is safe to say that many of these issues that happen in Iran may easily be found in different parts of the world. Russo, V., and H. von Blottnitz. Potentialities Of Biogas Installation In South African Meat Value Chain For Environmental Impacts  Journal Of Cleaner Production (2016): ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. 10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.11.133. This article is focused on environmental impacts and ways to reduce emissions from animal agriculture in South Africa. It looks at many different type of animal agriculture and fixates on the waste management of meat production once the animal has been slaughtered. The article states that farming is the largest user of natural (Russo and von Blottnitz, et al, Introduction). That in itself is already showing how large of an impact animal agriculture is already having on the environment before the animals are even slaughtered. Later on in the article, it is mentioned that (CH4) from enteric fermentation by ruminants was the largest source of GHG emissions (65%), whilst methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) from manure management, and nitrous oxide (N2O) from manure land application account for the 10%, 8,5%, and (Russo and von Blottnitz, et al, Introduction). According to the article, the authors want to come up with solutions on how they can reduce waste and emissions by 10% and 30% respectively in different sectors of meat production. Valentina Russo has received her PhD in System Engineering and has her MA in Homeland Security. She has almost 50 published works and has extensive research experience in her field. Harro von Blottnitz is a professor at the University of Cape Town in the Department of Chemical Engineering. His skills and expertise include Life-Cycle Assessment, biogas, biodiesel, energy, and waste. His disciplines are environmental engineering and chemical engineering. He !6 is currently working one project dealing with food systems and alleviating poverty and has over 50 published works. Their article is very helpful because while it is looking at environmental impacts it is also giving a new prospective by ways in which to reduce these emissions and impacts. By looking at multiple effects and multiple sectors of meat production, I am able to get a broader sense of the kinds of impacts animal agriculture has on the globe.