Smith 1 Karim Smith Professor Nusspickel ENC1101 02 February 2017 The Good and Bad About GMOs What if you were to hear that world hunger could be coming to an end. The solution to poverty, and the problem that affects so many third world countries is at an arms grasp. Would you believe that? Without a doubt, this is definitely a possibility that far too many people are unaware of and the very few that are so skeptical about it, that they even want to give it a chance. The truth of the matter is that Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) can provide stable income for struggling farmers and be the solvent to an unstable economy. Yet, why we take advantage of these resources available to us? Reason being, the propaganda that the media portrays about them (GMOs) makes it almost impossible to want to take their side. Nevertheless, even though there is much negativity behind these GMOs such as nutrition and corruption, there are strong positive results of using them which includes larger crop yields each year; so why they have more public support? Source 1: Cage, Sam. High Food Prices May cut Opposition to Genetically Modified New York Times. New York Times, 8 July 2008. Web. 24 Jan 2017. Currently (at the time of this article), many stores in Europe have to specify if the foods were genetically modified, because they However, this may change as inflation may help was away popular opposition to so-called Frankenstein Although food Smith 2 prices have gone up more than 50 percent since May Europeans are still skeptical about the switch, but it might be their only option. The chairman of Nestle has even been quoted saying is impossible to feed the world without genetically modified Part of the problem with skepticism seems to be lack of information and they are not used to the advancement of technology. This article focuses on my point about the skepticism about GMOs and how much of a benefit that they could actually be to society. It gives factual evidence and statistics to help state their case as well as increase their credibility. This article is written by Sam Cage from the New York Times, whom although I find much information on him personally, the paper he writes for has high credibility. Source 2: Dennis, Brady. Genetically Altered Salmon Are Safe, FDA  Washington Post. The Washington Post, 22 Dec. 2012. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. It its research, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) found that salmon which have been genetically modified to grow twice as fast does pose a threat to the and are safe as food from conventional Atlantic Some countries have taken initiative have placed restrictions on GMOs or just straight out banned them, meanwhile the results from the FDA was just the news companies in the United States were waiting on (though the salmon would be produced in Canada). Even with the FDA saying that what people are calling is safe to consume, there is still much outcry about whether or not people should be consuming these science This outcry is partly because of the fear that this will just be the stepping stone and more genetic modification will start to be done on animals not thinking about the large scale implications. Smith 3 This article has relevance to the point that I am stating about ending world hunger and poverty. Seafood, is a very popular delicacy around the world and increasing the amount of salmon that are available for consumption would help their population. Dennis Brady is the author of this article and he is a reporter for the Washington Post. He focuses on the environment and public health issues which boosts his credibility. Source 3: VAN MONTAGU, MARC. The Irrational Fear of GM  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 22 Oct. 2013. Web. 28 Mar. 2014. More than 90% of 17.3 million farmers that use GMOs harvest only on a few acres in developing countries. The money is a necessity for their household income that provides their food, clothing, and money for school supplies. They also have a positive effect on greenhouse gas emissions since insect-repellant fruits means cutting insecticide sprayings by 25 percent. GMOs are able to ensure food security and create incomes for farmers. People are being so hyped up by media that they get the wrong idea of how many benefits that they can bring. Marc Van Montagu is a journal news reporter for the Wall Street Journal. This is a credible website which has many more credible pieces on the topic. It also helps that they provide statistical evidence to help support claims. He is a molecular biologist with a background in being the director of the Laboratory of Genetics at the faculty of Sciences at Ghent University. He has a clear experience about the genetic modification and is stating the facts that his research supports. Source 4: What Is Genetically Modified  YouTube. YouTube, 16 Dec. 2009. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Smith 4 This video explains the lacking question people have; what exactly are genetically modified organisms? scientists found a way to make crops resilient to pesticides. the video they ask people that question, and fascinating how many people actually Admittedly, they have their perks like now allowing for farmers to have 100% crop yield. Yet, they also have their health risks, such as being made with E.coli. Facts also show that they often produce lesser yields. They further go into detail to show how they work and the many benefits that they do provide. This video is important for explaining the basics of GMOs. Although it is a video that is on YouTube, it was posted by an organization (Mediaroots.org) which is a reputable site. This video also includes both sides of GMOs including the production of smaller yields, and the health risks which adds on to the video being unbiased. The statements is this video is also backed by evidence which can be fact checked.