Garcia De Castro 1 Miguel Garcia De Castro Ms. Poston ENC 1102 027 12 February 2017 Impact and future of Marijuana in the United States Cannabis sativa is a plant that has been used for different purposes throughout history, even though the substance is consumed primarily for its medical and recreational values. In 1937, the American government declared the substance as a Schedule I Drug, meaning it has high potential for abuse and no accepted medical use. With the passing of years, however, cannabis seems to get more acceptance among young people and adults alike. As of 2017, medical marijuana is legal in twenty-eight states while recreational cannabis is legal in eight states. Many world leaders have spoken openly about their marijuana use, and studies are showing that the plant is non-addictive and impossible to overdose on. Why, then, is the plant still illegal on a federal level? There are two main stakeholders when it comes to marijuana legalization: those who are in favor and those who are not. Throughout the nation, there are different people interested in legalizing marijuana. Entrepreneurs interested on investing in marijuana related businesses represent the most obvious group. This main interest is to make money from the selling of cannabis and marijuana-related miscellaneous (such as bongs and pipes). People with diseases that require treatment with marijuana are also interested on the legalization of the substance. Cannabis, as stated before, has medical value and is capable of treating diverse Garcia De Castro 2 diseases, ranging from glaucoma to Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. One of the most common uses of medical marijuana is for pain relief. Studies show that THC is the ingredient in marijuana responsible for its pain-relieving effects. The plant can also prevent epileptic seizures, as shown in a study conducted by Robert J. DeLorenzo in 2003 were he gave marijuana extract to epileptic rats. Results showed that control seizures by binding to the brain cells responsible for controlling excitability and regulating (DeLorenzo, 12). Patients who are being treated for these diseases are in need of marijuana to help with their conditions. Unfortunately for some, medical marijuana is only legal in 28 states across the nation so people living outside of these states are forced to treat their diseases with other, less-effective, medicines. Perhaps the biggest organization supporting the legalization of marijuana in the United States is the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML), a non-profit organization working to legalize marijuana, stop marijuana-related arrests, and provide educational research and legal information on the substance. The organization is famous for helping and defending American swimmer, Michael Phelps after pictures of him using a bong surfaced in the media. It was also the first organization to release a pro-marijuana television advertisement. Despite having a considerable support on the nation, marijuana legalization is a process with many detractors. Many adults claim that the plant should not be legalized since is a dangerous substance capable of destroying of 2016, it was reported that 42% of Americans do not think marijuana should be (Jones, 1). The existence of this group can be attributed to diverse factors. Ever since the plant was declared a Schedule I Drug on 1937, the American population has been fed lies surrounding the substance. The government began releasing anti-marijuana propaganda (such as the 1936 film, that depicted Garcia De Castro 3 marijuana consumers as murderers, addicts, rapists, and criminals. This misinformation continued for many decades, and, as a result, many of the famous myths surrounding the plant were spread by word of mouth and media. Other important detractors when it comes to legalizing marijuana are big industries such as the Tobacco Industry, the Alcohol Industry, and the Pharmaceutical Industry. Legalizing cannabis would create a threat for the alcohol and tobacco businesses since it would represent a new competitor on the market. A survey conducted in 2015 shows that and tobacco consumption among Colorado high schoolers decreased significantly after marijuana was (Maguire, 3). The pharmaceutical industry would also be affected if the plant is legalized since many medical products in the market would be substituted by marijuana related medicine. Industries like these are more concerned with preserving a monopoly than helping the nation move forward. Some people believe that legalizing marijuana will drastically increase its general consumption, but studies show otherwise. On 2005, a survey was conducted to find out if medical cannabis laws had any impact on juvenile use. Results showed that, although some marijuana-related attitudes changed between 1999 and 2005, use among teenagers did not increase (Khatapoush, 760). The same study was conducted in 2016 and it showed that there is no increase whatsoever on adolescent use (Stolzenberg, 86). Marijuana detractors are also ignoring the economic benefits that the nation will enjoy if the plant is eventually legalized on a federal level. By keeping the plant as a Schedule I Drug, cartels and dealers are getting more money as the government spends money trying to stop them. It is estimated that the black market received approximately 300 billion dollars on marijuana sales Garcia De Castro 4 from 2000 to 2010 (Cala, 50). However, after the substance got decriminalized in some states, the government began making money from it. state of Colorado made 2.5$ million in sales taxes alone in February 2016. Combined with all marijuana-related taxes, licenses and fees, the state brought in nearly $12.5 million that same month. Studies anticipate that the state makes more than $150 million in total tax dollars by year (Erb, 16). Keeping the plant as a Schedule I drug is simply futile and against the interest of the majority of American citizens. However, legalizing the substance is a difficult process that affects everyone in the nation (including those against it). The only way interests are satisfied is by a compromise. Marijuana should be legalized throughout the whole nation since it is a relatively safe substance when compared to tobacco and alcohol. To meet interests, a series of regulations would also have to be applied. People wishing to purchase cannabis would have to be 21 years of age or older, and the limit of cannabis to be purchased per transaction should be five grams. This way, both the people who want cannabis to be legal and those who wish the opposite would be satisfied. Marijuana legalization is affecting the country in many ways. The economic impact caused by said legalization has been tremendous (states, such as Colorado, earning over 2 million dollars a month on marijuana related taxes alone), and those with diseases such as glaucoma, PTSD, or depression have been able to treat said illnesses with the help of cannabis. Citizens living in states where the drug is legal can consume the substance without having to worry about the product being synthetic or, worse case scenario, laced with another drug. By legalizing the substance on a federal level and applying regulations on its purchase, the American society will enjoy from the benefits brought on by the consumption of a substance responsible for one of the most profitable markets in the world. Garcia De Castro 5 Word Count: 1,153 Garcia De Castro 6 Works Cited Cala, Michael, et al. Users Spend On Illegal Drugs: WhiteHouse, 2014, pp. 46-66. RAND Corporation. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. DeLorenzo, Robert. The Effects Of Weed On Your Health. Herb, 17 Sep. 2015. http://herb.co/2015/09/17/the-effects-of-weed-on-your-health/. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Erb, Kelly Phillips. 4/20, high time to think about taxes, revenues & Forbes, 2016, p. 16. PsycINFO. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Khatapoush, Shereen. The Wrong Did Medical Marijuana Legalization in California Change Attitudes About and Use of Journal of Drug Issues, vol. 34, 2005, pp. 751-770. PsycINFO. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Maguire, Julia. Alcohol and Tobacco Use. Herb, 20 Jun. 2016. http://www.westernslopenow.com/news/local-news/alcohol-and-tobacco-use-declining- among-colorado-high-schoolers/. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Stolzenberg, Lisa, et al. effect of medical cannabis laws on juvenile cannabis International Journal of Drug Policy, vol. 27, 2016, pp. 82-88. ScienceDirect. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017.