Shiwen Zhu Mark Nusspickel Composition 1 1/29/2017 A report in China make the ages between the 40-50 adults are panic. They generally suffer from a common disease, it is three , also called the What is ? that hypertension, hyperglycemia, and hyperlipidemia. The causes of these diseases, because of the irregular diet, love to eat poultry and pickled food, do not eat vegetables and never exercise. And the number of those crowd until 2014 have 4 hundred million and that is still growing. The same situation also happened for the children in American, and the number is a growing for every year. How to arrange a reasonable diet? and do we need to develop good eating habits from infancy? diets for children: Right from the committee for Responsible Can you let the baby become a it safe or not? The answer for this question is Yes. According the article from Physicians committee for Responsible Medicine website, diets for children: Right from the The authors generalize to us a number of professional advice and knowledge from doctors. Some against the vegetarian population, they do not really understand the source of food nutrition. This article shows the specific needs of children in the growth process of nutrition. Children in the growth stage need protein, but they do not need very high protein or animal based foods. Many grains, beans, vegetables, fruits can provide the child with the required protein. Many parents worry that children will lack the protein, this situation can not exist. We know the young children need higher fat intake than adults. Healthier fats are often derived from soy products, avocado, nuts and butter. Some Nutritious vegetarian burgers and avocado salads are very popular. In addition, vitamin B12 is also very worried about the part of the parents, which is essential for healthy blood and nerve function. But, Spirulina and vitamin B12 are not reliable sources. According to the usual diet for the child to prepare some many commercial cereals, fortified soy and rice milks, and nutritional yeast. Also can replenish the B12. I was close to become a vegetarianism, in my nearly six months of exploration, and the exchange for some friends, I found that vegetarians have six types of vegetarian diets, but I come into contact with two. one is Vegan, they do not eat any food with meat, when they come to buy the foods, they will choose the foods without the fat; another vegetarian like me, it is called a flexitarian diet. We will calculate the daily calorie intake, and eat some protein, beef, chicken, fish and shrimp those are have low-fat. Weil Andrew, Diet: safe for Nov. 26. 2012 Let the children become vegetarians, will cause nutritional deficiencies? An article from Dr. Andrew Weil. He gave the answer. A couple follow a vegan lifestyle, but they want to know if the pure vegetarian is healthy, can they make their children follow a vegan diet. For this part, they saw some reports at online Whether or not to let children become vegetarian by the opponents. Therefore, they have some doubts about pure veganism, because parents always want to provide a healthy diet for their children. To this end, Andrew gave the couple of key recommendations, such as vitamin B-12 and w-3 fatty acid supplements can eat some medical supplements; for iron, zinc and calcium supplements can eat some citrus fruits or vegetables. Some iron- containing plants are: grains, beans and raisins; zinc is found in fermented bread, nuts and spinach; the vegetarian calcium sources are from the sesame, broccoli and seafood. Therefore, make the diet and diversity is important, do not follow the vegetarian diet is the most concept. A very famous book is called you are what you eat. That is correct everything you eat will reflect in your body or physical your health. Whiteman Honor, obesity: is it being taken July 30. 2014. In the United States, obesity rate increases year by year. According to the article childhood obesity: is it being taken  by Whiteman. The authors suggest that in the past 30 years, the morbidity of obesity in infancy is twice as fast as that of adolescents. Childhood obesity is not a cosmetic problem, often in the process of growing up in children, obese children are more likely to become obese adults. Harvard School of Public Health said that between 1989 and 2008, daily intake of sugary drinks increased by 60%, although junk food and carbonated beverages decreased in various schools, but the CDC pointed out that the United States have half of junior high school and high school students are eats the junk food and give those companies bring the benefit. On the other hand, in the past 30 years, physical activity has declined, and now they are more engaged in static behavior, such as watching TV, playing computer games or social media focused on mobile phones. Children spend an average of 7.5 hours a day on media entertainment. On the parent side, many parents will not take obesity seriously. Only when the child health have want to solve. Part of the knowledge of obesity is missing. Eaton Hillary, Children are a Complicated Breed of Jun 28. 2014. How to train a child to become a vegetarian? For this article is about the author has a six years old brother, because their parents are vegetarian, when his brother are birth, his parents have try to give his brother ate some no nutritious food, hence he is very worried about this. In this article, he made some criticism for some blind pursuit of vegetarian populations. Do not try to train your child to become a vegetarian when you are not absolutely sure about the vegetarian diet, or you do not fully understand vegetarianism. This article quotes from nutritionist Nina Hirvi, she said, a vegetarian diet for a child can be absolutely healthy, but you have to know what you are  When you are trying to do something you do not understand. Read a book on the subject or talk with expert. Many parents do not have the correct education children how to balanced diet, resulting in their survival in the future has a big problem.