Liam Hemsley Poston Taylor 2/12/17 Syrian Refugees and the American Government The living conditions in Syria are unfit for any person to live due to the intense amount of bombings in areas where civilians live, so many people are trying to flee the country for their safety. Under the current administration the United States has indefinitely closed off their borders to anyone coming from Syria, in order to try and make the country safer. These two stakeholders, the current US government and Syrian refugees, both just want to be safe but safety could mean making the other unsafe. The American government could still allow Syrian refugees into the country safely by increasing the intensity of background checks to ensure the people coming in are not threats to America. The people of Syria have been forced into living in what is like a never ending nightmare for the past 5 years. The war in Syria began in March of 2011 when 4 protesters were killed by security forces. This started a chain reaction of events which led to the forces of Russia, America, the Kurds, ISIS, the Syrian government (lead by Assad), and Syrian rebels to fight amongst each other. All this fighting has caused of innocent civilians to lose their lives and millions of people to be displaced from their homes. The fighting started between the Syrian government and rebels in 2011, and after 3 years fighting started to break out between the rebel forces, which led to ISIS (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria) starting to take power. Once ISIS got involved in the fighting and released a video of them beheading an American journalist, America joined in and started using airstrikes against ISIS hideouts and in the support of the Kurdish fighters, in September 2014. Nearly a year later Russia joined the fight by using air strikes on rebel forces in support of army, killing many innocent civilians in the process. Many cities got destroyed by this violence and it continues to this day. The biggest city in Syria, Aleppo, has been a main target for air strikes and continuous fighting for the past 4 years it once had a population of 2,00,000 people but since the war most of its inhabitants have been forced to abandon their homes if they want to survive. Because the innocent people of Syria have been victimized by the war, they seek refuge in other countries so that they may live a peaceful life, free from harm. It is only human for other countries to open their borders for people that are trying to escape a place of war, where innocent adults and children are killed every day. In 2016 America only accepted 12,587 Syrians (Phillip Connor 1), this number should be drastically higher in order to help more people have a chance at a real life. The Syrian refugees need something done sooner rather than later because the longer it takes for a compromise to be made with America the more lives will be lost. Under the Trump administration, America has made a drastic change on how they deal with refugees from Syria. In the past America would let in refugees after they completed extensive background checks in a process that could take up to 3 years to complete, and Syrians would have to complete an even stricter test to gain admittance to the United States than refugees from other countries. But now America has suspended entrance of all refugees for 120 days, with Syrians being indefinitely banned from coming to America. This ban on refugees was created in order to protect the citizens of America from possible terrorist attacks coming from members of terrorist organizations trying to pose as refugees and get into America. Over the past couple of years Europe has had an increased amount of terrorist attacks and this could have to do with them letting in more refugees than usual. The attacks in Paris, Brussels, and Ataturk can serve as a warning that letting in too many people to fast can have negative consequences. United States must be vigilant during the visa-issuance process to ensure that those approved for admission do not intend to harm Americans and that they have no ties to The current administration is going to continue to be tough on making borders secure, and in doing so it will be much more difficult for Syrians to get refuge in America. The US government is wary of letting refugees in the country is because they think they can assimilate to the culture. The Secretary of Homeland Security is going to implement a new program for identifying possible terrorist threats implementing in-person interviews; a mechanism to ensure that the applicant is who the applicant claims to be; a process to evaluate the likelihood of becoming a positively contributing member of society; and a mechanism to assess whether or not the applicant has the intent to commit criminal or terrorist acts after entering the United This new process, if proven to be fair could be the first step to removing the ban on refugees and towards a compromise between Syrian refugees and the American government. One thing that both Syrian refugees and Americans want, is to be safe. Syrians are attempting to flee their home country because they can longer be safe there, while America does not want to admit Syrians in because they fear terrorist could sneak in with the refugees. It has been difficult for both sides to come up with a compromise that benefits both parties. The American government could continue to have extensive background checks on people coming from Syria, and could even increase the intensity of the checks, but they must remove the ban on all Syrians coming into the country. In return America will gain diversity and the people coming from Syria can contribute to society making America a better place for everyone to live in. When refugees come into America and they succeed in life, in turn America succeeds in terms of fighting terrorism, economic growth, and technological advances from scientists that come into the country. There are many reasons why America should let in more refugees, some of them being, it will help our economy grow, the refugees can help us fight against terrorism, and because it is just the right thing to do. When refugees come to America they bring their skills and their craft with them, which will allow them to create their own businesses and buy goods and services from other Americans. refugees have undergone forced migration and are often living in destitute conditions, they still are productive and can interact with their host economy in positive (Taylor 1). If more Syrian refugees come to America, it can help us fight terrorism in two ways, the first being that ISIS be able to extort as many people which would leave them with less funds to spread their terrorism. The second way Syrian refugees help fight terrorism is they are single best source of information on life inside ISIS- controlled according to CIA intelligence officer Patrick Eddington, this information is vital to the fight against terrorism. Both the American government and refugees want things that are opposite of each other, the government wanting to ban refugees from coming to America for safety precautions, while the refugees just want a chance at a new life. The American government and refugees can come to a compromise that benefits both sides by still allowing refugees into the country but increasing the intensity of the background checks. Syrians have a lot to give to America, all America has to do is accept it. Quick Facts: What You Need to Know about the Syria  Mercy Corps. N.p., 19 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Agencies Express Hope US Will Continue Long Tradition of Protecting Those Fleeing Conflict, UN News Center. United Nations, 28 Jan. 2017. Web.29 Jan. 2017 Connor, Phillip. U.S. Admits Record Number of Muslim Refugees in  Pew Research Center. N.p., 05 Oct. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Poggi, Sallie. Refugees Can Offer Economic Boost to Their Host  Phys.org - News and Articles on Science and Technology. N.p., 20 June 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Miller, DeMond. Journal of Applied Security  Borderland Security and Migration: Balancing Humanitarian Response with Crisis Preparedness & Emergency Management-The Social and Cultural Challenges to Homeland Security: Journal of Applied Security Research: Vol 12, No 1. N.p., 12 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.