Emily Pedone Project 1 Intermediate Draft The Right to Lose Your Rights The United States has an implied sanction of involuntary hospitalization for the mentally ill, legally referred to as civil commitment. It is a psychiatric practice in theory, a medical emergency in implication, and a judicial controversy in legislation. The general idea of civil commitment is blanketed by the federal government, but is left up to each individual state. Therefore, the technicalities vary amongst each legislation, or lack thereof. Overall, civil commitment is the term used for when an individual is placed in (an) Institution(s) for Mental Diseases (IMDs), by government order - including inpatient and/or outpatient treatment - typically prefaced by a visit to the Emergency Room, and usually temporarily stripping the individual of his/her rights. In regards to this practice, there are two general positions held: those who are for it, and those who are against it. The act itself has a plethora of components involved, such as qualifications for commitment, length/conditions of stay, rehabilitation, and financial coverage. Yet each end of the spectrum stands firm to their beliefs. The Citizens Commission on Human Rights (CCHR) is heavily against any form of civil commitment. In fact, they propose legislation to abolish the act completely. A prominent stakeholder for it, however, is the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI). NAMI believes that civil commitment is necessary to enforce, but only in certain conditions. Neither organization seems to have come together to actually attempt a change with the process. Nonetheless, the issue needs to be addressed. Conditions within the hospitals are unsatisfactory. Medics and law- enforcers alike are overall uninformed. Proper treatment for the mentally ill is scarce, if not nonexistent. Both stakeholders want to positively change all these conditions to better the care of those who suffer; they just cannot seem to agree. NAMI and CCHR need to propose a federal mandate of civil commitment, which will make all treatment equal throughout the states, and which will work from inside the system to better every component of mental treatment, including to only enact involuntary hospitalization under necessary, specified criteria. The Citizens Commission on Human Rights has been battling the psychiatric industry since 1969, when it was founded in part by the Church of Scientology. Since then, it has had a hand in executing over 150 legislations to protect the rights of citizens from harmful psychiatric practices. 1 It is a self-proclaimed health claiming no religious, political, or personal ties; rather, it simply just wants humane treatment of patients. CCHR considers pharmaceuticals and civil commitment as treatment that is inhumane. The website goes as far as to include propaganda-esque videos and other options to such treatment, typically holistic alternatives (cchr.org). Their website also contains its Health Declaration on Human which outlines the core values in which they fight for. 2 Every point of argumentation included in the declaration counter-acts the practice of civil commitment, most notably that, No person shall be given psychiatric or psychological treatment against his or her The entire basis of involuntary hospitalization is that a person is incapable of seeing the need for assistance due to the illness in question, or that a person is a potential danger to him/herself and/or others. The latter is what many states use to determine if a person needs to be committed. CCHR, however, does not follow the dangerousness model. It wants to exterminate civil commitment in its entirety, claiming that, Involuntary deprives individuals of dignity and liberty when they have broken no law. The coercive practice should be 3 This fact, based on the dangerousness model, is a point in many arguments of those against involuntary hospitalization. As was stated earlier, being committed civilly often entails taking away a basic rights; he or she is thereby held wherever officials place them, doing whatever they are told to do, for however long they are told to be there. The argument in question then becomes, since it deprives humans of basic rights, it is unconstitutional. A California Law Review expanded on this stance, claiming, mental disorder is often not casually linked to legally relevant behavior, successful treatment of mental disorder does not guarantee the diminution of the legally relevant behaviors such as dangerousness or incompetence that are also required for (Morse, 70 Cal. L.Rev.54) 4 NAMI generally disagrees with such argumentation. Since 1979, the National Alliance on Mental Illness has been striving to educate the public on such illnesses. They are a grassroots mental health organization (the largest in the United States), and their work includes education programs, legislative initiatives, and even a HelpLine. 5 website includes proposed legislation on civil commitment, as well as an outlined definition of their stance on the issue (nami.org). In the case of a majority of mental health activists, they so much as fond of the idea, as they are inclined to see its necessity to the treatment process. Their Policy Platform states that such involuntary action should be pursued a last resort and only when it is believed to be the best interest of the 6 Part of the ethical platform is the question as to what constitutes This traces back to the dangerousness model that so many people adhere to. Dr. Testa and West of medical centers in Ohio explain the reasoning best, are two main legal principles that underlay the interest in the process of civil commitment. The first of these is parens A second legal principle, police power, requires a state to protect the interests of its 7 The term translates to of the By these standards, it is duty to protect its citizens from themselves and others who might potentially cause harm. And therein lies a standstill. NAMI believes civil commitment is necessary, and CCHR believes it is unconstitutional. Despite these contentions, the two share similarities. The obvious, of course, is that both major organizations, working to positively improve the mental health community. They were founded only 10 years apart, when mental health reform was at an all-time high. Both NAMI and CCHR work as non- for-profits, which embodies true humanitarianism. Even more so, their methods of enacting reform are parallel; they each platform legislative policies and aim for legal action. And, perhaps the strongest similarity is that they share the idea that at least parts of civil commitment are wrongful, one just more so than the other. With all of their similarities, almost puzzling how they have not come to form a solution. However, there is an answer. NAMI and CCHR can come together and formulate a platform for change one that works from the inside of the mental health care system, and is completely parallel nationwide. This, first and foremost, encompasses the flat, agreed-upon guidelines for when a person needs to be involuntarily hospitalized. The proposed guidelines are as follows: a person must be committed civilly if he/she (a) has verbally, physically, or textually indicated harm to themselves and/or others; (b) has gone through with/attempted harm to themselves and/or others; (c) has been recommended by a trained psychiatric or psychological professional as needing severe help, but is refusing such, where indicates possibilities of death or serious injury; (d) needs help further than can be provided by a professional psychologist, at the recommendation of said psychologist. This must be professed federally, for if only applied to certain states, it will do more harm to the system than good. Secondly, the organizations will need to ensure that the conditions of such institutions are more civil. This includes more beds. In most states, when one is first committed, he/she is sent to a typical hospital Emergency Room. There, vitals are checked, and stations hold him/her until a proper institution has room. are not permitted to allow such to be put in ordinary hospital rooms. The waiting period for availability can take hours and, in some cases, take up the entire legal 24 72 hours that they are allowed to be held. At that point, they are required to be sent home without having received any mental evaluation. The case of Gus Deeds exemplifies the tragedy of this issue. Senator Creigh Deeds called to have his bi-polar son, Gus, evaluated under an emergency custody order. At the end of the required waiting period, officials told Deeds and his son to go home because there were no more psychiatric beds available. The next morning, Gus attacked his father and killed himself. 8 This tragedy, and others like it, could be avoided with these federal provisions. Alongside adding more beds, mental institutions also need to provide safer spaces for their patients. People with extreme delusions and violent actions are mixed in with those who suffer mild anxiety or depression. In fact, many of them share rooms. Such environment makes the patients uncomfortable, scared, and more anxious, thereby counter-acting the entire treatment progress and worsening their conditions. All ages, genders, and cases are crammed together in one space. Not to mention, a majority of sex offenders and murderers who got by on reason of insanity are placed in the mix as well. Creating safer spaces will contribute to the healing, rather than the hurting. It will also eliminate common hospital PTSD. To expand, institutions must have therapeutic provisions. Each patient should be required to meet with a psychiatrist (at least) once a day, every day, for more than the strictly provided five minutes. Hospitals must also be required to constantly have a therapist on the floor at all times for patients to go to when they need it. Safety and rehabilitation must be encouraged. Mental institutions overall do not provide guiding therapy to heal those suffering. Under the prospected provisions, hospital therapy must be required to: (a) teach the practice of Personal Medicine self-inspired, non-harmful or pharmaceutical ways of making oneself happy, positive, relaxed, distracted from illness, and/or accepting of life; (b) understand person-first language, rather that they are not their illness, and their illness does not define them; (c) understand that healing is possible, under the format of a trauma-informed system 9 . No patient, no matter how long they are held in a psychiatric institute, should go home without being informed of the above practices, be it by pamphlet, group therapy sessions, or other. Furthermore, the final part of the solution includes the trauma-informed system. Such system implicates that a person is who they are as a result of coping. Trauma is not viewed as simply one event, and the person is not just viewed as their tragedy. The goal is to prevent unhealthy behavior in the future. It is the ultimate coping strategy. With this, see the power in their defenses and coping strategies, they also come to believe that they have the strength and the wisdom to make changes in their lives. 9 Nurses, doctors, and first responders therefore must be required to understand and use this system, as well as have proper knowledge regarding mental illnesses as a whole. All parties involved in the latter must have updated versions of the DSM and be knowledgeable of its contents. With all of this, there are a few concessions. CCHR will have to accept not riding civil commitment entirely. Yet it encourages the ideas of non- pharmaceutical alternatives. As for NAMI, this proposal involves IMDs, which are excluded from Medicaid. NAMI believes in parity for all mental health services and does not typically endorse any treatment that is part of IMD exclusion. However, it is clear that both groups have similar goals, and no true reform can be accomplished if neither party is willing to allow sacrifices. The mandate will also include much work. It is a blanket provision for the entire nation, and includes law enforcement as well as the medical field. However, mental health is a vast issue in this country. A large change such as this is necessary. While the Citizens Commission on Human Rights is against civil commitment and the National Alliance on Mental Illness is for it, it is clear that a necessary evil. The two can come together under a federal provision that sets commitment guidelines, improves hospital conditions, and educates officials. Only under this specified criteria and cooperation can the nation begin to heal mental health and address proper hospitalization. Emily Pedone, Advocate Work Cited 1. is cchr.org http://www.cchr.org/about-us/what-is-cchr.html 2. Health Declaration on Human - cchr.org http://www.cchr.org/about-us/mental-health-declaration-of-human-rights.html 3. About INVOLUNTARY COMMITMENT MODEL - cchr.org http://www.cchr.org/download-material/model-legislation.html 4. Stephen J Morse, A Preference for Liberty: The Case Against Involuntary Commitment of the Mentally Disordered, 70 Cal.L.Rec.54 (1982 ) 5. nami.org http://www.nami.org/About-NAMI , 2017 6. Legal - nami.org http://www.nami.org/About-NAMI/Policy-Platform/9-Legal-Issues 7. Megan Testa, MD and Sarah G. West, MD, Commitment in the United Psychology 2010, Vol. 7, Num. 10, October, pg.31 8. Tragic Story of Senator Creigh Deeds and His Son worldpress.com https://morethancoping.wordpress.com/2014/01/28/the-tragic-story-of-senator- creigh-deeds-and-his-son-gus/ 9. Maxine Harris, Roger D. Fallot, a Trauma-Informed Service System: A Vital Paradigm New Directions for Mental Health Services, no.89, Spring 2001, Copyright Jossey-Bass