Schilling 1 Mia Schilling Professor Karen Hanson ENC 1102 12 February 2017 The Use of Animals for Experimentation The United States Humane Society states that approximately 25 million animals are used for experimentation, research, and education each year. The Humane Society of the United States) The controversy over animal rights is based on the belief that animals have interests and rights similar, and in some cases equal, to those of humans. In practical terms, animal rights would mean that animals could not be used for food, clothing, entertainment, or experimentation. However, opponents of animal rights argue that animals lack both the mental and moral capacity to be granted these basic rights. The topic with the most debate is the idea of using animals for experimentation. The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments (ECEAE) is working hard to eliminate the use of animals in any laboratory testing. This organization believes that subjecting animals to cruel and painful procedures in the name of research is scientifically unsound and morally ECEAE) On the other side of this debate stands the organization known as Pro-Test. This organization aims to up for and support human progress through the continuation of animal testing. Pro-Test) Both organizations strive for best for human safety, but have opposing ideas in mind of how to obtain this goal. To accommodate both organizations, research is being done to provide a more humane future for people and animals. By finding new ways to reduce the numbers of animals necessary, or refine methods to make them less painful or Schilling 2 stressful to the animals involved (CAAT, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health) both the ECEAE and Pro-Test can get what they desire. The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments (ECEAE) is leading alliance campaigning on behalf of animals used in laboratories. Their website states that 12 million animals are used in European laboratories every year which is equivalent to 137 animals suffering in cruel and painful experiments every 10 minutes. ECEAE) Animal experimentation is often hidden so the world cannot see what goes on behind the closed doors of these laboratories. Through undercover investigations, uncovering evidence in scientific journals and monitoring official statistics, the ECEAE and its members are committed to exposing the truth about animal testing. Truth About Animal ECEAE) They draw on political, legislative, and scientific expertise to campaign tirelessly for the rights of these animals. The animal rights movement supports the ECEAE and seeks to include animals in the so-called moral community that humans belong to, by encouraging others to respect their basic interests as they would the interests of a human. (Wagner and Geraldine, rights Also, the organization of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) advocates complete abstention of the use of animals for experiments any other human purposes. (Wagner and Geraldine, rights The ECEAE states that research found through animals is scientifically unreliable and humane alternatives can be quicker, cheaper and more effective. ECEAE) The ECEAE strongly believes that animals should not be experimented on and will continue to fight on their behalf. Pro-Test is an organization in the UK campaigning in favor of continued animal testing for the benefit of scientific research. They aim to encourage people to stand up for science and human progress, rather than the ideals of anti-vivisectionists. ECEAE) A Schilling 3 vivisection is the practice of performing operations on live animals for the purpose of experimentation or scientific research. Google) It is said that experimental research is one of the primary ways by which science advances (Wienclaw, and because of this, Pro-Test aims to fight the arguments of anti-vivisectionists. They are raising public awareness of the benefits of animal research and creating an environment where scientists can speak out about their work and be proud of the contributions they make. Pro- Test) Pro-Test exists to defend scientific research as a necessary tool of human progress by supporting animal testing as crucially necessary to further medical science. Pro- Test) The organization, Speaking of Research, partners with Pro-Test to provide accurate information about the importance of animal research / animal testing in science. Speaking of Research) Pro-Test says that animal research, medicine as we know it today exist. Animal research has enabled us to find treatments for cancer, antibiotics for infections, vaccines to prevent some of the most deadly and debilitating viruses and surgery for injuries, illnesses and Pro-Test) The organization, Pro-Test, firmly stands for the continuation of animal research in order to further benefit human research. The European Coalition to End Animal Experimentation and Pro-Test appear to have differing opinions. However, Pro-Test does not aim to harm animals, they just want what is best for human advancement. If another way to test products was brought into light, everyone would win, as no animals would be harmed but humans could still get the research they need. New research is taking place to provide the best results for human advancement while also minimizing the risks brought to animals. Through electrochemistry, it has been discovered that animal-like models with similar enzymes can be a possible solution to prevent animal testing. (Rua, Alternative To Animal Testing In Drug It has not been made official that this Schilling 4 research can completely replace animal testing, but it shows a start. With this being said, animal- like tissue would be a compromise beneficial to both parties. The Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing (CAAT) is responsible for this research and states, believe the best science is humane science. Our programs seek to provide a better, safer, more humane future for people and Speaking of Research) The CAAT seeks to is in the works of finding new ways to replace animals with non-animal methods, reduce the numbers of animals necessary, or refine methods to make them less painful or stressful to the animals involved. (Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, CAAT) The process of mimicking animal testing takes time and may be tricky, as well as costly, but if this option was brought to the table, both parties would have a virtuous outcome. While animal experimentation has been going on for quite some time, it has continually been a controversial topic. Animal rights are based on the belief that animals should be treated equal to humans and given the same rights that we give one another. When discussing animals used in experimentation, many varying views can be brought into light. The European Coalition to End Animal Experimentation fights for the rights of animals to be treated just like humans, which means no torture through experimentation. On the other hand, Pro-Test wants what is best for human advancement, and believes in the use of animals if it will get the most accurate results. In an attempt to please both organizations, a middle ground can be found. New research is being developed to mimic the tests done on animals without causing any harm. In the long run, this option may be more costly (although still undetermined), but it will appease the viewpoints of both the ECEAE and Pro-Test. Schilling 5 Works Cited About  The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.eceae.org/ About The Humane Society of the United States, Web. 29 Jan. 2017, About  Pro-Test, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.pro-test.org.uk/index.php About  Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Web. 29 Jan. 2017, http://caat.jhsph.edu/about/index.html Center for Alternatives to Animal  Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Web. 29 Jan. 2017, http://caat.jhsph.edu/  Pro-Test, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.pro-test.org.uk/index.php  Speaking of Research, Web. 30 Jan. 2017, https://speakingofresearch.com/ Rua, Francesco, et al. Electrochemistry Of Canis Familiaris Cytochrome P450 2D15 With Gold Nanoparticles: An Alternative To Animal Testing In Drug  Bioelectrochemistry 105.(2015): 110-116. ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Wagner, Rich and Alex K. Geraldine. Animal Rights  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2015): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Truth About Animal  ECEAE, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.eceae.org/  Google, 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.google.com/webhp?sourceid=chrome-  Pro-Test, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.pro-test.org.uk/index.php Welcome To The  ECEAE, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.eceae.org/ Schilling 6 What We  ECEAE, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.eceae.org/ Wienclaw, Ruth A. Experiments  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.