Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Geothermal Heat as a Renewable Energy Source The Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) is a stakeholder primarily fixated on environmental wellbeing for the planet. It originated in 1969 by the work of Massachusetts Institute of Technology students and scientists. They created the UCS in order to establish a platform for scientific research to be performed and presented in a way that did not serve a militarized purpose; instead, they wished to attempt to solve environmental and social problems through raising awareness for each issue and encouraging fairness and accuracy in scientific research projects. The founders of this organization are Henry Kendall and Kurt Gottfried. The organization is responsible for passing fuel efficiency standards for new cars and trucks starting in 2010, gaining universal protections for rainforests through advocacy politically and through petition, as well as exposing News Corp for their misleading coverage of global climate change data and information. This remarkable organization has recently tackled raising awareness of geothermal energy as a source of renewable energy through the combination of logos, kairos, pathos, and ethos in the visual aids that they utilize in their website. As an active organization, they are reaching out to both those in the scientific community, as well as the common person, through the process of spreading scientific literacy in the subjects of clean energy and the advocacy thereof. One compelling image (see Figure 1) that is used to shed light to geothermal energy is a diagram of locations where geothermal heat is most commonly gathered. Water from Student 2 underground springs hydrothermally convect, a process cooler water seeps into crust, is heated up, and then rises to the (Union of Concerned Scientists). Energy is captured through geothermal springs and uses the convection of hot water to capture steam to drive electric generators. The Geothermal Energy Association have gathered estimates 125 projects now under development around the country could provide up to 2,500 megawatts of new (Union of Concerned Scientists). This shows a current outreach to further this sustainable energy source. Figure 1 uses warm colors, purposely associated with heat, in order to show where the warmest underground areas are in the United States. Abundances of plots where there are current hydrothermal sites shows the established presence of this type of renewable energy. Also, the use of the words and are used in order to show both that there are many areas where this type of energy would be prudent to use and access and that even the areas are accessible and useful as sources of energy. (U.S. Geothermal Resources). Even if conditions are not favorable, they are still useable and reachable as sources of energy. This furthers the purpose of using attainable energy over widespread areas. Visual techniques displayed by the image are logos, the appeal to logic and ethos, the appeal to ethics and authority, respectively. Utilizing logos is demonstrated through the visual representation of actual published scientific data. Logically, this image allows for the intended audience to focus on the reality of this situation: that renewable energy is accessible in many regions, favorable as a source of energy, and is applicable to present conditions in the United States. IN fact, the UCS claims that if a power plant of this sort ran consistently, generated electricity is comparable with those of coal and nuclear (Union of Concerned Scientists). Figure 1 also primarily appeals to ethos, because the credited laboratory that Student 3 conducted the research has its logo stamped on the image itself. Credibility of the data is emphasized through this appeal, making the intended audience feel safe in relying on the information depicted in the image. Without the logo embedded in the image, the audience would likely question the authority of those presenting data, as well as the accuracy of the information shown. Another coercive visual (see Figure 2), is a visual representation of the Salt Wells Geothermal Plant in Nevada. Warm sunset colors painted across the sky are utilized to show an ideal, picturesque image of how this energy is harnessed. The forefront of the image is of earthy soil, rock, and desert flora. Placing these objects firmly before the power plant itself is a testament to the vision of helping the environment through advocacy of cleaner energy resources. Mountains peppering the background also shows that this source of energy is centered around the ideal of reliable, sustainable, clean energy for human kind to use; this further solidifies the purpose to advocate for environmental sustainability and cleanliness. It can also be noted how open and inviting the power plant looks. Its lack of barbed wire, dirty and exhausted workers, or smoggy and filthy air is a reassuring tool that shows the beneficial nature of this type of energy. The air is so clean and clear in the image that picturesque mountainous landscape previously mentioned can been seen over a great distance, directly showing that the author advocating for clean energy is palpable through geothermal means. Two primary rhetorical appeals used in this second image are pathos, which as an appeal to emotions, and kairos, the appeal to timeliness. Clean, efficient power plants are a refreshing image to the intended audience, considering how fossil fuels are typically represented as smoggy, dirty, unrefined, and/or harmful ways of harnessing the available energy. It is also a common fact that fossil fuels are not a renewable energy source. This is causing unrest in Student 4 the audience over how they will meet their future energy needs if the oil, petroleum, and natural gas that is so overused runs out. Inciting positive emotions, such as hope, to the audience of a clean way of getting renewable energy encompasses the idea of the rhetorical appeal of pathos. Demonstrating futuristic-appearing technology in the visual, which is from the present, shows that this type of energy can be invested in, and used efficiently, in current times. This can easily be interpreted as a call to action, a primary aspect of the rhetorical appeal kairos, of raising awareness and funding to invest in geothermal energy as a primary source of renewable energy. Combining the two images in the same article complete the visual repertoire of rhetorical appeals to convey their mission: clean, renewable energy is accessible, prudent, and ideal to use in the place of fossil fuels in society. The first image is utilized to introduce logical visual aid in both the appeals of logos and ethos. Combining a multitude of appeals causes the intended audience to secure trust in the information that they are presented in order to foster an open mind to reading further into how this energy is harnessed and used. Then, the second image introduces the rhetorical appeals of both pathos and kairos, causing the intended audience to care deeply about the subject; also, kairos call them to action of defending and furthering research and development for the subject at hand. Molding all of these aspects into one strong argument is how the organization is able to convey their mission so eloquently that it would seem illogical to disagree with their innovative views. [Word Count: Student 5 Works Cited Browning, Ella, and Joshua M. Rea. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 371-4. E-text. Pack, Jenna. Down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-51. E-text. Salt Wells geothermal plant in Nevada. Digital image. Union of Concerned Scientists. U.S. Department of Energy, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ucsusa.org/sites/default/files/images/2014/12/energy-renewable-geothermal- salt-wells-plant-nevada.jpg>. Union of Concerned Scientists. Union of Concerned Scientists, 2017, http://www.ucsusa.org/ Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. U.S. geothermal resources. Digital image. Union of Concerned Scientists. U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1: http://www.ucsusa.org/sites/default/files/images/2014/12/energy-renewable-geothermal- resource-map.jpg Figure 2: http://www.ucsusa.org/sites/default/files/images/2014/12/energy-renewable-geothermal-salt- wells-plant-nevada.jpg