1 Priyeshwar Sodhi Sabah Uddin ENC 1101.022 February 11, 2017 Is the EU going to survive the current economic problems countries have been having? Should the EU nations separate their economies? Established in 1958 as the European Economic Community, it is a unique economic and political union among the 28 European member countries. Economic problems new to the EU and the countries that are a part of it. But the recent turmoil in the financial world has everyone asking the same question, is EU going to survive the current economic problem their members are having? And will it even be able to help them out? Or should countries just separate from the EU, like UK. With the French elections coming up and a possible chance of Frexit, other members of the EU question the impact the union has in economy. In recent times we have seen the EU in action during the debt crisis in Greece, political upheaval in Italy, the world shocking Brexit, and the latest consideration for a Frexit. All this has caused everyone to question survival. Economists have been questioning policies and impact since the 1980s but only has it become an issue of national concern for its members since the 2000s. Sources Cesaratto, Sergio, and Antonella Stirati. And The European And Global International Journal of Political Economy 39.4 (2010): 56-86. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Source talks about impact on the EU and also talks about the GDP of the members of the EU during the time period 1999-2008. It gives graphical representation of the data of the countries like their market shares, price competitiveness, export growth, real wages, exports and other important information that helps us understand the impact the EU has had on its member countries through the years. The source takes inflation into account to represent the information in a more comparable manner to show if there has actually been growth through the years for these countries. 2 Sergio Cesaratto is a professor of Economics at the University of Siena and has published several articles on the interpretations of currency crisis and the finance in monetary circuit that drive the development of the economy. Antonella Stirati is a professor of Economics at Roma Tre University and has written a book called Theory of Wages in Classical and has also published a number of articles about Economic Theory. The information provided by the source shows how the EU has been beneficial for the growth of some countries as compared to the others where EU policies have restricted them from further development. Navarro, Vincent, and John Schmitt. Crisis Of The European Union: Weakening Of The EU Social Challenge (05775132) 51.1 (2008): 69-77. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This source focuses on the results of a study that was conducted to show that unfavorable votes to the EU were the result of the weakening of the European Social Model due to the budgetary agreements of the EU. The source also talks about policies that could help strengthen the social model. The report also shows comparisons between the US social model to that of the EU and how it can be improved. Vincent sociological and political background is one of the backbones for this report as he uses his years of experience and studies to assess the situation and show how the structure of EU has in cases held back countries from growth. John Schmitt works as the Research Director of the Washington Center for Equitable Growth and has extensively written about unemployment and economic inequality. The report put together by the two authors sheds light on important information about the rate of growths and debts of the EU. Chivvis, Christopher. EU Civilian Crisis Management. [Electronic : The Record So Far. n.p.: Santa Monica, CA : RAND, c2010., 2010. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. The source provides information on the civilian operations and a more in-depth look at the missions where the EU has worked with NATO: the police-training mission in Afghanistan and the integrated rule of law mission in Kosovo. 3 Being an associate director of the International Security and Defense Policy Center and a senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, Christopher Chivvis book put the EU under some criticism for its involvement in operations and locations that were not under the supervision of the EU. Tully, Shawn. European Union Is In Big Fortune 173.7 (2016): 10-12. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. The article talks about how if the Brexit were to happen what would its affect be on the EU as it would be the first nation to leave the union in its 58-year history. It also talks about the negative impact the would have on the authority over member policies on finance, business regulation and immigration as well as the value of the euro. Shawn Tully is an author who has been writing for Fortune since 1980. covered varied stories from the finances, to the exile of fugitive commodities trader Marc Rich. He specializes in banking, federal budget and spending issues which makes his article European Union Is In Big a very key insight to the aftermath that the Brexit might have.