Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Catharsis and Hope Through Music Therapy Music is a beautiful, intangible form of art that impacts individuals in various cathartic, emotional matters. Though intangible, music physically reflects itself onto people through facial expressions, dancing, and playing instruments. While the sound of a voice behind instrumentals is aesthetically pleasing to the ears, the underlying rhetorical appeals are vital in communicating messages through a creative filter of lyrical content and form-fitting melodies. Music is highly associated with the rhetorical appeal of pathos, as songs often bring on cathartic, repressed emotions. In this regard, the National Alliance on Mental Illness sees the art of music as a powerful tool concerning the road to recovery for individuals that suffer from debilitating mental illnesses. The webpage uses visual figures to incorporate and emphasize their message through the ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. Using the image of a young adolescent captured with joyful expressions whilst listening to music, along with another visual conveying an focus amid playing an instrument, NAMI encourages readers and individuals to associate music as a form of cathartic release, therefore emphasizing art as a hopeful form of treatment for mental illnesses. The first compelling image presented in webpage features a boy emitting positive emotions while listening to a song. This visual message speaks toward a primarily young audience, suggesting that many young individuals are encountering mental illnesses. The pop of colors in the background also indicates an audience of musically inclined enthusiasts. The positive and colorful vibes in the background bring forth feelings of comfort in using music to Student 2 escape into a more positive state of mind. The colors on the wall are reflected onto the face and arms, emphasizing how music amplifies entire mind first by changing overall mood, then onto the rest of the body through dance. The two most powerful visuals are the headphones and the eyes being closed. When using headphones, surrounding sounds are blocked so that entire focus is on the instrumentals and vocals of their favorite song. When eyes are closed, music becomes much more intense and impactful since every distraction and problem is blocked out of sight. Following this are the visually pungent and intense colors pertain to the various genres of music. Each color represents a different genre, and the most beautiful forms of music combine multiple genres. Various genres reflect a series of emotions, and that combination is key in catharsis. The bursts of color on the wall is reflected onto the skin in an eye-catching and reflective way. Since the colors represent music, the music is clearly impacting the overall state of being. Nevertheless, the face is the purest form of proof that music brings on many cathartic, uplifting, and comforting emotions. Following the rhetorical situation of the image are the rhetorical appeals, which play an underlying factor in creating the overall message. According to Moxley, visual interpretation is highly influenced by the of the designer (Visual Literacy). In other words, the designer picks images that they believe support their claim. Logos represents itself through the headphones in this image; since the topic focuses on music, the headphones represent music being implemented and reflected through the facial expression. Credibility is used in this source because the NAMI is the most recognized organization concerning mental health. Pathos is shown through the art of the vibrant colors which pertain to various emotions released by listening to music, as well as the comfort and happiness in the face. Rawls mentions that music has been proven to help alleviate and Student 3 reduce symptoms associated with mental illnesses. The writer continues to explain that music is implemented in any circumstance; music help individuals cope with anxiety through senses of happiness and state of calmness, but it also helps lessen the severity of depression in patients. Moreover, the stakeholder addresses that happy sounding instrumentals are one of the quickest ways to improve mood and to overall (Rawls). The neck and below is faded out in black, which emphasizes how music is an art meant firstly for the mind before anything else. This goes along with the fact that the brain releases dopamine, a feel-good hormone that takes over the mind. The aspect of kairos is uniquely shown through the hands on the headphones; it suggests that this photo was captured right as the music started playing, which clearly shows feelings of enjoyment. As music is intangible, visual images capture moments in which one can see the affect that music brings through outward expressions. As the first image emphasizes adolescent enthusiasts of music, the second compelling image presented in webpage features an adult playing the guitar, seemingly on stage in front of a crowd. The stakeholder is emphasizing the impact on live music, and that playing or listening to music in its most natural is also beneficial on improving mental health. This image crops the head out to put all focus onto the guitar; this goes to show that the focus is on how music therapy impacts an mental health. One of the first eye- catching visual cues is the lighting shinning down on the person and how the rest of the image is faded out with dark colors. When music is being played listened to, surroundings are faded out and all of attention is on the melody of the instrument. The faceless aspect and lighting structure of this image also emphasize the theme of music therapy. Lights shine from an angle that puts directs the audiences focus on the artist while a photographic image is taken in a way that fades out everything in the surroundings. Regardless of not having an imbedded text, Student 4 the placement of the fingers on the guitar indicates a cathartic and beautiful melody. As music is the main focus, only logical that there be a present musical instrument of some sort represented in the article. Credibility emerges from the fact that this image is from a highly reputable mental health awareness website. In addition, the author Molly Warren has a degree in Music Therapy, and works with individuals with behavioral disorders and trauma and neglect backgrounds (The Impact of Music Therapy on Mental Health). Moreover, the dark and light hues capture pathos in that music is a completely encompassing feeling; the sound of a guitar is very beautiful and in a way that the melody allows us to express emotions. The article discusses the importance of lyrical content mixed with the and of different instrumental melodies help individuals about topics that may be difficult to (Warren). She continues to say that music is used as an emotional and for experiencing safety, peace, and (Warren). This image was most likely taken while the individual was performing a song, and in that the audience captures photos of that unforgettable moment. Both simple but effective images work together to emphasize the importance of music in improving emotional and mental health. Music enthusiasts are uplifted through listening to and playing instruments, and readers are encouraged to see if incorporating music into their life will help them cope in their struggles. (WC: 1200) Student 5 Figure 1 Music Is More Than A Form Of Art; A Form Of Treatment Figure 2 The Impact of Music Therapy on Mental Health Student 6 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric matters: foundations of rhetoric and composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Moxley, Joe. Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rawls, Natalia. NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness. N.p., 29 July 2015. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Warren, Molly. NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness. N.p., 19 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Student 7