Schook 1 Bay Schook Kristen Rouisse Project 1 Final Draft 2/7/17 Physician-Assisted Suicide (PAS) One of the most controversial issues in the United States is known as physician-assisted suicide (PAS). It can generally be described as a doctor knowingly committing the act of suicide on another person. This controversy has been going on for centuries, around the time of the creation of the Hippocratic Oath in 4 th century B.C. The Hippocratic Oath prohibited doctors from providing their patients with a drug that would kill them, and the main job was to care and tend to the needs (Lurie N,p). It was not until the where this debate arose from Dr. Jack Kerokian, also known as He believed that people should have the right to die for themselves under the certain circumstances. From then on, PAS has been an ongoing debate. One stakeholder for PAS is known as the Death With Dignity Act. In 1997, this organization was passed in Oregon which gave ill patients the option take drugs prescribed by physicians to end their lives (Berry 1). A stakeholder against PAS is the Catholic Church. Catholic religion strongly believe that PAS goes against their beliefs and is morally wrong. Death With Dignity and the Catholic Church both have two strong opposing views on PAS but can compromise their beliefs by meeting both their psychological and spiritual needs. dying suicide legally, morally, or ethically. Patients already are dying and they are not choosing death over life, but one form of death over (Death With Dignity). Certain patients request PAS for a variety of reasons, some including: physical, Schook 2 psychological, social, and spiritual sufferings. They believe that pain, suffering, and death is justified by PAS. Dying from assisted-suicide lets people go with control and relieves future suffering that they may have. For people who want to self-harm and die, they will find a way to do it. PAS allows patients to die in nonviolent ways and also allows loved ones of the patient to be around when time of death occurs. Death with Dignity National Center promotes PAS and believes that Americans can make their own life decisions, including how and when they die (Death With Dignity 1). It is a nonprofit organization that allows advocates to promote why they are for PAS. One woman specifically, Brittany Maynard, shares her story about her opinion on PAS. She was diagnosed with terminal brain cancer and was told that she only had a few short months to live. Her illness was only going to get worse. When she found out she was diagnosed, she moved away to Oregon where PAS was legal. Brittany died in November 2014 peacefully and exactly how she wanted. She explains how much the Death with Dignity Act can help people who are fatally ill and are there for people who were in the same situation as her (Maynard 1). The Catholic Church believes that we have this life for a reason and suicide should never be an option (Robinson N.p). Suffering in life is a part of the human journey and people should respect that (Dallas 1). In the Catholic church, suicide is considered just as wrong as murder. It teaches that life must be valued when it is pleasurable but also when in times of suffering (Roman Catholic 1). All of the journeys and emotions humans go through is all part of the process of living. From a Catholic perspective, life should let nature take its course and not disrupt that. have the authority to take into our hands when life will (Liu 1). It is said that allowing physicians to participate in assisted suicide would cause more harm than good (Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide N.p). To conclude, the right to life is the most basic human right and going against that right is only disrespecting and devaluing it. Schook 3 The main issue between these two stakeholders is their strong, opposed beliefs about PAS. Death With Dignity strongly believes that patients have the free right to do what they want with their body. On the other hand, the Catholic Church firmly follows the beliefs of God, and respects that humans are put on this planet for the sole purpose of living. People who are Catholic as a majority, do not support PAS. This population of people contributes to the controversy of this issue on whether or not is ethically moral. Assisted suicide is only legal (Death With Dignity Law) in five states: Oregon, Vermont, Washington, Colorado, and California. Legalizing PAS in other states has been a nationwide controversy about how ethically morally it really is (Death With Dignity N.p). The two opposing groups of people have separate beliefs about physician-assisted suicide. Their beliefs are based on different morals, religious/spiritual beliefs, and psychological differences. What must be considered to understand both viewpoints of Death With Dignity and the Catholic Church is that humans have the right to freely do whatever they want with their lives. PAS is also used for mostly terminally or mentally ill patients. Some people who support PAS do not follow Catholicism, therefore, believe that PAS is permissible. The issue cannot be justified whether it is morally right or wrong, but finding a common ground between two opposing sides does exist. Before making assisted suicide an option in a life, to guide practices and determine safeguards that would keep assisted suicide voluntary, regulated, and an option of last is an important factor (Assisted Suicide N.p). Main requirements needed is to claim in-state residency (where it is legal), be 18 years of age or older, mentally competent, and terminally ill with only 6 months left to live (Lurie N,p). PAS should be a distinctive process and all precautions should be taken into consideration. Patients first have to speak with two physicians and explain they have thought out and are sincere about their decision. Considering the other factors is crucial Schook 4 as well; physicians must evaluate how ill the patient is, and/or offer any other alternative options instead of PAS such as counseling, or some sort of pain control (Lurie N,p). The one main proponent of going forward with PAS is how terminal ill a patient lives and long they have to live and/or will be suffering for. The choice to end a life takes a lot of time and decision-making. There are many qualifications for PAS, but besides these requirements and procedures, there are moral and ethical standards of different persons towards this debate. Both stakeholders provide strong stances on this widely controversial issue. Since PAS is legal in five states, there are reasons why it could be perceived as moral. Death With Dignity proposes that patients who are terminally ill, mentally distraught, and are suffering have the option to end their life if and only it will relieve their pain. The Catholic Church focuses more on the traditional and spiritual beliefs of God. It is morally justifiable in the Bible that life is a gift, and humans must freely respect and accept that. Ending a life even when in pain is immoral and unnatural according to Catholicism. Although, people who support and are against PAS have different perspectives and beliefs on the issue. Justifying the morality of PAS is done through understanding the beliefs of each stakeholder. Then, only allowing the procedure to be done under the proper circumstances will benefit both stakeholders. Word Count: 1223 Schook 5 Works Cited About  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Assisted Suicide: Finding Common Ground. Medscape. Aug 21, 2002. Berry, Emily Lea. Medscape Log  Medscape Log In. N.p., 07 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dallas, Kelsey. How Religion Changes the Medically Assisted Suicide DeseretNews.com. Deseret News, 19 Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Euthanasia and Assisted  The Roman Catholic Diocese of Phoenix. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Maynard, Brittany. My Right to Death with Dignity at  CNN. Cable News Network, 02 Nov. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Liu, Joseph. Religious Views on End-of-Life  Pew Research Religion & Public Life Project. N.p., 21 Nov. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center. Physician-Assisted Suicide - Physician-Assisted Suicide - Introduction. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Schook 6 The Roman Catholic Diocese of  Roman Catholic Diocese of Burlington. Vermont Catholic, n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2017