Wesolowski, 1 Ryan Wesolowski Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 29 January 2017 27 of 29: Gun Control and Mass Shootings in the United States Of 292 mass shootings that occurred throughout the world from 1966 to 2012, 90 of them occurred in the United States of America (CNN). This means that 31 percent of all mass shootings occurred in the United States, and as a result this has put a huge strain on the people, and the politics, of this nation. There have been many debates about gun control policies that have arose and as a result many groups with competing ideals about gun control have sprung up. The most popular of these groups being the National Rife Association (NRA), and the Brady Campaign; both of these groups have opposing ideologies toward the gun control debate and have enough political connections to actually affect the legislation that is run through Congress. The debate between pro-gun society and anti-gun society over gun control laws is one that will be difficult to come to a consensus on. Although, if both the Brady Campaign and the NRA came together and created a campaign that explained to the American public the statistics of gun violence and the dangers of using weapons against others this would raise awareness of the severe gun violence problem in the United States. The National Rifle Association is a nonprofit organization that was founded in 1871, which makes it the oldest civil rights group in the United States. The goal is to and defend the Constitution of the United States, especially with reference to the inalienable right of the individual American citizen guaranteed by such Constitution Wesolowski, 2 to acquire, possess, collect, exhibit, transport, carry, transfer ownership of, and enjoy the right to use (NRA). This defense of the Constitution is primarily dedicated to the protection of the Second Amendment, which gives citizens of the United States the right to keep and bear arms. The National Rifle Association has a clear preference for the Republican Party; this is because a majority of their members, roughly 70 percent, identify themselves as Republican. This also leads to a plurality of their donations, 90 percent, to go toward Republican Candidates (Politifacts). The NRA is also an outlier in the light of other special interest groups because they receive most of their funding through donations granted by their own members and that these contributions from their membership has been steadily rising in the last decade (CNN money). In comparison to other special interest groups, the National Rifle Association has more members and spends more money than most other interest groups; compared to the Brady Campaign the NRA spent $240 million more dollars than them in 2010 (Business Insider). This means that the NRA is seen as a more prevalent special interest group, especially in the eyes of Washington, and thus they create their own positive feedback loop. This positive feedback loop makes the NRA stronger and thus they get more candidates to oppose gun control laws so that these candidates can receive campaign donations from the NRA. Although the NRA is against any tampering of the second amendment, they understand that mass shootings are a problem and backed legislation that stops guns from being sold to the mentally ill and those with criminal records. After the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting the NRA Wesolowski, 3 also backed the School Shield which appropriated funds to have armed police officers on school campuses (NRA). This displays that even though the National Rifle Association is avidly against major changes to gun laws in the United States, they have identified that the epidemic of mass shootings is a problem and that random acts of gun violence are not to be tolerated. On the opposite end of the gun debate sits the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, which is a nonprofit organization that advocates for gun control and against gun violence. The Brady Campaign is named after James Brady, who was permanently disabled after the attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan in 1981. The Brady Campaign was founded in 1974 under the name of Handgun Control, Inc but in 2001 was renamed. The Brady Campaigns mission statement is create a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (Brady Campaign). The Brady Campaign has been immensely successful in reaching their goal ever since the implementation of the Brady Bill in 1993; this bill makes all gun sales made in gun stores be required to have background checks through the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). The only issue with this bill is the gun show loophole, which allows private sellers, like those at gun shows, to sell to other private buyers without the need of a background check. With 32,000 people dying from gun violence every year in the United States, the Brady Campaign is working hard to pass legislation that will require the 40 percent of guns that are bought without background-checks to no longer occur. Along with campaigns to spread awareness of gun violence the Brady Campaign is currently backing H.R. 3411 also known as the Brady Bill 2.0. The expansion of Wesolowski, 4 background checks and the enforcement of licenses to purchase firearms have been statistically proven to lower rates of robbery and assault with these types of weapons (Kleck). The Brady Campaign is using the power of their support from the American public, as 55 percent support more strict gun laws, to establish a more prevalent gun less society (Blanco). As of January 29 th of 2017, there have been 27 mass shootings in the United States, this means of the 29 days in this year there have only been two without mass shootings (gun violence archive). Much like Kleck states in, Gun Control Reduce Violent although the gun control issues is one of cultural importance and that background experience and lifestyles of those involved in the debate may keep people from agreeing on exactly how guns should be restricted, the debate, not lose sight of its primary goal and paramount is to prevent the occurrences of crimes and violence connected with the use of (Kleck). It seems that both the NRA and the Brady Campaign wish to see guns wielded in crimes and in violent acts to be reduced, and its from this common goal that a compromise can be reached. To create a safer America where gun violence is less prevalent and gun use in crimes is reduced, the NRA and Brady Campaign could use their funding to create a type of ad campaign, similar to that of The Truth and other anti-smoking campaigns, to raise awareness of the American public to the tremendous amounts of gun violence that happens on a day to day basis. Although the prevention of mass shootings is not as easy as people quitting smoking, there is still significant evidence that these ad campaigns and programs do help in reducing the number of people who smoke. The Tobacco Free Wesolowski, 5 Florida organization has seen a decrease of 13 percent in adult smokers since airing their advertisements in 2013; this only proves that when people actually see these ads they think twice about doing these things (Tobacco Free Florida). Having a 13 percent decrease in mass shooting would save hundreds to thousands of lives every year in the United States. If more people knew that almost everyday there are mass shootings then they would be more likely to support common sense gun laws. Having these statistics presented to people when they watch television would make people want to support legislation that would stop these tragedies from occurring every single day in America. Although the NRA and Brady Campaign spend much of their time supporting opposite legislation the find common ground in the fact that they both want to keep American citizens safe. Although the NRA wishes to arm most Americans and the Brady Campaign wishes to keep guns out of as many hands as they can, they still have a duty to inform the public of gun violence and the danger these weapons present in the wrong hands. Creating a campaign that educates the public on the gun violence that happens day to day in the United States would be the best way to allow those who are legally allowed to own guns to have them, and for people to be aware of the danger these unregistered guns present the American public. Works Cited AJ Willingham, CNN. A Visual Guide: Mass Shootings In . CNN. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Blanco, Dennis Vicencio. The Gun Control Debate: Why Experience And Culture . International Journal of Public Administration 39.8 (2015): 620-634. Web. Brady Campaign To Prevent Gun . Bradycampaign.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Kleck, G., T. Kovandzic, and J. Bellows. Does Gun Control Reduce Violent . Criminal Justice Review 41.4 (2016): 488-513. Web. Mass Shootings - 2017 Gun Violence . Gunviolencearchive.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. NRA . Home.nra.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Powerful Anti-Smoking Ad Campaigns Work Tobacco Free . Tobaccofreeflorida.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 Feb. 2017.