Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 12 Febuary 2017 Pain Is Temporary the suffering: triumph over anxiety and This quote gives a sense of ease for those suffering from anxiety or depression. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America is an organization that offers help for those affected with anxiety or depression. ADAA has a website that people can easily access and offers a variety of treatments, including therapy, support groups, self-help publications and brochures, clinical trials, and frequently asked questions. This allows one seeking help to have a variety of options available to them. Being that this is a website to help people with depression; there are plenty of uplifting photographs on the homepage of website that give a sense of hope for those in need of help. The association offers a button which will allow one to donate money for more research into the treatment of anxiety and depression. There are two photographs that are intriguing to the people with the mental illness. These two photos (figure 1 and figure 2) are visually and rhetorically compelling to those who are seeking the help they need to overcome their disease. main goal is to improve the lifestyle of those with depression and anxiety; the two images chosen from their website give a sense of comfort and confidence to the interpreting it visually and rhetorically. In figure photo there is a man standing on top of what appears to be a mountain with his hands held high up in the air as if he achieved something. People with anxiety or Student 2 depression are looking to achieve success and overcome their mental illness. The man on the top of the mountain can be interpreted as a man with either anxiety or depression and who overcame his illness. He can be looked upon as a role model and someone to look up to. The primary visual message is the hope to feel happy again. While visual cues presented include, the man standing with his hands held high in the air and gives a sense of accomplishment. Bright yellow and orange are hues that represent happiness and are warm colors which help appeal to those who are stuck in a dark state of mind. Overall, figure one displays confidence to its viewers. The text states over Anxiety and and gives off a message of hope that if one associates with this organization, then they will overcome anxiety or depression. is a part of the rhetorical analysis that is defined as the logic of this (McKee,). Logos is used by interpreting a goal that has been achieved. It is obvious that success has been reached by the way the man presents himself to the world. Body language of the man in the image shows a visual of achievement and success for overcoming something. Furthermore, he overcame his journey to reach the top of the mountain as the sun rises. A new day is present as well as a new accomplishment. is defined as the emotion of the (McKee ). Pathos is used in this image by portraying the emotion of happiness and success. Happiness and success are two emotions people suffering from depression and anxiety are craving. With this photo present, it gives off a sense of relief that there is hope and there is a way to get better. Nobody is alone with the illness and figure 1 helps assure that message. In figure two, there are hands cradling Earth as if it is very precious and fragile. The targeted audiences are people who are in doubt of help or who feel that they need the help. The primary visual message in this image is that the reader is in good hands and will receive help and support. When one lives with the mental illness, they feel that they are alone and they feel Student 3 something is wrong with them; it is reassuring to know that someone is out there to help and take care of them. The visual cue in this image is human hands holding Earth as if they are the things supporting it. The hues in this image are all cool colors, including: blue and green. Green symbolizes health and wellness. For example, a green light gives people that excitement feeling of The text in the image reads, a Therapist near 2). This text gives off a sense of hope to those in need because it states that there are therapists close by. It also sends the message that no matter where a person may be there is always someone who is willing to help nearby. Logos is used in this image because of how the hands are positioned around Earth. They are cupped as if they are holding a baby chick or egg with great care. Pathos is used in this image because it gives off an emotion of caring. People affected by these mental illnesses are seeking help and sometimes need to go further than a family or friend. The word relieves people in need and will allow one to feel that they are not alone and help is literally just a phone call away. The overall goal for this association is to provide a variety of help options for those in need. The images alone will catch attention to read further into the association. The images also represent the kind of outcomes the association provides. for a positive outcome of treating anxiety or depression and to not fear being alone. There are statistics from research conducted by this association that it has directly affected families in a positive manner. Figure one and figure two correlate with one another because the goal is to treat anxiety or depression. If one decides to allow this organization to help, like the message portrayed in figure two, then they will achieve an accomplishment which is to feel great about themselves, like represented in figure one. The target audiences of this organization are those who have these mental illnesses or a loved one who is diagnosed with this and needs help. The photographs both portray the sense of relief that Student 4 the people diagnosed are not alone and there is support almost everywhere to help ease the mental illness. One primary message this association brings is that not This organization is known for helping those in need of these illnesses and has a variety of treatments readily available. (W.C.: 1,038) *Figure 1: *Figure 2: Student 5 Works Cited ADAA. Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. ADAA, 05 June 2010. Accessed. 22 Jan. 2017. https://www.adaa.org/ Downey, Brooke to Write an Engaging .Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016.152-154. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. to Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 237-243. Print. Scott, Andrea. a Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 237- 243. Print. McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 237-243. Print.