Nicole Franze F r a n z e 1 Mr. Phillips ENC 10 February, 2017 Home on the Range The Dakota Access Pipeline is an underground pipeline that is being built to transfer hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil from the Bakken shale oil fields in North Dakota to the oil tank farm near Patoka, Illinois. The Bakken Holdings Company are the ones who are building the pipeline and the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe are the ones fighting against the production of the pipeline. These two stakeholders are at odds with one another and cannot seem to find a way around the problem. The pipeline should be shifted over and be built on the outside of the natives sacred burial grounds to prevent water contamination and the destruction of their burial grounds. The Bakken Holdings Company are a stakeholder of the Dakota Access Pipeline. Their goal is to build a 1,172 - mile - long underground oil pipeline. The pipeline will begin in the Bakken shale oil fields in North Dakota and travel south east, through Iowa, ending at the oil tank farm near Patoka, Illinois. This is a $3.78 billion project that is expecting to better the economy and provide more jobs to this country. Catherine Morris states, pipeline is expected to carry 470,000 barrels of oil daily from the oil fields of North Dakota to Illinois, with a potential capacity to carry 570,000 barrels By being able to transfer this amount of oil daily, oil transferring becomes more effective and more affordable by putting an end to car transportation of oil barrels. As a result of ending car transportation, it lowers traffic frequency and helps with preventing pollution. Once the Dakota Access Pipeline is complete, they will pay over $55 million every year in property taxes to four states. The Bakken Holdings Company has F r a n z e 2 constantly been postponed and brought forward due to the protesting that the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and their supporters have summoned time and time again. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is a Native American tribe fighting against the production of the Dakota Access Pipeline. Standing Rock is the sixth largest Native American reservation, with a land area of 3,571.9 sq miles, in the united states and has a population of almost 10 thousand. The Sioux Tribe is a Native American tribe that lives on the Standing Rock reservation. According to Morris, of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and their supporters, who have been protesting the construction of the pipeline daily, were driven back by security guards from the development company wielding pepper spray and attack (C. Morris). The members and other devoted native people have been protesting since April 2016 and this project began in December 2014. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe argues that the pipeline is going to contaminate their water source and they claim to have never been spoken with in regards to the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline. February 07, 2017, the approval came after President Donald Trump overturned an Obama administration order to halt construction under Lake Oahe, a large reservoir connected to the Missouri River that provides water to the Standing Rock Indian Reservation in North Dakota and South (S. Munckton). The Bakken Holdings Company is known to have oil leaks in their past pipeline projects and the native people are worried that the Dakota Access Pipeline will leak into their water source and contaminate their clean water. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and other committed natives are protesting the production of the Dakota Access Pipeline due to the pipeline being built below their only water source and through their sacred burial grounds. Standing rock is not lighthearted with their land being touched and they refuse to be okay with it. F r a n z e 3 The Bakken Holdings Company and the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe are at odds with one another. For both stakeholders to be content, they need to find a compromise. The Bakken holdings company needs to shift their project over, away from the natives sacred burial grounds. This adjustment would allow the Dakota Access Pipeline to be able to complete their project and succeed in their goal to in excess of 450,000 b/d of crude oil from the Bakken and Three Forks to market centers in the (K. Eggleston). Sure, the pipeline could end up being longer than anticipated, but no water will be contaminated, no sacred burial grounds will be destroyed, the economy will still have the chance to 8,000 to 12,000 new jobs and pump money into industries that manufacture steel pipes and other related (Energy Transfer Partners). This adjustment works out because neither stakeholder is affected negatively and both stakeholders get to achieve what they originally set out to do. The Bakken Holdings Company can fulfill their purpose in building the Dakota Access Pipeline, transferring barrels of oil from North Dakota to Illinois. This project would just take a little longer to accomplish due to the pipeline being rerouted. pipeline already has been rerouted from its original path, which would have cut across the Missouri River, near Bismarck, North capital. Due to concerns about a potential spill poisoning water supply, the pipeline was moved south of the city, closer to the Standing Rock (C. Morris). The pipeline has been rerouted before and knowing that it was possible then to move it, only makes it that much more believable that it can be rerouted once again. If the Dakota Access Pipeline was rerouted a second time, the natives will continue to have the fresh water that they have always had and they have to worry about a pipeline that would the drinking water of not just the Standing Rock Tribe, but also millions of people (David Archambault II). Also, the natives can live happily knowing that their sacred burial grounds were not destroyed and the F r a n z e 4 Bakken Holdings Company can say that the economy will get better and America will have more jobs to provide once the pipeline is finished. With the Bakken Holdings Company being part owner of the Dakota Access Pipeline, they have a lot of issues as it is that they must face in order to make the project complete, and with the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe protesting, it makes the productions that much harder and it slows the construction down. With the pipeline being shifted over and being built on the outside of the native peoples sacred burial grounds, in place to prevent water contamination and the destruction of the burial grounds, this will put a halt to all obstacles. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and their devoted native people will stop protesting once the pipeline is rerouted. By having this compromise between the Bakken Holdings Company and the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, each side can feel better about the Dakota Access Pipeline project and each can successfully fulfill their purpose that they intended to complete in the very beginning, without any intrusions. This land is our home and we must find compromise. F r a n z e 5 Works Cited David Archambault II, Taking a Stand at Standing  nytimes.com, Aug. 24, 2016 Eggleston, Kirk. Two New Bakken Crude Oil Pipelines Online by  Bakken Shale Play. N.p., 30 Oct. 2014. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Energy Transfer Partners, About the Dakota Access daplpipelinefacts.com (accessed 11/23/2016) Morris, Catherine. Tribal Culture, Oil Access Collide In North  Diverse Issues In Higher Education 18 (2016): 8. Academic OneFile. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Munckton, Stuart. United States: Dakota Access Pipeline Struggle: Native Americans Versus Fossil  Green Left Weekly 1111 (2016): 24. Informit Humanities & Social Sciences Collection. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Dakota Access  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Stand with Standing  Stand with Standing Rock. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Standing with Standing  Www.browsermedia.com, BrowserMedia -. Standing with Standing Rock NCAI. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.