Abraham 1 Isaiah Abraham Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Coping With Depression Morgan Leslie Segal was a phenomenal female writer who battled with depression for years before ultimately ending her life shortly after her 29 th birthday in 1996. She took medication to help her cope, but it proved to be a futile attempt at quelling the deep sorrow within her heart. Unfortunately, cases of suicide are highly prevalent in modern society and often result from a lack of knowledge about coping mechanisms for dealing with severe depression. According to the parent resource program partnering with the Jason Foundation, an average of over 5,420 young adults attempt to commit suicide each day in the United States (Parent Resource Program). Out of all those cases statistics show that four out of five teens display clear warning signs prior to actually attempting suicide (Parent Resource Program). Clearly it is evident that severe depression and suicide are serious issues we face in our current society. Luckily despite the grim statistics there are those who seek to prevent suicide attempts by providing young men and women with resources to improve coping skills and overall quality of life. One such stakeholder is HelpGuide.org. HelpGuide.org is a free nonprofit online resource dedicated to the memory of Morgan Leslie Segal. Their mission is to provide the tools necessary to understanding depression and other mental illnesses as well as giving advice on ways to cope and help others who may be experiencing depression. HelpGuide.org utilizes rhetorical devices in the images throughout their website to express their credibility and inform viewers of their noble message. Abraham 2 Figure1 Initially when one enters the HelpGuide.org website they can expect to be greeted by this image. Figure 1 is present on the home page of HelpGuide.org and serves as an overall synopsis of all the services the website provides. The intended audience of the image would be whoever happened to come across the HelpGuide homepage. Specifically the image is aimed at individuals either suffering with a form of depression or mental illness. Another intended audience would be anyone who is seeking information to help a family member or friend that is depressed. Despite the dark themes covered throughout the website this image retains a lighthearted and optimistic tone through its use of vibrant colors. Tone is an expression of the on the (Sheffield). Judging from the tone inn this figure it seems the stakeholder is hopeful and truly believes that the services provided in the website can help people. The brain is centered in the image implying that the site focuses on healing the mind and the surrounding links such as and are all related to mental health. Furthermore all of the text is equal in font size indicating that they are equally important and covered in significant detail. The font is clear for the audience to easily distinguish the link they wish to access for their specific need. There is also a divide between mental Abraham 3 disorders and lifestyle advice whit one being on the left side of the brain and one being on the right side. Some of the key words are uniform in color, which may indicate that they are related concepts. For example may be tips specific to dealing with or HelpGuide.org makes good use of rhetorical devices such as pathos and ethos in figure 1. Pathos is being implemented by styling the text and brain in cheerful colors such as yellow and pink in order to brighten the mood of the intended audience. According to Jenna Sheffield in her article Down an can have different meanings that implicitly portray a (Sheffield). Someone seeking help coping with their depression would be more inclined to use a resource with an uplifting and vibrant style rather than a resource that is bland or dark. Ethos is also implemented as a rhetorical device in figure 1. Each of the colored words in the image is a separate link to an article written by mental health professionals, and their credentials are readily available on the site. This establishes the credibility of the website. By establishing such credibility the audience is more inclined to accept the information presented in the articles. Figure 2 Abraham 4 Figure 2 is located in the link titled With The intended audience of this image is the same as the first image. The image is intended for people wishing to cope with their depression or help loved ones diagnosed with depression. However, it is also for those who merely seek more information on mental health issues and treatment for depression. One purpose of figure 2 is to attract viewers to the With link. Compared to many of the other images on the website this image is quite somber, and would clearly lead to articles related to depression. Overall the tone of the image is melancholy, with the combination of the colors and the sad expression on the face. Apart from luring visitors to the With link the image also serves as an illustration of depression. By viewing this image the audience can clearly identify that the woman in the image is depressed and be able to identify the symptoms of depression in their loved ones. Pathos and kairos are the two rhetorical devices most blatantly depicted in figure 2. The image uses pathos by implementing darker colors and focusing on the somber expression of the woman. This causes the audience to feel sympathy towards the woman and click the link to learn about her condition. In this way the author is effectively using pathos to attract viewers and give them an introduction to the concept of depression in young adults. Kairos is also being used as a rhetorical device in this image to convey a message to the intended audience. Depression leads to suicide and aside from a look of sadness the woman also seems like she is contemplating which develops a sense of urgency in the audience. This may be taken as a call to action for immediate treatment for depression. Depression is a serious issue in modern society and it is linked to the enormous cases of attempted suicide. In order to combat this horrid epidemic, non-profit organizations have emerged. These organizations offer numerous tools and resources to inform the pubic about the Abraham 5 many coping mechanisms and activities that can be used to subdue severe feelings of depression. HelpGuide.org is a non-profit organization dedicated to Morgan Leslie Segal. The two images from their official website effectively convey their intended messages to their audiences through the visual usage of rhetorical devices such as ethos, pathos and kairos. (WC:1,105) Work Cited Breaking Down an  Jenna Sheffield Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. < breakin g-down-an-image&catid=434%3Abreaking-down-an-image&Itemid=289>. Coping with  Coping with Depression: Self-Help Tips to Deal with and Overcome Depression. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.helpguide.org/articles/depression/dealing-with-depression.htm>. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL: MLA Formatting and Style Guide. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/747/13/>. Written By Joe. Joe  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://writingcommons.org/visual-literacy>. Youth Suicide  Parent Resource Program. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://jasonfoundation.com/prp/facts/youth-suicide-statistics/>. Abraham 6 Images Figure 1 https://www.helpguide.org/ Figure 2 Abraham 7 https://www.helpguide.org/articles/depression/dealing-with-depression.htm