Arnold 1 Amanda Arnold Karen Hanson, PhD ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Labor Unions A labor union is a group of employees that work together to make decisions that ultimately affect their work and work environment. There are many matters associated with this topic, one being that some believe unions are not always being completely fair and not upholding certain standards. Labor unions are supposed to bring higher pay, employee benefits, and should act as a voice for the workers. An explanation of how unions work is that, work like a democracy. They hold elections for officers who make decisions on behalf of members, giving workers more power on the is a While unions can have great effects for the workers in them, there also may be many hidden problems within unions that are not always exposed. The Center for Union Facts is one organization that fights for workers who may not have been treated appropriately. They also support the worker when their union has done something in the wrong. The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO) represent the workers in the unions and make sure they are treated fairly. Both of these organizations have the workers best interest in mind but they do this in different ways. The difference is AFL-CIO works as being a voice for the workers and helps the unions, while The Center for Union Facts works almost against the unions but still working to help the workers be treated fairly. To incorporate both organizations standpoints, there should be Arnold 2 certain set standards for the unions that are they are held to. These standards should be helping the workers during both good and bad times. The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations is an organization that represents the workers in U.S. unions. They make sure that the working men and women receive the benefits that they are supposed to acquire. Such benefits include, higher paychecks, respectable benefits, safe jobs, and are respected and treated fairly. AFL-CIO works to be almost like a voice for the workers. This way the workers voices will be heard by superior places like the White House, state capitals, and corporate meeting rooms. Many times the normal man or woman does not have the ability to voice there opinions to the more superior positions or even the government, AFL-CIO makes this possible. The AFL-CIO mission is, American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations is an expression of the hopes and aspirations of the working people of Mission and The main goal of this organization is to support the people who are a part of the unions. They support unions because they feel that unions give the workers a voice within the job they are doing so that the people can be treated fairly and how they want to be treated. The second stakeholder is The Center for Union Facts which, a nonprofit organization that fights for transparency and accountability in labor The Center for Union This organization fights for the people who are in these labor unions, similarly to AFL-CIO, but they do it with more of a different way of looking at the unions. The Center for Union Facts is not against unions, the organization states that are against union abuse of power at the expense of their own rank-and-file members. We are against corruption, violence, and intimidation. We are against the misuse of union dues. We support employees who elect to join a union, as well as the right of employees to remain or become non- Arnold 3 union without the Center for Union According to the Center for Union Facts, there were 78,903 Labor Practices filed against unions in the last 10 The Center for Union Facts, shows most of the bad side of labor unions that people do not normally see. This is where they differ from AFL-CIO, because yes, they do both believe in the same mission but the Center for Union Facts shows the truth and helps the workers by giving information so they can be educated before they are stuck with a bad decision brought on by a union. The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations and the Center for Union Facts both have the same common goal with a different way of going about it that they could work together and form the ultimate resource of labor union workers. Both organizations have the workers best interest in mind and want to help them receive the fair treatment that they are promised and deserve. The problem with labor unions is that they do not always give the workers what they are supposed to receive. This quote explains one side of the issue, penny-ante theft to multi-million dollar embezzlement schemes, labor leaders continue to violate the trust of the members they claim to and It is important to let the workers know the problems with labor unions but it is also important to let them know of the benefits and good effects that are associated with labor unions. There should be a set standard to let the workers know what they are entitled to through their union but unions should also have to let the workers know of their rights. Many big union bosses tend to take advantage of the workers and so when the contracts for the union employee benefits are signed, there should also be an acknowledgement of how the union bosses are expected to run the union so everything known. This compromise of course might not stop the big union bosses Arnold 4 from misusing their power but this way the workers will know their rights and know what is supposed to happen rather than realizing they are being mistreated when it is too late. While labor unions are a large part of the United States work force, there are many problems that lie behind the known benefits but there are also many profits that come along with labor unions. Both The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations and the Center for Union Facts have the same basic mission and that is to be the voice for the minor people in the labor unions. They both want to represent the workers and help them get what they deserve out of the unions. With this in mind they could work together and make a compromise that there should be certain set standards for the unions that they are held to. These standards would be for helping the workers during both good and bad times. This way the workers are helped both when something goes wrong and still during the good situations associated with the labor unions. Arnold 5 Works Cited The Center for Union The Center for Union Facts. 24 Jan. 2017. https://www.unionfacts.com/article/about-us/ and The Center for Union Facts. 24 Jan. 2017. https://www.unionfacts.com/article/about-us/ Mission and The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations. 24 Jan. 2017. http://www.aflcio.org/About/Our-Mission-and-Vision Pohler, Dionne M., and Andrew A. Luchak. Balancing Efficiency, Equity, and Voice: The Impact of Unions and High-Involvement Work Practices on Work  Industrial & Labor Relations Review 67.4 (2014): 1063-1094. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. The Center for Union Facts. 24 Jan. 2017. https://www.unionfacts.com/article/about-us/ is a Union Plus. 24 Jan. 2017. https://www.unionplus.org/page/what-union