Casiana Maritnez Adam Phillips ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Gun Control: Concealed Carry The definition of Concealed Carry according to The Oxford Dictionary is, practice of carrying a concealed firearm on person in This current and very controversial topic was the foundation of numerous organizations, petitions, groups, and efforts either supporting or protesting the idea of concealed carry, and most recently concealed carry on college campuses. Concealed carry is said to be a fundamental American right stated in the Second Amendment as it says we have a right to bear arms, and most importantly that right is not to be taken away. Many Americans have taken an initiative to rise up and support organizations that rally for their same beliefs and opinions on this topic. One of the most recognized organizations invested in this subject is the very pro-gun National Rifle Association(NRA). They are most widely known for their ongoing mission to secure our Second Amendment rights, currently supporting the concealed carry legislation but not all of the organizations in this matter agree with the beliefs. Demand Action for Gun Sense in America(MDA) is an organization that supports the Second Amendment but is promoting complete gun safety and would not overall support gun carry. Taking into account what the NRA and MDA stand for if they would compromise to make the concealed weapon permit process more thorough and readjust their standings on where concealed carry should be allowed, we could come to a resolution for this debate. Martinez 1 The National Rifle Association has been around since 1871 and is one of, if not the most well-known gun activist organization in the United States. Leading the US in supporting gun rights since the Civil War The NRA states heart of The NRA mission is preserving the core of our American values and traditions in our steadfast effort to Teach The NRA leads this nation in firearms education and they are firm in their belief that every American should be able to exercise their rights as stated in the Second Amendment, but also hold firm that in that they need to be educated while doing so. Many anti- gun violence organizations and groups that are just against guns in the first place peg The NRA as a horrible violence encouraging organization, but not their intention. They strive to secure our freedoms promised to us in the Constitution, which includes our right to bear arms and because of this they are said to be evil, but they really want very similar things to what organizations that are said to be anti-gun want. Gun violence has always been some kind of an issue and has continued escalating as time progresses, and with concealed carry making its way into the news and proposed legislations just adding more and more to the gun debate. In light of how The NRA supports concealed carry they are a perfect target for organizations that believe we should be allowed to carry concealed weapons anywhere, schools being the main place such groups want them being allowed. The NRA has and still does put gun safety education on the same level they put their mission to secure our Second Amendment rights, including the right to concealed carry. In contrast to the National Rifle Association, Demand Action for Gun Sense in America was started by a Shannon Watts in 2012 following the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, and the purpose was to combat gun violence. Quickly this group received a lot of support and nationwide and continue to gain support in the fight to end gun violence. Martinez 2 Demand Action supports the 2nd Amendment, but we believe common-sense solutions can help decrease the escalating epidemic of gun violence that kills too many of our children and loved ones every This is a part of this groups mission statement, and it very clearly states that they support our right to bear arms, but in that right they want a higher awareness in gun owners of the violence that can come out of having a right this potentially dangerous. MDA are big advocates for parents all over this nation trying to spread awareness of the rising number of children and teens that are killed every year, and even every day by the means of a gun. They continue to lead marches and campaigns in an effort to drive their message home to all Americans and get laws enacted that will make this country a safer place in respects to guns. They are firm in their beliefs that gun education is a crucial part of being allowed a right as potentially detrimental as concealing a weapon on person, but like the NRA they believe that we do have a right to this freedom and would hopefully be willing to compromise with a group like the NRA to solve this gun debate. Dealing with such a controversial and opinion heavy topic as concealed carry, there will always be organizations on both sides of the topic. The NRA and MDA are two organizations that have seemingly polar opposite views just based on which side of the debate they associate with, but they are more similar than they appear at first glance. MDA and The NRA both agree we as Americans have a right to exercise our right to bear arms, and they would be a great pair of organizations to join together to end this concealed carry controversy. In the past few years and even dating farther back than that we have had numerous people propose numerous legislations and gun laws that mostly got shot down for one reason or another. A compromise that I will propose is that the process of obtaining a concealed carry permit is more thorough, background checks become mandatory, and in the interest of where the concealed weapons should be Martinez 3 allowed, they should not be allowed on a college campus without a completely educated and legal adult being the owner of the permit and concealed weapon. The background checks used to determine whether a person is mentally and legally able to obtain a concealed weapons permit is not lengthy and thorough enough to be an effective way of determining ability to handle something that potentially dangerous. Convicted felons and criminals that have a substantially violent history and record should not be allowed to possess a concealed weapon and that should be an easily accessible thing for the gun and permit dealer to obtain. In the interest of a real compromise, MDA is very firmly protesting and campaigning for a ban of concealed weapons on college campuses while the NRA is campaigning for every able minded and of age American to be able to possess a concealed weapon if he or she chooses to. If MDA were willing to consent to concealed carry being allowed on college campuses for the fact that college campuses do contain mostly adults and presumably educated ones at that then with the help of thorough background checks and appropriate circumstances concealed carry on college campuses is a possibility. This compromise between the NRA and MDA I feel might not be feasible in the real world mainly because MDA seems they be willing to back off on the idea of concealed weapons being allowed on college campuses, and I also feel that the NRA might not be willing to support background checks and the process of getting a concealed carry permit lengthened as they are fighting for kind of an opposite outcome. In the end, compromise on this issue I feel is something that is in the distant future, if it ever ultimately gets resolved. The NRA and MDA organizations will continue to fight for their causes, and hopefully they will come to a peaceful resolution with each other and the other numerous groups who put their two cents in the topic of concealed carry. These two organizations could definitely come to a compromise if they allowed themselves to step back and Martinez 4 look at the issue from the others perspective, allowing concealed carry on college campuses and supporting lengthier background checks to obtain a permit to conceal a weapon will be just some of the compromises that these organizations will have to make in order to resolve this issue. Concealed weapons and the gun violence that can amount from a lack of education on the topic and carelessness with the weapons are just some of the reasons these organizations keep campaigning for their causes. This will be a reoccurring topic in our nation for many years to come as it has been for many years already, keeping an eye on it and becoming involved in an organization such as these or just keeping up with news on it can help you think about what Constitutional rights you would be willing to fight for. Martinez 5 Works Cited NRA  NRA Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <https://home.nra.org/>. Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in  Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense In America. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://momsdemandaction.org/>. SOUTHERN, MOLLY PARKERTHE. Process for getting a concealed-carry permit  The Southern. N.p., 22 July 2016. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://thesouthern.com/news/local/process- 3ffe754ca49c.html>. Journal of American College  Concealed Carry Weapon Permits: A Second Amendment Right or a Recipe for Disaster on Our Campuses?: Journal of American College Health: Vol 58, No 2. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/07448480903340338?scroll=top&needAccess=tr ue>. Guns and violence symposium. Place of publication not identified: Northwestern U School of Law, 1995. Print. Martinez 6