Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Internet-Delivered Therapy for Depression and Anxiety Sadness is an emotion that can make someone feel as if there is no way to accomplish a goal or make an improvement in life. Many are led to believe that individuals who suffer from anxiety and/or depression must either take a prescription medication or make costly visits to a psychologist. Based out of Sydney, Australia, THIS WAY UP is an organization that believes in internet-delivered therapy. Jointly designed and developed by Professor Gavin Andrews and his team of psychiatrists and clinical psychologists, THIS WAY UP takes a less expensive approach to cognitive behavior therapy by providing on-demand content and at times a dedicated therapist when you need verbal commutation. They help people who suffer from all types of depression, sadness, and anxiety using a more cost effective approach with online courses. When visiting the home page of their website, one will find the statement, WAY UP online courses have been clinically proven to lessen anxiety and As of October 2015, they had more than 4500 clinicians and more than 9700 patients enrolled in THIS WAY UP. It is important to note that depression is a common and natural emotion. When individuals feel sad, it helps them to better appreciate the happy moments in life. Depression is a result of sadness which can derive from loss of loved ones, stress from work, school, or family, and from major life changes as well. Depression has different types of symptoms, psychological symptoms, and physical symptoms. Understanding the signs of depression will assist in honing in on the issue and ultimately providing a solution to the problem. Organizations like THIS WAY UP strategically use content, Student 2 images, and colors to promote a cause, mission, or goal. THIS WAY UP is an organization that uses visual cues and rhetorical appeal to draw in visitors to their website. Figure 1 Visually examining Figure 1, there is a mid-aged woman, bowing her head and grasping the area between her eyes which clearly states that this woman is in an uneasy state and suffering from depression. Since internet-delivered technology is new to most visitors of this website. THIS WAY UP uses this visual cue to show visitors that they are aware of the symptoms related to depression. Reading the text surrounding the image, THIS WAY UP identifies psychological symptoms and physical symptoms that lets their audience know if the symptoms they face aligns with symptoms related to depression. A few of the psychological symptoms mentioned in this image are feeling miserable, loss of interest in usual activities, slow or inefficient thinking with poor concentration, feeling unworthy, and even thoughts of being better off dead. Some of the Student 3 physical symptoms mentioned in this image are loss of appetite, interest in sexual activities, energy, sleep, and slowed activity or speech. It is important for the stakeholder to promote their knowledge in this area so users can trust that internet-delivered therapy could potentially be a solution to their depression. The use of this image connects with their audience on a deeper emotional level that would ultimately result in the user interacting with the organization for aid in their purpose. On the Sadness page, the stakeholder breaks down depression into the following: what depression is, the signs of depression, the causes, then the author transitions into the solutions with how to deal with depressions and coping with symptoms of depression. When examining the Rhetorical Appeals in Figure 1, ethos stands out the most since the text around the image is showing the credibility in this area. The use of pathos is also present due to the woman body gestures showing she is depressed. Kairos can be more difficult to extract from this image. However, from the looks of the woman in distress, she must have been dealing with her depression for quite some time. Finally, the stakeholder logically explains that if the reader is experiencing any of the symptoms listed, the stakeholder can help through their internet-delivered therapy. Student 4 Figure 2 The second image found on the website contains an image of a male sitting at a desk with a little girl on his lap kissing him on the cheek. The man is clearly not thinking straight and resting his forehead on his hand. There is a graph with the text 30 % in the middle and a line running to text that states, of the predisposition for depression is due to genetic Comparing the image to the graph and text, the stakeholder is giving off the impression that this father is also concerned for his daughter, who could also suffer from depression. Another visual analysis that is gathered from this image would be that this father is on his computer using internet-delivered therapy to alleviate his depression. THIS WAY UP makes the claim that no one knows exactly what causes depression, but genetic factors play an important role. Visually analyzing Figure 2 makes the author look like a genius that is appealing to many different areas of stress induced sadness and depression. Analyzing the rhetorical appeals of the Student 5 image, logos is presented by the 30 percent benchmark for the predisposed cause of depression. The following was noted, school stress, work stress, stress related to bills, and stress caused by children. One can conclude that this was a rhetorical strategy. Ethos is very apparent in this image due to the many different appeals this image could be referring to. There is credibility in saying or writing something that the audience already believes or that reinforces the experience as discussed by McKee and McIntyre. The stakeholder could be using this image to sell their online courses, this father may not have time to visit a physcologist on a regular basis and THIS WAY UP solves this by offering internet-delivered online courses from the comfort on their own homes. THIS WAY UP is an example of an organization that uses visual rhetoric on their website to accomplish their goal of helping individuals who suffer from depression using internet-delivered therapy, which may be by design or even unknowingly. It is important for the stakeholder to make it clear that they are empathetic toward individuals who suffer from depression. Utilizing pathos plays a key role for this type of organization because depression can be a sensitive topic to discuss for many people. Using rhetorical appeals accurately can greatly increase the trust of the reader and persuade them to join in on their cause. Their goal is to help suffers by participating in their online content and better the lives of those who participate. Overall, THIS WAY UP accomplishes their goal through visual rhetoric, from the use of images to the context of content on their website. (WC: 1,115) Student 6 Works Cited Lane, Emily and Kendra Gayle Lee and Jessica McKee and Megan McIntyre and Kate Pantelides. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-46. Print. Pack, Jenna. Down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. Print. THIS WAY UP. St Hospital Sydney Limited. Web. 2017. https://thiswayup.org.au/how-do-you-feel/sad/ . Accessed 25 Jan. 2017 Student 7 Images Figure 1: https://thiswayup.org.au/how-do-you-feel/sad/ Figure 2: https://thiswayup.org.au/how-do-you-feel/sad/