Iuliucci 1 Katheryn Iuliucci Professor Lay ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Finding a Happy Medium Between Hunters and PETA Ever since the start of the animal rights movement, hunting has become an increasingly controversial topic. Many people oppose hunting, and many people support it. Regardless of the stance, both sides are extremely passionate towards their cause. Furthermore, the evidence backing their positions is not solely opinion based. The arguments supporting both sides are valid, and factually based. Two stakeholders in the great debate over hunting are People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and Ducks Unlimited (DU). PETA is largest animal rights organization in the and organizes research as well as events to educate the public about the mistreatment and murder of animals Established in 1980 (peta.org), the organization has upheld their strict beliefs about animal rights for almost forty years. The long-lived beliefs of the organization have historically proven to make them a difficult group to compromise with. Supporters of PETA are notorious for being passionate and hard-working, as they have influenced major companies such as Panera Bread and Donuts to make more animal friendly decisions. However, the other stakeholder present has an equally strong history. Animal hunting has been an integral part of human life since the initial existence of the human species. Historically, humans have relied on hunting in order to survive, about 2.5 million (Edward B. Arnett). Supporters of hunting, just like PETA, have a long history to back up their beliefs. Hunters are far more than a group of people passionate Iuliucci 2 about a hobby. Hunters are supported by large organizations, such as The Rocky Mountain Elk Society, which advocate the benefits of hunting while still recognizing the importance of wildlife in America (nssf.org). Both stakeholders have very strong opinions towards hunting. PETA wants to save all animal lives, while hunters approve of hunting because animals are imperative for human survival. Though they differ greatly in opinions, both stakeholders care about the well-being of the environment and animals. In order to reach a compromise between the two stakeholders, the cost of a license as well as a duck stamp will increase in order to fund conservation measures and further research for the environment. PETA feels as though hunting is cruel and unnecessary. The group argues that animals suffer painful deaths when they are injured but not killed by (peta.org). By supporting hunting, the organization feels as though it would be supporting the torture of animals. Philosophers such as Peter Singer argue that, pain of a horse should count as much as the equivalent pain of a human (Barney Dickson 61). PETA shares similar beliefs that no animal species should be prioritized over another. Those who oppose hunting feel as though hunters wrongly devalue animal life. Another argument the organization makes is that hunting does not effectively maintain population size, because delicate balance of ecosystems ensures their they are left Hunting The organization argues that humans are altering the ecosystem. Hunters agree with PETA, however they feel as though it is not hunting that is altering the ecosystem, but other factors damaging the environment, such as industrialization and other environmental threats. PETA also fears for the safety of other creatures who are not specifically targeted during the hunting process. The group references the famous hunting accident in which Dick Cheney accidentally shot his friend while hunting. Other victims of hunting include cows, dogs, cats, hikers, and other Iuliucci 3 Hunting The organization predominantly elaborates on the instances in which hunting is done incorrectly. As a whole, this stakeholder does not approve of any form of hunting, including fishing. A common misconception is that hunters are cold blooded killers that do not care about animals in the environment. Hunters are stereotyped as coarse and (Jan E. Dizard 178). However, different hunting organizations actually work to support hunters as well as conserve animals and the environment. For example, Ducks Unlimited works conserve wetlands and valuable habitat in priority areas for North American Wetlands & Supporters of the sport care about the environment and seek to protect wildlife. Hunters take a different view on hunting compared to PETA. In contrast to critics, hunters is what has been happening on this planet for (rmef.org). Hunting is not a new and unusual way of acquiring food, as it has been around since the start of human life. Hunting allows people to connect with their most primal state, and feel as though are the times in life when one hundred percent in tune with Is In a world where food comes in unnatural forms full of chemicals, hunting wild animals for food is a safer option for meat consumers. In addition to the questionable ingredients in mass-produced meat, many animals are not treated ethically while being raised to be slaughtered. Contrary to popular belief, the majority of hunters want animals to be treated ethically. Hunters obtain their own food, gain appreciation for nature and conservation, and benefit from social economical aspects. Both PETA and DU thoroughly understand and appreciate the significance of animals. Though both stakeholders have opposing behaviors in which they express their appreciation for wildlife, both have a knowledgeable perspective on animals in the wilderness. In order to reach a Iuliucci 4 compromise, it is imperative that neither side suffers a complete loss. With two extremely conflicting viewpoints, it is not possible for both sides to get exactly what they want. Hunting cannot be completely eliminated, just as values cannot be completely ignored. In efforts to reach a compromise, the two stakeholders should work together for their common ground. Rather than eliminating hunting in the United States of America, the activity can serve as a way to raise money for causes PETA supports. Hunting is a rather lucrative sport, as the million American hunters . . . spend more than $38.3 billion . . . on non-commercial hunting-related expenses each (Edward B. Arnett). With the large amount of money coming in from hunting, one may consider it rather feasible to allot a portion of that sum for PETA. The hunting world is not estranged to this idea, as similar efforts have been made with other areas of hunting. For example, stamps are a required annual purchase for waterfowl hunters 16 and A portion of the funds through duck stamps goes towards research and wildlife conservation. By increasing the cost of a license as well as duck stamps, more money will be generated. The increased funds can go towards values that PETA upholds, such as increased conservation efforts, protection of endangered species, and education about wildlife. This compromise will allow both stakeholders to flourish because it encourages them to work off each successes, rather than oppose each other. By raising funds, PETA will benefit from hunting. Likewise, hunters will benefit from growth. growth would allow for an overall improvement in wildlife in America, which would help hunters acquire animals to satisfy their needs. Improved education about wildlife would also help to keep both hunters and animals safe. Educated hunters will less likely be involved in hunting accidents. Furthermore, improved education will teach more hunters how to ethically hunt animals, and Iuliucci 5 decrease their suffering when they are killed. This viable compromise will allow both stakeholders to succeed as well as achieve at least some of their goal. An increased cost in hunting licenses and federal duck stamps would increase the amount of funding for PETA, which would increase education and events about wildlife. Both values should be respected. PETA cares about the ethical treatment of animals and creating changes in society to make the world an overall more animal friendly place. Hunters care about having the liberty to obtain their own food. By formulating a compromise which require the stakeholders to thrive on each success, their tensions can be eased. Iuliucci 6 Works Cited Anett, Edward B. Economic and Social Benefits of Hunting in North  International Journal of Environmental Studies, vol. 72, no. 5, 2015. Taylor & Francis Online, doi:10.1080/00207233.2015.1033944. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Conserving Wetlands &  Ducks Unlimited, www.ducks.org/conservation/how-du- conserves-wetlands-and-waterfowl. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Dickinson, Barney, editor. Recreational Hunting, Conservation and Rural Livelihoods: Science and Practice. Wiley-Blackwell, 2009. Google Books, Wiley-Blackwell, doi:10.1002/9781444303179. Dizard, Jan E. Mortal Stakes: Hunters and Hunting in Contemporary America. 2003. Google Books, doi:10.1080/10871200500292884. Duck  U.S Fish and Wildlife Services, USA Government, www.fws.gov/birds/get- involved/duck-stamp/buy-duck-stamp.php. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Hunters and  National Shooting Sports Foundation, www.nssf.org/hunting/orgs.cfm. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Hunting Is  Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation, www.rmef.org/Conservation/HuntingIsConservation.aspx?gclid=CJz- gqHT1tECFQYGhgodsV0Ldw. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Poudel, Jagdish. Economic Contribution of Hunting Expenditure to the Southern United States of  International Journal of Environmental Studies, vol. 73, no. 2, 2016. Taylor & Francis Online, doi:10.1080/00207233.2016.1143701. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Victories:  PeTA, 2016, Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Iuliucci 7 Why Sport Hunting Is Cruel and  PeTa, www.peta.org/issues/wildlife/wildlife- factsheets/sport-hunting-cruel-unnecessary/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017.