Honorat 1 Gianny Honorat Martha Heiser Enc1102-068 1 February 2017 Are They Really Needed? According to dictionary.com, animal testing is the use of animals in research and development to test the safety of foods and drugs (animal testing). Although the FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration) do not specifically need to use animal to test the safety of cosmetic products they still do. The FDA is in charge of making sure cosmetics, foods and other drugs are properly labeled and safe to be distributed. In order to make sure these products are safe to use, animals are sometimes used to test the safety of the products. The HSUS (The Humane Society of the United States) is an animal protection organization whose goal is to put an end to puppy mills, animal fighting, factory farming, captive hunts, wildlife trade, animal testing and other forms of animal cruelty. The FDA and HSUS are at odds with one another and while the FDA allows the use of animal to test the safety of cosmetic products, the HSUS wants to end animal testing and abuse for cosmetic products. While there are two different sides to animal testing, the only way conflict would cease is for the number of animals experimented on each year decreases and by replacing animal subjects to willing human subjects. Animal testing for cosmetics include skin and eye irritation tests where chemicals are rubbed onto the shaved skin, dripped into the eyes of rabbits and even force large amounts of chemicals into their mouths in order to determine the dose needed to cause death (About Cosmetics Animal Testing). Although the FDA does not directly tell manufactures and scientist to use animal in their experiments, they do advise them to use any type of testing to ensure the Honorat 2 safety of their products (Animal Testing & Cosmetics). Scientists still use animals to test their products because some still believe that is the best way to guarantee safety. The animal species used for testing has features similar to that of a human. They have similar organs such as the brain, heart, liver and even have similar functions such as circulation and peripheral nervous system (Garattini 2). The similarities between animals and humans is what makes them the ideal test subject for cosmetics that might pose a danger to humans if not tested properly. In order to ensure they are safe for humans to use they need to test on animals. Without properly assessing the product someone could have a severe reaction or die. This might lead to lawsuits and other complications. Animal testing is used to ensure the absolute safety of the products being manufactured and because animals resemble humans in anatomy they are the best way to do so. Although the FDA supports animal testing, there are those who oppose it. The Humane Society of the United States strongly opposes animal testing and their goal is to find alternatives using the Be Cruelty Free campaign. The tests conducted on these animals causes them a lot of pain and stress. For example, it can cause blindness, swollen eyes, sore bleeding skin, internal bleeding and organ damage, birth defects, convulsions and death. Not only does it have these effects, pain relief is also not provided at the end of the experiment and they are usually killed by injections or by decapitation (About Cosmetics Animal Testing). The HSUS believes that companies do have a choice on whether or not to conduct animal testing for cosmetics. the majority of cases, animal tests continue because some companies insist on developing and using (About Cosmetics Animal Testing). The only reason why animal testing is still being used is because there are new products that need to be tested. While there are no existing safety data these new products, animals are needed to generate new data. Animal testing is not as efficient as many would like it to be. According to a report by the Honorat 3 U.S. Food and Drug Administration, 92 percent of new drug entities were failing during human clinical trials either because the new drugs were not effective in humans or because they were associated with unexpected toxicity (having been demonstrated to be safe in animals) (Beauchamp 452). Using animals does not guarantee safety with all products and finding an alternative way to test these products might be a better solution. The FDA supports animal testing while the HSUS is strongly against using animals to test cosmetics and other products. While both sides have their different opinions and views on the subject there is a compromise that could be made. There have been many different alternatives considered or created to replace the need for animal testing. Although it is not as effective, it still is a start in finding a different way to test cosmetic products. Sarah Adler who is affiliated with Centre for Documentation and Evaluation of Alternatives to Animal Experiments (ZEBET) along with other researchers and doctors wrote that advances in cell-based research including use of stem cells, and the development of two- dimensional and three-dimensional cell (co)-cultures, are facilitating the development of much more sophisticated structures more similar to tissues in the (Adler 378). Creating tissue similar to that of the human skin from stem cells would be a good way to stop animal testing while also providing a safe way to test the safety of cosmetic products. There are different skin and even eye tests using reconstructed human skin such as EPISKIN, EpiDerm, SkinEthic, and even the Bovine Cornea Opacity and Permeability test for eye corrosion (About Cosmetics Animal Testing). Another compromise that could be made is to use willing human test subjects. There are some tests that are painful but instead of using animals, humans could be used. There are many people who would willingly take part in testing for money. This would provide those that are in need of extra cash a way to get it. The humane society predicts that 100,000-200,000 Honorat 4 animals suffer and die just for cosmetics every year around the world. Another compromise that could work is to reduce the number of animals that suffer each year. If that number is reduced to even half of what is it now, then there would be less animals that suffer are used for testing. This would allow the FDA to freely use animals for testing and would put those at the humane society of America at ease knowing that less animals are suffering. In conclusion, animal testing will not indefinitely be banned but they should not suffer to the abuse and tests conducted on them. The FDA must limit the amount of animals used per year and the humane society will have to agree to let them use a certain amount of animal per year. Although animal testing is not supported by many there have been many cosmetics used today because they were tested on animals. Since, many cosmetic products used by Americans have been tested using animals this conflict affects everyone. Without animal testing many of the cosmetic products used today may not have existed but these animals also have a right to live. Many people love their dogs and cats as a pet but do not think about the other animals that suffer during testing. If animal testing halts, then less medication would be available and if animal testing continues there will be many animals suffering to benefit Americans. This affects the future of medicine and unless a stable and better alternative to animal testing is created it will continue to be used. Until then, both sides would have to agree to a compromise on cosmetic animal testing. Honorat 5 Work Cited Adler, Sarah, et al. Alternative (Non-Animal) Methods For Cosmetics Testing: Current Status And Future  Archives Of Toxicology 5 (2011): 367. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. About Cosmetics Animal Testing : Humane Society  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. animal . 21st Century Lexicon. Dictionary.com, LLC. 13 Feb. 2017. <Dictionary.com Animal Testing &  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Beauchamp, Tom l., David Degrazia, and andrew n. Rowan. Ending The Use Of Animals In Toxicity Testing And Risk  Cambridge Quarterly Of Healthcare Ethics 24.4 (2015): 448. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Garattini, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi. Original Article: Animal Testing Is Still The Best Way To Find New Treatments For  European Journal Of Internal Medicine (2016): ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.