Edwards1 Krystal Edwards Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 January 29 th , 2017 Is There A Link Between High Fructose Corn Syrup In Foods and Chronic Illnesses? Most people know that high fructose corn syrup is in nearly all of the foods that people eat today. If one was to go in their pantry and pick up an item such as ketchup (Authority Nutrition), it comes as no surprise that it is one of the first listed ingredients in it. Although high fructose corn syrup adds that great taste to food items people love, is it necessarily good for them? Many have blamed high fructose corn syrup for sicknesses such as obesity and other chronic illnesses out there. There has been a long battle between food industries and healthcare professionals on whether or not high fructose corn syrup is as safe as other sugars out there, such as cane sugar. The Food Drug Administration which deems foods to be accepted or denied in the essence of protecting the public health of every one, said that high fructose corn syrup is just the same as other sugars. The Center for Disease Control on the other hand says that the amount of intake of added sugars people have in their diet are causing serious health problems. Although the FDA and CDC have two opposing views to this matter, they both still aim to protect people from health threats. Thus the Food Drug Administration and the Center for Disease Control can both come to a compromise where they can spread awareness about high fructose corn syrup and Edwards2 what too much of an intake can cause. This way, consumers are better educated on the products they are consuming. The Food Drug Administration is a government organization that responsible for protecting the public health by ensuring the safety, efficacy, and security of human and veterinary drugs, biological products, and medical devices; and by ensuring the safety of our food supply, cosmetics, and products that emit (FDA). They are also for advancing the public health by helping to speed innovations that make medical products more effective, safer, and more affordable and by helping the public get the accurate, science-based information they need to use medical products and foods to maintain and improve their (FDA). As for foods, they regulate foods that include dietary supplements, bottled water, food additives, infant formulas, and other food products (FDA). The FDA has a huge impact on the public solely because it either passes or rejects food and drugs that the public can consume. If a product is not safe, wholesome, sanitary, and properly labeled then they reject it from being brought into the public. The responsibilities the FDA holds is obviously far from small which is why when certain statistics showed that high fructose corn syrup was possibly linked to chronic illnesses many questions were posed towards them. They claimed that they were aware of any evidence that there was a difference solely between foods containing similar amounts of other nutritive sweeteners with approximately equal glucose and fructose content such as sucrose, honey, or other traditional They supported the recommendation that everyone should simply just limit their consumption of sugar. The Center for disease control is also a government organization that 24/7 to protect America from health, safety, and security threats, both foreign and in the They also increase health security of our nation. As the health protection agency, CDC saves Edwards3 lives and protects people from health threats. CDC conducts critical science and provides health information that protects our nation against expensive and dangerous health threats, and responds when these (CDC). Although many would think the CDC only focuses on diseases, they also help a lot with food due to foodborne sicknesses such as Salmonella and Vibrio. Due to the fact that high fructose corn syrup is causing such an extensive amount of illnesses, they had a lot to say about the intake with foods that contain it. They want to protect people from further falling into a sickness caused by it. In a research article that the CDC did on of sugar- sweetened Beverages among U.S. Adults in 6 States: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System they claimed that consumption of fructose and high fructose corn syrup increased postprandial triglycerides, LDL- cholesterol, and Apo lipoprotein-B in young men and women which can ultimately lead to an increased chance of cardiovascular disease (CDC). Again although these two government organizations are on separate ends of the spectrum in regards to whether or not high fructose corn syrup is related to chronic illnesses, they both are in favor of the general health. They both aim to have the health in their best interest. It is possible for there to be common ground between these two conflicting organizations. These organizations are also two very important organizations in the United States and contribute a lot to society today from them being in the Department of Health and Human Services. So even though they both may have different responsibilities in the government, they still are very similar to one another and have a close-knit relationship. In order to decrease the link between high fructose corn syrup and chronic illnesses, the Food Drug Administration and the Center for Disease Control should come together and spread awareness of this issue. Because the FDA and CDC have a lot of power in the government especially over food, they can easily warn the public about massive intakes of high fructose corn Edwards4 syrup. They can begin by administering warnings on the labels of food items that have more than the necessary quantity of high fructose corn syrup so that the consumer will be well aware of the risk they will be taking. What can also help back up this notion are more advertisements, specifically commercials on TV so that more of the public can be aware. Some people may not look at the ingredients on the item they are buying or they might not even notice the label that would be placed on there, however, if there is a visual representation of what they are putting in their bodies there will surely be a change. Chronic illnesses such as obesity, diabetes, and heart disease (Nutrition for Health and Health Care) which is the number one killer in the United States, should be stressed on in these commercials. Both companies would have to provide money in order to fund these commercials mainly because when people see the organizations that are behind these commercials, they would be more willing to watch it. Each organization in this case would be gaining credibility due to the fact that they are both alerting the public of what can happen. The more consumers know, the more they will be likely to make a change to their diets and improve their health in the long run. The FDA and CDC both play a huge role in the health. They both have the ability to make the health of the population better and all they would have to do is open the eyes. They can do so much to ensure that in the future food, the main thing that everyone needs, will not have negative consequences against them if they eat too much of one thing. Informing the public is all they have to do and the consumers will be able to do the rest. There should never be risks without the consumers knowing about it. This compromise of making commercials to educate the public makes it easier for them to know the risk and both organizations are commended for doing their job. Chronic illnesses such as obesity can be lowered at a drastic rate. Once the public is educated, change is sure to come. Word Count:1484 Edwards5 Works Cited DeBruyne, Linda K., and Kathryn Pinna. Health Effects of Sugars and Alternative  Nutrition for Health and Health Care. Boston, MA: Cengage Learning, 2017. 70. Print. Elliott, Brianna. 20 Foods Loaded With High-Fructose Corn  Authority Nutrition. Authority Nutrition, 22 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.https://authoritynutrition.com/20- foods-with-high-fructose-corn-syrup/ High Fructose Corn Syrup: Questions and  High Fructose Corn Syrup: Questions and Answers. U.S. Food and Drug Administration, 5 Nov. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.http://www.fda.gov/Food/IngredientsPackagingLabeling/FoodAdditivesIngredients /ucm324856.htm U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. Mission, Role and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 14 Apr. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.https://www.cdc.gov/about/organization/mission.htm U S Food and Drug Administration Home  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. U.S. Department of Health & Human Resources, 27 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.http://www.fda.gov/default.htm Stanhope, K. L., A. A. Bremer, V. Medici, et al. Consumption of Fructose and High Fructose Corn Syrup Increase Postprandial Triglycerides, LDL-cholesterol, and Apolipoprotein-B in Young Men and  The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism. Edwards6 U.S. National Library of Medicine, 17 Aug. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21849529