Student 1 Student Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Currently homelessness in America still exists. We have developed new cures, vaccines and technology, yet we are still unable to end homelessness within America. One organization that contributes to the fight against homelessness is known as, the Alliance to End There are two images that promote their message which is, that they are fully committed to finding a way to end homelessness by educating people as well has developing better policies to help those who are homeless. The first image displays a family sitting happily in the steps in their home. The second image displays former First Lady Michelle Obama delivering a quote about putting an end to homeless veterans. This stakeholder known as the National Alliance to End Homelessness was created in 1983 to raise awareness about the homeless population in America. The stakeholder has created numerous efforts to change policies and to improve some policies to benefit the homeless population. From 2005 and 2007 the homelessness population had decreased by approximately 10 percent. Their job consists of researching and formulating data about the homeless population and then giving that information to the policymakers so then in turn they can use the information to develop more helpful policies. The first image displays a family of four smiling and being cheerful. On a single night in January 2015 people in families experienced (2015 Annual Homeless Assessment Report). Much of these families fall into being homeless because of an unpredictable Student 2 occurrence within their lives. Some of these occurrences are financial struggles such as losing their jobs, an unexpected bill or even a death within the family. (National Alliance to End Homelessness) On the bright side many families do not experience long term homelessness and just need little to almost no time at all to get back up on their feet. Rapid re-housing is a large solution in helping end the homelessness of families. The faster that families are placed in a permanent home then the easier it is for homelessness to be solved. The primary visual message that is being presented from this image is how happy that the family. Logos is used in this image by depicting how happy the family is and by how happy one family can be from overcoming homelessness. Ethos is being portrayed within the image by the placement of the text within the photo that says are ending Pathos is being used in the image by showing the smiling faces. Kairos is very effective in the image because even in 2017 homelessness is this very prominent in the U.S.A. This image is also very important because for the organization because the image depicts how happy someone is after overcoming a large struggle. The organization is continuously trying to make changes in the lives of those who need it the most. The second image displays the former First Lady Michelle Obama delivering a quote about putting an end to homeless veterans. The population of homeless veterans consists of those of who fought in World War II up until recent issues. Those who served in the Vietnam war and in the era, are more likely to be homeless. Those who are overseas in Iraq and Afghanistan tend to have several disabilities such as, missing limbs, traumatic brain injuries and post-traumatic stress disorder. (National Alliance to End Homelessness) These disabilities are precisely the most common reason for why veterans result in being homeless. On June 4, 2014, the Obama administration created a new program in efforts to end veteran homelessness. In result, the number of homeless veterans decreased by 35 percent. (National Alliance to End Homelessness) Student 3 The organization created an interactive map tracking progress in the cities and states where mayors, governors, and local government officials have committed to the challenge of ending veteran homelessness in their (National Alliance to End Homelessness) By doing so the stakeholder can track if the government is keeping to their word and if so, then how much of an effort are they truly making. This not only gives insight to the stakeholder to see if the numbers of homeless veterans are decreasing but also lets the people know if anything is changing as well. The primary visual message the stakeholder is communicating through this image is that war veterans were a large part of the homeless population for a while. This image was a flyer for keynote address by Michelle Obama in 2014. Pathos is displayed in the image by warm and inviting smile. Logos is displayed in the image from both the hashtag at the bottom of the image as well as the quote. is the hashtag at the bottom of the image and presents that there is a problem within the country of having many homeless veterans. now we have to finish the job once and for all, because when a veteran comes home kissing the ground, it is unacceptable that he should ever sleep on (First Lady Michelle Obama) Is the quote on the image and displays pathos because it is meant to pull on the heartstrings of the audience when they picture the quote in their head. Ethos is also presented in this image by appearance of the former First Lady Michelle Obama. Kairos is presented in this image by showing that this was created in 2014. This organization is committed to ending homelessness and even has politicians from Washington D.C. getting involved to make a difference. In conclusion, homelessness in America is still very prominent and this stakeholder is working effortlessly to help and try to lower homelessness, by then ultimately ending it. The two images depicted how peaceful life can be for those who have overcome the hurdle in their life Student 4 from being homeless. The images also display that the organization is getting famous politicians to help spread the message as well. This stakeholder not only fights to end homelessness for veterans and families but also for the youth as well as for those who have been a victim of domestic violence by educating policymakers and by educating others. (WC: 1015) Student 5 Works Cited Browning, Ella, and Joshua M Rea. Understanding pp. Henry, Meghan et al. 2015 Annual Homeless Assessment Report (AHAR) to 2015 AHAR: Part 1 - PIT Estimates of Homelessness (508 Compliant Version), Nov. 2015, https://www.hudexchange.info/resources/documents/2015-ahar- Alliance to End National Alliance to End Homelessness, www.endhomelessness.org/. Images: Image 1: Student 6 Image 2: