Courtemanche 1 Dylan Courtemanche Martha Heiser ENC 1102 27 January 2016 ESports vs. ESPN a Friday night at a Buffalo Wild Wings and some gamers are out to watch the final tournament of their favorite video game, sponsored by Buffalo Wild Wings, however when they arrived to watch it they were refused and ridiculed because it showing on a major sports network and considered a sport. Although many professional gamers and groups such as ELEAGUE consider ESports a sport, ESPN does not which results in it being hard to watch at any chain Sports bar. Recently the Gamers and ESPN have had a feud over this debating which has only sparked controversy over whether or not ESports deserve a spot on TV or the respect of being called a sport instead of competition. If the groups were able to find common ground then they could both increase their fan bases tremendously. Competitive gaming is not something new, even though had a huge rise in popularity in the last few years actually been around since the 1980s when arcade games like Donkey Kong were played in large competitions to compete for the highest score (Taylor). In these large tournaments they would generate large profits from the huge crowds of gamers and spectators that would come to play and watch the events. Because of these events competitive gamers have been fighting to have ESports be considered a sport or even be shown or a sports network to help generate revenue like the old classic video game tournaments in the previous decades. Competitive gaming has gotten so big in the past couple years that many groups have been created to host events, from small groups at local high schools and colleges, to massive groups that monitor stats and host tournaments for teams all across the world like ELEAGUE or the Courtemanche 2 International e-Sports Federation (IeSF). They argue that because it requires strategies, practice, and skills and has a large fan base with more viewers in some tournaments than the NBA Finals or World Series. This large fan base would create profits for whatever sports network would accept to show them. TBS currently shows tournaments that they sponsor but the coverage is so weak and shown so rarely that it get the coverage it deserves. The only current place to watch most tournaments and events is online and once a year on TBS but there are so many more events that shown. Even though it may not be considered a sport, Korea takes ESports very serious with a group called Korea e-Sports Association (KeSPA) working with the government to combat any forms of cheating or hacking with some punishments like a $70,000 fine or up to 5 years in prison. The large argument that videos games should not be sports because they are not as demanding as sports that require intense physical strength. However new studies at Douglas Mental Health University Institute that have shown that gamers have more efficient visual abilities as well as several other positive effects on the brain (West). In the early 1990s there was another skeptical competition that wanted coverage from ESPN and today is one of largest revenue generating events, that event is the X-Games (Young). ESPN and others are quick to dismiss gaming as a sport because it does not require any physical activity. If ESPN showed ESports or considered them a sport they could unlock an entire new fan base generating huge profits, much like the X-Games, with the vast number of spectators and sponsorship opportunities available in events that have the potential to generate millions dollars. ESPN has always been considered the home for sports but lately with ESports rise in popularity and ESPN featured a tournament once in 2014 on their website many have called for ESports to be considered a real sport and have a place on TV. The president of ESPN says although it takes a lot of practice and good mental strength ESports are just a (Pitcher). Courtemanche 3 ESports could not be a sport because there are too many affecting variables for it to be a sport such as game interference due to tech errors or problems with internet connections that could disrupt an entire game that would only cause uproar from fans and players alike. If ESports were to be considered a sport and allowed to be shown on ESPN then what would stop other groups to try and get on national television such as Chess or Card games. However ESPN has begun to take notice to popularity of the sport and may assist other organizations in hosting it as a competition (Casselman). Although the fan base for ESports is huge not as big as regular sports. If ESports was given as much attention and coverage as regular sports then players would start getting paid more money almost as much as professional athletes who sacrifice their bodies for entertain and gamers just have to play games, even if they having much more mental stimulation and higher level reflexes than some sports, and get paid which would create more controversy between professional athletes. Some competitive games are also very violent for television with killing, shooting, and blood and gore if ESPN were to feature competitive gaming on TV they could be a direct source for accessible violent images to youth. There have been several studies of violence and videos games having a direct link to each other with short-term increases in aggression from players and spectators (Zvyagintsev M) To give the gamers something at least to try and make up for it ESPN has begun to feature stories on their website about ESports but have not provided any coverage as of yet. If both groups were able to come together and make a compromise then they could both get what they want. ESPN would get more money and fans and Competitive Gamers would get more coverage with stats, highlights, and interviews. Although ESPN has started to show some stories on their website they could give more coverage of ESports. One option they could do is that ESPN could create another channel dedicated to ESports claiming it as a competitive gaming Courtemanche 4 channel, with this solution ESPN have to call ESports a sport but they could still get gaming news and live feeds on TV this would prevent any possible future controversy between professional athletes or fans of the two game types. If ESPN want to put the money into ESports for a channel then they could continue on showing ESports online like they already are but however ESPN has a much larger website and could do more with it giving the Gamers the coverage they really want like live feeds of games and stats and facts of different players, and ESPN have to show ESports on TV. ESPN has a great business opportunity here to expand their massive sports network by including ESports and Competitive Gamers and ELEAGUE have a chance to expand themselves and become a major spectating event if the groups can find a middle ground to their issues and settle on a compromise. The large controversy surrounding this topic creates some heat debates especially in sports bars across the U.S. that sponsor major gaming events yet when fans go to that sports bar they even able to watch that game be played. ESPN and ELEAGUE are at a crossroads with each other neither wants to accept what the other has to say and because of this they both suffer because they reach a compromise with each other. If they come to an agreement soon however they may lose the perfect opportunity to start something totally new before anyone else has the chance. Works Cited Casselman, Ben. Resistance is futile: eSports is massive ... and growing. 22 May 2015. Courtemanche 5 Pitcher, Jenna. ESPN PRESIDENT SAYS ESPORTS IS NOT A SPORT . 8 September 2014. <http://www.ign.com/articles/2014/09/08/espn-president-says-esports-is-not-a-sport>. Taylor, T.L. Raising the Stakes. Cambridge: MIT Press, 2012. West, Brandi Lee Drisdelle, Kyoko Konishi, Jonathan Jackson, Pierre Jolicoeur, Veronique D. Bohbot. Habitual action video game playing is associated with caudate nucleus-dependent navigational  Proceedings of the Royal Society B, May (2015). Young, Henry. Seven-figure salaries, sold-out stadiums: Is pro video gaming a sport? 31 May 2016. <http://edition.cnn.com/2016/05/31/sport/esports-is-professional-gaming-a-sport/>. Zvyagintsev M, Klasen M, WeberR, Sarkheil P, Esposito F, Mathiak K, Schwenzer M. Violence-related content in video game may lead to functional connectivity changes in brain networks as revealed by fMRI-ICA in young  ScienceDirect (2016).