Roman 1 Isabel Roman Professor Heiser ENC 1102-068 12 February 2017 Promoting Body Image: Approach to Modeling The media has flourished by promoting the women figure for decades. Companies such as Secret and Dove both have models who advertise their products, however the approach the two companies have are different in many ways. Secret displays their lingerie on tall, thin models who are usually of European decent. On the other hand, Dove models showcase a variety of different body types and different ethnic backgrounds while advertising their beauty products. Both companies have a major influence in the media which in turn affects the way women view their body, potentially resulting in body dissatisfaction or various eating disorders. If Secret and Dove combine their missions by promoting attractive lingerie on an average woman, then both companies will thrive while advertising a positive body image. Strong eyes, wavy hair, and a thin stature are the characteristics that most Secret models possess. The company promotes their and sophisticated to their customers to make women feel and Secret). It is often questioned why companies like Secret choose models who have bodies that are unnatural or unattainable. Professor Mears at Boston University provides an explanation why skinny models are chosen: Roman 2 When choosing models for high-end catwalks, campaigns, and fashion magazines, I found that choices of models tended to be isomorphic. That is, they choose looks that they expect everyone else to choose too. They widely perceive that white-washed ultra-skinny models are most likely to be types chosen by their peers, and to deviate from this tried-and-tested formula would be to risk professional status by being of (Mears) Mears claims that the agency must choose models that appeal to the public so that the company fall behind the current fashion trend. This view leads to a valid estimate on the mindset of Secret. The company hires models who are thin and exotic to appeal to customers while advertising their fashion forward lingerie. mission is very different than motives. Dove is a beauty related company that produces products for women to cleanse their skin. The models that advertise their products are culturally diverse and depict the image of an average woman. The women are usually wearing plain white undergarments to emphasize natural beauty. Dove has a campaign known as the Dove Self-Esteem which promotes body confidence in young girls aged 7-17 (Dove). This project has helped seventeen million young girls to improve their self-esteem since 2004 (Dove). The whole point of the campaign is to distract women from the thin idealization in the fashion industry and gear them towards admiring the image of an average sized woman. Emma Halliwell from the University of the West of England conducted a study to conclude the effect on body satisfaction: study provides preliminary evidence to suggest that body appreciation protects women from negative media exposure (Halliwell 5). results provide meaning to mission by proving the importance that body appreciation has on a self-esteem. Roman 3 Although the missions of both companies are quite opposite, Secret and Dove can join forces to create a movement that will not only benefit both corporations, but the lives of many women. Since study proved that positive body appreciation influences a self-esteem, the companies can promote body satisfaction while still advertising their products. Educating individuals about the different body types can influence people to accept themselves for who they are. Jennifer and Suzanne Abraham conducted a study that explored new interventions to improve self-esteem: After their participation in the Different program, the students reported that social acceptance (peer group acceptability and popularity), physical appearance, and athletic ability had become significantly less important to them. These results suggest that it is possible to modify susceptibility to peer group pressure and cultural body image norms. It is also possible to increase their degree of body satisfaction by focusing directly on cognitive changes aimed at changing their beliefs and attitudes and strengthening their self-perceptions. and Abraham 12) By manipulating the beliefs people have pertaining to the thin idealization, change can be made. Since Secret is known for having thin models, the company can consider hiring a diverse group of girls to model the lingerie. Although Dove already has the mission of body appreciation, the company does not promote avant-garde undergarments. The models tend to wear plain underwear which sends a message to average women that they are not skinny enough to wear the clothing that Secret models wear. If Dove would dress their models in attractive lingerie, like the Secret models, then they would promote not only body appreciation but femininity. By finding this common ground, the companies can educate their Roman 4 customers on the importance of appreciating all body types while showcasing a desirable woman. The reason why body appreciation is so important is because of its effects on eating disorders. The thin idealization that the media promotes prompts women to change their eating patterns to match the image that society has created. Anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge eating disorder are just a few eating disorders that many women possess partly due to the standards that the media portrays. In an article written by Priya Elan, a model stated that her agents told her to lose weight or else they would fire her (Elan). Many models have an eating disorder because of the pressure that the agencies place on their body weight. This sends the message to young girls that the only way to obtain the perfect body image is to starve. If large companies like Secret and Dove can change the interpretation of the perfect body, the amount of reported eating disorders would likely decline. Roman 5 Works Cited Elan, Priya. Agents Told Me to Stop the Reality of Body Image in The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 07 Apr. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Halliwell, Emma. The Impact of Thin Idealized Media Images on Body Satisfaction: Does Body Appreciation Protect Women from Negative  Body Image (2013): 1-6. ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Mears, Ashely. Why Thin Is Still  Savage Minds. N.p., 08 Oct. 2014. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Jennifer A., and Suzanne Abraham. Improving the Body Image, Eating Attitudes, and Behaviors of Young Male and Female Adolescents: A New Educational Approach That Focuses on  International Journal of Eating Disorders (1999): 1-16. Research Gate. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Our Mission: What Trying to  Doveselfesteem. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Secret. N.p., n.d. https://www.victoriassecret.com/careers. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.