Megahed 1 Hamad Megahed Adam Phillips English composition II 2/12/17 The Syrian Crisis The Syrian American Medical Society (SAMS) and The Zakat foundation both have missions to provide immediate relief and support to those in impoverished communities. SAMS has been especially dedicated in providing humanitarian aid to Syrian refugees ever since it was established. As the situation deteriorates, organizations have been attempting to establish a coordinated plan in order to help as many Syrians as possible. However, there has been substantial dispute on finding a solution. Some of the major issues include the lack of solidarity between nations and the lack of awareness. These two organizations have different goals that hinder their potential to maximize their efforts. While SAMS is more focused on fostering increased medical aid and expanding support for Syrian immigrants in multiple host countries, The Zakat Foundation is more focused on accumulating funds in order to invest in development projects that ensure individual and community Foundation). These two organizations may be small, but they are deeply involved in this conflict. If both of these organizations can form a strategic partnership then they will be able to increase awareness and receive more international support in directly assisting people in Syria by: amassing donations from the public, creating new developmental projects, and relaying their collaborative message to governments and civilians which will then generate the support needed to rebuild Syria and nurture the futures. Megahed 2 According to Karen Abuzayd, the United special advisor to the UN, 220,000 Syrians have been killed, 6.5 million are internally displaced and at least 9 million more inside Syria are in 2015). Despite the millions that have already escaped Syria there are even more that are in desperate need of assistance. And because of tougher immigration policies being enforced in countries such as the U.S, goal of immigrating more Syrians out of the war zone is becoming less realistic. Because of this their mission is to protect the people who are trapped in this area. SAMS advocates for the protection of . . . hospitals, health workers, civilians, and civilian American Medical Society). They want to raise awareness of the increasing attacks on those who are risking their lives to provide aid to the people. And by raising awareness they hope that the public will come forth to help end the violence. A big part of SAMS is the medical missions that they organize. They have medical professionals travel to different regions like Syria to provide health care. SAMS primarily offers medical aid, but the Zakat Foundation offers multiple forms of humanitarian aid. While SAMS focuses on healthcare the Zakat Foundation focuses on rebuilding Syria by supporting developmental projects that will be able to help Syrians sustain themselves and provide access to:education, food, water, and healthcare. This organization uses called Zakat donations which in arabic. This is an Islamic based group and they are strongly influenced by the Islamic principle of alms giving. They say they differentiate themselves from other groups by Zakat and Sadaqa donations to develop long-term, sustainable (Zakat Foundation). Their aim is to start rebuilding Syria so that when the crisis will pass the people will be self sustaining and the millions of refugees can return and live peacefully if they wish. And since there are many people still trapped in Syria this group wants Megahed 3 to focus on providing emergency relief to people of all different backgrounds.They also help orphan children by allowing people to sponsor them through their website. They look to children as the future for Syria and are trying to get them more access to education. This is a small group, but it has done so much for Syrians and depends on funding to develop its future projects such as building schools, orphanages and hospitals. To do this they need to raise awareness of the situation and this is where SAMS and the Zakat Foundation can come together to accomplish their goals. Between these two organizations they both have a lot of similarities and goals, but they are both feeling the massive pressure from this crisis. A strategic partnership would help them in supporting the millions still trapped in Syria. Because of stricter immigration policies being enforced around the world millions of Syrians are becoming internally displaced (Ferris, Kirisci, Shaikh 45). goal to immigrate more Syrians is no longer feasible, but by coordinating with The Zakat Foundation they may be able to accomplish their goal of protecting health care workers and rebuilding infrastructure. But in doing this the Zakat foundation would have to give up some of their social services to minimize costs. By minimizing some of their services they will be able to focus on leading the developmental projects. And these two both advocate for increased awareness of the Syrian conflict because if more people were to know what is happening they will be more inclined to show support. Once these two form a partnership they will be better suited to provide the care they need. However, they depend on funding and to be able to amass funds they need to raise awareness. Letting people know about the conflict will accomplish two things: increase sympathy and support for the people, and encourage people to donate. Once the public knows about the situation they will rally to support this cause which will Megahed 4 inevitably get the attention and then they will most likely step in. And with government support the financial situation will be relieved significantly as it has been a problem for years. According to The Brookings Journal ability to provide assistance to those displaced within Syria is also limited by financial constraints . . . Kirisci, Shaikh 17). However, aid is simply not enough for Syrians to return to their normal lives; only a temporary solution. to The Lancet Journal . . . aid handouts were never a sustainable solution...self-reliance would therefore be key to provision of a semblance of human security in the Abisaab, Hamill, Leaning 942). This would support The Zakat goal. While SAMS has done great work so far their efforts have only been a temporary solution. And since SAMS is dedicated to helping Syria, joining The Zakat Foundation would seem feasible because both would be working to develop Syria and rally international support through awareness events and fundraisers which will then be used to work on those important projects. This compromise is viable because these charities are very dedicated in helping the Syrian people and providing relief. They have so much common ground between them that they would be able to easily cooperate with one another. This will be extremely costly and will require the combined aid of many different organizations and international funding, but these two organizations could lead the project. Of course for this to as fast as possible some costs would have to be minimized. And in addition to all of this there needs to be increased military support which is currently unclear. According to Brian Jenkins of The Rand Corporation bitter legacy of Iraq and Afghanistan has discouraged Western military intervention . . . 2). However, there has been cooperation between the Syrian Rebels and the international community. There has also been increased military aid such as training and Megahed 5 armament from other nations Saudi Arabia and Qatar currently provide funds for rebel arms purchases . . . 11). With more military support access to humanitarian aid will be more readily available to the people. And with the increased public awareness combined between these two organizations the UN will certainly respond to this situation and provide the necessary assistance. The Syrian conflict is definitely volatile. Because of changing perspectives and restrictive immigration reforms it is going to be extremely difficult for these people to escape the horror of war. SAMS and The Zakat Foundation can absolutely work together to redevelop parts of Syria for the millions internally displaced. While they both have different goals they can both agree that the people need to redevelop their infrastructure in order to make their own jobs of providing aid much easier. The advantages of these two forming a partnership are extraordinary. By working together these two will be able to increase public awareness of the situation which will draw more support internationally to intervene in the crisis, and thereby begin public works projects to help the trapped Syrians rebuild their lives instead of leaving behind their country. Word Count: 1400 Megahed 6 Works Cited AbuZayd, Karen, Denis J. Sullivan, Susan Akram, and Sara Roy. The Syrian Humanitarian Crisis: What Is to Be  Syrian Humanitarian Crisis Middle East Policy Council . Middle East Policy Council, 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. America, Zakat Foundation of. Zakat Foundation of  Design, LLC . N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Balsari, Satchit, Josyann Abisaab, Kathleen Hamill, and Jennifer Leaning. Syrian Refugee Crisis: When Aid Is Not  Lancet 385.9972 (2015): 942-43. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Ferris, Elizabeth, Kemal Kirisci, and Salman Shaikh. SYRIAN CRISIS: MASSIVE DISPLACEMENT, DIRE NEEDS AND A SHORTAGE OF  Brookings (2013): 1-45. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.  Society . N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Jenkins, Brian Michael. Dynamics of Civil War . Santa Monica, California?: RAND Corporation, 2014. Rand. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. .