1 Research Project Project 1 Daniel C. DeJesus University of South Florida 2 Research Project This research project will focus on medicinal pricing in the United States of America, Europe, and Canada, in a compare and contrast format. The topic is medicinal pricing, the concept is economy and finance, and the research question is how medicinal pricing affects economy and finance in America, Europe, and Canada and which system is better and for what reasons? Health care and cost of medicine has been an issue that has plagued the U.S. back to at the least the late The U.S. is one of the most powerful countries in the world, but the medical systems that have been in place are lackluster and far behind other areas of the world like Europe and the neighbor Canada. The purpose of this research project is to shed light on lingering problems with the cost of medicine in the U.S. and ideas from other countries that have worked well for them and could possibly work well in the U.S. privatization of medicine has gone in a completely different direction than most successful countries in the world, countries in Europe opt for socialized medicine and they also regulate the drug prices to make them more affordable while in America big pharmaceutical companies buy politicians so no regulations are placed on them. Canada is the neighbor, but they have a much better health care system in place and better regulation of the medical economy. America has a long history of being ruled over by big business which all too often does not care about anything except making money, and will sacrifice the health to make money, many people argue the medical industry should not be driven by profit as it creates a conflict of interest between actually helping people, and making as much money as you can off of people who need the medicine. America needs to regulate the medical industry more to make life saving medicine affordable by all and not cost an arm and a leg to live. 3 Research Project References Golec, J., & Vernon, J. A. (2010). Financial Effects of Pharmaceutical Price Regulation on R&D Spending by EU versus US Firms. Pharmacoeconomics, 28(8), 615-628. This source articulates the effects of price regulation on R&D (research and Development) spending in the U.S. and in Europe. The article discusses how price regulations in Europe created lower cost prescription medication for consumers but over the 19 year sample period pharmaceutical firms did not produce 46 new medicines and did not create 1680 jobs in the industry that would have been there if they continued without regulation of prices. If the U.S. were to have adopted the same price regulation at the time as Europe America would have had not made 117 new medicines and not created 4368 jobs. The figures discussed in the past two sentences show if we were to regulate drug pricing in America, we would diminish productivity of new medicines and new jobs. The article shows in the time frame of 1986-2004 the tighter regulation of prices in the pharmaceutical industry in Europe has led to less production of newer medicines, less jobs created, but prices were stagnant in comparison to the U.S., The U.S. has produced more new medicines, created more jobs, but prices for the medication has gone up by 50%. The article relates to the research question because it is directly comparing and contrasting R&D in relation to drug pricing to R&D in relation to drug pricing. The authors of the article are credible because this is a peer- reviewed article and they have many peer-reviewed publications prior to this article. 4 Research Project Tinsley, H. a. (2004). Prescriptions without Borders: America Looks to Canada for Answers to Solve the Prescription Drug Pricing Predicament in the U.S., But Is Importation Really the Solution?. Hamline Journal Of Public Law & Policy, 25(2), 437-479. This article discusses and explains many things in detail about the current predicament in the Bush presidential era of medicinal pricing exceeding the capabilities to purchase it. The source goes into detail on why prices are so high because it is a free market system without regulations and the drastically high numbers are for grossing enough money to progress further and expand on itself. pharmaceutical companies are driven to make money and expand their business, this means they need to make more than what they put in as most businesses need to do in a free market economy, this creates issue with the price continually going up to the point where few can actually afford to purchase the medication but the price cannot be lowered or R&D will be slowed down and thus creating less new medicine. The main concern it addresses is importation of medicine at a cheaper price, the author discusses legal ramifications to large-scale importation and how this affects the businesses creating medicine. The article relates to the research question because it addresses the reasoning behind drug prices being so high in America and why prices are lower in Canada on account of regulations put on pricing, also it addresses the idea of importation of medicine for a lower cost and how that affects the economy. The author is credible because this is a peer reviewed academic journal. Hooper, C. L., & Henderson, D. R. (2016). Want cheaper drugs? More competition, not more government coercion, would greatly benefit consumers. Regulation, (1), 20. The article discusses why the prices of drugs are so high and elaborates on the process by which a drug is created and made legal to sell commercially. The article addresses underlying problems with the testing, because it is so difficult to create an approved 5 Research Project drug. The authors point out other countries take advantage of the drugs being made in America, since America has to do all the research and work to create the drug and pass the test to be legalized then other countries piggy back off of that and import the drug instead of trying to create their own drugs, if there were more companies creating drugs the market would be more saturated and thus cause prices to go down since there is competition in the market. The article elaborates on some companies that have taken advantage of the current system to drive up prices in a staunch market of few competitors where they will deliberately charge huge amounts so people are forced to buy a cheaper but still overpriced product because there is nowhere else to obtain the product, not to mention the medicine may be needed for the person to live their live without dying a disease. The authors are credible because this is a peer reviewed academic journal. MCGUIRE, J., JABON, E. N., & FASERUK, A. (2014). FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC IMPLICATIONS OF ORPHAN DRUGS THE CANADIAN ECONOMY IN PERSPECTIVE. Journal Of Financial Management & Analysis, 27(1), 1-13. The article discusses the effect of orphan drugs (drugs used to treat rare diseases) on the economy and the pharmaceutical industry. Rare diseases affect about five in every 100,000 people on average and therefore do not have a large market economy so the pharmaceutical companies may have to charge a substantially higher price for the product because there are fewer buyers. The problems with charging a larger portion of money for these medications is most of these diseases are life threatening, the patient therefore needs the medicine to live, on top of the fact most of the diseases are genetic and half of the people affected by these diseases are children. It does not seem fair to charge an obscene amount of money to a child in need of the drug to simply survive, but if there is no way for the companies to make money from developing these drugs then they would not make them. There should be some halfway point 6 Research Project where people are able to pay a reasonable amount for the medication and companies can still make money, this would most likely require government involvement in some way. This article is a good way of explaining why some drug prices are so high and why there may need to be some government intervention in the field. The authors are credible because this is an academic journal and it is peer reviewed.