Austin Michael Prof. K. Rouisse ENC 1102-093 1/27/17 The Varying Opinions on Public Transportation Funding In the past, there have been two main directions for a young country to move between: infrastructure or money. The larger investment in infrastructure required is costly to the people which results in larger taxes. Due to the vast sprawl that most cities in the United States exhibit the infrastructure required for public transportation would have been expensive and extensive. However, the route we took which entailed large-scale car ownership had its own drawbacks such as Global warming and road maintenance. The positives of car ownership can be matched with efficient public transportation along with fewer drawback. When the future of transportation comes to the United States it will be brought back to the basics of shared transportation, good scheduling, and an increase in jobs. The positives of car ownership are individualized schedules, freedom to travel where one pleases, and job growth in the manufacturing sector (Paulley). There are varying opinions however on whether these will be eradicated positives or exacerbated positives if the United States switches to mainly public transportation. It is argued that a quality public transportation program can allow for individualized schedules just as well as cars. In places such as Japan a train will not ever be more than 10 minutes late. This allows for reliable work scheduling when a situation arrives that it is necessary. Also, if the infrastructure in America was already in place it would be very efficient in allowing for distant travel. Currently there is not an easy inexpensive way to travel cross country in America. The introduction of new transport lines would increase the ability to travel in the U.S., this is a good quality that can lead to growth of transportation overall (Redman). In places, such as the European Union, it is simple to travel anywhere within the Union due to trade and travel agreements made between the countries and the high level of infrastructure spanning the continent of Europe linking train stations to airports to local trams. It is argued that these train stations, trams, subway stations will actually employ more people than the current automotive industry which would take away the qualms that many people have about investing more heavily in the United States transport budget. Many jobs involved in the maintenance and use of public transport will be skilled jobs that require enough training that they will be rather generous pay, similar to manufacturing jobs in their peak. One of the main advantages to a public transportation boom would be the availability to transportation for the lower class who often does not currently have an income generous enough to afford a car (Thogerson). payment therefore limiting schooling, work, and leisure options until the person can afford said car. If the transportation system were less flawed and better supported then ideally for the low income families the transportation system would be subsidized by all the upper tax brackets (Beirao). The Transport Workers Union (TWU) is the home of the union for all workers rail, air, and transit related offering a membership to 140,000 people at the moment. The United Automotive Union (UAW) is home to 400,000 laborers and lobbies for benefits and pay for automotive workers and aerospace workers alike. The TWU is home to all public transport unions in the United States but is not mandatory to join. The UAW has local chapters within everywhere from Puerto Rico to Canada along with contracts with 1600 employers. Naturally these two Unions would want very differently when it comes to transportation infrastructure and budgeting. TWU would desire there be a large increase in the budgeting to accommodate the building of new inner-city rail lines across the United Stated along with maintenance and improvement of current train, tram, and bus routes. Finally, a small part of the added cost would go to the subsidization of the transportation for low-income earners. The UAW would likely not be opposed to a tax increase for infrastructure building either but that is mainly due to the fact that a current large amount of the transport costs are currently filling potholes and repairing the aging highway system along with inner city roads (Fujii). However, once some of this money were to start being used for other forms of transportation it would likely start an uproar. From the eyes public transportation means loss of jobs, loss of income, higher taxes, and overall fewer car sales since they would eventually become unnecessary. One of the few possible outcomes where both parties are satisfied are the merging of the two fields. It is theorized that current manufacturing workers for cars could be trained to do maintenance on rail lines and the new inner city systems that would be installed along with the operation of them. While the jobs would be spread out between many cities, they would very likely make up for any jobs lost by the reduced manufacturing brought upon by this change. One of the most important notes is that not all jobs will be lost in automotive manufacturing, it would likely just see a decline instead of vanishing. With the merging of the two fields, and potentially the two unions, practically all negative side effects could be combated and avoided. There would be a balance of displaced and new jobs, the pay would be very similar between the jobs, transportation jobs can not be exported to other countries so there would be increased job security as well. Switching to mainly public transportation in the United States would be a good idea, the only roadblocks are increasing taxes to pay for this temporary new spending and the training of a workforce capable of doing the job. The taxes, however, could be driven by the increase in jobs from infrastructure- based transport alone. As time goes on and cities continue to sprawl as they do in the USA it will be more and more applicable to apply this argument towards increasing funding for public transportation since commutes between cities will be more common and the necessity of traveling will be greater than ever. With the combination of a couple unions and the group effort of the hundreds of thousands of laborers available it can be seen that anything can be done. As TWU says move both figuratively and literally in their lifetime they could see a transportation revolution that moves America from cars to trains again in a search for a more efficient and environmentally friendly life. The growth of a nation is driven by the movement of a nation. Move the people and move the economy. Word Count: 1228 Beirao, Gabriela. Understanding attitudes towards public transport and private  Science Direct. Elsevier, Nov. 2007. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Paulley, Niel. The demand for public transport: The effects of fares, quality of service, income and car  Elsevier, July 2006. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Fujii, Satoshi. Changes in Perceptions and Use of Public Transport during a Freeway  Sage Journals, Nov. 2001. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Redman, Lauren. Quality attributes of public transport that attract car users: A research  Science Direct. Elsevier, Nov. 2012. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Thogersen, John. Promoting public transport as a subscription service: Effects of a free month travel  Science Direct. Elsevier, Oct. 2009. Web. 3 Feb. 2017.