Alvarez 1 Luis A. Alvarez Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 25 January 2017 Regulating the Surveillance State Public debates continue to increase in the United States due to national security and privacy threats that will possibly arise from the intelligence use of electronic surveillance. The encryption debate and the homegrown threats that may emerge from the intelligence reforms are also discussed. Two vocal stakeholders in this debate are the National Security Agency (NSA) and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). These two key characters share the common ground of upholding the U.S. Constitution and valuing free speech and the freedom of the press. They are both tasked with protecting the First Amendment and the American people without a political or institutional lens. The First Amendment limits government efforts to free speech, freedom of the press, and the right to peaceful (Congressional Digest 1). These stakeholders would have to educate the American people that limits to free speech keep the nation safe from terror attacks and hate crimes, while embracing inclusivity and guaranteeing the comfort of having a conversation of a controversial nature. The NSA (National Security Agency) believes government surveillance protects national security and preserves privacy, while the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) believes any effort to tamper with free speech and the freedom of the press is an abuse of human rights. For a compromise, the NSA would hold talks with journalists, civil rights lawyers, and social critics Alvarez 2 from the ACLU to help reinforce the protections of the 1974 Privacy Act which only the collection of such information if it is pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement (Vollmann 70). The stakeholders would also collaborate in a joint advertising campaign that will provide much needed transparency in those operations and build the trust in the government and the press. The National Security Agency (NSA) is an intelligence organization responsible for collecting and analyzing national security information from around the world. To fulfill its mission statement, this organization is responsible for combating technological and ideological threats to its information, its officers, and to the United States. The NSA believes that surveillance is advantageous because it protects national security and preserves privacy. As national leaders and the American public have placed significant trust on the agency, the NSA holds that it will the need for (NSA). It maintains that people will abuse this need for openness and unveil undisclosed information regarding the operations to enemies of the United States. Therefore, they are transparent with why they collect intelligence while the safety, security, and liberty of fellow (NSA). They posit that consistent transparency will maintain the trust in them as their operations are in adherence to the U.S. and they conduct their activities with judgement as if activities were under intense public scrutiny (NSA). The NSA believes that by upholding the U.S. Constitution, they also uphold free speech and freedom of the press with respect to national security interests. They also realize that people abuse the First Amendment in order to proselytize extremist ideas inimical to democracy and liberty for all Americans. As the NSA values the security above an free speech, they will Alvarez 3 infringe on the rights of the person they consider the As terrorist organizations are gradually hiding into the anonymity of the internet, the NSA needs the trust more than ever to pre-empt strikes and seizures to these criminals. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) has a similar goal in mind. As the name of the organization clearly states, their aim is to prevent any attacks on civil rights by on the toughest civil liberties cases and issues to defend all people from government abuse and (ACLU). They believe that the trust in the government should affect the strategic decisions in order to continue security cooperation with them. Through donations, the ACLU acquires encryption to protect journalists from illegal government seizure in digital age of widespread government (ACLU). As espoused in its motto, Freedom Protect it mobilizes political activism against the government for its perceived injustice and lack of transparency in security policy (ACLU). Also, it has opposed the censorship of hate groups and their insensitive rhetoric on the basis of upholding the First Amendment. For example, the ACLU has been criticized for its support of controversial and unpopular entities such as the Ku Klux Klan, the Nation of Islam, and the National Socialist Party of not because agree with but rather defend their right to free speech and free (ACLU). The ACLU holds that these groups of people have been marginalized and have had their rights ignored. Censorship of a certain group with unpopular beliefs in a democracy undermines that democracy because that group is unjustifiably having its rights encroached in a society that guarantees the freedom of expression Alvarez 4 As the NSA and the ACLU protect the American public, they could begin a campaign together. Both want to uphold free speech, freedom of the press, and the right of free assembly for law-abiding Americans. This means that these stakeholders should be transparent by providing facts and information about why NSA collects intelligence. The ACLU will have to accept that hate groups foment hate based violence, seek to poison democracy, and, in some cases, plot terrorist attacks. This would make the American people feel more comfortable discussing both their questions and any issues they may be having. This openness can prove to be helpful when law abiding citizens are experiencing problems regarding government surveillance. In fact, emphasizing transparency on the role of surveillance in protecting national security and preserving privacy not only provides the American public with a better understanding of why the NSA conducts its activities, but also allows them to place trust into the government. While government surveillance keeps the nation safe from crime and terrorism, it can lead to government overreach, in the form of infringement of free speech (Berman 124). Americans need the news media to unveil government corruption as never before. Attacks on the press have grown malicious such as the Obama witch-hunt against whistleblowers. The Trump penchant against the press for stonewalling, misinformation, allegations of based on no evidence, and outright lying have continued unabated. Print and electronic news agencies can look forward to constant battles, being reviled and labeled (lying press) and being shamelessly manipulated. Americans hope the ACLU does not grow weary in the fight. This enmity toward the press recovers a myriad of images of Germany, circa 1933. Not that the government will recreate the Third Reich, but Alvarez 5 within a few years society may wake up to find that America has become a country that no one recognizes, a society that persecutes most law abiding citizens, and a political reality that all are powerless to change. This illustrates that government surveillance plague not only the press, but also every law abiding citizen in the country.The NSA protects free speech for the good of national security. The ACLU believes every American has free speech to voice their opinion no matter how unpopular or insensitive. However, they both uphold the protections promised on the U.S. Constitution particularly the freedoms that protect free speech, an independent press, and free assembly. To satisfy both organizations, a middle ground can be found by upholding free speech, freedom of the press, and the right of free assembly for law-abiding Americans. Doing this will allow the American people to be consistently exposed to information and facts needed to lead a sustainable democracy. Not only are they learning about government surveillance, but also about how to protest peaceably and how the government protects them from criminals who abuse free speech or wish to compromise national security (Congressional Digest 3). This much needed clarity can lead to a reduction in the growing numbers and impact of terrorism homegrown and abroad, which would, in turn, lead to a decrease in the information the government collects on people with no discernable connection to crime. This decrease would therefore result in a safer nation, creating a more robust bilateral cooperation between citizen and the national intelligence apparatus. Alvarez 6 Works Cited Pros and Cons of the Domestic Surveillance Digest . Volume 94. Issue 10. December 2015. OneFile . 12-20. Web. 24 January 2016. National Security and Preserving Privacy: Report of the Review Group on Intelligence and Digest . Volume 94. Issue 10. December 2015. OneFile . 12-20. Web. 24 January 2016. Berman, Emily. Domestic Intelligence and Lee Law Review . Volume 71. Issue 1. Winter 2014. OneFile . 3. Web. 24 January 2016. Vollmann, William T. of Loving Policy . December 2013. 68-71 Print. the ACLU . The American Civil Liberties Union. January 2017. Web. 21 January 2017. the NSA . The National Security Agency. 5 April 2015. Web. 21 January 2017.