Intermediate Draft Khristian Dec Why 21? The required age to drink in the US is 21, why? The drinking age in the US used to be 18 until Ronald Raegan signed it into law in 1984. It was signed for the main to reduce drunk driving and deaths due to drunk driving. The foundation who convinced the government to change it against Drunk just wanted it to be raised. It was 18 in 1983 and by 1985 every state had changed it to 21, but, if they were going to raise it for the sole purpose of to reduce drunk driving, it been raised to 25 years old. According to The University of Medical Center, your frontal lobe fully develop until your 25 years old. For those of you who your frontal lobe (which is in your brain) oversees all problem solving, memory, and decision making. In simpler terms, the control panel for your communication and interactions with others. So, if under 25 years old, your decision making and the ability to solve problems appropriately is already impaired because it fully developed. The consumption of alcohol on top of that, the best idea. So, the difference between 18 and 21 is no difference at all. The only difference between the two ages is you can vote, sign a contract, marry, smoke, join the military, and do everything else at 18, but you consume alcohol or have a beer until 21. According to MADD, the national highway traffic safety administration estimates that this particular law in place saves about 900 lives a year. If that were the only outcome and if that were true, me, among many others would be fine with it. But not. On top of that the Age article states argue that there appears to be no correlation between the minimum age and drunk-driving fatalities at all. In fact, the US data does not correlate with that of Europe, where fatalities have been decreasing since 1982, although the minimum drinking age is So not only is the fact probably false, but Its hurt way more than its helped. Its caused an increase in binge drinking, an increase in Intermediate Draft Khristian Dec underage drinking, an increase in drug abuse, its helped to create more profit in the black market where fake ID sales have skyrocketed and have never been a more profitable business. On top of all that, in this country, you become an adult at 18 and can do everything else, even serve our country and risk your life to give us freedom, but you have a beer. Why is the drinking age not 18? Bibliography 1. Cary, Mary K. to Lower the Drinking U.S. News Digital Weekly, vol. 6, 18, May 2014, p. a. This author of this source is comparing the differences between her time in college and her daughters time in college. The drinking age was 18 when she was in college and it is 21 now (her daughter is in college). She compares the drug use, the binge drinking and the illegal use of All of which are backed up with sources and facts from government and other trusted sources. b. This relates to my question by opening a portal of problems. One being how the number of drugs consumed has increased due to the drinking age raised. The amount of deaths caused by binge drinking compared to the lives it saves every year from drunk driving. Another being the increased sales of fake sold so people can pass as being 21. The author points out how the negatives weigh more than the positives. Which is perfect for my article and how I can tie that in with my arguments. Intermediate Draft Khristian Dec 2. Holloway, Beth RN. Encyclopedia University of Rochester , https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=1&ContentI D=3051. a. This source is used strictly for the frontal lobe argument. Unfortunately, on the USF website there were no recent sources of frontal lobes and how they impair children under the age of 25. So, I used the next best thing. A government website updated frequently. b. These facts are gold for my article. They prove that we made a mistake changing it to 21 years old because in reality the difference between 18 and 21 is just the age. This makes people realize that we were wrong to begin with and since everything else is decided at 18, this should be as well. (I am not counting this as an actual source either, but it will be listed on my bibliography) 3. Paglia, Camille. The Drinking Age Is Past Its  Time. Time, 23 Apr. 2014. Web. 11 Dec. 2014. a. This is a New York time article I found stating how the drinking age is outdated and make any sense at all. The author backs its claims up with facts from trusted websites and just hold anything back. b. This article is important to my argument because its more proof of how its outdated. going to tie how its outdated and how they changed it to 25, together. That way it just gives more proof as t why it be 21. Intermediate Draft Khristian Dec 4. Griggs, Brandon. Should the U.S. Lower Its Drinking  CNN. Cable News Network, 16 July 2014. Web. 11 Dec. 2014. a. This article talks about a multitude of things. A source in the article states that the drinking age should be 8. Another reason being called forbidden concept. People want what they have. It compares the US to other countries. Where most countries have the legal age at around 16-18 years old. b. The 8 years old thing is perfect and will be used later on because the source states it should be that low for cultural reasons. As it also helps with the concept of the It will also be in my article because the lower the drinking age the more responsible we can become with it. know how much we can handle and on what terms we use it. 5. Barnhill, John H. Age Salem Press Encyclopedia, January, 2014 a. This is one of the best articles yet. It states both sides of the argument and compares them. There is no right side or wrong side. just comparing the two debates and sides. There are a lot of good arguments for the pro and con side which planning on using both to my advantage. b. This article will be perfect for my article because I will be comparing the facts, proving the facts, and explaining the facts. I will be using multiple arguments in this debate article. already used one about how we can do everything else but drink, even serving our country. 6. Walter, Scott T. the Drinking Age Were Lowered, What Then? A View From the Year Journal of American College Health, vol. 58, 6, May/June 2010, p. 579-581 Intermediate Draft Khristian Dec a. I enjoyed this source. It talks about what life would be like in 2020 if the drinking age is lowered today. It talks about a lot of positives and some are provided by sources while others the author just implemented without sourcing and just kind going along with it. b. The sources that are listed currently considering. I would love to tie a paragraph into my argument because he has a lot of good ideas. I just need that paragraph to be sourced correctly. I will be using some statistics from this article. One of which will be more responsibility with alcohol and the decreased amount of binge drinking happening in college. 7. THE LEGAL DRINKING AGE BE LOWERED? Roanoke times, vol. 29, sept. 2004 a. This article talks about how some researches find the drinking age requirement of 21 to be useless. They also compare the US drinking age to France and Germany (Which are lower). As well as stating that we would want to drink more because its more desirable in college since we have it and others can. b. This source has some same ideas from others but will only be used when one source lacks documentation or sourcing. I will be sourcing one or two things from this article but mainly it will be used as a backup to re-inforce other articles and to add information.