Bass 1 Kasandra Bass Jewell ENC 1101.21 5 Feb 2017 Global Warming Growing up people were taught global warming was the Earth getting warmer and making the ice melt which in turn caused the water levels to rise. In this, they learned that the actions of humankind were killing animals, making people sick, and changing the world we all live in. It was very honest information that everyone was informed about. But now, it seems as if saying global  is taboo because people are taught about and say climate  instead. No one talks much about global warming but if they do, they refer to it as climate change. Many people, including political and public figures, have said global warming or climate  is not real. Does this mean we are overreacting, or is this a bigger issue being covered up? Should people be more worried about global warming and their effects on the planet than what they are? Keating, Christopher. Global  Starters . Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science, Jan. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article describes global warming as the rise in average atmospheric  average global temperature has been slowly rising since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution because gases in the atmosphere trap infrared radiation. Eventually the atmosphere releases its heat into space but the atmosphere stays about the same as long as the Bass 2 composition of gases do not change. Greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, water vapor, and methane capture and store heat more efficiently than others, so if the composition of the atmosphere changes to include more of these greenhouse gases, the atmosphere retains more heat and becomes article is a bit controversial in itself saying that the exact cause or causes of this phenomenon are not known, but global warming could be part of a normal climate cycle, be caused by natural events or could arise because of the activities of  Dr. Christopher Keating says in this article that the global climatic environment is very complex because of many contributing factors, and for this reason, it is impossible to say which, if any, changes are attributable simply to a particular natural event or to the activities of  However, Keating also says that humans activities are so large-scale and widespread that it is safe to conclude that they have definitely changed the  Keating is a physics professor at the University of South Dakota and U.S. Naval Academy for over two decades, and a climate change expert. His expertise in this area is enough for us to trust his work on global warming. He proves in this article that some people believe that global warming is not caused by humans but that it is a natural cycle or caused by natural events. However, he also proves that many human activities release greenhouse gases so it is very true that humans contribute to warmer temperatures. Follett, Andrew. Trump Orders EPA To Take Down Global Warming  Daily Caller . The Daily Caller, 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Within one week of being in office, new President of The United States, Donald Trump, ordered the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) to take down its global warming page and to stop handing out grants for projects and research on global warming, and air quality Bass 3 monitoring and education. The webpage has information on 2 and other greenhouse emissions and the effects global warming will have. Even The White House global warming webpage was taken down almost immediately after Trump took office. President Trump is committed to eliminating harmful and unnecessary policies such as the Climate Action Plan and the Waters of the U.S.  (Whitehouse.gov). If the president of our nation made such an order as this, should we be worried that he is covering something up to possibly  us or is there really nothing to worry about with global warming? Black, Brian, and Gary J. Weisel. Global Warming. Santa Barbara, Calif: Greenwood, 2010. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 5 Feb. 2017 This article states that the terms climate change and global warming have been used interchangeably but actually have distinct meanings and then proceeds to describe them. It says that climate  is used to indicate climate  from the Cryogenic Age, or the ice age, to the Mesozoic Age when dinosaurs roamed the Earth. The article also says that the definition of global  has two parts. The first part hinges on the question about recent trends in average global temperature: are these best described as or  Roughly 40 years ago in the 1970s, some scientists thought there was possibly a cooling trend. But in the mid-1980s, the international scientific community agreed that temperatures have trended upward. The climate science community now attaches a second meaning to the term, connected with the hypothesis that human activity has caused the rising temperature trends of the last three  Bass 4 Brian Black is an American professor of history and environmental studies at Pennsylvania State University at Altoona. Black is a very credible source for this information because of his degree in environmental studies and the amount of work he has edited or published on the topic of global warming. Houghton, John. Global Warming, edited by John Houghton, Cambridge University Press, 2009. ProQuest Ebook Central, Web. 5 Feb. 2017 In John book, Warming: The Complete Briefing , he references Al Earth in The Balance and says that it implies that there are balances in the environment that need to be  He then goes on to say that it is important that we recognize these balances, in particular the careful relationship between humans and the world around us. It needs to be a balanced and harmonious relationship in which each generation of humans should leave the Earth in a better state, or at least in as good a state as they found  However, Houghton tells us that over many centuries, humankind has been carelessly exploiting the biological and mineral resources. John Houghton is a Welsh scientist who was the co-chair of the Nobel Peace Prize winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate (IPCC) scientific assessment working group. Houghton also has a degree in atmospheric physics and was the lead editor of the first three IPCC reports. Bass 5 Works Cited Bass 6 An America First Energy  White House . The United States Government, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Follett, Andrew. Trump Orders EPA To Take Down Global Warming  The Daily Caller . The Daily Caller, 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Keating, Christopher. Global  Starters . Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science, Jan. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.