Alkazemi 1 Hasan Alkazemi Instructor: Mark J Nusspickel ENC1101.019 January 30 th , 2017 Annotated bibliography Over the years, many undocumented discreet abortion operations have been performed by un-qualified performers in unsafe environments putting enormous amount of women ongoing in these procedures in danger and even death in most cases caused by by different factors happening in many parts all around the globe. Although alternatives are available to offer contraceptives, but it would never eliminate the issue completely. Therefore, on one angle easy accessibility to abortion is a good way of taking care of health which in some countries is the right prospective such as India where they practice it over many years. However, on another angle abortion can highly affect the economy mostly in the developing countries as it requires a lot of financial sources to be able to provide the procedure which causes many economical issues. Furthermore, politics have always indulged in the case of abortion affecting the decision of whether one should commit it or not. Also, it is a matter of ethics within some consciences to take an innocent life away. Therefore, a point of controversy evolving around whether a woman should be obliged to carry a life force growing within her or having the option of aborting the pregnancy. Erdman, Johana N. The Politics of Global Abortion  Brown Journal of World Affairs (2016): 39-57. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Alkazemi 2 The main focus of this article is the women movement against political parties concerning the option of abortion defending their right to decide. Looking at a different perspective, the author further explains abortion as a matter of an individuals own privacy and the decision of being a parent or not. Moreover, the author used Europe as an example to illustrate the political ways of dealing with the issue on a global level stating this day, the European Court of Human Rights refuses to engage in the abstract review of abortion laws and has never stated whether the European Convention on Human Rights guarantees a right to (Erdman 39). In other words, there is no full support for abortion, yet they guarantee rights as individuals seeing that as most beneficial right variably protects a physical and mental integrity, as well as her personal autonomy and (Erdman 39). This article relates to the fact that women should be granted the right in the choice of abortion and further supports it as for the well-being of women and clears is as their private matters. The study was submitted to a peer reviewed scholarly journal (Brown Journal of World Affairs) and it is seemingly valid because of the fact that the author has a great experience in this field as the author have conducted many other works which have been published in different journals concerning the same topic. Additionally, the author has many affiliations such MacBain Chair in Health Law and Policy, Schulich School of Law, Dalhousie University. Grimes, David A., et al. Unsafe abortion: the preventable  The Lancet 368.9550 (2006): 1908-1919. This article focuses on the important aspects about why abortion should be legitimized illustrating statistics and examples of other cultures and countries to support the issue. For instance, according to the book to safe abortion improves health, and vice Alkazemi 3 versa, as documented in Romania during the regime of President Nicolae (David 1908). Also, the practices of abortion in idea which is ongoing for several decades. As these countries admitting such actions, others have taken different paths with the case of abortion which is considerably unsafe and mostly executed in the developing countries, statics from the article records all unsafe abortions (97%) are in developing countries. An estimated 68,000 women die as a result, and millions more have complications important causes of death include hemorrhages, infection, and (David 1908). This source represents numerical evidence to support the idea of legitimizing abortion and sees best in that option because of medical concerns all health. Additionally, it is credible due to the fact that most of the authors have gained a PhD degree in their fields of work and some obtained a MD offering them different views within their expertise. In addition, this is a scholarly up-to-date peer-reviewed article. Furthermore, a considerate work has been put in to support the data with statistics with joint efforts from different parts of the world such as Nigeria, India, Switzerland, Argentina, and USA. Millar, Erica. Choices and Grievable Lives: The Anti-Abortion Influence in Defending the Abortion Experience in Australia Since the (2016). Web. 6 Feb. 2017. The article revolves around the anti-movement of abortion in the beginning of its history for different reasons. First, abortion may cause many health problems and death in some cases. In addition, it is viewed as morally wrong for women to do such act. However, the emphasis of the movement not only focus on the lost life in process but also the major concerns on health. Moreover, it was deemed as grief of unhappiness and regret. Also, describing abortion as Alkazemi 4 physical harm more than psychological harm. Consequently, the main message approaches on the foetocentric grief to seek out sympathy and emotions in taking the decision. Reciting the author is highly significant that depictions of foetocentric grief have increased the more women have been addressed as subjects of choice and capacity rather than bearers of a maternal (Millar 196-213). Therefore, the foetocentric grief illustrates the position of women as mothers in matter of fact to take a decision of taking away a blameless soul that has done no mistake. The article illustrates reasons of anti-abortion covering different perspectives and culture views that affect the decision making of abortion. This study seems reliable because it was published in a peer-reviewed journal. Furthermore, the author has gained a Ph.D. in women and gender awards in Australia. In addition, the author has multiple publications and books in the same field. Weeden, L. Darnell. The problematic right to abortion from a natural law  The Indonesian Journal of International & Comparative Law: Socio-Political Perspectives, Oct. 2015, p. 803+. This research approaches the topic of abortion from a political perspective. Defining abortion as a matter of privacy while denying the right of freedom causes conflict to the matter. However, in doing so the states are taking in consideration to guarantee the good health to the mother and her unborn child. The author states is knowledge by a woman who has had an abortion that by terminating her pregnancy she has denied a child the potential of birth that creates a foreseeable risk of substantial emotional (Darnell 112). Also, foreseeing the unborn child at the moment of pregnancy is counted a part of the family even in a womb as the moment of Alkazemi 5 conception the child touches the soul and the family in general. In addition, from a law perspective a right of privacy develop an unfair law. This Study takes a path of political conscious and law perspective to validate the argument against abortion. This study seems credible to due the fact that it was published in a peer- reviewed academic journal. Also, the author has a great deal of experience in which he is a professor of law. Author has contributed many publications in the field giving him enormous knowledge for the issue.