Wallace 1 Jaqueline Wallace Ms. Heiser ENC1102.068 1 Feb 2017 Testing 1, 2, 3. Animal testing: two words that elicit many strong responses but has been done for decades in order to further knowledge in science. With animal testing having its pros and cons, understandable as to why an argued topic. Most of those that have a strong opinion on animal testing support it or are against it or are even somewhere stuck in between. A nonprofit organization called People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) advocates for animal rights, so completely against all forms of animal testing. Conversely, large cosmetic companies support and engage in animal testing in order to sell their products and make sure said products are safe for human use. These two sides have stark differences that put them head to head, but that mean incapable of working together to come to a compromise that benefits them both. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is an organization that consists of 5 million members and supporters of animal rights PETA focuses on the treatment of animals in general, attempting to inform the general public of the darkest secrets of companies and have their audience work with them to change these things. With the help of legislation, celebrities, campaigns and more, PETA has been able to make a fair amount of progress in changing and shedding light on the treatment of animals. Despite this, the organization is still fighting against animal testing, especially since there are alternatives they can use to support their claims. According to The Humane Society of the United States, there are nearly 50 Wallace 2 alternatives to animal testing developed, validated and accepted by regulatory authorities all over the world, such as and SkinEthic. These alternatives focus on skin irritation and are composed of artificial human skin that can illustrate the effects of products just as the real human skin would, eliminating the use of rabbits when testing for skin irritation to Animal Likewise, there are cell-based or in vitro tests that mimic how human cells would react to certain products, specifically testing for allergic reactions. These tests prevent the use of guinea pigs and mice that PETA claims to be with a substance or had it applied to their shaved skin to determine an allergic to Animal Since enough research on alternatives, PETA works toward being the voice of the data. Along with informing their audience about the alternatives to animal testing, PETA supplies a list of companies that are cruelty-free. Because of this, PETA is able to gain more support and awareness toward their cause of the ethical treatment of animals by sending people toward cruelty-free options. Shoppers can easily learn about a regulations when it comes to animals thanks to PETA via the long list that features countless numbers of cruelty- free companies such as Anastasia Beverly Hills, Hidden Cosmetics, Shea Moisture and more. Likewise, PETA has a list of companies that do test on animals, ranging from Johnson & Johnson to to Estee Lauder for Cruelty-Free Companies, Products, and With this, PETA encourages their readers to join them by pledging to be cruelty-free by boycotting the products that test on animals. On the other hand, the question of why these companies test on animals is unavoidable, especially since there are alternatives available. A common answer is that these companies believe that animal testing is the most accurate in ensuring a safety, but not Wallace 3 always the case. In Liza words, cosmetic companies are in an ugly dilemma because is the only major market where companies must test their on (31). For companies like and Procter & Gamble, the reason for the continuation of animal testing is more about money than it is about product safety, but that mean product safety something important to them. These companies get a healthy percentage of their sales from selling in China, so of course, they would continue doing business there since where the money is. But in order to do so, they must test on animals, further giving more support to the notion of animal testing. Additionally, testing on animals is a common tradition of cosmetic companies and has successfully been used for past advances in science. When a company tests their products on animals and claims them to be safe, that company can use that test as a safety cushion in case someone using their product takes them to court. Since animal testing has always been used in the past, been strongly believed to be accurate (which also explains why China still insists on requiring it). Testing on animals allows cosmetic companies to get profit from a large market and protects them from lawsuits. An instance of this occurred at the cosmetic company EOS (stands for Evolution Of Smooth) in January of 2016. After consumers reported their products to give them rashes and red bumps, a lawsuit followed. According to the website of the American talk show Today, EOS was able to get out of the lawsuit as not guilty because their products are by rigorous safety testing conducted by independent where they do animal testing (Holohan). Like and P&G, EOS tests on animals in order to sell their products in China. For them, testing on animals saved them from an even more serious lawsuit. With these two sides, it seems that no middle ground. PETA wants to get rid of animal testing completely while cosmetic companies are required to do animal testing in order Wallace 4 to sell in China and protect themselves. Yet looking beyond this, possible for the two to come to a compromise since alternatives to animal testing have been available and used for years. Gregory Mone, an author of science and novels, states that companies and regulatory agencies have been using computational tools to evaluate toxicity for so clearly possible for these alternatives to be used for cosmetics if safe to use for medicine (20). These alternatives have advanced greatly and are accepted in places where animal testing is banned such as Europe and India. So if animal testing is banned in these places, how will cosmetic companies that test on animals sell there? A solution to this is to have PETA work to help these companies phase out of animal testing in countries where they can. Animal testing, according to Dr. Natalie et al who leads programs on toxicology in the United Kingdom, is incredibly expensive due to development so switching to alternative methods reduces that cost since animals being used (3). Using in vitro testing, with the help of PETA since they encourage it, can save cosmetic companies money, especially if PETA can educate these companies of the alternatives and even help fund them. The cosmetic companies are then able to sell their cruelty-free products in countries where animal testing is banned, solving the regulatory issue. On the flip side, these companies can continue testing on animals only for products they are selling China in order to prevent profit loss. Increasing their markets will only be possible if the companies cease animal testing to a certain extent that benefits them and still benefits PETA (since they will be a step closer to getting rid of animal testing in all). Besides the cosmetic companies increasing their profits, PETA and other scientists they work with can further find ways to improve alternatives through this compromise. That not only ensures that the products are safe but also gives more of a reason to use the alternatives. Since Wallace 5 China requires animal testing, PETA and the same scientists can find a way to make animal testing less cruel by suggesting the use of fewer animals, working to cease unnecessary testing, and discovering methods that benefit the wellbeing of the animals before, during and after tests. All of these things are plausible if PETA and other scientists strive toward that when it comes to selling in China, especially since they get rid of animal testing completely in China. In all, PETA will have successfully come closer to eliminating animal testing and these cosmetic companies can increase their profit with safe and trustworthy alternatives. In summation, animal testing is a common topic with many arguments, and rightfully so. Animal testing has been done for decades and helped scientists make extraordinary discoveries in psychology and medicine, so been a trustworthy method of experimentation. Science in this century is passed that with its many advances. If people dwell on animal testing without trying to expand science through alternatives, then the human race be able to step forward. Cosmetic companies are a huge part of animal testing, and a compromise such as the one above can bring people closer to expanding their knowledge of science. Despite the uneasiness of moving toward alternatives, having animal rights advocates such as PETA and cosmetic companies work together can potentially lead to the greatest of discoveries. not just that animal rights are at risk because of animal testing, but that human intellect is at risk by not expanding their options. Wallace 6 Works Cited Burden, Natalie, Fiona Sewell, and Kathryn Chapman. Chemical Safety: What Is Needed To Ensure The Widespread Application Of Non-Animal Plos Biology 13.5 (2015): 1-8. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Holohan, Meghan. Lip Balm Lawsuit Resolved, New Packaging Will Include Safety TODAY.com. TODAY, 01 Feb. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017 Lin, Liza. Ugly Dilemma For Beauty Bloomberg Businessweek 4348 (2013): 31-32. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Mone, Gregory. Models In Cosmetics Replacing Animal Communications Of The ACM 57.4 (2014): 20-21. Business Source Premier. Web. 01 Feb. 2017 PETA. PETA. N.p., N.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. PETA. to Animal PETA. N.p., N.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. PETA. for Cruelty-Free Companies, Products, and PETA. N.p., 16 Oct. 2013. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. The Humane Society of the United States. to Animal RSS. N.p., N.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.