Robinson 1 Shamari Robinson Professor Karen Hanson ENC-1102 2/7/2017 Should the Equal Rights Amendment be ratified? Equal rights has been a hot button issue for some time, and among those issues is the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA). The Equal Rights Amendment is a bill that has caused a lot of controversy for both men and women fighting for equality. The reasons for its controversy is some citizens felt the amendment represent views adequately, focused only on rights, neglected the working class, and presents a feminist bias. Overview of the National This has led to the rise of many opposing organizations and stakeholder opinions. Stakeholders are still fighting for the ratification of the law but argue that the bill presents some biased towards gender issues. A Voice for Men (AVM) believes the Amendment should also focus on issues, but at present neglects them, while the National Organization for Women (NOW) believes That the amendment should focus more on rights, such as abortion, and sexism in the workforce. Both stakeholders agree that the bill should be ratified, and both stakeholders could come to a compromise if they both focused on an egalitarian campaign instead of a single gendered activism. Robinson 2. A Voice for Men is a rights activist group and their organization goal is, promote the legal and nonviolent antagonism of all agents of misandry, from members of academe to holders of public office, to law enforcement and other state to corporate agents who promote misandry for AVM believes that the ERA should be ratified for the equality of men and women, but the organization thinks that the Amendment neglects the issues of men, and are presented in a one sided bias towards women. The United States Interagency Council conducted a study that found that 70% of men are homeless and among that 70%, 30 are veterans, the AVM organization believes that these are the issues the ERA is neglecting in regard to men. The National Organization for Women ( NOW) the grassroots arms for woman Their activism is dedicated to multi-issue and multi-strategy approaches to rights, and they consider themselves to be the largest organization of feminist grassroots activists. They also share the same views the AVM organization have on the grounds that the ERA should be ratified. As it would benefit both genders. Their activism is parallel to the National Party and they share a lot of their core beliefs such as constitutional equality amendment and, for women in the NOW believes the amendment should focus more on reproductive rights for women as well as other issues listed on their website, these include, welfare reform, livable wages, job discrimination, pay equity, housing, social security and pension reform. The report by the American Community Survey, researched by Liana Christian Landivar, might confirm that there is some disparity between men and women in the workforce. The study shows that men are employed in STEM programs at a higher rate than Robinson 3. women, right out of college, and the study also shows a declining employment rate for the women in STEM programs. (Landivar. 3) This disparity is one of the mission statements the NOW organization is fighting for, and it may support their opinion about the ERA focusing on encouraging the equality of women in the workforce. In a report by Angelina Breslin, on the legislative obstacles that women face in Arizona for the right to have an abortion; the athour shows how views on abortion being included in the ERA for rights, may be a valid argument. The article discusses a legislative act that could have deprived women of the ability to have an abortion, legislature enacted a statute that would have deprived any physician who performs elective abortions, or any facility where elective abortions are performed, from receiving Medicaid (Breslin. 1) The legislative act the author mentions in the paper would have decreased the number of active physicians able to perform abortions, and if the ERA were ratified with an included act about right to an abortion, NOW believes that this could deter legislations like this in the future. A Voice for Men and the National Organization for Women both share common ground in wanting the ERA to be ratified, but use harsh activism to get their points across. If they were to campaign together for egalitarian equality and decrease the activist tone on issues, it would not only address the problems that both stakeholders feel are important, but it would also capture the views of people that feel alienated from supporting signal sided activism. If the activist image both stakeholders use were changed and presented an egalitarian standpoint it could not only raise the issues AVM believes men are facing, but it Robinson 4. could also decrease the biased feminist presence that alienates people from fully supporting the ratification. Kristina Marie Graves wrote a paper about the feminist presence of the ERA. The author illustrates a point that reinforces the views of decreasing a feminist bias. Most of the information written about the ERA, or facts documented about the ERA, are mostly always from a feminist standpoint (27). This has created a feminist presence for the Equal Rights Amendment, that has not only led to the creation of opposing organizations, such as the Anti- ERA campaign, but also the alienation of some supporting women. Another supporting viewpoint that a feminist presence might alienate supporters, is by research carried out by a group of a psychologist titled, Name Or By Deed? Identifying The Source Of The Feminist (Anastosopoulos et al. 3). The research shows that when a poll was conducted using 170 university students, most who identify as feminist were received less favorably. The research also shows that only one-third of men identify as feminist and four in ten women saw the movement as angry. This shows that a feminist presence could be alienating potential supporters of the ERA ratification which includes men, and also conservative women. This further strengthens the point that an activist image and a feminist presence used to support the ERA should be changed for both stakeholders to get the ERA ratified. The Greatest opposition to the ERA ratification was conservative women, and the feminist image of the ERA lead conservative women to feel that their views were not being taken into account. In the academic article by Graves, the author takes a quote from an interviewer of an ERA opposing, conservative women on the topic of If feminism Robinson 5. is about choices for women, then one must ask why the feminist movement condemns women who choose to act in a manner contradictory to (29) This illustrates that If both stakeholders want the ERA to be ratified they need to listen and understand the opinions and views of the public as much as possible, and this could be achieved by listening to the views of those who opposed the ratification and by decreasing the presence of an activist bias. If both stakeholders had an equal tone to their cause their campaign would be considerably more fruitful. Both A Voice for Man and the National Organization for Women are prevalent in raising awareness for the ratification of the ERA but have differences on the issues men and women face. Both organizations use extremely vocal activism to achieve their desired goal of getting the point across to the public, but AVM and Now can come to a compromise if they simply focused on equality rather than activism. Because, as a lot of the evidence has shown, people do not view baised activism favorable, and at present both organizations stand to alienate supporters from the ERA if a change in tone and the image is not achieved. Work Cited Chronic Homelessness in The United Sates Interagency council. The United Sates Interagency council. Web. Accessed, Jan 26, 2017. < www.usich.gov> Linda Christin Landavir, in STEM Employment by Sex, Race, and Hispanic American Community Survey Reports. American Community. Web. Accessed Jan 26, 2017. Breslin, Angela. A Wall of Legislative Obstacles In The Path of A Woman Exercising Her Right To An Abortion: Planned Parenthood Arizona, Inc. V.  Golden Gate University Law Review 1 (2014): 53. Golden Gate University. Web. Accessed, 26 Jan. 2017. Copen, Daniels, and Vespa Marriages in the United States: Data From the National Survey of Family The National Health Statistics Reports. National Health Statistics Report, March 22, 2012 Web. Accessed, Jan. 26, 2017. <www.cdc.gov.> A voice Voice For Men. A Voice For Men. Web. Accessed, Web. Jan. 26, 2017. <www.avoiceformen.com> Anastosopoulos, Vanessa. et al. By Name Or By Deed? Identifying The Source Of The Feminist  Journal Of Applied Social Psychology. Wiley Periodicals. 6 April 2015 Web. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. < onlinelibrary.wiley.com> Graves, Kristina Marie, Stop Taking Our Privileges! The Anti-ERA Movement in Georgia, 1978-  Thesis, Georgia State University, 2006. Web. Accessed, Jan. 27, 2017 The National Organization for Women. The National Organization for women. Web. Accessed, Jan 26, 2017. < www.now.com> Golden Tom Is homelessness a A Voice For Men. A Voice for Men, November 19, 2013. Web. Accessed, Jan 26, 2017 <www.avoiceformen.com> Overview of the National Library of Congress. Library of Congress. Web. Accessed, Jan 26, 2017. <www.loc.com>