Patricia Perez Hernandez Professor Philips ENC1102.025S17 29 January 2017 Getting the right education is key for the success of future generations, yet students are not able to get the best out schools. The US Department of Education and the Parent Teacher Association are dedicated to the well-being of students; they both struggle to make sure students are reaching their full potential. Fighting challenges against learning and reaching for success, these organizations focus everyday on giving students the best learning experience possible. Even though both organizations push for the success of students, they are both doing it completely different. The US Department of perspective and goal is to equally teach students and prepare them through standardized testing for upcoming life challenges. On the other hand, the Parent Teacher Association focuses on ways to engage families into learning experience, and make the students feel supported in order to promote motivation towards learning. Due to their differences, they are both lacking on meeting needs, and the only way for them to accomplish their goal would be to join forces, and knowledge. By the union of organizations such as the US Department of Education and the Parent Teacher Association, standardized testing be changed to promote a higher learning experience for the benefit of students. Standardized testing causes anxiety and depression on children, which creates a stressful school experience putting in danger futures. Students, teachers, and schools as a whole, need monitoring, someone to be watching over them making sure they are on the right track, getting things accomplished the right way. The US Department of (ED) mission is to student achievement and Perez 2 preparation for global competitiveness by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal (US Department of Education). They focus on distributing and monitoring funds for education. They collect data and conduct research through tests. Students throughout the school year are tested in different ways, focusing on a variety of subjects. These tests are important for the department of education to stay updated with how the students are doing. The problem with them, is the fact that they are causing students stress and anxiety making school experience difficult. This is where the article by Lelac Almagor comes in; in it she states, testing all the students all at once, at the end of the year, in a culminating district-wide trial-by-fire. Instead, treat academic testing like the rotating hearing test or scoliosis checkup. Sample two or three students at random and without preparation, every week throughout the year. Sit them at a computer. Let them click through the test with little (Almagor, 9). As an outsider, the author of the article realized that the school system is using something good and unintentionally turning it into something bad. Tests have become something that brings negativity to students. At times, it even comes to the point that students are going to school to pass tests and get a diploma instead of to learn and be enriched with information. The school system does not know this because obviously, they students. But if they had a way of realizing and knowing specifically what students needed and how they felt they would rearrange standardized testing. Just like a mentor, students need a support system to motivate and encourage them to be the best they can be. The Parent Teacher (PTA) mission is to every potential a reality by engaging and empowering families and communities to advocate for all (PTA). This association values collaboration, commitment, diversity, respect, and accountability. They focus on improving the school system by offering support; giving kids time Perez 3 and attention when it comes to school is crucial. A parent attending a parent teacher conference, a teacher helping a student one on one, parents and teachers being able to contact each other and keep updated about how the student is doing both at home and school, is very important. This kind of attention is essential coming from the people the students look up to. If they feel like school matters, they will understand how important it is to get a good education, and they will only understand this when everyone around them is giving school importance and attention. The article Families to Support Transition to High School: Evidence from the is based on a research that proves just how important family support is to the success of students. The article states, families are unaware of the nexus of on-time, daily attendance, report card grades, and course credits required for promotion from grade 9 to grade 10 and the path to on-time graduation from high (Iver, Martha Abele Mac, et al, 28). Parents do not have the opportunity to be a part of education as they should. The support of families in the life makes a difference and is therefore crucial in student success. The association focuses on ways to bring out students potential and help them be successful. The article focuses on how and why the presence of family is so important for the success in school. Allowing families to be a bigger part of the school experience would take stress off students. Having the people they know and love be part of something as significant as school with them would allow for a stronger transition between being a child and being a student. It seems like there is not conflict in between these organizations considering they are both focused on the well-being of students and their success in schools. The problem lies on the way they are facing these challenges. The department of education has no knowledge as to how Perez 4 students feel about tests. If they realized tests could be given out with a different perspective, with less importance, if grades did not depend on these tests, students would not feel the need to cheat, stress, and be overwhelmed by them. Parents and teachers have no opportunity to be a bigger part of the education experience as they should. Teachers should be able to have more one-on-one time with their students, be able to attack their academic weaknesses and empower their strengths. Parents should be a part of the school, just like students, teachers, and administrators. They should know how their kids are doing, how they can help, things they can be a part of, and how to support them when it comes to studying in order to do well in standardized test. These organizations should combine knowledge and ideas, such as the testing system and the support system to promote a better learning experience for students. Both associations have different ideas of how to help kids. One focuses on general aspects of education such as funds, data, and standardized testing. The other one focuses on more specific aspects of student learning such as family support, one-on-one learning, and getting good grades. They are both looking out for students and want what is best for them, and since they are doing it differently and separately, neither one is getting the best results. With the knowledge of the Parent Teacher Association about their children and how to make them feel at home, and the knowledge of the US Department of Education, standardized testing can be modify to successfully meet student needs. The article by Christiansen and Robey describes a new school system in which the system becomes a community where everyone learns and helps each other. This community takes a lot of commitment and dedication to make it work but it proves that it is possible to change the ways things are and make it a better place for students to succeed. The article states: learning communities meet the need for creating a collaborative learning culture for teachers to support systemic change with characteristics such as: shared Perez 5 mission, vision, values and goals; collaborative teams focused on student learning; collective inquiry into best practice and current reality; action orientation and experimentation; commitment to continuous improvement; and results (Christiansen, and Robey, 7- 13). Changing the way standardized testing is presented to students is possible and it can positively affect the school system. Its benefits ranging from allowing for a better education experience to students enjoying getting an education, it would change the way we learn forever. Even though the Department of Education would have to give up years of traditions and give testing a little more freedom, the Parent Teacher Association would also have to give up on extracurricular activity time, in order to put more time into studying when outside of school. Based on the sources presented, we can conclude that the unification of the US Department of Education and the Parent Teacher Association in order to modify standardized testing and improve the education experience of students is possible. Although both organizations are focused on the education of students the different approaches are not working. Now if these different approaches were to be unified, changing standardized testing, would allow students to receive a better learning experience and make education more enjoyable. The collaboration of these organizations would have several advantages such as: a more unified school community, the reduction of anxiety on students, the use of tests to help students, a stronger support system for students, and the union of important characters in life. The combination of the US Department of Education and the Parent Teacher Association would greatly, and positively alter the school system, promoting a higher learning experience for students assuring them a brighter future. Perez 6 Works Cited Department of https://www.ed.gov Accessed January 2017 Almagor, Lelac. The Good in Standardized  Boston Review 39.5 (2014): 6-9. Humanities Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Teacher http://www.pta.org Accessed January 2017 Iver, Martha Abele Mac, et al. Engaging Families to Support Transition to High School: Evidence from The  High School Journal 1 (2015): 27. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Christiansen, Terri, and Robey, Patricia A. Promoting Systemic Change Through the Integration of Professional Learning Community Practices with Glasser Quality  International Journal of Choice Theory & Reality Therapy 35.1 (2015): 7- 13. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.