Mitchell 1 Jessica Mitchell Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.068 12 February 2017 The Search for Compromise between a Rock and a Hard Place The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) since its establishment in 1920 the has been a constant advocate for groups of those who have been disenfranchised, targeted unjustly, as well as a voice for those who in other circumstances may have not had anyone else to speak up for them. Although through the years the ACLU has helped to achieve many things to progress the rights of people specifically the civil rights movements in the US, which focused in making sure the African American community and LGBTQ+ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Questioning) were given rights, they continue their efforts because there is always some else who needs an advocate. Where the ACLU is an advocate for those who do not have a voice for themselves, Corrections Corporation of America is an organization that began the business of privatized prisons and plays a role in creating facilities to incarcerate individuals across the United States. CCA was created in 1983 by three men who had progressive vision: to create public: private partnerships in corrections, replacing the government-only failures of the past with smarter, more effective solutions for the The men who founded CCA were T. Don Hutto, Tom Beasley, and Doctor Robert Crants their collaborating together helped to make first became known as private prisons that were operated by businesses not the This creation of private prisons changed the landscape of incarceration throughout the United States. A factor which played a major role in this boom of prisons across the country was the war on Mitchell 2 drugs and the beginning of mass incarceration. Although the organization ACLU and corporation CCA are on opposite ends of certain issues when dealing with jailing and things associated with that, one goal which both mention is their goal to help people and that is why there is hope they can come to a compromise both may consider agreeing upon. If the ACLU and CCA would consider working together toward lowering mass incarceration and adding better ways of transitioning inmates into society plus rehabilitation facilities to help those who are not violent offenders as the vast majority which are behind bars each would benefit by helping to make the public safer, while not incarcerating as many individuals. The disconnect between the ACLU and CCA is due to the situation and stigma associated with the business aspects of private prisons. This is because of certain claims which private prisons have made since their creation about helping the government to save money. Since they are private it was believed that it they would be better overall because of their ability to save money and have better resources. There are inconsistencies with the statistics as well as numbers that pair with how cost effective these institutions truly are. Also some private prisons have come into the negative spot light and under scrutiny from the ACLU because of ethical code violations dealing with of violence and atrocious Furthermore, another issue is that currently CCA is under investigation by the FBI due to in court to falsifying 4,800 hours of guard posts is which then led to an increase in prisoner-on-prisoner violence within a facility within Idaho. Issues such as the one in Idaho is an example of misuse of funds from the government which was previously mentioned but with proper staffing these issues could easily be fixed so that there will not be a repeat. These are some of the problems that have come about which could cause a slight bump between these Mitchell 3 two but with proper collaboration and adequate conversing solutions or something close to it is able to be achieved. The ACLU speaks on how the United States is the leading jailer which is not a statistic which would be something to boast of, The on politics of the 1980s and 1990s fueled an explosion in incarceration rates. By the close of 2010, America had 1,267,000 people behind bars in state prisons, 744,500 in local jails, and 216,900 in federal more than 2.2 million people locked in cages. The ACLU believes that together we can cut the number [of those in half by 2020. sfhka ahoshald ahdofsnaf ahdofhal The war on drugs has played a very strong role in this mass incarceration of people, was a 37% increase of private prisoners between 2002-2009. They are currently outpacing state and federally funded (Yankovich). This drastic increase compared to their state and federal counterparts some believe is due to the money which private prisons are able to receive when they hold more inmates, more money is able to go into the pocket of the lobbyist and owners of these corporations. These numbers are what can be addressed between the ACLU and CCA in order to speak to how the amounts of people in jails are not a direct correlation to less crime or better areas, it represents a system that is overdue change. The way in which Corrections Corporation America is attempting to show the change is through programs for inmates. There is a program discussed on CCA website for their Inmate Reentry Program which CCA has that helps to Victims Impact Program which is twelve long that was developed by their Office of Victims of Crimes. purpose is to put a face on the victim; a major part of reducing recidivism is helping inmates understand the impact of their Mitchell 4 it from the which helps and shows the effort that CCA is making so that the current incarcerated individuals are able to empathize and see where they were wrong and it is in hopes that it will help them with becoming a better person as well as positively contributing citizens. This is an area that is extremely positive for the CCA and their inmates, the staff and guards which work for CCA are granted many benefits and there are programs that are made to help the families of the inmates. CCA offers GED classes and helps those incarcerated due to immigration are able to learn English too. All that the CCA attempts to do in order to help their inmates which are trying to better their lives is a way that there is a connection to the ACLU. Especially how they can work together to make sure that the staff who is in charge of helping and regulating each behavior is adequately prepared and trained for such situations. are human beings, and time we start treating them like people instead of (Brown). Brown is an honors bachelor in Business & Sustainability from Wilfred Laurier University. These individuals who are sentenced under nonviolent drug crimes should be given adequate rehabilitation not ridiculous sentences and have an extremely challenging time adjusting back into society after serving their time. They deserve the opportunity to be able to become productive citizens in American society. That will only happen when reform and change starts within the government, that can become possible through partnership of the ACLU and their lawyers working together with CCA to come to the agreement and understanding that the goal at the end of the day is to have productive individuals not a circle when released inmates wind back into the system. Having staff that is adequately background checked so that there will be a less likely chance of the violence and such against inmates as well as it will be good for CCA is also something which they can both agree on. When discussing how hiring enough staff Mitchell 5 to match the amount of inmates it will help CCA receive more funding while making sure there is enough people to make sure inmates are treated fairly which is what the ACLU wants as well. This is a reasonable compromise because both organizations at the end of the day state their respect for people and belief to help in different ways but the goal is to help better society for each and every person. As human beings there is an obligation to have some form of empathy for one another even when short comings have occurred. Although these people are in prison, the vast majority of these individuals there for nonviolent offenses and deserve to be treated with dignity and respect. By allowing the conditions and treatments they receive to be beneficial when these people are released they are better prepared to adjust into the world. Which is a pivotal key in decreasing crime because prisons are made to safe and the areas outside are as well justice is adequately served for all. Mitchell 6 Works Cited the American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb 2017. Alexander, Michelle. The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness. New York: New, 2010. Print. Brown, Kaleee. Slavery Was Never Abolished & Simply Evolved into the Prison System Collective Evolution. N.p., 28 Nov. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Hallett, Michael A. Private prisons in America: A Critical Race Perspective. n.p.: Urbana : University of Illinois Press, c2006., 2006. University of South Libraries Catalog. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. History Timeline. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. CCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017 It from the CCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Shapiro, David. on Bondage: Private Prisons and Mass Banking on Bondage (2011): n. page. Banking On Bondage. American Civil Liberties Union, 2 Nov. 2011. Web. 24 Jan 2017. Useem, Bert, and Anne Morrison Piehl. Prison State: The Challenge of Mass Incarceration. n.p.: Cambridge; New York: Cambridge University Press, 2008., 2008. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Is ACLU of Tennessee. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017 We CCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Yankovich, David. Prisons Embrace Corruption to Boost The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 22 Sept. 2016. 10 Feb. 2017.