Campbell 1 Albert Campbell Professor Paquette English Composition 1 29 January 2017 Introduction Because plastic surgery involves modifying a physical appearance, it is most often associated with elective surgeries meant only to address insecurities. This misconception has led to skepticism toward and even ridicule of the field. Just as many people question the ethics of plastic surgeries; however, plastic surgery offers life-changing care to patients suffering from burns, scarring, or more severe disfigurement. One life-changing surgery in this field is facial transplantation. Partial or full facial transplantation is an uncommon procedure, but the number of patients undergoing this procedure has been growing recently. When this surgery had not been performed yet, the medical community was wary of the ethical issues which revolved around it. Doctors not only had to be confident in their ability to perform a successful transplant, but also ensure that this practice was not overstepping the boundaries of what medicine is supposed to provide for people. It was only after the first facial transplants were shown as successful that widespread approval for the practice arose. When patients were able to leave hospitals with reconstructed and transplanted faces, the medical community began to praise the practice. How did the medical community resolve the ethical issues of facial transplantation? Surgeons took a large step in performing the first partial, and eventually full, facial transplant. Ethical conflict in the medical community may have kept doctors hesitant, but as the practice has been shown to be abundantly beneficial, the conversation surrounding facial transplantation also became more positive over time. Campbell 2 Annotated Bibliography Clarke, Alex et al. Attitudes toward Facial Transplantation in the United Progress in Transplantation, vol. 17, no. 3, 2007, pp. 228-233. journals.sagepub.com. The article describes the research performed to assess the general opinions about facial transplantation. How the public views the donation process and care for patients is a significant factor in understanding if the procedure is ethical. Results from this study can validate the use of facial transplantation based on relevant concerns with the procedure. A majority of respondents were in favor of facial transplants, and this represents how only a minority of people had ethical concerns with the practice by 2007. This shows that ethical concerns were not effecting the opinion of people who could benefit from surgery, thus making it in demand. This article was published by the Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at the Royal Free Hospital in London. The department consists of professionals and fellowship members who contributed to the study they conducted. This article was published in Progress in Transplantation, which discusses the advancements in clinical aspects of transplantation. The goal of the journal is to spread knowledge to professionals and the medical community to improve the quality of life for patients involved in transplantation surgery. This source is peer-reviewed and published in a major journal which discusses transplantation. The authors are all professionals involved in the debate of facial transplantation, and the study was carried out with scientific and non-biased methods. Alex Clarke, PhD in psychology, is the head of this study and has a trusted reputation based on a bounty of scientific works. Campbell 3 Freeman, Michael, and Pauline Abou Last Taboo: The Ethics of Face Journal of Medical Ethics, vol. 33, no. 2, 2007, pp. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/27719793. This article was published in 2007, which means it was after partial facial transplants had occurred, but before any full facial transplant was attempted. The article therefore provides a vantage point on the issues of facial transplants as they were considered during a time period that my paper will be examining. Freeman and argue that facial transplantations have not been fully justified, and discuss several of the ethical complications which may arise from full face transplants. They call for a halt in the procedure altogether until the risks can be further evaluated and better respected. This article reveals the ethical arguments that facial transplant researchers and proponents faced, and the kind of issues the medical community wanted to resolve before allowing doctors to operate. This article helps to provide the state of facial transplantation before numerous surgeries had been performed. Michael Freeman and Pauline Abou published this article in the Journal of Medical Ethics, one of the journals of the British Medical Journal (BMJ) publishing house. BMJ is a leader of world-wide medical publishing, with the purpose of providing a platform for debate for doctors and professionals over healthcare innovations. Debates and discussions in the journals are used for the improvement of patient treatment, and the betterment of clinical practice. This article is credible because it has been peer reviewed and evaluated by the medical community. Also, credible for its publication in the journal which is a reputable source for information regarding clinical ethics. This journal is credible for its reputation as a source for medical conversations to be held. Campbell 4 Goiato, Marcelo C. et al. Facial Reconstruction: Facial Journal of Dentistry of Tehran University of Medical Sciences, vol. 11, no. 6, 2014, pp. 733-739. Directory of Open Access Journals, https://doaj.org/article/1ae90a0494194fddb22dbd49c2be9fe4 This article was published for the purpose of summarizing the ability of facial transplantation to restore function and aesthetic quality to patients with face disfigurements. Researchers analyzed composite tissue allotransplantation (CTA), and reviewed various literature on the effectiveness of facial transplants through CTA. The article began by discussing the limitations of other conventional surgical techniques which were inadequate in providing both function and aesthetic rehabilitation. The article recognizes the ethical dangers associated with facial transplants, but also realizes how real the need to have a functional face is for any person. Ultimately, the understanding of the patient of the risks, and the approval of a family is essential to perform an ethical transplant. Based on the success of all transplants up to this article, they conclude that facial transplantation is a viable option for repairing malformed and mutilated faces and improving quality of life in patients, helping to extinguish the ethical issues posed. This article was published in an open-access, peer-reviewed journal published by the Dental Research Center of Tehran University of Medical Sciences. It had to be approved by an editorial committee which finds qualified peer reviewers based on the subject of the article. The scope of the journal is to provide the basis for discussions in the medical field using clinical studies as the foundation. This article was written by a Professor of Oral Oncology in School of dentistry, and dentistry medical students. They have a background in medicine, and thus a legitimacy to make claims about a practice. Campbell 5 Latieri, Laurent A. Transplant: Learning from the Past, Facing the Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, vol. 155, no. 1, 2011, pp. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/23056846. This article was written by Lantieri after the completion of nine facial transplants world- wide. He documents the process of reconstructive surgeries and being able to get to the point of plastic surgeons reconstructing the full face of a patient with minimal post- operative complications. It is explained how the ethical disputes over facial reconstruction could only be settled through the process of clinical research. Some argue that face transplants are too dangerous for the psychology and lives of patients, but Lantieri describes it as a life-saving procedure. The dignity associated with being human, the basic ability to have a job, and to be seen in public without ridicule can be restored for patients with severe disfigurement. This reflects the attitudes of doctors evolving as more facial reconstructions proved to be beneficial, and is a request for all humanity to accept facial transplantation. It relates to the topic by portraying how as the surgery became more practiced, ethical concerns were settled. Laurent A. Lantieri is a Professor of Plastic Surgery and the Head of the Plastic Surgery Department at University Hospital Henri Mondor in Paris, France. His content was originally presented at an American Philosophical Society meeting which discuss relevant topics in sciences and humanities. The articles published in the journal have been reviewed by qualified scholars and accepted for publication by the Committee of Publications for the journal. The article was published in 2011, so it holds historical relevancy to the topic presented. Their close association to plastic surgery makes them a relevant and trusted source of information.