Weng 1 Shengyu Weng Karen Hanson ENC1102.107S17 12 February 2017 Animal testing Animal testing is a controversial topic which has been around for a long time. There are groups of people concerning about this issue. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is an organization fighting against regulatory testing on animals, they think an animal testing can cause animal be painful, so such a move is the loss of human nature. PETA believes that are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other meanwhile, there is an organization called The Humane Society (HSUS). HSUS is the largest and biggest animal protecting organization of United States per their official site. The humane Society is focusing on pass anti-cruelty laws in every nation to directly stop animal testing. PETA focus on founding an alternative way of animal testing, and HSUS prefer to pass some laws to stop animal testing. Although their ways to achieve their goals are different, both organizations have the same end goal in mid: to stop animal testing and help the animals. So, the common ground could be found that they could cooperate with each other and try to achieve one of their goals first: Finding an alternative or passing laws in every nation. is the largest animal rights organization in the PETA) , according to their official cite, there are more than 5000,000 members in this organization. PETA has four focus which are the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the Weng 2 entertainment PETA 1). In official website, there are lots of blogs, photos and videos revealing the truth in the laboratory, PETA wants to use the truth to arouse sympathy, and then raise money and use the money to continue to help animals. Organization PETA has contributed a lot to animals. As I mentioned before, PETA is always finding the alternatives to animal testing, they follow a word which was said by former U.S National institutes of health director Dr. Elias Zerhouni have moved away from studying human disease in humans. We all drank the Kool-Aid on that one, me included. The problem is that [animal worked, and time we stopped dancing around the problem. We need to refocus and adapt new methodologies for use in humans to understand disease biology in (Alternative to Animal testing) , PETA rewards the organizations who do not directly using animal for testing. They encourage people to develop a new way of testing without animal. There are some ways look like can replace animal testing, such as This new method of animal testing already developed by some researchers, and could totally replace nowadays animal testing. But it still need more investment. There are numerous studies show that these models have a well prediction of finding how the new drugs could react in bodies and in this way, could stop scientists using animals into experiment. (Alternatives to Animal Testing) While PETA focusing on find an alternative of animal testing. Organization HSUS has passed laws in some nations. According to HSUS official time line, they persuaded Israel to stop the use of animals to test cosmetics in 2007. more, they successfully made The Weng 3 European Union passes a law gradually stop producing and selling animal tested cosmetics on 2004. Recently, they made Swiss government declare that they will the sale of cosmetics containing ingredients newly tested on (Timeline: Cosmetics Tesing on Animals). HSUS also helps with finding an alternatives of animal testing, however, they more focus on directly stop laboratories. HSUS insists that testing on live animals is an outdated, inaccurate and cruel method of determining safety for human (Animals in Laboratories) This sentence can well describe attitude towards animals testing, they think animal testing is an unscientific and inhuman thing. An academic journals written by Sun also shows majority of cosmetics company applying their new products to the animals regardless of the consequence that most of their results are inaccurate. (Sun) In conclusion, organization PETA and HSUS have their different way to stop animal testing. PETA would more focus on find alternatives to animal testing, they donated more than one million dollar in other organization and that can show their determination of stop animal testing and totally change this situation. The HSUS also wants to find an alternative, but it is not their emphasis. PETA prefer to directly stop the animal testing by passing laws in different nations in order to save life. Their focus basically the same, to stop animal testing, the only difference is the ways they use to achieve their goals. So to appease both organization, a middle ground could be created if they have more communication. Their goal are basically the same, the only thing is PETA prefer to find a way that not only solve the problem of animals being abused, but also PETA wants to find out a new way of testing. While the HSUS only focus on directly stop it, in order to stop animals being abused. So these two organizations could be Weng 4 friends, they can really do these two things together, they can find an alternatives of animal testing while passing laws into different nations. . Weng 5 Works Cited Alternatives To Animal . PETA. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Animals in Laboratories Homepage : The Humane Society of the United  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cruelty Free  What Is Animal Testing? Cruelty Free International. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The animal rights  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Stop Puppy Mills : The Humane Society of the United  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Timeline: Cosmetics Testing on  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Sun, Shany. Young Scientists Journal 5.12 (July-December 2012) :p83