Winsor 1 Victoria Winsor Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 29 January 2017 Animal Cruelty vs. Slaughter Farms Animal cruelty can range anywhere from direct physical abuse, to captivity, or to using them for entertainment. In this case, PETA, a group in which stands for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, argues that just eating meat is animal cruelty within itself. However, Tyson Food Packing Co, one of the biggest slaughtering companies in America, begs to differ. The idea that eating meat could be considered animal cruelty is something that people tend to disregard. Why? Perhaps because been neglected of the reality of what happens behinds closed doors, or perhaps because meat tastes so good, that almost addictive. Nevertheless, with meat being so accessible, it seems only plausible to ask the question, is eating meat considered animal cruelty? According to PETA it is, and according to Tyson it With the two being such large and widely known organizations, a compromise must be made, as it seems to be an argument with no end. Taking a look at the issue at hand from Tysons point of view, they put forth a convincing argument that the setting their animals are kept in is a controlled and suitable environment. Directly on their website they state rely on more than 11,000 farmers and expect them to provide healthy chicken, cattle and hogs that have been treated properly and raised with modern, proven animal care Tyson would argue that eating meat is not cruel however Winsor 2 it is completely natural and healthy if eaten the correct way, as it provides the protein that the human body needs. Their biggest products are chicken, cattle, and pigs; three in which they speak on directly to ensure their meat is being taken care of in a humanely way. On their website they claim that they provide the feed, housing, land, and labor that the animals need in order to offer the best quality meat product. PETA can agree that Tyson is providing a very convincing argument, however they argue that they are failing to include how they are executing this and not providing the evidence. In other words, we are taking their word for it. PETA is the largest animal rights organization in the world. They focus on things such as fur trade, the food industry, animal testing, and animals for entertainment. They go after large organizations that defy basic animal rights and their mission is to inform people on the inhumanely ways that animals are treated. They even touch on the smaller, less recognized things, as they state also work on a variety of other issues, including the cruel killing of rodents, birds, and other animals who are often considered as well as cruelty to domesticated (PETA) In this case, their mission is slaughter farms. Tyson and PETA both have very specific, however very opposite missions, and the two are at odds. Tyson is currently facing issues with PETA involving their use of antibiotics in their animals feed in order for them to grow faster. This puts forth an entirely different argument based on genetically modified organisms, however it also puts forth a controversy on whether or not it is right or wrong to be giving this antibiotic to their animals. The CEO of Tyson Foods argues see a problem with antibiotic use. studied a lot of science about whether or not there is a direct connection (between the use of antibiotics in livestock and spread of antibiotic resistant infections in The US Department for Health can confirm this, proving that the antibiotics are safe for humans; however it still fails to include the fact that Winsor 3 it could be morally wrong to feed it to their animals. On website they claim that the antibiotics used to make animals grow faster does affect human health, however as previously discussed, that can be proven wrong. Nevertheless, they argue that it is inhumane as they state are used to make animals grow faster and to keep them alive in the unsanitary (PETA) Unsanitary conditions; it sounds odd since Tyson is so adamant about their product being raised in a suitable and proper environment, but where is the proof? This is where controversy on eating meat versus animal cruelty stems from. These antibiotics that are used on animals can cause some chicken to grow so unnaturally large that their legs cannot support their bodies. Tyson would argue that these chickens are being raised in a suitable environment for these animals, as stated previously. While that might be true, as a farm is suitable for a chicken, they fail to include that the amount of chickens being housed in these farms versus the amount of space per chicken is unproportioned. In other words, they are so cramped that they have no roaming space, in fact, they let out to roam at all. Most even see the sun until they are moved to a trailer to be taken to the slaughter house. When they are large enough, and completely worn out from producing an unhealthy amount of eggs per day, that is when they are sent to the factory farms to be slaughtered. PETA states that this is the life for a chicken except not only at Tyson Foods but at any holding facility and slaughter house. Similarly, cows are kept in filthy feedlots, and pigs are kept in crowded sheds, supported by video proof taken by members of PETA; all information that Tyson will fail to tell us. Though PETA is a very large stakeholder in this matter, other organizations can agree. They argue that these animals will never be able to raise a family or build a nest the way a normal animal should and that is neglecting them of their natural behavior. Not to mention the animals are not stunned and typically skinned alive when sent to slaughter farms. Winsor 4 With the two being at such odds with one another, a compromise must be made, as it seems to be an argument with no end. The loophole here is argument, if the environment the animals are being raised in is cruel and neglecting them of their basic needs, then eating meat is supporting animal cruelty. doubt that PETA thinks that simply just eating meat is wrong, but it can be clearly recognized that their biggest issue with Tyson and other facilities is the way the animals are kept and how they are slaughtered, and while Tyson going to stop killing for meat, there might be a compromise. Taking a look at World Animal website, they propose a way for slaughter to be more humane that could potentially change the way that groups such as PETA views companies such as Tyson. The World Animal Protection is a group of activists that support animal rights but want to figure solve a way to peacefully make a compromise with companies such as Tyson, while also supporting argument. They provide a list of things that could be done to make this possible. The list consists of the use of better handling techniques on slaughter farms, are seen as objects in the meat industry and not living beings and are therefore handled as if they are Another idea proposed is stunning techniques before slaughter. The idea behind this derives from the fact that animals are skinned alive and their throats are sliced, however stunning an animal beforehand will take away their sense of pain, so they able to feel what is being done to them. These are only a few, the list also includes things such as handling pigs in groups to reduce stress in individual animals, installation of blue lamps to calm poultry, use of non-slip floors and low- angle ramps to prevent animals from falling and being injured, and no longer using the antibiotics to genetically modify their animals. In other words, if the World Animal Protection program can support eating meat if the methods for it are more humane, then PETA might be Winsor 5 able to as well. This way, Tyson can still produce meat, but have to spend more money for a better environment for the animals, while PETA sees that there are changes being made. Perhaps not the act itself, but it is the events that led up to the production of meat that make it seem so cruel. Either way, by eating meat, one would be contributing to the process. While both Tyson and PETA make very convincing arguments, both are so widely known that it is nearly impossible for either of them to win, which is why there needs to be a compromise. Although PETA might never stop voicing to people to become vegan, they might have less drive to expose places like Tyson if they saw some change in the way the animals are treated. After all, with meat being so accessible and cheap at places such as McDonalds, it seems plausible for someone to wonder where that meat came from and how it was produced. Winsor 6 Works Cited Farming: Misery for PETA. Web. 15 Sep. 2010. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-food/factory-farming/> Closer Look at Animals on Factory ASPCA. Web.1 <http://www.aspca.org/animalcruelty/farm-animal-welfare/animals-factory-farms> Tyson Food Packing Co. Web.1 <http://www.tysonfoods.com/our-story/farmers.aspx> Levitt, Tom See A theguardian. Web. 5 April. 2016. <https://www.theguardian.com/sustainable-business/2016/apr/05/tyson-foods-factory farming-antibiotic-resistance-donnie-smith> Slaughter: How we Reduce Animal World Animal Protection. Web. <https://www.worldanimalprotection.org/our-work/animals-farming-supporting-70-billion- animals/humane-slaughter-how-we-reduce-animal>