Matt Nelson Prof. Cat Modlin-Jackson Composition 1 1/25/17 Economics of Car Manufacturing Just as with any item sold in the United States, automobiles are also produced almost entirely in another country. Although the companies might tell you how the car is American or built in the mighty U.S of A, this is the stretched truth. Sure, they might be assembled in the United States but not every component was made on US soil. By producing some of these parts in a foreign country, they just provide jobs for that population but they get a cheaper source of labor due to the weaker laws set in other countries. Just recently, there has been strife over these major companies creating factories internationally to save money. There have been threats of tariffs and new taxes put on these goods. So where do these parts come from? America produce the parts here? Why are they outsourcing to other countries and it cost them more money to ship the parts over? What are the economic obstacles and benefits of producing automobiles locally in the United States as opposed to manufacturing them internationally? Childress, Vincent W. Impacts: Manufacturing and the Technology and Engineering Teacher, Vol.71, No. 5, Feb 2012, pp. 23-29. In this article, Impacts: Manufacturing and the Childress writes about the NAFTA agreement and how it lifted the tariffs and extra taxes off of products produced outside of the United States. This brings cost down on those things because labor is cheaper in the areas where the products are produced. This creates competition with the domestically made items. He explains the decline in manufacturing all around the world and he blames it happening in the US on the NAFTA agreement. Childress shifts his attention the job loss in the manufacturing field and how they are being lost due to cheaper competition and better ways of efficiency (Childress pp.23-29). This article is crucial in my research and to answering my question because to understand the differences and benefits if the location of production, you need to know why things are manufactured off of domestic soil. When the labor is cheaper, the price of the product drops. So when the US purchases these things, it creates competition against itself. This article is generally about all foreign products not just automobiles, however it is the same concept. Childress explains the NAFTA which is a huge part of trade between North America and South America and in current news there has been questions about it and they are trying to have it cancelled so they can place a tariff on all things imported. Wilson, Christopher Competiveness: The Mexican Issues in Science and Technology, Vol. 28, No. 4, 2012, pp. 27-30 According to Wilson, one of the benefits of the production of parts and automobiles in foreign countries, is that it builds more competition for the United States and therefore drives up production. This starts a chain of events that is very beneficial to the economy. main point is that the commercial deals and investments move the country forward and build the economy up. North and South America produce parts for each other, sending them back and forth during the process. This creates the economically beneficial connection between the two countries to where they complement each other. That being said, they ultimately depend on each other because if one fails, the other one would be close behind (Wilson 27-30). The automotive industry of the United States is heavily impacted by Mexico. With most parts the US receives being from there, some from Canada, Mexico is very crucial to the success of the industry. This being said the United States provide for Mexico and benefit them in certain areas of the same manufacturing. In my research question I asked what were some benefits of producing cars internationally or domestically. The benefit of having a connection with another country is that both of them are in the same spot and feed off each success. To stay in production, they must cooperate. Fingleton, Eamonn. Forgotten Merits of Challenge (05775132), vol. 43, no. 2, 2000, pp.67 In Eamonn article, Forgotten Merits of Fingleton writes that powerful countries and former industrial giants, such as the United States, are no longer needed to be a big industrial hub. These bigger, more developed countries have been surpassed by the smaller, less developed countries that came along after the industrial revolution. Smaller countries base their whole economy off of the production of things, whereas the larger ones need to base their economy on this anymore. They have already gone through their designated revolutions and have used it as a stepping stone to being developed. A huge part in the creation and history of America, Fingleton reminds us that manufacturing used to be the leader of the economy in the United States. Today, they have started straying away creating a weaker manufacturing frontier. Other countries have found other ways to stay prevalent in manufacturing (Fingleton 67). This article by Eamonn Fingleton is important to answering my question because it explains the fall of the manufacturing industry in the United States and other big hubs of industry. So when we approach the benefits and problems that arise in producing domestically in the United States we must take into realization that the U.S. has already gone through its respective revolution in the late twentieth-century. As Fingleton puts it, manufacturing was once the backbone of the growing country. Why produce goods and automobiles in a country where it is not the biggest part of its economy, when you can start and run factories in a country with less labor laws and one where there will be an undivided attention on it. Falck, Annki. Roland Ortengren, Dan Hogberg. influence of assembly ergonomics on product quality and productivity in car manufacturing- a cost-benefit Ergonomics is a lifestyle, 2008. In her article, influence of assembly ergonomics on product quality and productivity in car Falck talks about the horrible working environments and working conditions that have labeled the car manufacturing industry as one of the most dangerous careers. She draws the correlation between poor conditions for the assembly workers and the quality and efficiency in the production of cars. This is obvious; if you do not take care of your workers, you can expect a decrease in output. Falck explains that the object of any business or industry is to raise the productivity and quality of the product being as cost efficient as possible. However, some of these companies realize that the easiest way is to treat workers right and give them more than just barely workable environments. This article by Annki Falck assists in my research about the problems with the manufacturing industry in the terms of jobs and rights. In order to have factories in the United States, there are hundreds of thousands of laws every company and businesses must follow. In the United States, there are worker unions and people have the right to strike and assemble against wrongdoing in the workforce. In other countries there are loose laws and cheaper wage minimums. This is a big reason most countries have factories and produce in other third-world countries. These laws and rights must be taken into account because every industry tries to produce their items spending as little money as possible, maximizing profit. So getting every business that allocates jobs to other countries to move their production back to America would be almost impossible, and would cause them fortunes. The only way to get them to move would be to tariff and tax the items heavily which would not only create strife between the industries and the government. Toloken, Steve. helps Mexico grab auto Plastics News, Vol. 28, No. 2, 2016, pp.6 In Steve article, helps Mexico grab auto Toloken writes how the North American Free Trade Agreement has helped Mexico in the auto industry. He emphasizes that the agreement has really only helped Mexico in that one industry, not even close to another. It is a huge part in Mexico growing as a big car manufacturing center. South America is a huge producer for North America. This relationship is assisted by the regulations of NAFTA, which reduces the tariffs and taxes that would be placed on these items of trade. While production of cars in Mexico has more than doubled, the production is the US has declined by a sufficient amount. Although, the United States remains atop the pyramid for automobile production, Mexico is gaining ground rapidly and is looking to become a big hub for cars. This article from Toloken about the NAFTA agreement between Mexico and the United States coincides with the previous sources which point out how the United States are falling off of the manufacturing and industrial scene. Smaller countries like Mexico base their economy around production. This article holds more importance to my research due to the fact that Toloken writes that the NAFTA agreement specifically and exclusively affects the automobile industry of Mexico. Therefore, when thinking about where to produce cars, you must look at where the best fiscal situation is. Producing quality and efficiency is just as important as being responsible with money and profits. Thompson, Michael F. Ali Arif Merchant. and Economic Growth in the U.S. Automotive Manufacturing Industry: Considering the Impact of American and Japanese Indiana Business Review, Vol. 85, No. 1, 2010, pp. 10-17 This article by Michael F. Thompson and Ali Mercant examines the affect that the U.S. automobile industry has on the GDP of the economy and the jobs lost due to the influx of trade from other countries that produce parts used in the manufacturing of cars. These American companies like Ford and GM compete with other car manufacturers in their revenue. All of the giants in this automobile industry continually fight for dominance in the field in order to expand profits and outsource their opponents. This is the same in any business, company and industry. Just as Christopher Wilson stressed in the earlier article, competition is good for both countries. Thompson and Merchant highlight the job loss and employment due to this competition. The battle for revenue will always be a factor in the production of everything. Especially, when sharing the same market, the companies will always try to increase their Growth Domestic Product.