Sibori 1 Kristen Sibori Angelica Aranda Comp II 5 February 2017 Smoke free world At the start of spring semester, 2016 USF students were surprised with the news that USF had become a Tobacco free campus. Although such law was implemented students were still smoking in old designated areas. Areas where huge signs signal how USF was a tobacco free campus, but that stop students from smoking across campus. If we analyze the reason that students are compelled to smoke even though it is against school policy, we can see that it entitles to a smoking addiction helped by tobacco companies and their endless campaigns. These campaigns majorly target young adults nowadays so they can have costumers from a young age But their product all the way until they are addicted and old. Except until today Phillip Morris International the top cigarette selling company around the world and The American Legacy foundation the largest non-profit anti Tabaco organization that specializes in anti-smoking ads, together they will create a series of advertisement to stop the growth of smokers in America. Phillip Morris International (PMI) is the leading international tobacco company with 15 different brands including the popular and the number one selling Marlboro. Their motto according to their website (pmi.com) is that are committed to being a great employer and a good corporate citizen. strive to be environmentally and socially responsible. are dedicated to fighting the illegal cigarette trade. And proudly support the communities where we source tobacco and where our employees live and Sibori 2 One would say that for being the number one selling tobacco companies their company motto seems to be a little hypocritical. Especially since in just 2014 cigarette companies spent approximately $8.49 billion on ads, primarily the number one company preferred by both adults (46.2% ) and adolescents (46.1%) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). Makes one question why would they ever want to stop the dominion over other cigarette companies and the end of their empire if they were to join the smoke free world companies such as the ALF, the FDA and WHO have been trying to promote for years. But according to their website (pmi.com) they have around 80,000 employees around the world, 400+ R&D (research and developing) scientist and technicians working on smoke-free products they are to doing something very they are trying to replace cigarettes with products that they themselves are creating and planning to sell in 180+ markets. This shift in their policy from being a cigarette company that dominates above all others in sales with 26.2 billion in net sales and the highest spending in advertising (statista.com), could be due to the ongoing new research on the effects of smoking and cancer. Websites such as the real cost to be tobacco free has a whole website dedicated to the effects of cigarette such as ; Nearly 1 in 5 deaths in the U.S. is smoking 3 out of 4 teens who think stop smoking causes gum disease, which could cost you , can stain your . Facts such as these maybe just be what has changed their minds or it could also be due to a marketing strategy since as of February third of this year (2017) the U.S. Department of Housing Urban Developments (HUD) smokefree public housing rule went into effect. This rule Public Housing Agencies/Authorities (PHA) to adopt and implement a smokefree policy for all of their public housing properties in order to protect the health and safety of all residents and to reduce costs and fire (non-smoke.org) . PMI shift Sibori 3 towards a smoke free world whether a marketing strategy or an epiphany of the damage they are doing by selling cigarettes is something to be taken advantage of. Companies like the American Legacy Foundation the largest non-profit health organization who seeks and spreads the truth about tobacco through education, tobacco- control research and policy studies, and community activism and (truthinitiative.org) should try and educate PMI on ways to create a smoke free world. Just since 2000 they have reduced teen cigarette use by more than 29%, a big percentage considering cigarettes ongoing campaigns to lure teens into smoking. The foundation adopted a new name in 2015 as hoping to speak the truth about tobacco and reach out to a wider audience. They have also primarily focused on targeting adolescents, in 2014 they launched a campaign at the MTV music awards called , encouraging 15-21 year old to end the (truthinitiative.org) through social media. In 2013 they changed management giving the truth campaign a greater focus towards ending adolescent smoking. In just 2015, 4.7 million adolescents are tobacco users predominantly in white teens than blacks or Hispanics, as well as higher in nonmetropolitan areas ( U.S. Department of Health and Human Services). Both ALF and PMI are unconsciously working together to achieve one common goal, the hopes of a smoke free world and the stop of adolescent smoking. PMI website has one big message on their main page our cigarette brands are among the best known in the world Tomorrow a new portfolio of smoke-free brands will be every bit as and ALF main message is creating the first tobacco-free Both extremely similar, this shows that they can come to a common ground and help each other, ALF can educate PMI on ways to advertise nonsmoking besides just the production of new products, they can also help by financing nonsmoking ads. PMI is also trying to commercialize smoke-free alternatives such as Sibori 4 HEETS and HeatSticks that are inserted and heated creating nicotine-containing vapor, although not exactly nicotine free but smoke free. ALF can slowly work towards a nicotine free world, but right now both their goals are to create a smoke free world, that affects even those who smoke. Not only can they educate each other but they can also reach out to the FDA that is allowed to regulate tobacco products since 2009 when the United States Congress passed the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (journals.plos.org). One way they can do this is by introducing a campaign where the FDA forces cigarette companies to place graphic images on their cigarette packages. By doing so they are stunning people into not smoking and if they do so they slowly become more conscious in what smoking is doing to them by having to look at it every day. Even though ALF and PMI are completely different organizations with different grounds and supporters they stand together nowadays in trying to create a smoke free world, something they should both take advantage of if they want to succeed. By working together they will reduce drastically the amount of smoker with them both being the number ones in what they do, ALF has the initiative and PMI has the funds to make it work. Maybe this way USF students and staff will gain conscious of what they are doing to themselves and those who are breathing that second hand smoke. If they are able to compromise and come together maybe one day schools and public housing need to pass laws and policies against smoking. Sibori 5 Works Cited * All Products Require an Annual Contract. Prices Do Not Include Sales Tax (New York Residents Only). Leading Tobacco Companies Worldwide Based on Net Sales, 2016  Statista. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Building Leading  Philip Morris International (PMI) Who We Are. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Glantz, Stanton A., Richard Barnes, and Sharon Y. Eubanks. Compromise or Capitulation? US Food and Drug Administration Jurisdiction Over Tobacco  Plos Medicine. N.p., 28 July 2009. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.  Newsletter. Americans for Non-Smokers Rights, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. The Office of Adolescent Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human  Office of Adolescent Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. US Department of Health and Human Services.  The Real Cost. The Real Cost, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Welcome to the Truth  Truth Initiative. Truth Initiative Inspiring Tobacco-Free Lives, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.