1 Ainong Song ENC 1102-093 Kristen Rouisse 12/02/2017 The protection and development of Chinese traditional culture in culture globalization In the era of rapid development of science and technology, globalization has become a special word for this era. In China, culture globalization gives Chinese traditional culture a big opportunity and a great challenge, because culture globalization makes more and more people to become learn about Chinese culture, and the both time, a lot of popular culture also become enter into China and impact young people. So how to protect and develop Chinese traditional culture in culture globalization has become a huge social issues. Now, most of Chinese have two different view points for this issues. The first view point thinks Chinese traditional culture needs to keep its original characteristic, and the second view point believes that the combination between Chinese traditional culture and popular culture is the best development and protection trend. The representative of the first view point is China critics who are from China Central Television, called CCTV. And the representative of the second view point is Wanda group. Thus, It is imperative that CCTV and Wanda group come together to from a compromise. The Chinese critics from CCTV and Wanda group has same goal that protect and develop Chinese traditional culture in the culture globalization, so Chinese critics can not limit the new culture enter into China, and Wanda group must bases the characteristics of protection of Chinese traditional culture to develop economic. 2 CCTV is one of the official TV media, and built in 1 May 1958. And it is not only the first TV station in China but also it is the first Chinese TV station in the world. CCTV has a network of 50 channels broadcasting different programmes and is accessible to more than one billion viewers. Most of programmes include news, documentary, social education, comedy, entertainment and drama, the one of the most famous programs is the spring festival gala. Most of Chinese critics like showing their view point in CCTV and they believe CCTV is their best platform to speaking, because CCTV is an authoritative TV station. Dalian Wanda group was founded in 1988 by Wang Jianlin, and it has three key business activities that are commercial properties, culture, and finance. Wanda commercial properties is the largest real estate enterprise and the both time include the biggest five start hotel in the world. By the end of 2015, its nationwide portfolio of 133 Wanda Plazas and 84 hotels has total lettable area of 26.32 million square meters. In Wanda cultural industry group, Wanda group is the largest cultural enterprise in China, It owns four companies that include film holdings, sports holdings, tourism holdings and entertainment. And the both time, Wanda group is the largest cinema operator in the world, because Wanda group used $2.6 billion to finish the merger of AMC in 2012. By 2020, Wanda cultural industry group plans to be ranked among the top five cultural companies in the world. At the first, both in Chinese critics from CCTV and Wanda group is committed to protect and develop Chinese traditional cultural. They have same goal that the protection and development of Chinese traditional cultural in culture globalization, but they have different view point to do it. Chinese critics think Chinese traditional cultural should keep the original characteristic, and limited popular cultural to enter into China. They think popular cultural has 3 big negative influence that young people learns and inherits Chinese traditional culture. In other words, Chinese critics pay more attention to the protection of Chinese traditional culture, rather than the development of Chinese traditional culture. For example Starbucks closes coffeehouse in Forbidden city. Forbidden city is one of the China landmark buildings, some Chinese critics think Starbucks damaged a major historical site, because the logo of color is green, and the Forbidden color used gold and red. The logo of Starbucks destroyed the whole traditional styles. In the controversy over Starbucks at the 587 years old Forbidden City in Beijing, Highlighting the sensitivity of Chinese critics to culture symbols and disturbing the influx of foreign pop culture(Jury 2017, NYTimes). Thus, in the process of the development of Chinese traditional culture, the important point is that protecting of Chinese traditional culture is same important. Wanda group as a transnational enterprises, there is no doubt that Wanda group pays more attention to the development of Chinese traditional culture in culture globalization. Wanda group believes the best way is that the Chinese traditional culture must be learned about by more and more people, and only the improvement of economic can help Chinese traditional culture to be learned about. So the relationship between the protection and development of Chinese traditional culture and the improvement of economic is that impact each other. For example the minor languages die out history. Agwuele thinks the development of a language based on the user, in other words, a language is abandoned by its speakers because it cannot aid them on the global stage, there is no basis for the preservation of such a language (Agwuele). The protection and development of Chinese traditional culture also is same view point, the best way is that more and more people pay attention it and use it can 4 protect and develop Chinese traditional culture. Thus, If the user use it to have a good life and contact with the modern social, the traditional culture will be eliminated by history. Of course, the compromise between the Chinese critics and Wanda group is very important. They have same belief that the protection and development of Chinese traditional culture, only the view points are different. Chinese critics from CCTV should accept new cultures and new view points. In the trend of culture globalization, new cultures which are from popular culture and other culture has not been stopped to enter into China. If Chinese traditional culture follow with the trend of times, the user will lost the supporting from young people. The combining with Chinese traditional culture and popular culture is a process of development. In other side, Wanda group needs give up some business idea. For example limiting their production enter into Chinese traditional building to destroy the architecture of the original design, and reduce the impacting of the popular culture with the young people. And the both time, they need to pay more attention the protecting of original Chinese traditional culture. Wanda group has a production is so good to solve the problem, that is Wanda culture tourism in Nanchang, called Nanchang Wanda park. In the article, Wanda executives unveiled their $3 billion in the southeastern provincial capital of Nanchang to thundering music reminiscent of the of the theme and hailed the center as a representative of Chinese entertainment culture in the face of encroaching foreign influences (Traynor). In the conclusion, the view point of Chinese critics shows a lot of people who are old people and traditional family, and they pay more attention the protection. Wanda group is representative that most of transnational enterprises, and they pay more attention the 5 development. The two different group should bridge the gap, and reach a consensus. In the both time, the protection of Chinese traditional culture and the development of Chinese traditional culture should have same paying attention. Code: 1220 6 Work Cited CCTV: http://www.cctv.cn/ Accessed 29 January 2017 Wanda group: http://www.wanda-group.com/ Accessed 25 June 1995 The New York Times. Closes Coffeehouse in Forbidden Retrieved: http://www.nytimes.com/2007/07/15/world/americas/15iht- starbucks.4.6664994.html . July 15, 2007. Agwuele.A.O. Globalization, Dying Languages and The Futility of Saving Re- writing Linguistic History-(Post) Colonial Really on the fringes of linguistic theories. September 2010 Traynor.P. Developer Wanda Opens Theme Park to Take on Retrieved: https://www.stripes.com/chinese-developer-wanda-opens-theme-park-to-take-on- disney-1.412235 . May 30, 2016