Santos 1 Arturo Santos ENC 1102-093 1/22/17 Kristen Rouisse The Tug of War between Man and Animal Among the most controversial topics in last several decades are animal rights and welfare. There have been several cases involving human and animal relationships that prompted many to question the extent of animal rights. A significant portion of these cases include the animal fighting back. Often, this animal is exotic and may be dangerous since they are not as domesticated as cats and dogs. There are also some circumstances where an exotic pet may escape. Non-native exotic species can have dramatic effects on an ecosystem if a population is established. However, there are pros and cons to keeping exotic pets. The opposing views of the issue are embodied by two organizations. REXANO hopes to protect the rights of citizens to own exotic pets. PETA strives for abolishing the use of any exotic animals as pets. Unequivocally, REXANO and PETA need to form a compromise so that tensions between the two organizations along with their affiliates can be relieved. One of the most prominent organizations regarding issues about animals is none other than People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). PETA is a well-known source for strong views against the exploitation of animals. PETA attempts to serve as the ultimate role- model for absolute peace with animals. In the topic of the exotic pet trade, PETA argues against it (PETA). PETA in fact would prefer to scrap the idea of having any pets at all. PETA believes having a pet is because of our desire to receive love from animals (PETA). PETA focuses on the transportation aspect of the exotic pet trade, describing the deadly conditions animals face when being transported from person to person and the uncomfortable containers they are placed in. second point regarding the issue has to do with the care and Santos 2 knowledge about his or her choices. The organization annotates that many animals die or are abandoned after survived their transport to incompetent caretakers (PETA). The animals also pose a danger to humans. Exotic animals can contain zoonotic diseases or diseases that are transferrable to humans. Reptiles can transfer Salmonella bacteria to humans and may be new sources of allergies, non-human primates can transfer very deadly viruses to people, and parrots can transfer the fatal psittacosis to humans, to name a few (San Miguel-Moncin et al., 212-3). PETA calls the government to revise regulations so that they consider more policies with regards to the animal rather than people (PETA). Opposing views of PETA and other anti-exotic pet organizations are harder to find and occur usually after. This is because the opposing organizations develop in response to the growing movement in the ban of exotic pets. This would also be why the opposing organizations are not as well-known as the PETA & co. One of opposing organizations, Responsible Exotic Animal Ownership (REXANO), is standing up for the rights of people to responsibly own exotic pets (REXANO: Kukol). REXANO is advocating for people to be very qualified and prepared before owning any exotic pets. However, they oppose bans on exotic animal ownership. They believe the individual has the right to own exotic pets if he or she demonstrates to be qualified enough, and that legislation restricting private ownership should not be passed (REXANO). REXANO advises to-be exotic pet owners to seek reputable and ethical breeders to acquire their animals from. Many animals have been domesticated for years, and they have numerous applications in society as far as assistance goes. REXANO supports animal welfare, but disagrees with some aspects with animal rights (REXANO). Animal welfare includes the wellness and respect humans provide to them, while animal rights takes it a little further. Animal rights entails that humans and animals should run their own paths separately; it is this node of animal rights that REXANO opposes (Guither & Swanson, 1995). The Santos 3 transportation of exotic animals from breeders to owners is the dangerous, and is strongly attacked by those against exotic pet ownership. REXANO mandates that breeders ensure proper conditions and resources when shipping animals (REXANO). As for diseases, reptiles only cause about 6% of Salmonella infections in people (Mermin et al., S253-S261). Breeders must demonstrate proper hygiene to minimize risk of zoonotic diseases. Essentially, REXANO does not believe in the interference with exotic pet ownership and the removal of well-cared for pets from their households (REXANO). Amidst of two opposing bodies lies a common ground. The common ground can be found by studying the context of the topic these organizations are arguing about. The two sides may share the common intention of animal welfare and proper guidelines for caring for animals. Both organizations strive to increase public awareness of animals and their safety in the exotic pet industry. If a compromise was to be made between these two organizations, it would undoubtfully must include supporting the welfare of animals. PETA favors animal rights while REXANO favors animal welfare. This means that both organizations must support animal welfare since it is included in animal rights. The compromise would have to include either some policies that favor PETA and some that favor REXANO. In this time of traditional deviance, a solution to the treatment of animals needs to be sought after. As mentioned earlier, a compromise needs to be formed to relieve tensions. The compromise will favor both the organizations, rather than be a solution that favors only one of the organizations. For example, some animals can be banned from the exotic pet trade, while others should stay for breeders and hobbyists around the world to enjoy. The distinction between the animals that should and should not be banned from pet trade is difficult to establish. The prevailing solution is that the animals yielding a higher number of deaths per year per number of animals owned than that of dogs be banned from the exotic pet market. A distinction based on Santos 4 conservation status, with animals ranking worse than a banned from exotic pet trades, would be faulty. This is mainly because some animals ranking high in vulnerability have unviable populations in the wild and will be doomed for extinction if pet trades were to cease (Valiente et al., 257-259). Exceptions can conceivably be made, but 150-200 species become extinct each day (Sir Jeremy & Golmohammadi, 1), and legislation may vastly underrepresent these species. Danger may be the most important type of distinction for these animals. Lions kill far less people than dogs, but a lion has a higher probability of killing someone per attack than a dog due to their incredulous strength. Interestingly, this is where units come into play. The number of people killed by exotic animals does not explain the whole picture or consider the abundance and exploitation of the animal. The number of deaths per year per animal owned will be the best measure of the dangerousness of an animal. For example, tigers and presumably other big cats cause over 600 times more deaths per year per animal owned than dogs (Nyhus, 573-586). Using this measure of deaths per year per number owned, an dangerousness can be evaluated, and perhaps a threshold (the number for dogs, 0.000000346 deaths per year per animals owned) can be used to determine whether an animal should be banned from exotic pet trades. The units of kills/year/animals owned will show a rate of people killed by an animal over time per number of animals owned in the population. This way, the number of animals in that particular species that are owned by people can be controlled. For example, a tiger performs more kills/year/animals owned than dogs since tigers are owned by far less people, but kill proportionally more than dogs. In this compromise, PETA will be giving up their view of total separation of animal and human lives, while REXANO will be dealing with a still slightly regulated ability to own exotic pets. Santos 5 There are numerous different ways to interpret an issue. Consequently, it can be very difficult to come up with a solution to satisfy all the perspectives in some cases. In the case of animals, the issue will not be very easy to solve but it can be done. The adequate solution is to ban the most dangerous animals from the exotic pet trade. The dangerousness of an animal can best be measured by kills per year per animal owned. If a compromise is not formed between the organizations calling for animal rights and organizations defending human rights, then many industries, companies, businesses, and people will constantly be under public scrutiny and in some cases negatively affected. Word count: 1356 Santos 6 Works Cited Guither, Harold D., and Janice Swanson. Animal Rights and Animal  1995 Farm Bill: 191. Jeremy, and Bonian Golmohammadi. for a Global Environment Perspectives on RIO+20, United Nations Environmental Programme, 22 June 2012, Kukol, Zuzana, and Scott Shoemaker. Responsible Exotic Animal Rexano, Responsible Exotic Animal Ownership, www.rexano.org/. Matthes, Chrissy. for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights PETA, 1995, www.peta.org/. Mermin, Jonathan, et al. Reptiles, amphibians, and human Salmonella infection: a population- based, case-control  Clinical Infectious Diseases 38.Supplement 3 (2004): S253- S261. Nyhus, Philip J., Ronald L. Tilson, and J. L. Tomlinson. Dangerous animals in captivity: ex situ tiger conflict and implications for private ownership of exotic  Zoo Biology 22.6 (2003): 573-586. San Miguel-Moncin, M. M., et al. Exotic pets are new allergenic sources: allergy to  J Investig Allergol Clin Immunol 16.3 (2006): 212-3. Valiente, Elsa, et al. Creating refuges for the axolotl (Ambystoma  Ecological restoration 28.3 (2010): 257-259.