Jarek Jenkins Mark Nusspickel ENC 1101 January 29, 2017 How the Introduction of Renewable Energy Will Affect Fuel/Energy Costs in the Future AMIN, ADNAN Z. How Renewable Energy Can Be  UN Chronicle 52.3 (2015): 8-11. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The article started off by saying how important renewable energy is becoming in world and the benefits they bring. For example, clean energy such as solar and wind power are being increasingly used to reduce financing costs and to offset fossil fuel emissions in our atmosphere. The author also stressed that renewable energy technologies bring more jobs, reduce pollution, and requires less water which would be extremely important to developing countries. In 2005, only 43 countries had even invested in renewable power, and now that number is up to 164 as of September, of 2015. This trend showed that clean energy was getting increasingly more competitive with conventional sources of energy. However, the author believed many countries moved at too slow a pace to keep up with non-renewable energy. In the article, it shows that since 2009, solar PV modules prices have gone down 75-80% and the cost of utility electricity has fallen by half, which sparked an investment in solar power for common people. Overall the price for delivering solar power in these units was about $0.08 per kilowatt-hour compared to a price of $0.045-0.14 per kilowatt-hour for fossil fuel. It relates to the source by adding in the fact that biomass, geothermal, and hydropower prices have been steady while oil continuously rises as demand goes up. However, offshore wind power is still generally more expensive than fuel powered generators. Nevertheless, this still suggests that soon clean energy will overtake fossil fuels due to a significantly cheaper cost. Adnan Amin is credible because the information was presented to the UN in order to help developing countries and to curb greenhouse gasses. With this information, they created the Paris Agreement in 2016. Bolinger, Mark. Balancing Cost And Risk: The Treatment Of Renewable Energy In western Utility Resource  The Electricity Journal 1 (2005): SciTech Connect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The journal begins by stating that as of 2005, renewable energy markets have been growing exponentially in part by federal tax incentives and rising state renewable energy standards. State renewable portfolio standards motivated 45% of the 4,300 MW of wind power installed in the US from 2001 through 2004, while the state renewable energy funds supported an additional 15%. The article then discusses the plan that the twelve major renewable energy utility companies have for incorporating new energy methods in the portfolio. It then has an overview of the cost for new power and the technology to see if it is worth implementing. Finally, it reviews the cost of fossil fuel and compares the trade off to that of wind power and decides that renewable energy has a chance to grow rapidly in the western United States. According to the journal, in 2005 renewable energy prices were hard to gauge because it all depended on the region and the tax the state came with. In terms of the research question, most portfolios agreed that the cost difference too drastic whether to switch to one or the other. However, when they accounted for future regulations they realized fossil fuel may far outweigh the cost of natural energy. Mark Bolinger concluded that risks of each source of energy needed to be assessed further, especially natural gas because at the time they did not know the risks it could come with. The journal is credible because the author gives detailed stats that he backs with graphs and charts that he researched as a research associate for UC-Berkeley. At the end of the journal he lists his sources where he attained the information and it is backed by the Lawrence Berkeley National Library at the University of California in Berkeley. ATKINS, MARTIN. Choice  TCE: The Chemical Engineer 899 (2016): 24-29. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. Due to the signing of the Paris Agreement in April of 2016, many countries are developing sector specific plans to fund renewable resource options. The main goal of the agreement was to curb greenhouse emissions because of global climate change. The problem is smaller countries such as New Zealand have a harder time finding alternative energy sources since the size of their country limits them. New Zealand has to rely on hydro power which accounts for 50-80% of the electricity, but the weakness of this is low storage capacity. It is predicted, regardless of the Paris Agreement, countries like New Zealand may be forced to use fossil fuels which could escalate the price since their other resource options are limited. However, New Zealand is researching ways to use geothermal gases, which could eliminate the problem altogether. Martin Atkins is a chemical engineer currently working at the energy research center on the University of Waikato in New Zealand which qualifies him to speak on the matter. Research included other articles on development and sustainability on the economics of renewable energy and minimizing carbon emissions. All of this information is connected to the question by explaining the relationship of the cost of the addition of new renewable energy systems opposed to fossil fuel systems. To satisfy the Paris agreement, New Zealand and similar countries would have to cut fossil emissions by 90% which would force billions into green energy. The article states its possible for an economy to collapse due to a rapid change in allocated funds, especially with something as important as electricity. Martin Atkins believes more research of the various tradeoffs need to be observed before massive shifts of energy reform for economic purposes. Klugman, Nadav. Current Conflicts In U.S. Electric Transmission Planning, Cost Allocation And Renewable Energy Policies: More Heat Than  Electricity Journal 10 (2010): SciTech Connect. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. Nadav Klugman believed the price difference will be extremely hard to predict because it would all depend on the importance in priority it would rank against the rest of the problems. He also wanted more consistency in the process of how which transmission systems are chosen so a market end up with multiple systems. Third, he wanted cost responsibility to be considered based on broad groupings of projects, even if broad cost allocation is rejected to keep it inexpensive or else the project would be filled with unnecessary costs. An appropriate balance is needed to have a seamless transition to not disturb the existing structure. This source is credible because the author, Nadav Klugman, is a banking and finance associate in Project Finance. He represents various lenders, borrowers, and energy providers in order to provide funding for infrastructure. sources are also made by scholars that work for energy companies such as ERCOT and AESO. The journal relates to the question by showing the steps economically to fund renewable energy. For example, companies have to swim through transmission tariffs, public funding, and environmental standards to name a few. Cities with a poor financial standing may opt to stand pat with fossil fuel to avoid the many steps even if it costs more in the long run.