Acevedo 1 Marisela Acevedo Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 10 February 2017 Factory Farming Factory farming is an industrial operation that is dedicated to raising very large numbers of animals to use for food. Currently, more than 99% of farm animals in the United States are raised in factory farms (Farm Animal Welfare). The characteristics of factory farms include having an excessive size, condemning animals indoor with minimal room, and being mutilated to adapt to farm conditions (Grace Communications). Factory farming allows for greater availability and variety of animals to be produced at a cheaper cost. The biggest benefit of factory farming is that it provides a large amount of food for society (Green Garage). To companies like Smithfield, producing a vast amount of food is of great benefit for them. On the other hand, organizations like People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) focus on changing the way people think of food production. They bring to the attention of viewers about the animal cruelty that is happening on these farms. Thus, it is easy to see that a compromise must be reached between Smithfield and PETA that not only produces quality products but avoids excessive animal cruelty in the process. Smithfield Foods is a packaging meats company that is the largest pork processor and hog producer. They mainly concentrate on producing food the right way, while treating animals right and humane. Their vision is to transform their business into a world-class consumer packaged goods company. They provide animal care, community involvement, and follow food Acevedo 2 safety and quality programs. They commit to doing things right, and through three simple principles: Responsible Operations, Transparency, and (Smithfield). People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is an animal rights organization that focuses on the areas where animals suffer most intensely for long periods. These areas can include the food industry, clothing trade, laboratories and the entertainment industry. PETA does its work through research, animal rescue, public education and cruelty investigations. This organization believes animals are not meant for humans eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other way The founders of this organizations wanted to find a way to change society by promoting a healthy vegan diet. Since the beginning, they have protested publicly the cruelty animals go through, and have found ways to expose what truly goes on behind the walls of animal laboratories. They have had lots of success in getting exposure and claiming rights for animals (PETA). PETA exposed Smithfield Foods when undercover footage using drones captured the environmental devastation caused by factory farming. Next to the factory, appeared a gigantic lake the size of four football fields of urine and feces. Inside the factory, however, female pigs went through constant cycles of forced pregnancy, newborns had their testicles ripped off, tails cut off and ears dismembered. Smithfield manipulated pigs to make them grow bigger, which caused many of them to suffer from joint problems. When in the Smithfield Slaughterhouse, pigs were beings hung upside down, and their throats slit, in many instances, the pigs would still be alive when this was happening. After efforts from PETA to stop this cruelty, Smithfield said it would discontinue the use of small gestation crates, but later, went back to using them (PETA). Smithfield agreed to reinstate the date to remove all gestation crates for pregnant pigs by the year 2017, stating heard them loud and clear. This company is going to do in the best Acevedo 3 interest of the business and the best interest of our (Virginian-Pilot). Now, 81% of pigs on the company-owned farms are being placed in group housing systems (Smithfield). Their efforts to better care for the animals have slowly increased. are making significant strides across our sustainability pillars, and we continue to see out solutions that will help improve our (Smithfield). This makes them aware of the problems going around them, and are willing to change to become a safer working company. While Smithfield wants to produce top food for the people, and PETA wants to advocate for the cruelty animals go through in these factory farms, they share the desire of bringing a way for people to eat well. PETA advocates for going the vegan way, and Smithfield produces meat, but they still want people to eat safely. The biggest issue for Smithfield is animal cruelty. It is understandable that factory farming produces a greater amount of food, but there should be a way for PETA and Smithfield to come to an agreement on the fair treatment of animals. For both PETA and Smithfield to flourish, animals in the hands of Smithfield need to be treated with better care. They should be allowed to have enough space to roam around, and when being put down, they should be killed without putting them through pain. The only way this will happen is if a law is passed that forces companies to produce quality animals without making them suffer. Creating regulations that must be strictly followed and maintained, to make sure workers are not abusing the animals would make a difference. They need a lot of inspectors constantly checking to see everything that is supposed to be happening, really is. Gestation crates should be permanently removed from these companies, and each company should only be allowed to have a specific number of animals they can care for. With these changes, Smithfield may have to give up a large portion of the animals they currently care for. The number of profits they currently make will be less than Acevedo 4 before, but they will continue to produce quality meat. If Smithfield really wants to continue producing more meat, they could also decide to expand the company into a bigger place that allows them to have a greater number of animals. PETA will be satisfied by this because fewer animals mean more attention to each one and ensures better quality care. Fewer animals also allows for more space to roam around freely. Factory farming can be beneficial because it produces a great amount of food for society. The population is increasing, and it can be said that without these factory farms, it would be very hard to feed the world. Huge companies profit from having a lot of animals in their company, but people do not realize the reality of what goes on behind the scenes of these sites. Food is eaten without knowing how it is produced and all the steps that were involved in putting a meal on a plate. While factory farms can be a great benefit, it can be a great suffering to the animals that are confined to these places. Many of these endure very harsh environments that do not allow them to behave like natural free animals. This is where PETA comes into action to make sure that all animals are being treated in a safe environment. They understand they cannot get the whole world to turn over to a vegan type of eating, but they can at least intervene for the protection of animals. The only way for PETA and Smithfield to be able to work together is if Smithfield, and companies like it, care for only certain number of animals. Thus, ensuring that all animals are cared for the right way while still producing quality food for consumers to eat. WORD COUNT: 1214 Acevedo 5 Works Cited Http://greengarageblog.org/author/greengarageblogadmin. List of Top 19 Factory Farming Pros and  Green Garage. N.p., 19 Aug. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Factory  Factory Farming. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Farm Animal  ASPCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Foundation, GRACE Communications. Industrial Livestock  GRACE Communications Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. History: Compassion in  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smithfield to End Use of Gestation Crates by  Virginian-Pilot. N.p., 06 Nov. 2015. Web. 10 Feb. 2017.