Colton Evans Nusspickel ENC 1101 1/30/17 Games and Crime The video game industry is more popular now than ever before in its history. However, with the relatively new fame comes some unexpected scrutiny. Over the past two decades there has been an increasing debate on what to do about the violent crime problem in America, despite crime consistently going down since the early 1990s. Specifically there has been much debate on how to curb gun violence in America. The video game industry has been criticized for the gratuitous violence in some of its more popular video games like of or Theft In the mentioned video games, the player is awarded more points or unlockables for committing more acts of violence. Because the games normalize and desensitize young minds to violence causing them to be more likely to commit violent acts, some experts say that this increasing popularity in these video games is causing our youth to become more violent. Other experts say that video game violence has nothing to do with causing kids or anybody that plays video games to commit violent acts. Some experts claim that these violent video games can help develop better morality in children that play them, which begs the question. Do Violent Video games have any effect on the U.S Crime rate? DeCamp, Whitney. Impersonal Agencies Of Communication: Comparing The Effects Of Video Games And Other Risk Factors On  Psychology Of Popular Media Culture 4.4 (2015): 296-304. PsycARTICLES. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This first source talks about how many studies that claim violent video games cause youth to act more violent are inherently flawed and at times, completely unscientific. The author Dr. Whitney DeCamp cites some studies that used reactions to violence after being exposed to violent video games to prove that violent video games cause more acts of violence in youth that play them. She then goes on to say that an indifferent reaction to violence after exposure to violent video games does not prove that these children will commit actual violent acts. The same studies also had some experiments where there was no control group of children present in the study, even though a control group is a basic element in a scientific experiment. DeCamp uses this as evidence that many of these studies have confirmation bias. DeCamp conducted his own study where he too more than six thousand eighth grade students from Delaware to study the effects of violent video games on their behavior. He had a control group and an experimental group for girls, boys, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and children on free or reduced lunch. His study found that there is no increase in violent behavior when violent video games are introduced to these children. DeCamp has a Ph.D. in Criminology, so he knows how criminals think and how a person transforms from a law-abiding citizen to a criminal. Krantz, Andrew, et al. Violent Video Games Exposed: A Blow By Blow Account Of Senseless Violence In  Journal Of Psychology 151.1 (2017): 76-87. SPORTDiscus. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This source talks about the psycological effects on the brain after prolonged exposure to violent. This journal claims that prolonged exposure to video games causes children to be desensitized to violence, have decreasing levels of empathy, and are more likely to commit violent acts. This source also claims that most parents are unaware of how to know if a video game is appropriate for their child to play. This journal also claims that there are few rating systems to let parents know what content is contained in a particular video game. This journal also claims that the rating systems for video games that are in place do a poor job at rating the game, causing parents and children that want the game to be confused about the appropriateness of the game. This study also shows that the rating system is very lenient when it comes to violence in video games citing that 98% of T rated (for teens 13 and up) games encourage players to commit violent acts in the game. The article also cites that over 25% of M rated (17 and older only) contain graphic violence and substance usage. The article also claims that this proliferation of violence, profanity, and substance abuse in M rated games are still harmful due to the still developing young adult mind. Michele Knox, one of the authors of this article has a Ph.D. in Psychology and has had extensive research in psychological experiments involving video games. The rest of the authors all have in Psychology. Frithjof, Thomas Bliesener, and Stefanie Luthman. Hostile And Hardened? An Experimental Study On (De-)Sensitization To Violence And Suffering Through Playing Video  Swiss Journal Of Psychology / Schweizerische Zeitschrift Psychologie / Revue Suisse De Psychologie 67.1 (2008): 41-50. PsycARTICLES. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. This article detailing a study by Stefanie Luthman, Frithjof and Thomas Bliesener, they test a hypothesis of whether or not (FPS) violent video games lead to desensitization to violence and/or an increase in cardiovascular action. They tested the hypothesis with an experiment with only 42 men spending 20 minutes playing either extremely violent FPS game or a milder FPS, and after are shown unpleasant and aggressive pictures and their reactions are recorded. Their heart rate and respirations are also recorded during their playing time. The study found that there is no difference in the judgments of emotional responses to the pictures from any of the participants. During play, there were increases in heart rate and respirations in situations of high violence that occur in the video game. Frithjof Staude-Muller is a researcher for the institute of psychology at the University of Kiel, who is currently working on his Ph.D. Dr. Thomas Bliesener is the head of the psychology department at the University of Kiel and has over ten years of experience doing psychology research. Stefanie Luffman hows an MSc and a Ph.D in psychology at the University of Kiel. Ferguson, Christopher. The Good, The Bad And The Ugly: A Meta-Analytic Review Of Positive And Negative Effects Of Violent Video  Psychiatric Quarterly 78.4 (2007): 309-316. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 6 Feb. 2017.