Quinones 1 Alesia Quinones Professor Phillips ENC 1102-025 January 28, 2017 The Fight for Proper Security Since the terrorist attack that took place on September 11, 2001, airport security has been heightened across the nation. Although the increase in security was for the benefit of safety it also came with a risk to many. Per many individuals, airport security has become very invasive and has crossed lines causing a moral issue. With the increase in airport security came invasive pat downs and body searches, along with body scanners and searches. An organization called the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC), believes that airport security has become too intrusive and its policies should change; in turn it has followed suits against airport security. On the other hand, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) has put rules in place for safety and believe the intrusion of privacy is for the protection of everyone. With disagreements about the need for pat downs and body searches in airport security, both sides should come a compromise that still ensures the safety of civilians and TSA agents while remaining un-invasive, such as new equipment that will lessen the number of people who feel at airport security. The Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) a public interest research center in Washington, DC. EPIC was established in 1994 to focus public attention on emerging privacy and civil liberties issues and to protect privacy, freedom of expression, and democratic values in the information (EPIC staff and Board of Directors 1). With effort, they file suits on behave of the American people for civil liberties and justification for the American people. Quinones 2 EPIC is a nonprofit organization that fights for the rights and privacy for the people. Back in 2001 when the tragic terrorist attack happened to the American people, the government ordered that TSA have a stronger airport security. When doing so they introduced a body scanner that x- rayed an image of your body that allowed TSA agents to see what was underneath your clothing including genitalia. This caused an uproar in the media and from the people. EPIC filed a lawsuit against TSA to stop the use of body scanners in U.S. airports. EPIC has been fighting for years against TSA for the privacy of the people. However, now TSA has started with random searches of passengers during security and pat downs that have become very invasive toward civilians. On December 16, 2016 CNN commenter Angela Rye was traveling to New York when she had to endure a vaginal pat down at airport security. Per Huffington Post, the pat-down began, Rye had asked TSA management if she could just go through the backscatter machine again. She was told that would not be possible. She was also told that if she refused the pat- down, she would be escorted from the (Hatch 1). With lawsuits against TSA part of it is TSA not allowing passengers the right to opt out of these screenings and pat-downs. Angela situation was a good example of what the EPIC organization is fighting for and why they are fighting against TSA. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) was founded after September 11. 2001 to prevent terrorist attacks like those that took place on September 11 from happening again. TSA was created to keep order and to strengthen security at airports. TSA provides a high passed security screening combating similar terrorist attacks such as those that happened on September. 2001. With focus being the safety and security of civilians, they combat lawsuits against them by stating that the scans and body searches are for civilian safety. Quinones 3 In the article Going Beyond Ascribed Identities: The Importance of Procedural Justice in Airport Security Screening in Israel, it talks about a search study that was performed in the Midwest on 775 Americans. In the search study the airline passengers were asked to complete a satisfaction questionnaire before boarding their flight. In the article, it states, results showed that passengers who believed that the security checks were fair and unbiased, and agreed that improved passenger safety justified increased inconvenience, and reported that they had been treated respectfully and professionally by the security personnel, tended to rate the security checks highly and expressed high levels of satisfaction with the security (Hasisi and Weisburg 3). These praised on airports security show that quite a few people agree with the intensity of airport security after the tragedy that was 9/11, and believe that it is very beneficial to the safety of each passenger. While it is easy for civilians to not agree with TSA security for being too invasive, other countries, such as Israel, airport security methods that are more aggressive than ours. Not only do they practice intense psychological video idea being to identify the behavior associated with a potential threat before it has a chance to be carried they employ technology that allows them to better screen passengers without having to use the full body scanners we love to (Conforti 1). Israel airport security also follows methods of intense questioning and searching of certain bags. In the article Touched by an it talks about how in Ben Gurion International Airport in Israel, Israeli Arabs and non-Jewish visitors are forced to engage in long periods of questioning and are required to allow airport security to do thorough search of their luggage and their (Taylor 20). The Ben Gurion International Airport has not had a terrorist attack since 1972 using the personal interaction method. The United States could benefit from using this method in their hopes of Quinones 4 preventing terrorism. In the article, they believe that switching out from full-body scanners and replacing them with the personal interaction method and if the passengers are believed dangerous they can be required to go through additional security measures. On the EPIC standpoint, this source goes to show that changes can be made to TSA security, seeing as in Israel they have a more efficient way of security that allows there to be less of the invasive body scanners that many have believed ill to society and an invasion of privacy. On the other hand, it shows that TSA security is not as intense as it is in Israel, showing that TSA is trying to find the best way to provide safety and security screenings. With that there is the question of how much privacy should have to be given up my civilians to ensure safety at airports. In a recent interview with new head of TSA, Peter Neffenger and Department of Homeland Security inspector, John Roth. It was told that all over the United States a series of tests which took place across the country at different airports of different sizes using a variety of concealment methods by individuals who are auditors with no specialized training or skill, is a universal disappointing performance by the TSA screening (Roth 1). Without being able to go into too much detail John Roth explained that there were failures in technology, which he explained was These security failures are a huge red flag to national security and all civilians. Having to go through security screenings and for the, to not eve work properly is something that needs to be fixed. Peter Neffenger, new head of TSA explained in the interview that there has been too much emphasis on making security lines shorter and not enough on security. With this Neffenger says that there will be change in the TSA system including a program that randomly selected some passengers for expedited (Naylor 1). Quinones 5 To move forward so that both EPIC and TSA are satisfied a solution is needing to take place that both organizations agree on, such as moving away from using the security methods that are being implemented in airports across America and using the personal interaction method as well as less invasive body scanners. Using the personal interaction method will move TSA agents away from having to use measures such as body searches and pat downs while still being through in its security. With the new security methods, less civilians will feel as though their privacy and freedom is being compromised while going through TSA security and there will still be heightened security which will benefit TSA. While citizens should know that they must give up a little freedom when going through airport security. Allowing TSA agents to provide optimal security for everyone and preventing similar terrorist attacks such as the one that took place on September 11, 2001. TSA security should not however become excessive and making people feel violated and having lack of freedom. With these compromises, it will allow the security to be at its very best and all civilians to be happy and safe. EPIC and TSA are two organizations that disagree on one main thing that is how far should security go before it is too invasive for civilians. On completely opposite sides, EPIC has filed lawsuits against TSA for the belief that the security at airports has become too invasive and give citizens a lack of privacy, violating their right of freedom. While on the other side focus is of the safety of all civilians and the prevention of terrorist attacks on the U.S. So, the questions pose, how far can security go before it is considered a violation to citizens? Well per EPIC, security is already too invasive and there needs to be change implemented that does not compromise rights. To TSA however, airport security is how it is to provide the utmost security to passengers and providing the best prevention of terrorist attacks. Along with EPIC many agree that they have felt violated in airport security and feel as though there should be a Quinones 6 change to the system. A change that can take place that will not benefit only one side but will benefit both would be to move away from body searches and pat downs and change to the personal interaction method. With this compromise both TSA and EPIC will be satisfied considering security will be heightened with the personal interaction method and will cause less civilians to feel violated and will not compromise their right of freedom while still providing Americans with the highest form of security and prevention of terrorist attacks. Quinones 7 Works Cited Explains TSA Transformation at Seton Hall Transportation Security Administration. Transportation Security Administration, 01 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Center, Electronic Privacy Information. Whole Body Imaging Technology and Body Scanners  X-Ray and Millimeter Wave  EPIC.org. Electronic Privacy Information Center, 27 Sept. 2016. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Conforti, Kaeli. Do Other Countries Stack up to the U.S. in Airport Budget Travel. Budget Travel, 27 Sept. 2011. Web 29 Jan. 2017. Hasisi, Badi, and David Weisburd. Going beyond Ascribed Identities: The Importance of Procedural Justice in Airport Security Screening in  Law & Society Review 45.4 (2011): 867-92. Web. Hatch, Jenavieve. Angela Rye Was Subjected To Humiliating TSA Pat- Huffington Post. Huffington Post, 19 Dec. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Roth, John, and Peter Neffinger. New TSA Head Promises To Improve Security  Interview by Brian Naylor. Blog post. Gale, Cengage Learning. National Public Radio, Inc., 3 Nov. 2015. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Quinones 8 Taylor, Courteney L. Touched by an Agent: Why the United States Should Look to the Rest of the World for a New Airport Security Scheme and Stop Using Full-Body  Touched by an Agent: Why the United States Should Look to the Rest of the World for a New Airport Security Scheme and Stop Using Full-Body  by Taylor, Courteney L. - Houston Journal of International Law, Vol. 35, Issue 2, Spring 2013 Online Research Library: Questia. Houston Journal of International Law, Spring 2013. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.