Student Jenifer Paquette ENC project1 Intermediate Draft 2017.2.5 The effect for environment from climate change There are a huge population of human beings living on the earth, people need a comfortable environment to live together which is a place with great conditions such as fresh air and clean water. However, with the development of the society and technology, the climate which is the status of weather has been changed slowly for a long time and it started to affect environment directly. The climate change has a obvious change which is the higher and higher temperature, since 1900s some scientists found the temperature was higher and from 1981 to 1990 the temperature was up for 0.48 degree centigrade, the glacier became to melt and some special animals like polar bear lose their home. The climate change may lead some dangerous and serious results for environment which will affect human lives such as the disappearing for ozone sphere, melting for glacier and rare animals extinct. It is a serious problem that human beings need to solve, they need to find the reasons why climate change appear and the methods that they can have a better environment to live. It is the time to do a deep research, how climate change happened, how it can effect environment seriously and how we can solve it. Li, ANTHONY H.F. Hopes of limiting global warming? China and the Paris Agreement on Climate China Perspectives 1(2016): 49-52. Academic Search Alumni Edition. March 1, 2016 The article shows that the climate change may appear after the industrial revolution which may be the preparation for the developing the global economy. According to the scientific and credible evidence from some researchers, with the development of the technology because the industrial revolution, the amount of using fossil fuels were higher and higher especially in the World War II. Because using these fossil fuels, it produced more and more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere which was the most important reason to lead climate change. However, after that time, the climate change lead more serious problems such as global warming, rising of sea levels, melting of glacier and the disappearing about the forests which are too dangerous to affect environment. This useful source shows that how climate change happened. Because using fossil fuels to approach the goal about industrial revolution, it need to produced more and more guns in the World War II and produced some useful production such as trains and cars. As the result, more and more carbon dioxide rise to atmosphere and made temperature higher and higher and lead climate change. This source is credible because the article give the current references where the news come from and it also available online, so it is useful and credible for deep research. John T. Abatzoglou, Crystal A. Kolden, Pamela Doughman, Joseph F.C. Dimento ,Stefano Nespor. Climate-Change Effects adaptation and Joseph F.C. Dimento Climate Change. The MIT Press 59-63. 2014. Print. The article shows the climate change may affect the environment seriously such as affect water resource. Under the careful researching, some climate scientists refer that the water may cycle among the land, oceans and atmosphere. Because the climate change, temperature become more and more higher and lead global warming, it may affect this cycle and lead the unnatural raining and drought in some special area. In additional, the article also shows a new challenge for the environment issue because climate change which is water availability. In some special place where have many mountains may need more water to live, however, under the higher temperature, water may less and less in these places and make people live harder. This source solve the research question that how climate change affect environment seriously by using one of the problem of environment which is water. The climate change lead global warming and affect environment directly which need us to pay attention and solve it immediately. This source is credible because it was published by The MIT Press which is the journal division began in 1969 and it have enough credible references for scholar knowledge, so this source can be a useful and credible method to do deep research about how climate change may affect environment seriously. Wibberley, John. Global Climate Change: Agricultural Implications And Theological Rural Theology 6.2 (2008): 75-89. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. According to the article, climate change lead the global warming which is the biggest challenge in the world now. However, the global warming also bring some serious cases to affect the environment even affect the human lives. First, climate change produce the Greenhouse gases which is the direct reason of global warming, the more fossil fuels were burned the more carbon dioxide were produced and make the temperature higher with extreme weather to lose more and more forests and animals. Second, climate change bring the sea changes which is the rising of sea levels, because the high temperature, the sea ice melt more and more and it lead some sea animals lose their home. The article shows how climate change affect the environment seriously which relate with the research question by using some results about the climate change. It shows that sea animals lose their home because the rising of sea levels, more and more forests disappear because the higher temperature, it all affect environment even affect human lives. This source is credible because it was published by the Rural Theology which is an journal, it has many correct scholar sources in the article and the article can also available online. So it is a credible and useful source to do deep research and solve the research question. Wong, S. and G. Coates. Nickel: Important Part of Climate Change Corrosion Engineering, Science &Technology 45.1 (2010): 97- 100. Academic Search Premier. In this article, it shows that the important part of climate change solution which is the using of material relate with engineer. The article shows the new technology which can solve the climate change which are using solar energy, using ethanol production. First, using the new technology which is concentrating solar power to concentrate energy with some method to heat a transfer fluid and it can save fossil fuels and reduce the production of carbon dioxide. Second, another new technology can solve climate change which is ethanol production. Because ethanol is a renewable source of energy, it can save energy and decrease the production of greenhouse gases. This article solve the research question how to solve the climate change which is focus on some new technology to save energy. The article shows the methods which are using solar energy to save fossil fuels and using renewable energy such as ethanol to save the other energy. And it shows that people need to solve the problem of climate change. This source is credible because the article shows the real information about the authors and it have enough references in the article and available online. So it is a credible and scholar source to do deep research and know the information about climate change solution.