Murdock 1 Sheena Murdock Instructor Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 27 January 2017 Racism and Equality: Division Amongst Our Own In the United States of America, blacks and African Americans have been fighting for the equality and treatment they deserve since 1954; the start of the Civil Rights Movement (Allen). Though some think racism exist in modern America, police brutality, arrests records (GSS/NORC experiment), and even poverty rates reveal that the racist stereotype and discrimination against blacks is still alive. There are hundreds of organizations that are fighting to change the perceived notion towards black Americans, but there are two specific stakeholders that are currently making notable achievements. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People plans to achieve this mission by working through court and legislative appeal. The newly established Black Lives Matter Movement uses more aggressive methods, such as widespread protesting and social media. Although they agree on how the goal should be met, both organizations believe wholeheartedly that there needs to be a change. When the Civil Rights Movement began in the 1950s, there were two figures that were vital to its advancement: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. from the south, and Malcolm X from the north. Their mission was the same: to end discrimination and inequality for black African- Americans. They both had a large amount of support to push for change, but they had different methods of reaching this goal; King used a peaceful approach, while Malcolm X used a more head on, direct approach. For this reason, the two remained divided, preventing the Civil Rights Murdock 2 Movement from being as fruitful and effective as it could have been. It was only near the end of their lives, in 1964, that they expressed their respect and appreciation for one another, setting an example for their supporters. The situation between the National Association for the Advancement for Colored People and the Black Lives Matter Movement is no different than the situation 50 years ago. These two organizations are against one another because of their methods. Following the example of the generation before us, it would be most beneficial for these two modern organizations to join forces to have a louder, firmer voice in promoting equality for black Americans from all sides: judicially, socially, and globally. The NAACP has been a long-standing organization concerning black rights, well- deserving of the title and when it comes this field. The NAACP was founded in 1909 to fight against the criminal acts of lynching in the southern states. Per their official website, their mission statement/vision is ensure a society in which all individuals have equal rights without discrimination based on and to barriers of racial discrimination (NAACP). Everything that the NAACP has done in the past century was never through violence; they used legislative and judicial approaches, attempting to abide by the law in every way. An example of this is shown in the organizations role in the infamous Brown v. Board of Education case. The NAACP provided substantial evidence that segregation of elementary schools has a greater effect on children of color than on the white population, explaining that the children of color felt the inferiority as children, and had a lower desire to learn. The Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS) reviewed this evidence and declared the integration of all public schools. (Bell) The NAACP pursued their dreams by working in ways similar to this. Even today, former president Barack Obama praised their efforts in fighting for equality regarding Murdock 3 healthcare and education. Speaking at the celebratory ball recognizing the 100 th anniversary of the NAACP, President Obama explained: but our kids all aspire to be Lebron or Lil Wayne. I want them aspiring to be scientists and engineers, doctors and teachers, not just ballers and rappers. I want them aspiring to be a supreme court justice. I want them aspiring to be president of the United States of America (Stolberg) Praising their efforts to push black children to have greater hopes and desires for themselves, President Obama delivered this speech to show that he fully supported and appreciated their efforts. The NAACP works closely with political officials to push for a change, and the achieve their mission: to ensure a society where race limit your desires and abilities. The Black Lives Matter movement is also working towards the same goal. According to their official website, they seek the of black and to the black libertarian movement (Black Lives The Black Lives Matter movement began in 2012, amidst the ruling of the widely known Trayvon Martin case. Martin was shot in the back and killed by a white male, which stirred up loads of racism rumors. The white male was found not guilty of murder, being released after claiming he shot Martin in self-defense. The black communities across the nation went out into the streets, exercising the first amendment right, and began protesting across the nation. In turn, this bold move brought much ridicule and seemed to promote further division, as the crowds proclaimed Lives With their motto, a moment, but a they use bold notions to get their point across: Police brutality is evidence that racism still exists in America; and it needs to change now. The protests spread widely across the nation and social media, allowing the topic of racism discrimination to reach a whole new generation. Although they have gather much support by holding almost 2,000 Murdock 4 protests in the last 2 years, not all their protests are During a protest for Michael Brown in 2014, multiple police officers and civilians were injured or killed out of the vigor and strength. The Black Lives Matter movement was never fully convinced of the support, due to their different approaches. (Flynn) In February 2016, Black Lives Matter protested a decision the NAACP made to give Harris County District Attorney Devon Anderson an award for her marijuana diversion program, since Harris County has a tendency to wrongly arrest minorities. Despite this, many argue that the NAACP is outdated, made more believable considering much of youth participates in the Black Lives Matter protests. Regardless of how they approach the situation, it is evident that the two organizations want the same thing: equal rights for blacks. The conflict arises when one group support the methods and tactics of the other. For the sake of black Americans across the country, it would be most beneficial for these two major forces to combine their efforts, resulting in a louder voice for change. The judicial and legislative approach of the NAACP is one proven to be very effective. Yet, the idea of public protests resounds amongst youth. These two organizations need to reach a compromise to move towards their goal. The NAACP should allow the Black Lives Matter members to play a part in the legislative efforts, showing that they will work together for a change in every way. While the Black Lives Matter movement focuses more on protesting and social media, members of the NAACP can show their support by promoting peace and partaking in the protests. If these two methods are combined, along with the supporters of each group, the movement for equality for all will not prosper in just the United States, but will have a greater possibility of spreading globally, throughout North and South America, and across the world. Both groups are effective in their own way. Once we combine the knowledge and experience of Murdock 5 the NAACP with the liveliness of the Black Lives Matter movement, it will become force to not be reckoned with; one that is stronger, has a louder voice, and has more persistence to fight for that they want. It will be the combination of different generations, and different ideas that will allow these organization to work alongside one another harmoniously. Murdock 6 Works Cited Bell, Derrick v. Board of Education and the Interest-Convergence 27 January 2017 Lives Black Lives Matter http://blacklivesmatter.com/ 27 January 2017 Blake, John and Martin, closer than we ever The Clinton New Network (CNN) 27 January 2017 v. Board of Education The Leadership Conference www.civilrights.org 28 January 2017 and Law Enforcement in America: Racial and Ethnic Differences in Attitudes toward the Criminal Justice The General Social Survey at the University of Chicago http://gss.norc.org/ 27 January 2017 Devichand, Mukul does the slogan Lives mean now? British Broadcasting Corporation 28 January 2017 Read this list of 1,892 Black Lives Matter protests and other  Elephrame. Elephrame, 05 Feb. 2017. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. https://elephrame.com/textbook/BLM. Flynn, Megan Black Lives Matter Remains Unconvinced of Houston Press 29 January 2017 Mills, Nancy of Minds : Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X: What If . . . The Huffington Post 27 January 2017 Morris, Aldon Origins of the Civil Rights Movement: Black Communities Organizing for Constitutional Commentary, 27 January 2017 Murdock 7 Association for the Advancement of Colored National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) http://www.naacp.org/ 27 January 2017 Stolberg, Sheryl Gives Fiery Address at The New York Times 28 January 2017