Winton 1 Adam Winton Ms. Tisdale ENC 1101 Feb 5, 2017 The Rise of Esports Throughout all cultures, there has been one of the things to remain constant, which is that each culture will have a sport of sorts that is important to the people. As the culture advances, so does the sport. The Aztecs had their primitive sport of getting a ball through a hoop, and as we grew and learned, we made a sport like this, but involving nets and a hoop, or like how we as Americans took the sport of rugby and advanced into the sport which we call football. As we move into a a technological culture, many people are playing a technological sport, namely Esports. Esports is short for electronic  which is playing video games on a competitive level. The question that is pressing in society is whether or not it should be a true sport. Many people would criticize Esports because who would really want to watch someone else play a video  Or that not really a big deal. There are even people who say that it really require any skill and that anyone could just be a professional. As the world is advancing into a new area, will Esports eventually become the dominant sport? Source 1: Jacobs, Jana. Welcome to Esports: More than just a , Finweek, 24 Nov. 2016 Many people would say that people would not care about watching other people play video games, the result is quite the contrary. According to Riot Games, the developers of the Winton 2 game League of Legends, 43 million unique viewers tuned into the League of Legends world championship in 2016. To put that into perspective according to the NBA, the 2016 NBA championships recorded about 1.7 unique viewers. This was also a record setting number for the NBA. According to (the creator of DOTA 2) website, the DOTA world championship had a prize pool of over $20 million dollars. Esports is a bigger deal than most people would think. In countries like South Korea, China, etc. Esports gamers are looked upon like celebrities. The large growth of Esports is mainly due to how easy it is to watch. To watch say the NBA they would either have to pay for cable and pay for a subscription to the NBA network, if they wanted to watch most of the games. If someone wanted to watch a League of Legends tournament, they would just have to go onto a live streaming website like Twitch.tv which is completely free. This article talks about the rise of electronic sports or . It discusses how competitive video game playing can be comparable to that of professional basketball playing. In many countries other than America, Esports is looked upon in the same contention as that of many other popular sports and this article talks specifically about South Korea and South Africa. This article seems to be very credible and shows no bias or any reason of a company falsifying data. Jacobs, Jana. Welcome to Esports: More than just a , Finweek, 24 Nov. 2016 Koblin, John. Game 7 of N.B.A. Finals Draws Close to 31 Million , New York Times, 20 Jun 2016, https://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/21/business/media/game-7-of-nba-finals-draws- Accessed 4 Feb. 2017. Winton 3 Game 7 of NBA Finals highest-rated game ever on , NBA, 20 Jun 2016, http://www.nba.com/2016/news/06/20/game-7-nba-finals-highest-rated-game-ever-abc/. Accessed 4 Feb 2017. Bradmore, Magus. 2016 League of Legends World Championship By the  lolesports, 6 Dec. 2016, championship-numbers. Accessed 4 Feb. 2017. Source 2: Burroughs, Benjamin. Rama, Paul. The eSports Trojan Horse: Twitch and Streaming  The Journal of Virtual Worlds Research, Volume 8 no. 2, Oct 2015, A great thing of Esports is how well the professional players can interact with their fans. Twitch.tv is a live streaming website in which people can watch others play video games. Many professional players will live stream themselves playing and practicing their games, in which viewers can chat with those players and possible learn things to improve their games. Many streamers read the chat and can talk with viewers and answer questions. Many people like Esports because people can play the same game, possibly with a professional, as the people who would compete in a tournament. With most sports like football, basketball, or baseball, you would need to completely join a team at say a school, or a rec. league, whereas with video games you can just hop on and feel in the same zone as the pros. Twitch.tv lets people feel closer to the pros by letting them interact on a comfortable basis. If someone were to even have a conversation with Tom Brady, it would feel like a once in a lifetime opportunity, but with the commonality of Esports and Twitch, it is easier to interact with pros, and most of the time, the pros will remember a lot of their fans. Twitch is a premier streaming site because it is not only Winton 4 for professionals, but also for the everyday person. According to the Journal of Virtual Worlds Research, Twitch.tv has the fourth highest internet traffic at peak times in the US, which shows how much people love this website. Twitch.tv also is a website that will live stream most of the Esports tournaments, which is why Twitch is so synonymous with Esports. This article discusses how Esports had such a sudden rise with its fans, and how it is using the internet to bring about their astronomical views. This article talks about Twitch.tv and how this free streaming service is making watching Esports an easy task. This article is also a very credible source being that it is from the Virtual Worlds Research Journal, and has no Burroughs, Benjamin. Rama, Paul. The eSports Trojan Horse: Twitch and Streaming  The Journal of Virtual Worlds Research, Volume 8 no. 2, Oct 2015, https://journals.tdl.org/jvwr/index.php/jvwr/article/view/7176/6370. Accessed 5 Feb. 2017 Source 3: Jonasson, Kalle; Thibord, Jesper. Electronic sport and its impact on future sport  Sport in Society, volume 12, no. 2, 2010, pages 287-299, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17430430903522996. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017 This source talks about the new idea of Esports from the view of 2010. At first the article goes into how Esports got its start through the age of the internet. Then the article starts to go into a similar theme with this paper, which is should Esports be termed as a sport. The author goes into Winton 5 detail of the how a sport comes out of an activity you play. He shows that out of  you get spontaneous  and organized . Then from organized  you get competitive and non-competitive games. Then he shows that in competitive games you can bring about intellectual contests and physical contests. In a majority of the journal the author goes into how intellectual contests such as chess or video games can result in a sport. The author then goes into how Esports will be in the future. The author presents three possible scenarios, that esports will grow as a counterculture or alternative to modern sports, it will be accepted as part of the rest of the sports, or that esports will grow to be the largest sport. This article goes through the past, present and future of esports, and shows that it is growing and one day will be a sport, but not everyone might call it one. Should Esports be considered sports, this article would say yes. The authors of the article show points in which that a sport only have to be a competition of physical prowess, but it can be a contest of strategy, reflexes, and intelligence, like Esports. This article comes from the journal Sport in , which is an academic journal which often talks about international cultural aspects. This article discusses how Esports came to be and the rise of its community which treats it like a sport. Source 4: When it comes to gaming as a spectator sport, big names take a  Games for Windows, 1 Aug, 2007. http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=5&sid=d8674375-1a6b-4590-ab72- df06149349d6%40sessionmgr120&hid=121. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017 Winton 6 This article talks about Esports trying to broadcast onto television. The article discusses why certain games would be good for broadcasting on television and the struggles video games face to gain popularity. For Esports to be brought into mainstream broadcasting and be considered a sport, it needs to be able to have a better base to explain rules. A large criticism of Esports is that it is not something that the average viewer could just sit down and understand. This article discusses that games like World of Warcraft are really hard for a casual viewer to sit down and enjoy. A lot of games are very sporadic and very chaotic on the screen. For Esports to be taken more seriously as a sport, it needs a better spectator, so it can appeal to the casual viewer, rather than the hardcore fan. The article shows that Esports do have some room for improvement, if they want to become a spectator sport. This article shows that to someone who play the game, it would be hard to follow and it would lead to a hard learning process. This article is from a journal called Games for Windows which shows that they are aware of video games, but they are not bias by saying their video game is the best and all will understand. This article shows that video games are definitely wanted in broadcast, but that they needed improvements, which might have been instituted in the last 7 years.