Leonardo Vega Instructor: Ashley Tisdale ENC1 Sec 008 February 13, 2017. US Pro-Tennis Decline in the Global Arena: The Contention Continues Tennis greats Sampras, Agassi, McEnroe, and Connors have made the USA the most successful nation in the Tennis Open Era. Unfortunately, we are losing our tennis power, currently reaching a mere American tennis is at a serious low point. There has been no Grand Slam winner in the last thirteen years (since Andy Roddick won the 2003 US Open) and no semifinalist in over seven years. Moreover, no American player has reached the quarterfinals for the last twenty-one Grand Slams. The struggle experienced by the American tennis circuit is a topic of loud contention among players, coaches, and tournament directors. Coaches and players blame situation with the on a poor approach to technique and tactics, compounded by the lack of clay court training. Directors take issue with the below-average inconsistent rigor used to certify coaching professionals. One point of common ground however lays on the weak multi-level approach, which fails to grow the popularity of the sport because it focuses in country-club players and year-round, overexposed weekly competition. Why is the US Pro-Tennis not measuring up to the world? It may simply be a problem of inclusion and long-term commitment. We must promote the sport of tennis to all youths, not just the and create a plan that supports their gradual development deep-rooted in commitment to excellence not just profit. American Pro-Tennis can regain competitive global standings if male players are consistently more exposed to high performance clay-court training, highly- qualified and accountable coaches, as well as more diversified and inclusive sponsorship opportunities to grow within the sport. (wc: 268) Konigsberg, Eric. Can U.S. Tennis Rise  The New York Times Magazine. N.p., 22 Aug. 2014. Web. 15 Jan. 2017. The thesis focuses on three US top-youth tennis players who have been to lead the return of American male players to the global top rankings. All have been enrolled at one time or another in prominent tennis academies that concentrate in intensive boot-camp training, which focused mostly on players to just perform well in competition, rather than encourage their abilities in long-term results. One of the tennis Scott Rubin, chose against the fast-developed, polished, ideal player, to follow his father-coach support. Despite winning the Wimbledon Tennis Championship in 2014, his career as a pro-tennis player has not taken off properly, losing almost all the support of the USTA, after a series of injuries and losses in the national circuit. His future in tennis seems uncertain because of limited training, lack of coaching support and sponsorship. The article appears in The New York Times Magazine, one of the largest circulation among metropolitan newspapers in the US, featured under The US Open Issue, in the eve of the US Open 2014. The author, Eric Konigsberg, has been a collaborator and writer for the NYT since 2009. Other magazine collaborations include The New Yorker, Rolling Stone and Tin House. (wc: 203) Morales, Miguel. American Tennis Dying But It Does Need  Forbes Magazine. N.p., 6 Sep. 2013. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. In this article, Miguel Morales, the online editor for contributor network, covers the sport of tennis, while following the money angle. The author discusses the desperate changes needed in the development of US Tennis with Todd Martin, a former American pro, U.S. Open finalist and managing director of Todd Martin Tennis. Martin insists that in a sport like tennis, we must get youngsters more interested by making the sport more accessible to them. The USTA wants to focus on creating more regional training hubs, and provide enough funding to local clubs and organizations that support children that are less fortunate. He also points out that coaching education must with the tennis advancements in other countries in order to provide the proper platform to support the future training of US tennis. Like their European counterparts, coaches must be made accountable for keeping their credentials and necessary training up-to- date, to avoid a fine. This article presents the expert opinions of Lawrence Kleger, the Executive Director of Tennis at SPORTIME, and Patrick McEnroe, the General Manager of Player Development. They tell that the future of US Tennis is in the hands of simply getting kids excited about playing it, so they pick sports. This discussion is relevant to the topic of US tennis recent decline, which has been linked directly to the lack of diversity and inclusion within the sport. (wc: 240) Foster, J. Clay Soils  BBC News. BBC, 23 May 2002. Web. 08 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the inability of one of the greatest American tennis players in Open Era, Pete Sampras, to win the elusive clay-court Grand Slam, the French Open. At the time the article is written, Sampras has played the French Open twelve times, reaching his at the 1996 semi-final. Up until 2002, Sampras has only been able to reach second and third rounds at the French Open. The BCC reporter contrasts the dismal failure in the tournament to Swedish great Bjorn Borg, who has won six French Open and five Wimbledon titles, transitioning from clay to grass surface with no problem. The article suggests that coach, Tim Gullikson, lacks the experience and ability to teach the American how to adjust his powerful play-style from the faster hard and grass courts to the slower clay surface. The obvious problem affecting the decorated American player, winner of thirteen major titles at the time, is simply the failure to recognize the need to train on clay courts at home, and play more warm-up tournaments on clay before the main French event. The article appears in the front page of BCC Sports News Feed, French Open Special Edition, published in the eve of the 2002 French Open. J. Foster is a tennis contributor and writer for BCC Sports in 2002 and focuses the article on Pete elusive French Open win, suggesting that at this point, the win in Roland Garros is beyond The validity of this decades-old BCC Sports reporting on the topic of the decline of U.S. Tennis in the professional arena, is that it chronicles the on-going struggles American male players have endured on clay-surface tournaments, and its significant effects on the global standings. (wc: 289) Kamperman, Kurt. USTA Awards over $400,000 in Recreational Tennis Grants to 45 Non-profit Organizations across the  USTA News Magazine. USTA, 15 Aug. 2008. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. This article looks at a new series of grants that the Recreational Tennis Division of the United States Tennis Association (USTA) is distributing to non-profit organizations across the U.S. to develop tennis programs for children and adults alike within our communities to promote diversity in the sport. It reports on grants totaling $400,000 that will be awarded twice a year to organizations such as Parks and Recreation, and school districts, among others. There are two types of grants: Community Partnership Investment Awards (CPIA) and Program/Project Support Grants (PPSG). will be larger awards of up to $50,000 to community organizations that are required to match the USTA investments to grow the game of tennis locally and support Some of the CPIA recipients in 2008 are Arthur Ashe Youth Tennis in Philadelphia, PA Charlotte Tennis Association in Charlotte, NC, and Tennis and Education Inc. in Saint Paul, Minn. PPSG awards will be smaller grants of up to $5,000 to support smaller general tennis programs, funding projects and equipment for smaller entities, such as Love to Serve Inc in Chicago, IL, City of Charleston Department of Recreation, SC, and Miami Dade Community Center, FL. The USTA is the national governing body of tennis in the U.S. It focuses on promoting and developing the growth within local communities and in a professional level. The article, published in the USTA News Magazine, is written by Kurt Kamperman, USTA Chief Executive of Community Tennis in 2008. Kamperman leads a team in the headquarters of USTA, located in Boca Raton, FL, that manages the funding and provides accountability to the USTA at a national level. The Recreational Grants Program is at its early stages, and while it helps implement local tennis programs around the country, it fails to fully assess the focus on diversification and inclusion of the sport at the community level. If the USTA cannot ensure local moneys are being used to support children of various racially and income diverse backgrounds, then it is not promoting the love of tennis equally among young athletes, which does not do much to benefit the sport in the long term. This is relevant to the decline in US Tennis because to raise future professional tennis players committed to excellence, we must first teach the love of the sport to all youth equally. (wc: 388)