Santana 1 James Santana Jr. Professor Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 January 28, 2017 How effect the Health and Fitness levels of Individuals Many Americans try to be healthy. With fitness ads, commercials, and society putting pressure on both male and females to look a certain way in order to be classified as a healthy human being. However, being an overall healthy human being starts with what you are putting into your body. a reason why a market for supplement stores such as GNC and The Vitamin Shoppe. But even then buyers are beguiled into buying sixty-dollar protein tubs that are manufactured nine dollars by the pound and have a whole bunch of artificial flavorings, sweeteners, and components that make the shake taste pleasant. Though these ingredients increase your chance of cancer, interfere with reproductive success and increase your chance of having a child with a birth defect instead of truly being quality protein that your body utilizes. Many, unfortunately, are unaware of this, and as they strive for a better body, little do they know of the potential harm they are causing to their bodies. But even if you a gym rat and consuming or buying supplements left and right from your nearest supplement shop; at risk. As are most American citizens from the introductory of (genetically modified Santana 2 organisms) in a majority of our everyday foods. Which leads me into wondering, how quite do effect the overall health and fitness levels of individuals? Vaesa, Janelle. GMOs: Benefits and Negative Effects of Genetically Modified  Decoded Science. NP, 19 July 2013. This article written by Janelle Vaesa for Decoded Science explores the idea that many may have about The positive effects on them and why here in the United States the FDA agrees on continuing the production of them. Before we get started, the author, Janelle Vaesa, graduated in 2008 from the University of Louisville with a Masters in Public Health and Bachelors in Health and Human Performance. Since then she has racked up nearly eight years of professional work in the public health field and specializes in the study of infectious diseases. She also has worked with many medical professionals and created her own curriculum for them that betters their knowledge and others around them on infectious diseases. Furthermore, this article states that genetically modified crops are beneficial to our industry because it enables farmers to grow more crops on less amounts of land, grow more nutrient rich crops at that, and more tasteful ones as well. On top of this the article also points out that genetically modified crops are pesticide and disease resistant ultimately maximizing the overall quality of food produced while producing it in such a way that is time, space, and economically efficient. It also addresses GMO usage in animals and talks briefly on how animals inserted with a certain genome can produce better meat, milk, and eggs as well as having better immunity against diseases. These are some of the reasons to why people around America would argue for GMO usage into our foods. However this article does go onto say that resent research is showing that GM foods may not be particularly in your favor. Santana 3 Smith, Jeffrey. GMO  Institute for Responsible Technology. IRT, 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. In this article the author, Jeffrey Smith, not only informs us about what a GMO is but also what type of foods are genetically modified and the certain health issues that were studied in animals given these types of foods. Moreover, this article opens our eyes to how quite relatively new are to the market. They were first noticed and introduced in the mid-90s (as stated in the text) and truly gain crazy attention until about 2012. In contrast, a vast majority of our foods are nearly almost strictly genetically modified. The article reads, crops in the U.S. include soy (94%), cotton (90%), canola (90%), sugar beets (95%), corn (88%), Hawaiian papaya (more than 50%), zucchini and yellow squash (over 24,000 Meaning nearly almost all soy, canola, corn, and sugar beets products (all which we consume) are genetically modified in one way or another. Leading me into the health precautions listed in this article from consuming GMOs. Studies on lab animals that were fed GM foods found that the inside lining of their digestive linings becoming enflamed and having rapid cell growth. Furthermore this article (from studies on various lab animals) states that GM foods in lab animals caused and allergic reactions, sick, sterile, and dead livestock, and damage to virtually every in these lab animals. If animals are so similar to us, imagine the effect it could be having right now on our human body. The author Jeffrey Smith is a world renowned consumer advocate that lives his life writing books, constructing documentaries, and speaking to people and legislators about non- GMO choices. His work reveals the truth behind regulations and how the FDA uses outdated sciences and assumptions to not put a ban on what he believes is the number one food safety pandemic in our new America. On top of this, his full length documentary, Roulette Santana 4 The Gamble of Our has won many awards including the 2012 Movie of The Year. He also has toured and talk to people from over 40 different countries on the health and dangers of Shaw, John N. Should We Care About Genetically Modified  Food Safety News. Food Safety News, 01 Feb. 2010. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. In this article, written by John N Shaw, we again explore the positives and negatives with genetically modified organisms. Although have what our author writes, to save money, eliminate poverty, reduce hunger and malnutrition, and promote innovative It also has catastrophic negatives on a health, which the author believes is more important and justifying than the positives. One concern is that the introduction of foreign genes into our foods negatively affect us by introducing a new allergen into our genome as well as the previously stated inflammation of intestines (in paragraph 4). This can cause or lead to intestinal obstruction and ultimately the failure of your bodies vital organs. Our author, John Shaw, attended the University of Arkansas where he played football and graduated with his Bachelor of Science degree in Finance with a minor in Marketing. On top of this however he has always had a passion for Food Law. Which he studies most readily today, as he is a law student at the University Of Arkansas School Of Law. Furthermore elaborating on the credibility of our author, he has worked alongside Director Susan Schneider of Food Law LL.M as a research assistant studying GM foods first hand. Burke, Alana M. 7 Ways GMOs Affect Your  Newsmax. N.p., 09 Feb. 2015. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Santana 5 This article, written by Alana Burke, explores new research on GMOs and gives insight on the ways it is affecting our health, for, not so much the better. The article shows that the most common food allergies are attributed to foods that are typically GM foods in society today. Showing us that GMOs foods are causing people to become more allergic or at all allergic to these foods than they been readily. Another was our health is affected by GMOs is through the toxicity of them. It reads, mammals fed with commercialized GM soy and maize that are already in our food and feed chain found consistent toxic effects on the liver and are also linked to infertility in humans as well as animals and to the rise of gluten sensitivity in the United States. As a study shows that when you take out GM foods from the diet of someone with gluten sensitivity they are better able to recover. And as if this all enough, GM foods are linked to birth defects (due to the herbicide put on them), cancer, and DNA transfer through horizontal gene transfer from ingesting the food injected with foreign DNA. Although there is not much information on the author, the website whom published the work is NEWSMAX and has been approved by many sources including CBS News.