Ridley 1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 4 February 2017 Child Abuse and Its Effect on Mental Health Child abuse is one of the most horrifying forms of torture one can imagine. When people think of child abuse most people would think of an act that is physical toward the child however, that is not actually the case. Child abuse, or in this case a better term would be childhood maltreatment, considers all aspects of mental abuse including sexual abuse, physical abuse, emotional abuse, and witnessing maternal battering. So, when people think of child abuse or maltreatment, most people tend to just look at the physical signs and delve into the psychological trauma maltreatment can cause. These effects also last all throughout life as a lot of research on adults who were maltreated as children suggests. These effects manifest in various forms such as social anxiety, psychiatric issues, and mental disorders and require heavy treatment to try to resolve. For example, Valerie Edwards did a study where she measured the mental health scores of adults who were maltreated as children. Out of 8,667 people tested, over 34 percent had been abused in more than one category. Her test results also showed that the mental health capacity of the adult was less and less in comparison to the number of different categories of abuse they were exposed to (Edwards, 2). With results like these, one must ask: What are the effects of childhood maltreatment on Adult mental health? Ridley 2 Edwards, Valerie. Relationship Between Multiple Forms of Childhood Maltreatment and Adult Mental Health in Community Respondents: Results From the Adverse Childhood Experiences  Relationship Between Multiple Forms of Childhood Maltreatment and Adult Mental Health in Community Respondents: Results From the Adverse Childhood Experiences Study American Journal of Psychiatry. N.p., 01 Aug. 2003. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Valerie Edwards conducted a test of the effects of childhood abuse on the mental health of adults. She tested 8,667 and the results she found from these subjects were astounding. First, over 34 percent of these people experienced more than one major kind of abuse. These forms could be any combination of physical or mental abuse, malnourishment, or witnessing of maternal battering. Valerie found that a normal score on her mental health test was roughly a 78.5 for those who experienced no abuse. This number dropped to 75.5, 72.8, 69.9 for those who experienced one, two, or three different kinds of abuse. This source answers the research question by showing how drastic the results of child abuse are on mental health later in life. The more kinds of maltreatment the child is exposed to, the more their mental health is affected. Valerie, among her colleagues she conducted the experiment with, are all medical doctors or Ph. D holders adding to the credibility. Furthermore, this research article was published in the American Journal of Psychiatry which further adds to the sources credibility. Ridley 3 Horwitz, Allan. The Impact of Childhood Abuse and Neglect on Adult Mental Health: A Prospective  Journal of Health and Social Behavior 42 (2001): 184-201. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The researchers found documented court cases of childhood abuse around 1970 and interviewed these people as adults roughly 20 years later. To control for all possible variables, they compared the results of the interviews of the abused or neglected subjects to that of a control group. The results they found was that the abused or neglected group showed more signs of dysthymia and antisocial personality disorder. However, they also found that after controlling for life event stressors, childhood victimization have the long term negative mental effect that they thought. This article shows that there are some negative mental effects on children who were abused. They showed signs of antisocial personality disorder and dysthymia which are some of the more common results of abused children. The credibility of this source is great since it was an article in the Journal of Health and Social Behavior. Also, the authors are all professors at Rutgers University. Ridley 4 Herrenkohl, Todd. Developmental Impacts of Child Abuse and Neglect Related to Adult Mental Health, Substance Use, and Physical  Journal of Family Violence 28 (2013): 191- 199. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. This study showed the correlation between childhood maltreatment and its effects on adult mental health. The study group consisted of men in their and used data from a longitudinal study conducted for over 30 years. The researchers used chi-square tests for categorical variables and logistic and linear regressions as the control variable. The results they found consisted of the adults reporting more symptoms of adult depression, anxiety, and other forms of impairment. There was also a high percentage of those who reported life time alcohol problems which also put them at greater risk for substance abuse. This is the first article that mentions alcohol abuse as an effect of being maltreated as a child. One would think substance abuse would be more prevalent in research done on child abuse and its effects on mental health. However, this does answer the research question by providing a new aspect that is effected in adults who were maltreated as children. This is a credible source due to the fact it is published in the Journal of Family Violence and all contributors are professors in the school of social work. Ridley 5 Norman, Rosana. The Long-Term Health Consequences of Child Physical Abuse, Emotional Abuse, and Neglect: A Systematic Review and  The Long-Term Health Consequences of Child Physical Abuse, Emotional Abuse, and Neglect: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. PLOS Medicine, 27 Nov. 2012. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. The researchers of this study did a meta-analysis of 124 studies that investigated the relationship of child abuse and its mental health outcomes. They found that there is a correlation between child abuse and mental health issues in older adults. For example, they found data that showed that emotionally abused children had three times the risk of developing depression than non-abused individuals. The data collected from this article also brings up another aspect of mental health issues in sexually abused children. According to the data, sexually abused children are more likely to contract sexually transmitted diseases as well as engage in risky sexual behavior. This article answers the research question by providing more numerical research data to support the correlation between child abuse and mental health issues in adults. This article also touches on another subject, which answers the research question, in sexually abused children in that they are more likely to contract STDs as adults and engage in risky sexual behavior. This article shows its credibility by being published on a medical website as well as showing that it was peer reviewed. There are also links for the contributing authors with their credentials and emails.