Prasse 1 Logan Prasse Professor Roth ENC1101.018 5 February 2017 Project 1: Intermediate Draft Hundreds of millions of years ago, megafauna roamed the very land human civilization inhabits today. When thinking of these megafauna, in particular those that are commonly thought of as dinosaurs, one often imagines the likes of giant fossils such as the famous Sue. What is striking in modern day, though, hundreds of millions of years later, is the continued impact and influence dinosaurs have on our society. How, exactly, has our societal viewpoint of dinosaurs changed? And how does the way society thinks about dinosaurs contribute to their lasting impact on a daily basis? When thinking about these questions, one can see the most popular and upfront ways in which dinosaurs contribute and how they are viewed. Popular culture movies such as Jurassic Park, for instance. But when you examine the question more closely and strongly consider the impact such massive creatures must have left for the Earth; some not so stark contributions begin to come to mind. Fossil fuels? Scientific research and advancements? Evolutionary traces? These concepts are vast and far reaching in scope however they all come back to one single point: the dinosaur. Prasse 2 Works Cited Brinkman, Paul D. The Second Jurassic Dinosaur Rush And The Dawn Of  Endeavour 34 (2010): 104-111. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 < http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.endeavour.2010.06.004>. In the feature Second Jurassic Dinosaur Rush And The Dawn Of author Paul Brinkman introduces the concept that is the dinosaur and how dinosaurs came to be at the foreground of the American scientific community and, consequently, American society in general. Placing particular emphasis on sauropods, Brinkman notes how these massive skeletons were a point of pride among the top museums. This work has historical context with my topic because it provides a historical background and springboard for the idea of an explosion of interest for dinosaurs in popular culture. Perhaps most important is the fact that if it for the events discussed and laid out in this article, dinosaurs they may not have been a commonplace fixture in society today, and this research question may not have even been considered. I think this article, therefore, represents the beginning of the academic about my topic. This article features a rhetorical feature of logos as it appeals to logic and factual based evidence. Brinkman himself is currently the Head of the History of Science Research Lab and Curator of Special Collections at the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences. He obtained his Ph.D. in History of Science and Technology from the University of Minnesota in 2005. The article itself is fully cited and was featured in the science history and philosophy journal Endeavour. Prasse 3 and Petr1 Skupien. Geotourism Aspects Of The Lufeng Dinosaur National Geopark In Yunnan Province,  Geoscience Engineering 62.1 (2016): 51-57. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.< http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=aci&AN=117419175&site=eds-live>. In Aspects of the Lufeng Dinosaur National Geopark in Yunnan Province, authors and Petr1 Skupien explore the aspect of in an area of land in China that has become the focus of paleontological research and natural tourism. Exploring the concept of and a this article goes in depth in the more recent success of these areas and their growing importance in both scientific research and common society with a unique look at the Lufeng Dinosaur National Geopark in the form of a case study. This work provides an exclusive perspective for my research question because it expands on more broad aspects of the economy such as tourism and environmentalism, which is growing in popularity. It might be possible to draw connections between real world examples of a dinosaur theme park of sorts and the more fictional version popularized by Hollywood. Furthermore, this article notes how paleontological research, education, and tourism all converge at this one park. Rhetorically, this article has a very scientific basis to it and almost solely uses logos. By discussing the environmental and humanitarian aspect of this report, one could argue that it also uses pathos. At the time of this articles publishing, the authors were faculty of the Institute of Geological Engineering at the VSB Technical University of Ostrava in the Czech Republic. Prasse 4 Dworsky, Alexis. Alexis Dworsky: In Between  Interdisciplinary Science Reviews 41.1 (2016): 37-43. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. < http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=aph&AN=118064400&site=eds-live>. In his article Between author Alexis Dworsky performs an intriguing study on how current events and modern issues contribute to how dinosaurs are seen in the public eye. He provides a unique focus on both the interdisciplinary approach and consequences to studying dinosaurs and how these studies come together to form a single picture. This work can contribute to my research question because it concisely discusses the effect our society has on how dinosaurs are portrayed and represented. It is particularly interesting how these same portrayals can be taken to mean completely different things in different fields or areas of life and how the impact of such portrayals shapes how we view everything else. This article is particularly useful because it will allow me to tie together cultural thinking and understanding to dinosaurs and further my study into the modern impacts these presuppositions of prehistoric creatures have. The author has given credibility to this paper through its use of logos and pathos. The article presents facts to back up its claims and at times uses an emotional appeal to further explain concepts. As for Dworsky himself, his background is primarily in fine art, however he completed his Ph.D. on the history of the and has supported his article with endnotes. The article was published in the journal Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, a journal published by Taylor and Francis, a major academic publishing firm and is supported by the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining in London. Prasse 5 Miracky, James J. Replicating A Dinosaur: Authenticity Run Amok In The Of Michael Jurassic Park And Julian England,  CRITIQUE: Studies In Contemporary Fiction 2 (2004): 163. Literature Resource Center. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.< http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=edsglr&AN=edsgcl.113681350&site=eds-live>. In A Dinosaur: Authenticity Run Amok In The Of Michael Jurassic Park And Julian England, James Miracky brings to light an interesting consideration about how we as a society place emphasis on theme parks. He takes an in depth look at what he believes are the implications of this emphasis through the use of two primary case studies: Jurassic Park and England, England. Particularly interesting and relevant to my topic is idea about how we live almost vicariously through our this case, theme parks. He uses Jurassic Park, a fictional yet all too lauded example, as a case study. How has the creator of the idea of a real life Jurassic Park represented his philosophy on the world through the elements of that fictional park? In other words, what metaphorical implications have been attributed to dinosaurs from this franchise and how has this affected future franchises or viewpoints on society? Rhetorically, this article is given credibility primarily through its logos. The article is thoroughly cited throughout and the author provides a full works cited section. Miracky himself wrote this article while he was an English faculty at the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, MA. In 2010, he became dean of the school of arts and sciences at Loyola University Maryland. It is worth noting that he is a Catholic Jesuit priest.