Eyzaguirre 1 Alejandra Eyzaguirre ENC 1101 Ms. Paquette Intermediate Draft January 29, 2017 Obesity: Control your weight, Control your health Obesity is a growing epidemic in America affecting over 35% of U.S adults and 17% of children and teenagers in the United States. According to the American Medical Association (AMA), three criterion are used to define an individual as An impairment of the normal function of the human body, visual signs and symptoms and harm to oneself. In world, the media, food markets and new technology make it the cultural norm to eat excessive amounts of food not for solely nourishment, but for pleasure. and Some people may not view obesity in itself as a disease but more of a precursor to other diseases such as Anorexia, Bulimia, and overeating or However, this is not the case as obesity can lead to problems with a daily activities, even if that person claims that obesity does not affect their life whatsoever. The obesity epidemic is killing hundreds of thousands of Americans each year and could be easily prevented by following simple measures such as monitoring your caloric intake in relation to calories burned each day, increasing the amount of daily cardiovascular activity and limiting unnecessary fats and carbs that are consumed daily. Eyzaguirre 2 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Obesity: Halting the Epidemic by Making Health Easier, At a Glance  www.cdc.gov, May 26, 2011 This source talks about the importance of maintaining a healthy diet and how daily exercise can drastically improve a health. The source was published by the CDC in 2011, one of the few major operating organizations of the Department of Health and Human Services. The CDC is responsible for promoting healthy ideals, protecting from the U.S from disease, and improving overall health of U.S citizens. The publication lists several facts about obesity with the first fact stating is the second leading cause of preventable death with over 300,000 U.S citizens a year being victimized by this The publication applies precisely to my research topic due to the myriad of facts that are backed up by citations from reputable sources such as other U.S health organizations and doctors that specialize in obesity. This source was published in 2011 making it more applicable to modern society as compared to sources published prior to 2010 in which the obesity epidemic was not as prevalent as it is today. World Health Organization (WHO), Obesity: Preventing and Managing the Global  www.who.int, 2000 Eyzaguirre 3 This source is also dedicated to obesity and how it is a rapidly growing problem and threat to the health and safety of citizens of the United States. The source lists several diseases that are derived from being obese such as heart disease, hypertension, stroke, cancer, diabetes, mellitus, gallbladder disease, dyslipidemia, osteoarthritis, gout and sleep apnoea. On another note, this source lists the social implications that obesity causes such as prejudice; because of this, obese individuals may not want to seek medical assistance due to the social backlash that they believe it may cause. This source was published by The World Health Organization (WHO) in 2000 which may make the source be considered a bit outdated. This does not necessarily mean that the information in the publication is irrelevant to modern times, but it is useful for comparison to how obesity was perceived then to how it is perceived now. Surgeon General, Overweight and Obesity: Health  www.surgeongeneral.com, Nov. 19, 2013 The source above explains the importance of physical exercise and the crucial role it plays in maintaining a healthy body. The source lists a variety of options and programs that the community encouraging U.S citizens to get active. They published a program resource guide that provides information about several health benefits of walking and how programs such as Mall Walking can help people become more active. The source was published in 2013 by the U.S Surgeon General, The operational head of the U.S Public Health Service Commissioned Corps (PHSCC). The main job of the Surgeon General is protect public health and affairs pertaining to health hazards. This source is very important to my research on obesity Eyzaguirre 4 because of the credibility of publisher and the variety of sources and citations found within the publication. I will use a lot of information from this website pertaining to the dangers of obesity and how easily preventable this disease is. G.A. Bray, Obesity Is a Chronic, Relapsing Neurochemical  Journal of Obesity , 2004 This additional source I have found takes on a different perspective on the issue of obesity in our country, claiming that it is a stigmatized disease that adversely affects the quality of life for the afflicted individuals. It states that ever since the middle ages, when obesity was considered gluttonous, the negative connotation towards obesity was carried on to modern times. The main point of this source is that obesity is a preventable condition. It further concludes that if obese people succumbed to an hour of exercise a day, although it may not be as easy as it sounds, they would be able to rid themselves of the condition. This source is published by the International Journal of Obesity, a website that lists several facts and statistical data about obesity in America.