Onwuanaibe 1 RUNNING HEAD: RACIAL DISPARITIES IN THE JUSTICE SYSTEM Nneka (Nikki) Onwuanaibe Mr. Nusspickel ENC 1101 February 6, 2017 Annotated Bibliography Why does the color of skin dictate his/her fate, and who gave the police the right to demoralize social justice? This paper will address racism within the justice system and how this has led to disparities between the black and white community. My research will tackle the issue of white privilege and why authorities tend to have leniency with whites. Is this privilege granted based on the color of their skin? During Martin Luther civil rights campaign in Birmingham Alabama, police used fire hoses and vicious dogs against blacks who were peacefully protesting segregation. This is not a new issue it dates to the 400 years of oppression and will continue to be a problem for years to come. This paper will analyze the statistics of arrests, trials, and convictions among minorities and whites. The police is preconditioned to associate blacks and Hispanics with more crimes such as drugs and illegal activities. Blacks, Hispanics, and even American Indians hold a higher count in jails than they do within the population. This paper will uncover the truth behind the police and why blacks and Hispanics account for a larger segment of people in jails and in criminal activities. Overtime our criminal justice system has developed a bias towards minorities and endured corruption. Onwuanaibe 2 RUNNING HEAD: RACIAL DISPARITIES IN THE JUSTICE SYSTEM Annotated Bibliography CRUTCHFIELD, ROBERT D., et al. AND ETHNIC DISPARITY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE: HOW MUCH IS TOO The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-), vol. 100, no. 3, 2010, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/25766112. article focuses on the key factors that have contributed to racial disparities in the criminal justice system. The timeline of evidence ranges from that of the antebellum period to present day. He explains how racial disparity has been an ongoing issue and will continue to be one. This articles goes on to show that throughout history it has been argued that there is no true discrimination towards minorities. He then analyzed different sources of information to test the conclusion that there is in fact a divide among the races. This evidence includes arrests, trials, and convictions. After examining this evidence the author noticed that minorities are indeed more susceptible to trouble with the justice system. Authorities have preconditioned biases to associate people of color with criminal activity and find them guilty of stricter charges when they are faced in court. Sections of this article will prove to be good evidence not only in the adult justice system but in the juvenile justice system as well. It will provide good statistics and help to explain why minorities encounter law enforcements more frequently than whites. Crutchfield holds credibility because he is a professor of sociology at the University of Washington. Kakade, Meghana, et al. Adolescent Substance Use And Other Illegal Behaviors And Racial Disparities In Criminal Justice System Involvement: Findings From A US National Onwuanaibe 3 RUNNING HEAD: RACIAL DISPARITIES IN THE JUSTICE SYSTEM  American Journal Of Public Health 102.7 (2012): 1307-1310. Business Source Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article is an investigation of the disparities of blacks and whites in the justice system. The authors of this article utilized national data to test the rate of arrests between these two races. The data states that even though blacks hold a smaller population count they still account for twice that when it comes to arrests and convictions. In fact the article goes on to test the activity of these races when dealing with drugs, conviction, and arrests. To no surprise whites came back with the higher rate of being involved in criminal activity than blacks. But what is truly astonishing is the fact that even though blacks are less involved when it comes to drugs they are the ones who are arrested more frequently. In this study they tested over 6000 blacks and whites collectively and the results never once waivered, blacks always had the higher number of arrests or infractions with the law. Despite this it does not match up with the data that whites are committing more crimes, it just proves that there is something going on with our justice system. Just think these studies were conducted on children ranging from 12-17 years old. As they tested higher the divide between the races continued to increase. Mears, Daniel P., Joshua C. Cochran, and Andrea M. Lindsey. Offending And Racial And Ethnic Disparities In Criminal Justice: A Conceptual Framework For Guiding Theory And Research And Informing  Journal Of Contemporary Criminal Justice 32.1 (2016): 78-103. PsycINFO. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. article explains that the real reason why we have so much discrimination and such a huge divide among minorities and whites is that people are not fully aware of the division. He goes so far as to differentiate between differences, disproportionality, and disparity in efforts to educate people further. He provides information on arrests, trials, and convictions to help expand Onwuanaibe 4 RUNNING HEAD: RACIAL DISPARITIES IN THE JUSTICE SYSTEM knowledge and state the facts. The author talks about how sparking a change will be difficult because the concept of racial and ethnic disparities is not fully understood. He even takes it back to say that the past directly effects the way the races view one another today. Mears states that this divide has been an ongoing reoccurrence since the 20 th century and will continue if nothing is done to stop it. He then goes on to break down evidence of blacks versus whites and their appearances in criminal activity. Points in this article will bring light to the injustices in our criminal justice system and set a tone for change. Mears made a strong point that people lack knowledge therefore, facts like the ones stated in the paper will educate the public about the truth and how it must be stopped. Tonry, Michael. Social, Psychological, And Political Causes Of Racial Disparities In The American Criminal Justice System, The  Crime And Justice: A Review Of Research (2010): 273. HeinOnline. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article focuses on the issues that the disparities between blacks and whites stem from the justice system focusing more on crimes than crimes. The justice system maintains their preconditioned bias about blacks because society has shaped it to be that way. The author explains to us that politics has a strong hand when it comes to the divide among the races. He states whites attitudes support their beliefs, old habits, and opinions of the black community play a major role in society. It is their ideal of white privilege, believing that they are the superior race. Overtime they have been conditioned to believe that every African- American is associated with drugs and other illegal activity. Unaware of the fact that they are the ones who have shaped people to think this way. Their way of thinking is the reason that blacks cannot escape the clutches of racism. opinions will always weigh heavy when dealing with the public eye. The author states, whites are the reason for Onwuanaibe 5 RUNNING HEAD: RACIAL DISPARITIES IN THE JUSTICE SYSTEM racism, colorism, and This article goes on to explain the statistics and why blacks have a higher rate of arrests, trials, and convictions. It also explains police and their preconditioned beliefs.