[Last 1 Zira Viramontes Harley Campbell ENC1102.097 January 31, 2017 Project 1: Intermediate Nowadays it seems like the world is only in black and white, either right or wrong. There is no gray area to fall into. This can be said for the topic of euthanasia, or assisted suicide. People are either for euthanasia or against it. Take into consideration, the Compassion and Choices organization and the National Right to Life Committee. These opposed foes are seemingly incompatible with each other. Compassion and Choices is an organization that supports euthanasia and is trying to legalize the act of assisted suicide. On the other hand, the National Right to Life Committee strives to protect the elderly and mentally handicapped from euthanasia. In a world that is striving for peace and harmony, we need to find a compromise that settles this controversial issue. Although no compromise will completely satisfy either organization, this argument has to be dissolved quickly and in a peaceful manner. I propose that each organization fund and help people access palliative care. Palliative care is easier to get into and has more treatment options than hospice care. Free consultations and access to palliative care might be costly, but it will cost a lives otherwise. Our first opponent in this euthanasia debate is Compassion and Choices. There were several Hemlock Societies in the United States since the that now have joined together to create Compassion and Choices. They are fighting to legalize euthanasia for the mentally [Last 2 handicap. The Hemlock of Florida states that they support legislation for Physician Aid-in- Dying for mentally competent, terminally ill individuals who request (hemlockflorida.org). By this statement, there has to be a real reason for euthanasia to be just. Mentally handicapped and those with advanced illnesses are really the only people who can request assisted suicide. Compassion and Choices also developed the first national end-of-life consultancy program in 1993, which offers patients and their families tools, information and emotional support on the full range of available end-of-life options. Meaning that the help from Compassion and Choices does not always result in euthanasia. Although it is near impossible to achieve their goal of legalizing euthanasia in every state, the Compassion and Choices organization can increase their use of therapy and access to palliative care instead of funding euthanasia. Meanwhile, the National Right to Life Committee, stands on the opposing side. This organization is against euthanasia and all other forms of suicide. This group was founded in 1968 and works through legislation and education to protect innocent human life from abortion, infanticide, assisted suicide and (nrlc.org/about/history). In short, the National Right to Life Committee is pro-life. This organization has affiliates in all fifty states. To support their argument is the Declaration of Independence. All lives are created . This includes the lives of the unborn and those who have little say in government, like the mentally handicapped. They all have the same right to live as common  do. The National Right to Life Committee also has installed the to which names someone to make health care decisions for you when you can no longer speak for yourself or are incompetent(nrlc.org/medethics/willtolive). This is to make sure that you have someone that can speak your wishes and confront the doctor on what is best. According to the National Right to Life Committee health care providers who consider a of too low are [Last 3 denying life-preserving measures against the will of patients and . Laws of most states provide no effective protection against this involuntary denial. Assisted suicide is already legal in states like, California, Oregon, Vermont, and Washington. This would be very difficult to undo. Even though there will always be legalized euthanasia in states, the National Right to Life can fund palliative care to help those considering euthanasia, to continue living their lives. These groups are so opposed to each other, that they have never worked as allies. There has been no reason thus far, for them to work together. Compassion and Choices oppose the National Right to ideal of absolutely no euthanasia. While the National Right to Life is against even the idea of euthanasia. However there is some common ground between these organizations. I think they both can agree that the priority of the subject is to guide practices and determine safeguards that would keep assisted suicide voluntary, regulated, and an option of absolute last resort. Although at slightly different levels, neither of these groups would consider euthanasia to be a simple and casual choice. In difficult situations involving assisted suicide, it is required to have a lot of consultations before making any life changing(or ending) decisions. And so, as a compromise I propose the funding and advancement of palliative care. Palliative care is similar to hospice care, but it is an new emerging way to help people with advanced illness. It is a broad focus on improving life and providing comfort to people of all ages with serious, chronic, and life-threatening illnesses. So palliative care does not limit itself to just cancer patients or just the elderly. This all inclusive program will help anyone with advanced illnesses or mental handicap and encourage them to keep living. Patients can also start palliative care as soon as diagnosed with a serious illness, and at the same time they continue to pursue a cure. By funding this program, palliative care can grow and develop to suit the needs of many. Palliative care also already exists and is up and running. This helps the compromise to be [Last 4 an immediate change. This will lower the rate of euthanasia and assisted suicide immensely. Neither organization can be opposed to that. Like I mentioned before, neither group will ever have total legalization or illegalization over euthanasia. However increase access and fundings to palliative care will decrease the interest of euthanasia so no further laws will be needed to oppose or support euthanasia. To reiterate, there are strong forces in the controversial debate of euthanasia. To be exact, the National Right to Life Committee and the Compassion and Choices organization seem to be at odds with each other. Each group desires full and absolute illegalization or legalization on euthanasia across the United States. However that goal is not feasible as well as it is unfair. This world is not solely black and white. This compromise needs to fall into the gray area to be accepted by both stakeholders. The compromise includes the need for both organizations to fund and create easier access to palliative care. This will help direct patients, particularly those with advanced illnesses and handicaps away from euthanasia. Which appeals to the National Right to Life Committee. By this logic, assisted suicide will only act as a last resort in states where it is legal. That way, euthanasia will always be a choice to those who have none, appeasing the Compassion and Choices group. It will cost both companies more money to fund palliative care but it will costs lives if they do not choose to fund this program.