Lewis 1 Alexandria Lewis Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Taking Steps Towards Gun Safety in America The invention of the gun was solely for killing threats. Modern day gun use is becoming a national burden for civilians. Modern days mass production of guns and rifles has inadvertently produced a great deal number of Americans being killed. Most gun owners chose to possess guns for hunting and protection. However, guns can also be used to commit heinous acts such as suicide, murder, and torture. The national issue of the act of buying guns lies within the individuals who yield a gun in public with no regard for their hazards. The question seems to be how these national hazards posed by guns can be prevented. Organizations such as the National Rifle Association (NRA) would rather prefer a total constitutional right to buy a gun due to the Second Amendment. Gun control laws have not been extended due to the National Rifle Association of America lobbying against it, they maintain the belief that gun control laws are already strong (NRA). Another side to this conflict are organizations such as The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence who have always lobbied that it is irresponsible to allow every American the ability to own a gun and that stricter gun control laws should be placed to prevent killings. There could possibly be better way to Lewis 2 answer this question which is to look at the multiple reasons an individual would chose to end a life using a weapon, among these reasons is mental health. The goal for guns has always been safety therefore with the combined agreement of the National Rifle Association and The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, it is plausible that there could be a decrease in gun violence if individuals who did not pass a mental health background check were restricted from buying guns legally in the United States. The National Rifle Association is a nonprofit organization that advocates for the constitutional right to keep and bear arms (NRA). This organization is famous for delaying progress on gun control laws due to their belief that control would mean a loss of human rights. For gun owners, extending gun control laws would be the government taking away second amendment rights unlawfully (Notarangclo 241). Over the years, The National Rifle Association has been involved in many debates about gun violence and control especially after the mass public disapproval of the accessibility of purchasing guns in 2012 (Bowen 398). These debates seem to have been sparked by the Aurora, Colorado, theater shooting and the massacre at a Newtown, Connecticut, elementary school that left twenty children dead (Bowen 398). It is public knowledge that tragedies such as these have occurred often and the aftermath discussion about gun control are always a sore subject in American politics. However, according to a Gallup Poll from 2015, percent of Americans viewed the NRA (NRA). Therefore, despite Lewis 3 these incidents many Americans still follow the beliefs that guns in society are a right. The Coalition to Stop Gun guiding principle is different from the because they that all Americans have a right to live in communities free from gun (CSGV). This means that main mission is to reduce the amount of gun violence in communities by using effective policy advocacy. The supporters believe that the Supreme Court needs to look for a proper modern day meaning of the Second Amendment (Notarangelo 241). There is a popular thought that the Second Amendment should not extend to every American because of the dangers of certain individual threats. This stems from the push for the Second Amendment to be considered in gun control discussions. This is a reason why the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence are urging that intimidated by the political power of the National Rifle Association, have refused to act in the wake of tragedy after (CSGV). Per a Supreme Court ruling in 2008, most rights, the Second Amendment is not unlimited and not a right to keep and carry any weapon whatsoever in any manner whatever and for whatever (Bowen 399). This means that the many people who favor gun control laws, believe that gun ownership should be a privilege not a basic right. Both of these organizations have a common theme which is the importance of safety. In the later years of the NRA being founded, they the NRA Lewis 4 Foundation, a tax-exempt organization that raised millions of dollars to fund gun safety and education (NRA). This means that even though they advocate for the ownership of guns in American society, they also advocate for the appropriate use of guns. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence also has the goal of preventative safety. Based on their history, they have advocated a plethora of times for the improvement of gun control laws by using the victims and survivors of gun violence as leaders in a lobbying effort (CSGV). This technique used by the CSGV is ultimately a way to convince society that gun violence is caused by loose gun control laws. Based on the importance of safety for The National Rifle Association and The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, they could compromise for the adding of mental health background checks to The National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). It is undoubtedly true that people who are a danger to themselves and others because of mental illness should be prohibited from owning firearms. According to an article from the Psychiatric Times written by Stephen Barlas, Virginia Tech student gunman with previous mental health problems shot and killed thirty-two (63). This gunman was reportedly detained two years before the shooting in a mental facility due to a judge ruling that he posed an imminent threat to himself and others (Barlas 63). This fact however did not keep shooter from legally purchasing a gun and committing a heinous act. Psychiatric disorders such as depression are strongly implicated in murders and especially suicides; which accounts for more than half of gun fatalities annually Lewis 5 (CSGV). According to an article written by Julie Kangas, general public sees mental health background checks as a possible preventative (Kangas 76). The consensus is that mental-illness health background checks could help as a preventative strategy for society. Both the National Rifle Association and The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence have a similar goal which is preventative safety. While the National Rifle Association has been consistent with gun safety classes which sends messages to children as well as adults on the dangers of guns. As well as the efforts of The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence to evolve gun control laws; suicides and murders still occur daily. Including mental health in background checks can potentially be an effective way to reduce gun violence, especially on individuals with histories of criminality or violence toward others (Kangas 76). Currently, individuals who want to own a gun must go through a background check which is could be a potential way to reduce gun violence. It is important to note that the mentally ill should not be stigmatized as violent, mental health officials recognize that mental illness alone is not predictive of (NRA). While mental health background checks will not end all gun violence tragedies, The Coalition of Gun Safety and The Nation Gun Rifle Association should see it as a step towards guaranteeing the safety of all Americans. Lewis 6 Works Cited The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. 2013. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Barlas, Stephen. Shootings Prompt Calls for Inclusion of Mental Health Information in Gun Check Psychiatric Times 24.7 (2007): p, 63. Academic OneFile Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Bowen, Matthew, and Angelica Chang. Veterans on Civilian Gun Society. August 2016, Vol. 53 Issue 4, p398, 10 p. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Democracy, The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. 2013. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. The National Rifle Association of America. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Kangas, Julie L., and James D. Calvert. Ethical Issues in Mental Health Background Checks for Firearm  Professional Psychology: Research and Practice 45.1 (2014): 76-83. PsycARTICLES. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Notarangelo, Ryan. Hunting Down the Meaning of The Second Amendment: An American Right to Pursue  South Dakota Law Review 61.2 (2016): 201- 241. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. of Americans Blame Mental Mass The National Rifle Association of America. 2015. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.