Project 1 Intermediate Draft The second amendment is in the Bill of Rights of the United States of constitution and that amendment is the right to bear arms. This amendment was put in place in the early days of the United States and was important for citizens to defend themselves against the British Army and other intruders. The reason this amendment was vital was because the United government as developed and have much of a policing system to protect Americans. Times have changed and in 21 st century American politics the right to bear arms is a controversial topic with several stakeholders. Two major stakeholders in the gun control world are the National Rifle Association (NRA) and Everytown for Gun Safety. These organizations are at odds but are capable of a compromise, the compromise can be these organizations giving up some of their views on such things as assault rifles and background checks for guns. The NRA is the organization that strongly supports the rights of the second amendment and believes people should be able to own guns easily. The NRA was founded by Union veterans Col. William C. Church and Gen. George Wingate in 1871. The primary goal of the association would be to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific according to a magazine editorial written by Church (A Brief History of the NRA). The NRA has been an organization for a long time and back in the 19 th and 20 th centuries the organization most likely see itself being as influential and controversial as it is today. The organization was originally created to study guns and become more knowledgeable on them and to become more accurate with them. The two Union veterans Church and Wingate originally created the organization because they were frustrated on the lack of marksmanship shown by their troops (A Brief History of the NRA). The NRA can be viewed negatively because a lot of people view all the shooting tragedies over the years to be credited toward guns not being strictly regulated and available for criminals and mentally unstable individuals. The NRA believes people kill people not guns and other people agree with that statement but a lot of people believe otherwise. Not everyone understands the facts or what the NRA does but they believe that people should be educated on guns and can use them safely. The NRA is widely recognized today as a major political force and as leading defender of Second Amendment rights, it has been the top firearms education organization in the world since its beginning (A Brief History of the NRA). The stakeholder that is at odds with the NRA and has opposing views is Everytown for Gun Safety and there is some complexity with this organization. Everytown for Gun Safety is not just a single organization, it is a combination of organizations. In 2013, Mayors Against Illegal Guns and Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America came together to confront their shared goals (everytown.org/who-we-are/). Everytown is opposing the NRA because they want strict regulations on guns and to purchase guns the organization wants a criminal background check for every gun sale. Everytown knows they are at their match with the NRA because they have a massive budget and while the Mayors Against Illegal Guns can raise sufficient funds the NRA has a lot of political pull. The NRA and Everytown can work together though because they both are for gun education and one of issues that they are concerned with is preventable gun deaths regarding children and unsecured guns in their homes. On website it says more than two million American kids live in homes with unsecured guns. It also continues to show studies that shows that more than two-thirds of kids know where their parents keep their guns, even when the parents believe their kid does not know where it is. The organization says all of this while also saying that while doing this they will respect the rights of lawful and responsible gun owners (everytown.org/issue/preventable-deaths/). These viewpoints believe it or not are very similar to the viewpoints of the NRA. The difference is the NRA has a lot of programs in place like the Boy Scouts that give children a hands-on approach to getting educated on guns and how to fire them. On the website, it says they have established the Eddie Eagle GunSafe Program in 1988, more than twenty-eight million pre-kindergarten to fourth grade children have learned that if they see a firearm in an unsupervised situation, they should TOUCH. RUN AWAY. TELL A (A Brief History of the NRA). These two snippets from each website shows their common ground and the aspect in which they can truly see eye to eye and where they can build the foundation for a compromise. Even though these stakeholders seem to have something in common these two organizations views are opposing each other so there is some room for improvement and difficulty in the compromising part. The compromise that these two organizations can take a part in is eliminating military like weapons from the hands of civilians and excluding the sale of guns to people with terrorist affiliations. Each organization is going to have to concede something but the compromise is plausible because the NRA even though they want no gun regulations can be reasonable enough to understand that normal civilians do not have the proper training and quite frankly do not have much of a need for such heavy-duty weapons. successfully release the political choke-hold on Congress and on state legislatures, Americans need bold new strategies like this House floor (Dreier: Three Strategies to Beat the NRA). In the summer of 2016 Congressman John Lewis led an act of civil disobedience which many of the supporters for stricter gun control believe is another strategy to get their views out there because traditional lobbying has not worked over the years. The reason the NRA has such a strong voice on gun politics is because of their budget and how strongly their members and supporters feel about the organization. The NRA only represents a small portion of all gun owners but these gun owners are out spoken and the organization gets strong support from gun and ammunition manufacturers who benefit from weak firearm laws. The main person in play with Everytown for Gun Safety is former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg who is a billionaire businessman that can provide financial support for the organization and suppress the strong voice of the NRA. is pouring money into political races to defeat candidates who oppose reasonable gun safety laws and are in bed with the (Dreier: Three Strategies to Beat the NRA). The NRA has shown that they are reasonable in conceding some of their viewpoints as they are going to meet with President Trump to talk about a ban on selling guns to people on the terrorist (Anderson: Donald Trump Teases That He Could Buck the NRA On One Aspect of Guns). Everytown for Gun Safety can try to reach to President Trump because he has shown views in the past in wanting to ban deadly assault rifles. his 2000 book, The America We Deserve, he wrote that he supported banning assault weapons, like the one used in Orlando, and extending waiting periods when purchasing (Anderson: Donald Trump Teases That He Could Buck the NRA On One Aspect of Guns). This compromise is plausible because the current President is not a conventional Republican and the Everytown For Gun Safety organization can lobby him to try and get some of these legislations in place. The compromise would include soft background checks and a ban on assault weapons. Works Cited NRA  NRA About the NRA. National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017 Everytown for Gun  Everytown for Gun Safety. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Drier, Peter. Three Strategies to Beat the  The American Prospect. N.p., 24 June 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Anderson, Meg. Donald Trump Teases That He Could Buck The NRA On One Aspect Of  NPR. NPR, 15 June 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Horn, Bernie. Can We Talk About Assault  Campaign For Future. N.p., 08 Dec. 2015. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.