Zhou 1 Guangzheng Zhou Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 Spring 2017 January 29 th Graphene Is Still on the Way Graphene is described as miracle material of future by its especial splendid physicochemical properties which can be used in tons of different fields, including electronics, paint, military, generate electricity and many so on. One of the most interesting imagination is that people would finally use a bendable smart phone or person computer: imagine you are playing a prank and put your white paper- like phone into a stack of print paper or another dark corner which makes he or she has to spend whole afternoon to find it. How exciting will it be! By many propagandas on this famous material of which you may have heard, it sound as we are going to get touch with graphene product really quick! But when will those dreams or conceives exactly come true? As we know, although the structure of graphene has already been identified in early 20 th century by V. and P. Haenni, and Andre Geim and Kostya Novoselov first time extracted pure single-layer graphene form carbolic crystal (which is known as graphite.) However, just as Dr. Novoselov mentioned in his article: will (probably) be used only after The mass production of graphene still on the stage of theory or laboratorial application. And possible practical applications are still confronted with tons of problems and challenges. Although there are thousands of studies were made each year all over world, our dreams are still Zhou 2 farther than we thought. In this composition, why graphene still come true and enter our life? And also, what economic and social impact that graphene might bring with? Ball, Philip. expect graphene to perform miracles Philip  Opinion. Guardian News and Media, 28 Dec. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The article first makes a review on history of material around us: from the textiles to the synthetic plastics we using now, then introduces properties of graphene. where had huge competitions across international graphene researches. The article also assert that the application of graphene in future will change many things just as plastics and rubber did, however, there still many things that graphene achieve. By the example of high-temperature superconductor still move into our daily life, author argues that we put too much unjustifiable expectation on only one material. Although the article wrote by British author, his article gives a valuable reference on international graphene research situation: multiple research institutions work separately or together on this new material. On the other hand, author use economic and historical facts to support his opinion, which opens another gate of view on the graphene. Although examples which author mentions were not strict nor professional, those examples expand outlook. The advantages and disadvantages which author mentioned will be good references. Dempsey, Paul. Flat Out For The  Engineering & Technology (17509637) 3.19 Zhou 3 (2008): 34-37. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article begins with a forecast by quotes some sayings form Professor Andre Geim who is one of the graphene research parent. He claimed the researches that have done so far in graphene was just declaring the beginning of the graphene. Then, article introduces the way he used to strip graphene form graphite and properties of the graphene. Third, article mentions it is hard to mass produce pure graphene in industrial scale. However, if solved this problem, the future of graphene application will almost be unpredictable. The using of graphene in electronics also full with potential, its glamour attract lots of enterprises and institutions. The future application will need much support from them, and extend broader and broader. Obviously, this academic interview report has great creditability, even though it was published in 2008, it still helpful; this article quotes many sayings form professor Andre directly, which can also be quoted in our compositions to support argument. More important, those objective perspectives made by the professor provided apparent situation during that time. Several examples mentioned in the article offered different viewpoints. For example, the gallium arsenide represented a successful material in commercialization with a short time. J., A. Small  Entrepreneur 42.12 (2014): 70. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. After a short introduce of graphene, the distinctive properties and possible applications that might come true in some day. By emphasize its great potential, article indicate Zhou 4 graphene are now under both official academic and commercial support greatly. Internationally, from Britain to South Korea has come up with their special theory and application in some fields. Company like IBM also working on solve some graphene technical problems on the field of electronics. Startups companies also rising on graphene research, article hints they may become very contributing on the developing and promoting of graphene. Also, article mentions graphene is an environmental friendly material which can reduce the pollution. The article form the Entrepreneur magazine, obviously, it focuses on economic application in commercialization, which provides a different view point on the rising of graphene. This famous magazine also ensures the creditability; and accurate terms, data and statistic numbers promote the creditability as well. The expectation on graphene is harder than any others, Constant growing market price prove this point. Article also list shortcoming with its Liu, Wei-Wen, et al. Review: Synthesis And Characterization Of Graphene And Carbon Nanotubes: A Review On The Past And Recent  Journal Of Industrial And Engineering Chemistry 20.(2014): 1171-1185. ScienceDirect. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. This journal article provides a comprehensive information for the graphene-related researches, especially the detailly and accurately experimental properties of the graphene and several dominant techniques on mass acquire graphene. The introduction on the history of graphene and graphene-related researches shows a relative short but Zhou 5 fast developing. The synthesis of graphene is the second part of the article, which includes those major methods: Exfoliation and cleavage, Chemical vapor deposition and Chemically derived graphene; and both major methods have several different practical ways to prepare graphene. Article spend literary piece on present the characterization and properties, and applications. This article is from Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, obviously, this is a creditable academic journal. The history introduction part offers some very helpful facts of the graphene application during human civilization: from our ancient decoration to a wide conception on future applications which are exhibited by modern scientific theories and experimental measured properties. Of course, the rest part of the article also provides tons of reliable information, too. Novoselov, K.S., et al. A Roadmap For  Nature 7419 (2012): 192. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article summarizes main characteristics and properties of the Graphene, shows the graphene own high strength, high stretchability, great electron and heat conductibility and distinctive spectrum of absorbance etc. Than come up with some possible application in many different aspects such as paint, computer technology (including electronics technologies and new possible materials can be used on computer) generate electricity and even disruptive technologies. Article also includes several technologies which were used in produce industrial graphene, after complex but professional descriptions on (mainly) Liquid phase and thermal exfoliation, Chemical Zhou 6 vapour deposition and Synthesis on SiC. Article started to describe and analyze how will graphene be helpful in the field of electronics, Photonics, Composite materials, paints and coating, Energy generation and storage, Graphene for sensors and metrology, and finally, Bioapplications. One of the author is Dr. K. S. Novoselov, who was the famous Nobelist by his research on the graphene. Obviously, this sign on the article makes it full with credibility on the field of this material. Also by list detailed experimental data and large amount of different cites bring a compelling solid authority. The article also answers many questions: preparation of industrial graphene far, and it was still developing better and cheaper pattern to gather more perfect quality. More than that, this source provides lots of basic characteristics and possible application of the graphene which can be quoted in to composition directly. Segal, Michael. Selling Graphene By The  Nature Nanotechnology 4.10 (2009): 612. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. After a short introduction on present situation on commercial produce graphene, article begins with another introduction on the modern applications of graphene, including Composites and electrodes. Article also mentions there were many cross-generations of companies were attracted by potential. The definition of graphene was extended in manufacturing industry, which normally are multilayer of laboratorial graphene due to the difficulty and cost. After a short review on the development form 19 th century to nowadays, author mentions that it is important to Zhou 7 protect the Intellectual property and keep successes in graphene research. Article also mentions other carbon nanotechnologies such as nanotubes and nanoplatelets. At the end, article argues that, for become successful in commercialization, the ascertainment on applications should always precede over finding the way to mass product. This article was published on Nature Nanotechnology in 2009, still with credible information. The article analyses graphene promoting situation by referential interviews form some nanotechnology business leaders. To surprise, on the headway to graphene commercialization, the major challenge is not mass production, but process graphene to its applicable product. This article with abundant evidences proves on the developing of graphene; how to apply graphene should be the higher concept than how to manufacturing graphene. Sharon, Madhuri, and Maheshwar Sharon. Graphene : An Introduction To The Fundamentals And Industrial Applications. n.p.: Hoboken, New Jersey : John Wiley & Sons, Inc. ; Salem, Massachusetts : Scrivener Publishing LLC, 2015. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. A book about the graphene. Including almost all aspects: history, properties, Physicochemical characteristics, applications, methods for mass production, biologic applications and future of commercialization. Comprehensive information for the graphene with academic authority. However, in consideration of the audiences and the purpose or argument on compositions, different chapters with different information are going to be respective cited. For instance, the Zhou 8 first chapter, which is the history section, with compelling stories of graphene form the Stone Age to nowadays that will often be cited in the introduction and other history- sensitive compositions. Taghioskoui, Mazdak. Trends In Graphene  Materials Today 12.10 (2009): 34-37. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article first cites a saying form Professor Richard Feynman in 1959 to express nanotechnologies and the application on graphene will bring a great change to the world. Then, after a short introducing on structure and properties, The article analyses and assumes that by the reason of graphene is probably going to replace the role of silicon in future. A large numbers of increasing relative research publications showed rising of interest. The funds and grants used provided same result, too. Article mentions the methods of productions as well. The post processing problems also be introduced, for example, the band-gap between graphene and other materials. Also, the application in different fields such as stored energy and electronic applications; fabrication of chemical sensors, films for solar cells, liquid crystal devices and using on electromagnetic devices are also introduced. At last, the article indicates that although graphene has great potential, practical commercialization is still far for us. Graphs in the article provide some helpful understanding on structure of graphene, increasing of relative publications and different methods for graphene production. This article in published on the Material Today in 2009, despite is relative old article, things mentioned in the article are still mostly reliable; the main idea (which is graphene is a powerful material but still need time to overcome several challenges) of this article Zhou 9 is proved by the time, which even become more credible.