Running head: Legalize It 1 Legalize It: The controversy surrounding Marijuana and how it is beginning to change Jordan Taylor University of South Florida Legalize It 2 For the majority of the history, marijuana was legal. It had a wide variety of uses including clothing, incense, food, as well as a relaxant or ingredient in traditional medicinal tinctures. It until the early 1900s that people started to compare cannabis to the most dangerous drugs, classified as Schedule 1 by the federal government. After the Mexican Revolution, tensions began to rise as smaller farms compete with the much larger farms that exploited cheap Mexican immigrant labor. The government needed an excuse to search, detain, and deport these immigrants, so the media began to link violent, irrational, scary Mexicans to Marijuana use. This pattern of using marijuana as a scapegoat to monitor and regulate certain populations of people continued as the blame for jazz and swing, as well as teen drug abuse was linked to Mexicans and other minorities partaking in marijuana consumption. Eventually every state in the US would start to outlaw marijuana completely, as more fake reports of violence and gruesome murders were linked to marijuana. hearings on marijuana law in the claims were made about ability to cause men of color to become violent and solicit sex from white women. This imagery became the backdrop for the Marijuana Tax Act of 1937 which effectively banned its use and sales. While the Act was ruled unconstitutional years later, it was replaced with the Controlled Substances Act in the which established Schedules for ranking substances according to their dangerousness and potential for (M. Burnett & A. Reiman 2014) Legislation surrounding recreational marijuana legalization will continue to be scrutinized and unstable until marijuana is rescheduled under the Controlled Substances Act, but this stopping the reform of federal prohibition at the state level, such as in Washington, Colorado, California, and Oregon. The tax revenue from recreational marijuana sales alone is generating tens of millions of dollars, which can be put Legalize It 3 directly back into the state it is generated in. Now that 28 states have legalized medical marijuana, people are beginning to question the effectiveness of its federal prohibition, especially in light of the propagandist and racist motivations for making it illegal in the first place (M. Burnett & A. Reiman 2014). One may argue that marijuana nearly as potent as it was back when there electricity, but with no concrete samples of weed from circa 1800, no way of supporting those claims. However, in the US, the THC content of herbal cannabis increased from around 1% before 1980 to around 4% in 1997 (European Monitoring Centre For Drugs and Drug Addiction 2004). DAMRONGPLASIT, K., & CHENG, H. (2009). DECRIMINALIZATION POLICY AND MARIJUANA SMOKING PREVALENCE:: A LOOK AT THE LITERATURE. Singapore Economic Review, 54(4), 621-644. According to the article, policy in general has two goals: to minimize health and safety hazards associated with use, and to minimize the social costs and adverse individual consequences that result from attempts to control use (K. Damrongplasit & C. Hsiao, The two goals often contradict each other, where if you increase enforcement of marijuana use it may reduce the usage but at the same time increase social costs and individual consequences. Decriminalization of marijuana is intensely debated because it brings about many benefits as well as costs associated with it. Those in favor may argue that decriminalization means that people will no longer have to worry about having a criminal record after getting in trouble with marijuana, since decriminalization would only bring about an on-the-spot fine. Therefore people with debilitating conditions that smoke marijuana for medicinal purposes have as much trouble finding employment. Those against, however, may argue that decriminalization is the Legalize It 4 first step to having the public image of marijuana become more and more acceptable to the point where teenagers or even children may think it too big of a deal. This article tackles the issues associated with marijuana decriminalization policies, and sheds some light on both the many benefits and costs of enacting them. The article then assesses the impact of marijuana decriminalization policy on marijuana use through reviewing the empirical literature on that relationship. Eventually the article utilizes different models designed to mathematically measure the relationship using elaborate equations based on variables such as supply and demand, marijuana based arrests before and after, as well as race and gender. They then conclude the article finding positive and significant impact of decriminalization policy on marijuana smoking prevalence is often generated when the data set is of repeated cross- section nature, covering overall population and/or from the time This is relevant to my topic because it addresses some of the issues associated with one of the first steps towards legalizing it- decriminalizing it. The authors are both credible, as they are both involved in university economic divisions most likely doing research and studies similar to this one, worked under a corporation, and both worked with World Scientific Publishing to publish this article. World Scientific publishes about 130 journals every year in various fields, and many of its texts are adopted by renowned academic institutions such as Harvard, Stanford, and Princeton University, as well as the California Institute of Technology. Legalize It 5 Schmidt, L. A., Jacobs, L. M., & Spetz, J. (2016). Young More Permissive Views About Marijuana: Local Impact of State Laws or National Trend?. American Journal Of Public Health, 106(8), 1498-1503. doi:10.2105/AJPH.2016.303153 According to the article, passage of medical marijuana laws does not seem to have a direct impact on the perspectives of younger views about marijuana consumption. There is, however, a national trend for young people to take more permissive views about marijuana regardless of any effects within states. To reach these conclusions, they multilevel, serial, cross-sectional analyses on 10 annual waves of the US National Survey on Drug Use and Health nationally and for states with marijuana laws using individual- and state- level controls (Schmidt, L. A., Jacobs, L. M., & Spetz, J., Their target demographic age groups were divided into three discrete age groups: middle-school aged (years 12-14), high- school aged (years 15-17), and young adults (years 18-25). This objective is to whether state medical marijuana laws the wrong that is, have a local influence on the views of young people about the risks of using And while they were able to link the passage of medical marijuana laws with the national trend of younger people having an increasingly relaxed attitude towards marijuana, they were not able to determine exactly why that is. They integrated certain variables of the younger lives, such as religiosity, income, age, race, employment, parental status, attitudes towards various subjects such as school or fighting, as well as any parental restrictions set (i.e. curfew or limited T.V. time) in order to monitor any changes at the individual-level. This is relevant to my topic because it highlights a global trend of an increasingly relaxed attitude towards the risks relating to marijuana consumption. Legalize It 6 The authors are credible because they each have a PHD, and worked with the American Public Health academic publication American Journal of Public (AJPH). The AJPH has worked for over 100 years dedicated to the publication of original work in research, research methods, and program evaluation in the field of public health, and was voted one of the 100 most influential journals in biology & medicine over the last 100 years by the Special Libraries Association. Cohen, P. J. (2010). Medical Marijuana 2010: Time to Fix the Regulatory Vacuum. Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics, 38(3), 654-666. doi:10.1111/j.1748-720X.2010.00519.x According to the article, marijuana is considered by the United States Congress to have absolutely no medicinal or therapeutic value, since classified as a schedule one drug. There would normally have to be scientific evidence and studies proving that sort of designation. This was bypassed, however, since Congress itself assigned marijuana that status under the Controlled Substances Act (Cohen, P.J., 2010). As a result, in order to conduct any research on medicinal benefits, researchers would need a special license from the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), as well as asking the National Institutes of Drug Abuse (NIDA) to provide any marijuana for any studies trying to discover medicinal and therapeutic applications. These roadblocks set by the government make it nearly impossible to do any amount of research in the field of medical marijuana. It was due to these obstacles, that potentially significant studies have been shot down. One note-worthy investigation was the effectiveness of smoked treating of weight loss in patients suffering from AIDS-wasting syndrome by Dr. Donald Abrams, a physician and professor of medicine at the University of California. Fully funded by the University of California, the project was approved by the FDA; the University of California, Legalize It 7 San Institutional Review Board; the California Research Advisory Panel; and the scientific advisory committee of the San Francisco Community Consortium. Nonetheless, the DEA refused to permit Dr. Abrams to import marijuana from the Netherlands and the NIDA rejected his request for access to its own supply of Cannabis that was grown specifically for research purposes (Cohen, P.J., 2010, pg.655). This article addresses the issues faced with conducting research on medical marijuana, and the legitimacy of its classification as a schedule one drug under the Controlled Substances Act. It brings forth evidence supporting smoked efficacy as a therapeutic and medicinal agent, claiming that of any drug for medical use should be based on scientific evidence rather than political This is perhaps to point fingers at the way Congress classified marijuana as a schedule one drug simply because they had the power to rather than providing scientific evidence to show why marijuana is as ineffective medicinally as heroin. The argument presented is relevant to my topic because it shows that even though some of the research involving medical uses is gaining some momentum, the government only makes it more difficult to prove it. The source is credible because Peter J. Cohen worked as an attorney and a physician, spending most of his medical career in academia where he published over 100 scientific papers, three books; several review articles, as well as several chapters in books. He published this article in the 38 th edition of the Journal of Law, Medicine, & Ethics, which has been in production since 1973. Legalize It 8 AS STATES LEGALIZE MARIJUANA, LAWS REMAIN MURKY. (2017). Journal of Property Management, 82(1), 28-29. According to the article, the inconsistencies associated with legalizing marijuana on the state level and the conflicts those policies have with the fact that marijuana is still classified under federal law as a Schedule 1 controlled substance are only becoming increasingly prevalent now that eight states have legalized recreational marijuana, and 28 have legalized medical marijuana. The main issue that businesses face is banking. Banks are prohibited from accepting money tied to illegal activity. This has forced marijuana-related businesses to be almost entirely cash-based (Journal of Property Management, 2017). Businesses can, however, use private banks, but they come with the same benefits as federally regulated banks do, such as FDIC insurance. These private banks also charge various fees, such as deposit or monthly fees. Credit and debit card networks are also federally regulated, forcing daily transactions to still be made in cash. There are also issues regarding security. According to Nicole Van Rensburg, Partner at Midwest Compassion Center (MCC), first medical marijuana dispensary, security was their largest expense by a considerable margin. Over half of their $400,000 renovation budget was spent on security measures. Taxes can prove challenging as well, Section 280E of the Internal Revenue Code makes business expenses incurred by marijuana-related businesses non- deductible. With typical business expense deductions such as wages, rent and equipment unavailable to dispensaries and growers, the resulting effective tax rate can range from 50 to 75 percent (Journal of Property Management, 2017). This article highlights issues that marijuana-related business face, as well as the increasingly notable conflict between the federal status on marijuana and the individual state policies regarding legality. Due to classification as a Schedule 1 drug, it Legalize It 9 is illegal, so marijuana-businesses cannot utilize federally regulated institutions such as banks, or even Debit or Credit cards. The article states that adult marijuana consumption has doubled since 2013, and that 60% of Americans support the decriminalization of marijuana, according to a recent Gallop poll. It is relevant to my topic because this article acknowledges the fact that state policies conflicting with federal regulations is only becoming a bigger issue as more and more states decriminalize marijuana. The source is credible as it is published in the Journal of Property Management, a bi-monthly collection of insights on various trends and issues affecting all property types. The Journal of Property Management is published by the Institute of Real Estate Management; an international community of real estate managers that for 80 years has been dedicated to ethical business practices, maximizing the value of investment real estate, and promoting superior management through education and information sharing. Legalize It 10 References