Running head: DEATH PENALTY 1 Is the Death Penalty Effective? Demetria Washington University of South Florida DEATH PENALTY 2 Is the Death Penalty Effective? In society, majority of Americans support the death penalty. They believe it serves justice for the family of the victims and reduces the number of people contained in prisons. However, these supporters take into account specific details that come along with the death penalty such as the cost of executions, the amount of time it takes to complete these trials, and where the money comes from that covers the costs. These are just some of the many troubles that come along with capital punishment. Many people believe that the death penalty should be used for extraordinary heinous crimes, or when it meets a set of requirements that qualifies when someone should be executed. In a democracy, where majority rules, establishing the effectiveness of capital punishment can become quite difficult especially when taking into account of how it affects the economy overall. Therefore the research question becomes how effective is the death penalty economically? Johnson, M.(2014, May 13). Death penalty. CQ Researcher. Retrieved January 31, 2017, from http://library.cqpress.com/ In Capital Punishment Be Abolished in , the article explained that there are many problems that are associated with the death penalty such as the possibility of putting innocents to death. There also has to be consideration about the expensive costs of capital punishment and its effects of using non-administered drugs on death row inmates. Inmates are passing away slower than anticipated with the drugs the states have replaced from other pharmacies. According to the article, Clayton locket, a man who originates from Oklahoma, was executed by lethal injection which should have been a quick death. Yet, the drug collapsed his vein and he died 10 minutes later. case is just one example of what could go wrong. There is a shortage of lethal drugs for all death row inmates because manufacturers are refusing DEATH PENALTY 3 to sell them for death purposes or have stopped making the drug. Therefore, money is being spent to house inmates until further notice which could take up to a couple years. 4% of death row inmates are falsely accused of committing crimes according to a study conducted by the National Academy of Sciences. 10% of homicides crimes, including mass shootings, are committed by untreated mentally ill individuals who are given sympathy as claimed by the Stanley Medical Research Institute and Nonprofit Treatment Advocacy Center. States are losing earnings by spending money on drugs for the death penalty that give the full medicinal effect it should have. Therefore states will have to continue to disperse financial gains in order to buy more of the drugs to increase its effect on prisoners. This shows how the death penalty increases debt economically by having to continue to purchase more and more of these drugs. Michelle Johnson is a journalist in Indianapolis also written pieces on prescription drugs and reforming juvenile justice. She is a credible source because she has done research in many papers that back up the purpose of the issue of the death penalty. Jost, K. (2010, November 19). Death penalty debates. CQ Researcher, 20, 965-988. Retrieved January 24, 2017, from In the article Capital Punishment Kenneth Jost states that prosecutors are less likely to recommend the death penalty because of the costs associated with capital punishment, sentencing and post proceedings. These costs can add up fairly quickly. The delay between sentencing and executions are also risk factors and worries that the jurors have. Most jurors fear that they will send an innocent person to be executed. Although capital punishment is favored by majority of the people, it is declining as decades pass. Capital murder cases costs more than non-capital murder cases. In a Kansas study performed by the California Commission, a capital trial costs $1.2 million compared to $700,000 for a non-capital murder trial. They also DEATH PENALTY 4 estimated that the death penalty adds $51 million in yearly costs for appeals and federal proceedings. The amount of money spent for additional lawyers to speed the processes of any challenges the cases come to face with is another cost to keep in mind. Housing of inmates raises the prices of capital punishment as well. It costs $90,000 more per inmate on death row than imprisonment at a maximum security facility. This source provides proof that the death penalty has a negative effect on its economy financially. The costs are substantially too high and the money that is being spent for executions could be used for greater good of our society. Kenneth Jost, the author of Capital Punishment is a graduate from Harvard and Georgetown Law Center. His work related to the death penalty include Penalty (2005) and the Death (2001). credible because he has factual information from other cited sources besides his to support his idea on the death penalty. Katel, P. (2016, June 14). Death penalty. CQ researcher. Retrieved January 24, 2017, from http://library.cqpress.com/ As was stated in Its Days pharmaceutical companies are refusing to allow their drugs to be used for purposes revolving around the death penalty. Lethal injection is the main execution method in the United States. For instance Pfizer, a leading pharmaceutical company, has denied prisons access to their drugs. Therefore, some states have passed laws allowing other types of executions but the products being used on the prisoners are unidentified and not closely analyzed by the FDA. For example, a man from Missouri was put to death by an unknown drug which violated a state law. Several laws are being passed to protect company names who attribute to the death penalty. In addition, death sentencing has been declared as unconstitutional by the high court which results in jurors being required to vote 10 to DEATH PENALTY 5 2 on a death sentence. Baumgartner, a professor at UNC, conducted research that showed in the states of Louisiana, Florida, Missouri and Ohio that African Americans who killed whites, specifically white women, were more often given death sentences than those that killed other African Americans. They were rarely given a death sentence. According to his data, no white person has been executed for the killing of a black person in the state of Florida. Even though the number of executions worldwide are decreasing by the decade, the U.S. is ranked 5th nationwide in the number of executions after China, Iran, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. The source relates to the research question because it examines how prisons have a high demand for these drugs yet a low supply of them which causes an economic unbalance for the institutions. Pharmaceutical companies and their drugs are being hindered because these companies are refusing to accommodate the death penalty. By doing so, they are losing possible profit that could be made and used to increase their businesses. Peter Katel is a CQ Researcher contributing writer. CQ research provides in depth coverage of important issues today. He has also written sources on the United States and Iran relation and racial conflict. Katel connects well with the audience he is trying to draw in by using pathos and his authority as an author to edit the issue to view a specific point he wants to convey. Weinberg, S. (2009, April 17). Wrongful convictions. CQ Researcher, 19, 345-372. Retrieved January 31, 2017, from http://library.cqpress.com/ DNA evidence and laws have been put into action to prevent wrongful convictions of innocent people in relation to the Is Overhaul of the Criminal Justice System Attorneys believe wrongful convictions are reoccurring problems and there should be a change in the justice system. On the other hand, prosecutors and the police believe that there is nothing wrong with the system because the percentage of wrongfully convicted individuals is relatively DEATH PENALTY 6 low. The government or state does not provide donations that are needed to help unjustified prisoners pay for their cases to be investigated in order to possibly prove their innocence. This revenue is funded by individuals that are looking to help an innocent man or woman. Tax payers pay for these convictions of innocent people. Money is wasted on these cases when the real perpetrator has not yet been found. Costs of legal representation, appeals, proceedings and incarcerations increase additionally because the system has to compensate for the inconvenience of the individual and their family. Then they have to spend more money to find the real criminal and sentence them all over again. Steven Weinberg is a freelance, independent author. He earned his bachelors and masters in journalism at the University of Missouri where he also teaches about criminal justice. In addition, he served as an executive director of investigative reporters and editors. Since he studied and teaches criminal justice he has a personal connection with the judicial system therefore he has plenty of evidence and information to share about the death penalty. Also, his executive position over reporters and editors that investigate capital punishments shows the power, supremacy and importance he holds in this specific area of study. DEATH PENALTY 7