Prem Patel ENC 1101 01/26/17 The effects of technology and the internet on children. Technology is an important part of our lives and the community, it is a way to stay connected with the outside world. It keeps everyone in tacked with everything that happens around us. Technology is inhabited by everyone especially the United States. Technology shapes who they are and how they act. It changes their way of thinking and how they interact with the environment. It stops the interactions between them. Children stop going out and interacting with each other because they go outside and play. They rather stay indoors and play on their phones or play on the computer. This leads to children not being social and interactive with one another. This also leads to health problems because these kids are not getting enough or any exercise needed. Which leads to child obesity and other health issues. Children using technology also lead to issues like cyber bulling, child pornography, misuse of the internet, etc. How does technology right now and in the future impact the young, the children that are called Danielle, Fanny and Khalid. of Media Technology on Impacts of Media Technology on Teenagers, technologyandteenagers.blogspot.com/. Accessed 6 Feb 2017. Danielle talks about how to much technology usage effects the mind in different ways, and also effects physical characteristics. It changes the way that kids think about the world. They have trouble determining real and virtual. They get so focused into the technology they block out the things around them. They also are effected physically because they get any exercise. They also know how to play physical game and sports because of being online so much. Kids need to play at least 2-4 hours a day, but sense the evolution of more technology children are not getting the necessary hours of fresh air and activeness. As discussed in the article, when children use their phone or any other technology there are being isolated from the environment which can affect their personality and behavior. Which can lead to other metal issues like loneliness and depression, which can lead to suicide thoughts. Drago, Emily. Effect of Technology on Face-to-Face The Elon Journal of Undergraduate Research in Communications, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. doi:https://www.elon.edu/docs/eweb/academics/communications/research/vol6no1/02Dr agoEJSpring15.pdf. Accessed 6 Feb 2017. Kids using technology all the time do not get the physical exercise they need to grow. They also get the human contacted need to live a healthily life. But on the other hand kids who use technology also are proven to have a better imagination and a better memory, than kids how have limited to no technology access. They are proven to have a greater imagination the others, they can and also control their dreams and have more access to their thoughts. They also can do more with the imagination, the down side is that they cannot do much with this because their imagination is only in the visual world and no tin the real world. Talks about how all this technology is not good to a young brain. It effects the mind in different ways. But the general problem is that kids are not socializing enough, they are not active enough. Which leads to other physical problems like obesity and other health issues. Doaj. Directory of Open Access  Directory of Open Access Journals. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. The internet is a public thing, that means anyone and everyone out there can use it, this type of exposure not good for children. There is countless number of things that are on the internet, like porn, murder, and other things that should not be seen by children. Things like this can affect a mine in different ways, but mostly in a negative way. This can and most likely lead to problems in their teen years and possibility in their adult life. Also children being on the technology and the internet all the time can lead to more child pornography, and more cyber bullying. This will create more problems, which can lead to more suicides and/or more murders. This can be stopped by parents/ superiors keep a good eye on their children and what type of websites they go on. Health problems are a major issue when it comes to children using the internet and technology all they time. They are damaging their eyes and not getting the physical activity needed throughout the day. they need to go outside and get some free air and engage with other children. these will lower eh effects of technology usage. This will also keep the mind fresh which will lower the amounts of headache that they experience. Hasan, Computer Education and Instructional Technology Department, Faculty of Education, Trakya University, Edirne, Turkey. N.p., July 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. When kids grow up their mind grows with them, they start adapting to the things they are surrounded with. They start learning the things they use and do a lot, and if they use technology, daily, their minds process in a way that is not different from other children how exposed to technology at a young age. They start thinking differently than other, not that this a bad thing, but it also a good thing. Since the world is becoming more technology based not a bad thing that kids are starting to learn at a young age. On the other hand, it is a bad thing that kids are not getting the human contact and also they are not integrating with other children. They can lead to other problems as they grow up, especially in their teen years. The effects of technology on children are not the same for everyone. They are unique because it based on mind and everyone has a different type of mind. But some symptoms are the same for most children like lack of physical activates and lack of communication skills. They are things that need to be adapted and cannot be adapted from the back of a screen.