Elijah Todd Composition 1 Project 1 Intermediate Intro: The legalization of marijuana has been a controversial topic for years. Quite a few states have already legalized marijuana, such as Colorado, Washington, and Alaska, while many more have legalized it for medical purposes. For decades people have been arrested and incarcerated for years just for being in possession of a negligible amount of the substance. Now that so many states have legalized marijuana, one could argue if marijuana should be considered as sharing the same weight as other harder drugs. Now that have gone so far as legalizing the recreational use of marijuana, should states that have not legalized marijuana adjust drug sentencing for it accordingly? Source 1: Bushan, Aparna. An Evaluation of the Effects of the Legalization of Marijuana in Colorado and Washington From An International Law Canada-United States Law Journal 39. (2015): 187-201. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. Evaluation of the Effects of the Legalization of Marijuana in Colorado and Washington From An International Law written by Bushan, looks at how the legalization of marijuana in Colorado and Washington could not only affect laws nationally in the US, but also in the international environment. For example, Bushan mentions that by permitting weed to be legalized in Colorado and Washington, the US has violated the SCND (The Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs), which stated that the production, trade, and possession of illegal substances outside of scientific or medical reasons is considered a punishable offense. The SCND was put in place to limit the distribution and possession of illegal substances across the world, which marijuana falls under, but with its legalization in various states in America, this law has to but into serious review on whether distributing or being in possession of marijuana can even be considered a crime. The article seems to be directed towards the colleagues. The article evaluates what marijuana has done to existing laws, and how the creation of laws impacts respective areas it is legal in. The author of the article is a graduate of the University of Western Ontario. She has a dual degree from the Faculty of Law and Ivey School of Business. The article selected was published on January 1 st , 2015., by the Canada-United States Law Journal, and it is peer-reviewed. This article fits well into the modern times because it discusses the impact that the recent legalization of marijuana will have across the world and the society that we currently live in. Source 2: Rosenbaum, Carrie. (And Whom) State Marijuana Reformers Forgot : Crimmigration Law and Depaul Journal for Social Justice 9.2 (2016): 1-52. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. (And Whom) State Marijuana Reformers Forgot: Crimmigation Law and is an article written by Rosenbaum that was published on June 1 st , 2016. This article discusses the effects that the decriminalization of marijuana will have on immigrants and even Latino citizens in general. The article mentions how marijuana criminalization law was originally a backdrop for anti-Mexican bias. It also talks about how marijuana laws has led to a disproportionate rate of arrests for African-Americans and compared to whites, and states that for decriminalization of marijuana to be truly affective, the racial undertone that is behind it has to be dealt with. The article seems to be directed towards anyone interest in learning how decriminalization of marijuana can affect the lives of certain people. The author of the article received a J.D. from the University of King Hall School of Law, and also received an undergraduate degree in Film Studies, Political Science and French from the University of California, Santa Barbara. The article was published on June 1 st ,2016 by the Depaul Journal for Social justice. The article fits well with the question because it discusses how previous marijuana laws have greatly affected groups of people, and how future marijuana laws can affect them. Source 3: Blumenson, Eric. Rational Basis: The Pragmatic Case For Marijuana Law Virginia Journal Of Social Policy & The Law 17. (2009): 43. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. The article by Blumenson discusses how marijuana is classified in the system as a drug that is worse than cocaine and on par with heroine in terms of sentencing people for possession of it. It talks about how the war against drugs, specifically marijuana, has been a failure, and that the current time period is the best time to have reforms towards marijuana criminalization. The article seems to be directed towards the cohorts or even people with positions of power. The article fits well with the topic because it highlights current marijuana policies and how they can be changed in places that legalized marijuana. The author earned a degree in Political and Science and Government at Wesleyan University, and went on to earn a J.D. at Harvard Law School. The author is currently a Professor of Law at Suffolk University. The article was published on October 1 st , 2009. Source 4: Graham, Dana. of Marijuana: An Analysis Of The Laws In The United States And The Netherlands And Suggestions For Loyola of Los Angeles International & Comparative Law Review 23. (2001): 297. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. The article compares the difference in laws in regards to marijuana in the United States and the Netherlands. The article talks about how the Netherlands focuses on rehabilitating drug users and giving them much less charges than those who traffic drugs, while the U.S. gives those who possess drugs the same or even harsher charges and sentences compared to drug traffickers. The article discusses how reforms can be made in both countries. The article was published on March 1 st , 2001. The article seems to be aimed at politicians and the colleagues. The articles fits with the question because it gives an example, such as the Netherlands, on how marijuana laws could be, and benefits and consequences of both the U.S. laws and having more lenient laws on marijuana such as those in the Netherlands. Information on the author could not be found.