Komila Mirakhmedova 1 Komila Mirakhmedova Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 February 13, 2017 The effects of divorce on adults and children Divorce has a lot of consequences for adults as well as for children, which include psychological well-being, attitude towards future romantic and social relationships and behavioral problems. All of the negative outcomes are almost fully due to the stress associated with marital disruption. With respect to gender, men are less likely to initiate a divorce than women. However according to evolutionary psychology, women would better stay in secure family position with reflection to children mental health protection. Moreover, and adjustment to marital disruption vary and mostly depend on themselves and society around. The rate of marital disruption in United States has increased significantly over the last 50 years, showing that people who get married in the ages over 30 years have a lower risk of divorce. Moreover the rate of young-aged marriages is decreasing slightly, people are more intended to put education and career on the first place rather than family building. All of these factors combine to create a research question, what is the impact of divorce on children, parents and their lives in future? Amato, Paul R. consequences of divorce for adults and children: An Druvstvena istrazivanja 1, 2014: 5. Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Komila Mirakhmedova 2 This article provides information that is related to my topic considering consequences of divorce for both children and adult and causes of marital disruption. Comparing outcomes of different situations between children with divorced parents and the ones with a family, results of many psychological studies on marital disruption and attitude towards that from both parents and children side, how they are handling with it in the future and what are the common problems after divorce in the family. Moreover it is considering the connection with a child of each parent separately and with which parent children are mostly like to stay with. The author of the article is Paul R. Amato is professor at Pennsylvania State University in the Department of Sociology and Criminology. After graduating James Cook University in Australia, 1983 with the Behavioral Science major he started his teaching career concentrating on causes and consequences of separation and divorce, psychological distress and well-being over the life course, parent-child relationships. He has more than fifteen awards and achievements in the sphere of sociology and psychology, and around twenty publications regarding all aspects of marriage and psychological well-being. Collardeau, Fanie, and Marion Endrenberg. Divorce and Attitudes and Feelings toward Marriage and Divorce in Emerging Adulthood: New Insights from a Multiway-Frequency Journal of European Psychology Students 7.1 2016: 24-33. Web. This article is related to my topic because it provides information on long-term consequences for lives with more concentration on attitudes toward marriage and divorce rather than There are 3 tables in the article that are made Komila Mirakhmedova 3 upon the survey on attitudes towards marriage and divorce by making an interviews with random people and asking two opened questions: is your opinion about and is your opinion toward grounded theory qualitative methods have been used to encompass all responses. The article also provides some historical ground of marriage and divorce, including some statistics on that. First author is Fanie Collardeau, graduate of the University of Victoria, having research interests in family dynamics and transitions, as well as trauma related disorders. She is mainly exploring how parental divorce and the behaviors affect expectations towards their future romantic relationships. Second author is Marion Ehrenberg, being a graduate of the University of Victoria, she is a clinical psychologist with specific focus on child and family adjustments, shared parenting after divorce. Physical Custody: Does it Benefit Most Children Journal of the American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers 28.1 2015: 79-138. Web. This article is more concentrated on shared parenting, benefits and effect of shared parenting on children. After marriage disruption parents are becoming more heavily involved in work, especially women, which makes shared parenting convenient for both. The article includes the results of the survey about how children benefit from a shared parenting plan. Children who are raised in a shared parenting have better outcomes and are more happy that the once with the one parent, even when there are conflicts between parents and where one of the parents has been forced to share. There are two types of parenting mentioned in the article, the first one is co-parenting and the Komila Mirakhmedova 4 second one is called parallel parenting. The point of co-parenting is that parents are in friendly relationships, solving problems together, trying to show the child that he is still getting love and attention from both parents. The point of parallel parenting is distant, business relationships where they run households and parent the children as each sees fit, minimizing communication between each other. Recent studies show that the most divorced parents are more likely to have this parallel relationships rather than co- parenting ones even after three years of divorce. There are two kinds of conflicts after divorce, the first kind is attitudional conflict, which meant feeling angry and disliking one parenting style, but not acting that conflict out in front of the child. The second one is interpersonal conflict means that parents are acting on an angry feelings and exposed their children to their arguments. The author of the article is Linda Neilson, a nationally recognized expert on father-daughter relationships. Her researches on fauther-daughter relationship have been published in many newspapers, magazines and radio shows nationwide. Her work has been featured on many national websites, including The Center for Successful Fathering, The National Center of Fathering and so on. Gustavsen, Geir Wahler. Effects of Parental Divorce on Teenage Risk Behaviors: Incidence and Journal of Family and Economic Issues 37.3 (2016):474-487. Web. Komila Mirakhmedova 5 This article is related to my topic because it provides information about the consequences of divorce on teenage risk behaviors. The results of the survey which are included in this article suggest that family disruption has significantly increased the probability of risk behaviors in children. This suggestion has been proven in later researches, especially among girls. Different age groups are affected in different level, some have mental health problems, such us scariness of society, relationships and become fully introverted, some have risk behavioral problems. Teenagers, starting from twelve to eighteen years old are usually experiencing the second case, they are more frequently involved in alcohol consumption, tobacco and hard drugs use. Moreover there are different kinds of indicators of well-being, including academic achievements in school, conduct, has psychological adjustment, relations with society, quality of relationships with parents. However, an opinion that divorce has only negative outcomes for child is partly wrong. Sometimes consequences are providing even better life than it has been before. Some studies that are mentioned in this article found evidence that in some families with sever parental conflicts and abuse, divorce actually improved behavior. In some cases divorce is motivating children to work on themselves, be a better person than one of his parents has been. The article is credible and is published in Journal of Family and Economic Issues. The author of the article is Geir Gustaven, he is a Research Scientist in a Norwegian Institute of Bio-economy Research, with an education in economics and society. He has research works on the society, marriage, mental well-being, and also in biology.