Salih 1 Daria Salih Adam Phillips ENC 1102 9 February 2017 Should Federal Funding of Abortion Continue? Planned Parenthood and the National Right to Life are two vital organizations that are devoted to what they stand for in terms of government funding for abortion. Planned Parenthood, which is a pro-choice nonprofit organization, said its revenues for 2013-2014 exceeded $1.3 billion. They reported that 41% of their income came in the form of Government Health Services Grants and  which in other terms, was funded by the federal government (Planned Parenthood). The National Right to Life organization opposes this organization by standing pro-life and argues that Planned Parenthood is not really because of the separate payment required before the abortion is done. This organization believes prohibiting federally-funded abortions under certain circumstances should be applied immediately. Although both organizations combat each stance, for both parties to agree they must come to a compromise. If Planned Parenthood and the National Right to Life organizations passed the Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of federal funding for certain scenarios would be allowed that would satisfy both stakeholders points of view. Even though both stakeholders share a seemingly incompatible goal regarding federal funding for abortion, the proposed compromise will allow Salih 2 both stakeholders to come to a consensus on passing an act that will fulfil both contradicting views on the topic. Planned Parenthood is the largest provider and promoter of abortion. The organization was founded on the revolutionary idea that women should have the information and care they need in order to live healthy lives and fulfill their dreams. It also delivers vital reproductive health care, sex education, and information to millions of women, men, and young people worldwide. Planned Parenthood has 650 locally governed health centers which provide a wide range of safe, reliable health care. The health centers help prevent unintended pregnancies through contraception, reduce the spread of sexually transmitted infections through testing and treatment, and screen for cervical and other cancers. Planned mission statement is: Parenthood believes in the fundamental right of each individual, throughout the world, to manage his or her fertility, regardless of the income, marital status, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, national origin, or Planned rhetoric appeals to six core American values: truth, agency, health, education, unity, and equality (Brandhorst and Jennings, 2016). They provide and promote by providing educational programs with the proper understanding to human sexuality as well as providing comprehensive reproductive health care services to each individual (Planned Parenthood). They also promote research and the advancement of technology in reproductive health care. Without the governments help in funding the organization, we would no longer be able to help prevent approximately 579,000 unintended pregnancies in a single year. If the federal government no longer helps the funding of Planned Parenthood, younger adolescents will eventually discover an unsafe way to have an abortion. Without the knowledge of reproductive health, adolescents will not have the proper Salih 3 education; therefore, leading to sooner occurrence of bad choices due to the lack of education provided. Getting rid of planned parenthood government funding would result in the demolition of the health clinics; therefore, women having lack of treatment in these areas. If the government decided to stop funding Planned Parenthood by redirecting the services they provide to other organizations, it would produce an unsustainable amount of stress on the community health centers by the overflow of people. Planned Parenthood affiliates themselves with big programs like Medicaid and Title X in order to receive the funding from the government. Although abortion represents only a small percentage of Planned total services, it still affects hundreds of thousands of women all over the world whom rely off the help of funding. Besides Planned Parenthood, The National Right to Life is the oldest and largest pro-life organization. This organization primarily focuses on working to restore legal protection to the most defenseless members of our society who are threatened by abortion. They differ from Planned Parenthood by opposing the governments funding towards abortion. Their mission statement is: protect and defend the most fundamental right of humankind, the right to life of every innocent human being from the beginning of life to natural The organization urges people to support the Taxpayer Funding for Abortion which states, are eligible for federal funding only in cases of rape or incest, or where a physical condition endangers a life unless an abortion is They also believe that Planned Parenthood kills more than 300,000 innocent preborn children every year rather than helping thousands of women make the right choice. No organization wants to defund Planned Salih 4 Parenthood more than The National Right to Life. The organization promotes educating the American public about Planned Parenthoods disregard for unborn babies and the they claim to give through the sale of their deadly services. They also believe that the money put into funding Planned Parenthood could be shut down and put forth towards more important government spending; however, by doing so would result in failure because people would be required to go to the smaller health clinics that would not provide the same as Planned Parenthood would. While both of these organizations are polar opposites, they share a common ground: some sort of government funding towards abortion. They are both firm believers in their stance of their opinions. The problem does not lie within the organizations, but in the observation and opinions of society. In order to stop the controversial topic a decision on whether the government should fund Planned Parenthood needs to be made. A law must be proposed and enacted in order to make a compromise. In order to enact such law, Congress needs to approve it depending on how many senate votes they get. Along with Planned Parenthoods benefits, there are many negative factors that affect women and their bodies. By passing the Taxpayer Funding for Abortion this will allow both stakeholders to come to a common ground by only prohibiting federal funding only in cases of rape or incest. By doing so, this will hopefully satisfy both parties to a certain extent until further action can be taken. Cited The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Shawn Kennedy, Maureen. Politicizing  American journal of nursing 112.6 (2012):7-7. Web. Parenthood, Planned. Planned Parenthood at a  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 01 Nov. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. H.R.7 - 114th Congress (2015-2016): No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of  H.R.7 - 114th Congress (2015-2016): No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015 Congress.gov Library of Congress. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. NRLC letter to Congress in support of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion  National Right to Life. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Brandhorst, Jaclyn K. Fighting for funding: Values advocacy and Planned Parenthood 19s right-  Public relations review 42.4 (2016):723-733. Web.