Maycock 1 Natale Maycock Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 Jan 2017 Wind Powered Turbines in the United States The American Wind Energy Association (AWEA) is a national organization that advocates deeply for the development and utilization of wind powered turbines. Currently it is trying to improve the use of turbines throughout states that have previously started exploiting their use, while simultaneously working to implement Wind Power Programs inside of states that currently do not. Wind turbines are currently a controversial topic in renewable resources because there are arguments that they could possibly do more harm, to the environment, than good; which is an argument that they are trying so hard to dispel. One of many platforms that they use to relay their message is the multimedia they have posted on their website. AWEA uses multiple aspects within their multimedia, specifically their graphic images, to portray the idea that wind turbines are crucial for the future of renewable resources. AWEA believes that wind powered energy is positive source of energy because it is a renewable resource, and is a cleaner alternative to the traditional energy methods. Upon arrival to the website, you are met with a beautiful picture of several very large turbines, in fields as the background of the entire screen (Figure. 1). The text that is in the foreground is the truth about Wind is a Maycock 2 literary tool that to the ethos, or the author using their own credibility as a persuasion factor (Lane), of the source. In the image, viewers will note that the text is very large and in a white contrast, so that attention is drawn directly to the message. This speaks to the authority that the organization is portraying, to say that they have the real information, and they are willing to share it with the viewer. This speaks to the thought that they have the power and authority to spread said information. It is going solely off of the credibility that accompanies a name like one of its own to spread its wind message. The purpose of Figure 1 is to play at the symbolism that open, hills are associated with a healthy environment and surrounding ecosystem. This may be a play at subtle pathos, in a sense that the audience members have a positive outlook on the subject now. Pathos is defined as the attempt to play on to the emotions of the audience (Lee); and in this case, the emotion that the author wants to invoke is The stakeholder, UWEA, has also shown that they can use pathos to invoke negative emotions as well. According to the Webster dictionary, the legal definition of a stakeholder is person having an interest or share in a commercial in this case the commercial undertaking being the wind industry. Since they have an interest, it is not farfetched that would have media invoking negative emotions like Figure. 1; this picture has a very muted tone, with no coloring whatsoever, with an active greyscale. This color scale leaves the audience member no choice but to draw a negative connotation about the image. The color scheme aside, the text that the image provides, wind power avoided power sector CO2 emissions equal to all those produced by Kansas, Nebraska, Maycock 3 Oklahoma, and Colorado in 2015 throws dirt on the traditional power sector. The statement implies that in the year 2015, wind power, which according to the UWEA website is only at limited use, stopped CO2 from entering the environment that would be equal to the four traditional power source. This would invoke a negative feeling towards the traditional power sources since wind power has been shown to be cleaner than the traditional method. Another rhetorical aspect that the author deployed was the use of kairos, which is the appeal to an audience based off of its timing in a situation (Browning). In this case there is talk about renewable resources that could possibly the The timing of the media being released is an aide how the audience will interpret the message that the stakeholder is trying to portray. Both images generated by the organization both have a common goal of promoting the use of wind energy. They both employ the use of color to invoke a desired emotion, and their own embedded texts to exploit rhetorical appeals. Maycock 4 Figure 1. Homepage for AWEA at http://www.truthaboutwindpower.com Figure 2. AWEA link at multimedia folder at library Maycock 5 Works Cited Lane, Emily, et al. 1 Rhetoric Matters Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016, pp Lee, Kendra, et al. 1 Rhetoric Matters Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016, pp Multimedia  Multimedia Library. N.p., 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017.  n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. What Is the Truth about Wind  What Is the Truth about Wind Power? Siemens Energy Inc,, 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. http://www.truthaboutwindpower.com/