Student 1 Student Derisi ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Service Action Networks Unwavering Support society is a prime example of a place where what might seem impossible, or unusual can eventually become the norm. The idea of women in combat roles was unusual at first but when placed in a world that is ever changing, opinions soon flipped and equality was granted. Service Action Network or SWAN is an organization that is committed to sharing the positive impact of women in combat roles and serves to support those in them. The goals of SWAN are to unify, support, and impact those women who devoted their lives to serving the Unites States of America. There are over 40,000 organizations devoted to serving the military but SWAN is the only one focused on helping service women. On their website, SWAN provides eye opening images that leave the viewer with a new perspective. By using pathos, ethos, and logos, the images shown are able to evoke responses that help support their organizations ideas and goals. With such a sensitive topic like women in combat roles it is easy to guess that very emotional images would be used to grasp the attention. On Service Action Network website, there was a very moving photo placed on the home page. The image displays a group of women in uniform standing at attention, surrounded by family and friends. Almost anything involving the military if a tear-jerking event making it easy for the photographer to include pathos in their work. Friends and family being around to support someone provides a very uplifting, comforting feeling. The women standing next to each other in rows provides a Student 2 feeling of unity, that they are all on the same team, working hard to achieve the same goal. The image also gives off a feeling of pride. Serving the United States is something that anyone should be proud of. People risk their lives to serve their country and that is something that everyone should be grateful for. This image of women in uniform also relates to ethos. The uniforms being worn all have different awards and medals on them. This shows that these women worked hard to get where they are today. They achieved specific goals and did what they needed to, to keep the job done. These awards and medals give credibility to the women by showing that men the only people to succeed in the military. No matter the gender, greatness can be achieved. long as an applicant is qualified for a position, ones gender is (Freeman). Another eye catching aspect of this specific image is the diversity. There are women of various ethnicities, and ages scattered throughout the picture. This diversity links to logos by basically showing a brief statistic of who is included in the military. Women of all ages and ethnicities are welcome to make a difference in the United States. The second image being analyzed is even more effective in exhibiting the SWAN organizations goals of unity, support and impact. Once again a group of women is shown, but this time only three are in uniform, and they are absolutely surrounded by others. In relation to pathos, the photographer had an easy task of taking a shot that showed emotion. The women are all packed into one tight circle showing unity, a key component of SWAN. There is no better feeling than close contact with others, and by huddling, these women are able to feel safe and supported. Like mentioned before, almost anything involving the military evokes emotion in others, so showing a uniform, or something relating to service can provide the viewer with a feeling of pride and appreciation of those serving. This closeness of the women shown also helps to establish the organizations credibility. Being in one large group shows unity and friendship Student 3 which is a goal of SWAN. By achieving this unity and support in the photo, it is proven that the Service Action Network does what it sets out to do. They make fake promises about what they hope to achieve, they go out and complete the mission by uniting and supporting women everywhere. Logos is also present in the image, similarly to the first picture. This image shows diversity as well by including women of all ethnicities and ages. The main difference this time, is that most people are civilians supporting others rather than women actually serving. This random addition of statistics adds a new feel to the picture making it more effective in grabbing the attention. Altogether, the Service Action Network uses imagery to move across their point that women are fit to be in combat roles. By creating an organization set around women, it is clear that they support this choice highly. The goals of this organization are to unify, support, and impact those women serving the United States, whether it be by directly reaching out to them, or providing assistance to the friends and family of those serving. The images on this website are strategically taken to include forms of pathos, ethos, and logos. By doing this, it is easy to create photos that grasp the attention and convince them to express a positive reaction about women in combat roles rather than a negative one. The images shown are successful in making an impact and get the point across that equality is supported in society. Women in combat roles has become a very ordinary thing, and it will continue to become more and more well accepted throughout the years. Student 4 Works Cited Service Action  Service Action Network. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017 Freeman, Beth. Sisters In  Sisters In Arms RSS. Pixel Theme Studio, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.