Jones 1 Ellie Jones Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.17 6 February 2017 Annotated Bibliography As the scientific community welcomes new and developing therapies and techniques in medicine and research, it is important that regulations on treatments and research to protect ethical, environmental and social norms are maintained. One issue that has several regulations is stem cells, and some critics are looking for legislative officials to ease these rules to make way for many more opportunities that could benefit not only individuals, but companies, institutions and the future of the global scientific research community. They often argue that funding should be allowed to some research groups that are not currently funded due to the lack of compliance with the current regulatory guidelines. In short, stem cells can be collected from several different tissue types and generally promote growth, re-growth and healing in an area they are deposited in every species of animal that contains viable stem cells, possibly even across special borders. So one must ask themselves, for the sake of our present as well as our future: Are the regulations currently in pace appropriate? And if not, what sort of action should be taken to correct the issue? Kingston, Raynard S., PhD. Institutes of Health Guidelines on Human Stem Cell Jones 1  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 23 April 2009. https://stemcells.nih.gov/policy/2009-guidelines.htm Accessed 26 January 2017. In 2009, an executive order was signed by President Barack Obama that made it possible for the National Institute of Health (NIH) to regulate the guidelines of stem cell research and related therapies. In essence, the power was shifted from the government to one of the highest authorities in the scientific and medical given that they abide all federally mandated laws on ethical treatment of patients, experiments, etc. Dr. Raynard Kingston, the acting director of NIH at the time of the publication, and author of the web guideline update, states that there are multiple acts of research and therapy that are not permitted under NIH funding. These include things such as: the use of human pluripotent stem cells (or stem cells that can be use to make a variety of different types of cells) for the introduction to primate juvenile cells and any involvement in breeding of animals in which human pluripotent stem cells would be introduced. Both of these practices are not permitted under their guidelines as it is generally seen as unethical to attempt to mutate, clone or alter human cells in any fashion, especially when they include cells that can become a variety of different tissue cells. He also details the permitted ways in which human embryonic stem cells can be eligible for use in research and/or therapies under their guidelines, which pertains to all facilities and individuals whether they are receiving NIH funding or not, as well as who is eligible to be a donor of the embryos used to collect the stem cells necessary for research and therapeutic development. The use of this article is vital to answer the research question that challenges the regulations in place; we first must know what is currently in affect to decide if it should be changes, and what changes need to be any. As this topic is extremely complex, the Jones 1 regulations can be hard to not only organize and implement, but understand and follow. But in this article, the guidelines for stem cell research and therapies are clear and well thought out making it much more efficient for analysis by peers and skeptics alike. Dr. Kingston makes the rules and regulations clear and easy to understand, even for an individual with little knowledge of the practice. As a graduate from University of PhD program in health sciences and economics, an alum of the University of BS/MD program, and current President of Grinnell College, Dr. Kingston shows a plethora of information proving the institution he represents in this publication of new guidelines from is a reputable and credible source of information on the research question at hand. Blakemore, Erin. Human-Pig Hybrid Created in the Lab-Here Are the  National Geographic. National Geographic Society, 26 January 2017. http://news.nationalgeographic.com/2017/01/human-pig-hybrid-embryo-chimera-organs- health-science/ Accessed 29 January 2017. The article used provides an insight on developments in stem-cell technology and research. The study that took place at the University of California, Davis showed that human-pig hybrid embryos could be formed from stem cells to make viable human organs. This changes the dynamic in medicine as thousands die while on an organ-donation waiting list every year. This method shows that it could be possible to create a seemingly never-ending supply of organs if successful. However, due to current guidelines the embryos are destroyed after 28 days of growth. Because of this restriction, the scientific community is unable to provide proof that the organs could be used in adult humans needing transplant organs. Jones 1 Erin Blakemore is journalist and historian for National Geographic and has appeared in TIME and The Washington Post according to her personal website. She sites and references research from UC Davis that was overseen by Dr. Pablo J. Ross. Dr. Ross can be trusted as a credible source for the following reasons: He gained his M.S. in Animal Science and D.V.M. in Veterinary Medicine in Argentina and then graduated with his Ph.D. in Animal Science from Michigan State University in 2007. His specific research interests include integrative genetics and genomics and biotechnologies, all of which he currently studies at the University of California, Davis as an associate professor in the department of animal science. LaBerge, Greggory S. Duvall, Eric. Grasmick, Zachary. Haedicke, Kay. Pawelek, John. Melanoma Lymph Node Metastasis with a Donor-Patient Hybrid Genome following Bone Marrow Transplantation: A Second Case of Leucocyte-Tumor Cell Hybridization in Cancer 1 February 2017. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=1bbe43de-b4f5-4c4e-ab57- 8e53fc8e14cf%40sessionmgr4007&vid=6&hid=4208 Accessed 6 February 2017. In this study, the scientists involved had a goal of seeing how cancer can be treated using stem cells and what impact the rate of reproduction of metastatic cancer cells. In short, the team worked together to inject stem cells from the bone marrow of a donor into a patient who has a leucocyte-tumor. At Yale University, where the research took place, the researchers concluded, evidence supports fusion and hybridization between donor and patient cells as the initiator of metastasis in this Simply put, they were able to find a direct correlation between the introduction of cells and a metastastic tumor causes the cells from the donor and patient to fuse Jones 1 and create cells with characteristics from both individuals: a donor-patient hybrid. They claim that this research might to new avenues of treatment for this most problematic The researchers involved all hold great authority in the scientific community. For example, George S. LaBerge is the current Scientific Director of the Crime Laboratory Bureau, for the Denver Police Department, and Eric Duvall has participated in published research for the Police Laboratory, Tulsa Police Department in Oklahoma. Kay Haedicke, who is a clinician Yale Medicine center for Medical Oncology, Graduated with her MD from Michigan state University in 1982. Another researcher on the team, John Pawelek, is a research scientist in clinical dermatology and has authored almost 200 peer-reviewed papers in his respective field of study. This proves that the article is a reliable source because of the combined years of background expertise in the medical and experimental fields. Daar, Abdallah S. Sheremeta, Lorraine. Science of Stem Cells: Some Implications for Law and Health Law Review. Winter, 2002, Vol. 11 Issue 1, p5, 9 p. http://go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?ty=as&v=2.1&u=tamp44898&it=DI Accessed 6 February 2017. This article reviews the controversy surrounding stem cells and why there is much more controversy in stem cell research and use than most any other medical advancement, and evaluates why people are so against stem cells in use for scientific research and clinical treatments. To help the audience best understand the topic of stem cell research in all aspects of experimentation and also understand the reasons some might have to oppose each-- cultural, religious, and moral. They even go into depth of cloning as to explain each method of cloning, and the reasons behind cloning: reproductive cloning, therapeutic cloning, and cloning that may Jones 1 be unsafe. To conclude, they take a look at current policies and regulations in place and note on what they think should be changed to better represent the opinions of the majority of the population. They add that there was a bill that was being reviewed at the time--which passed-- the C-13 Bill, titled Assisted Human Reproduction Act. They state that this bill will the development and use of embryonic stem and they also expressed their concerns for ignorance of the topic in Canadian legislators to fully grasp the concept and bill at hand. Abdallah Daar is currently a Professor of Public Health Sciences at the Dalla Lana Faculty of Public Health at University of Toronto, and also a senior scientist at University Health/Toronto General Research Institute. He gained his education from both the Makerere University and the University of Oxford. Dr. Daar has written over 300 articles in research, several being published solo. Lorriane Sheremeta, the other scientist with input in the article, has published 14 academic journals, with most of her work focused on bioethics or several different scientific methods and research currently being used around the globe. Together, Dr. Daar and Dr. Sheremeta has written 4 journals and also currently work at University of Toronto. This is more than enough evidence to support this article as reliable with highly credible sources.