Thorpe 1 Khamisi Thorpe Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102.025S17 24 January, 2017 Her Body? The Legal, Moral, and Ethical Parameters of Prostitution The practice of prostitution is ancient, and opponents consider it to be the form of against women, Prostitution is the cornerstone of the institution of the system of inequality between the  Angelique). And when dealing with the parameters of prostitution a person must consider the physical and emotional abuse the women in this field endure. Opponents such as The Breaking Free organization believe the decriminalization of prostitution does not promote and argue that beyond the realms of physical abuse there is also sexual and mental destruction (Raymond). The proponents of prostitution express it to be how a woman can make dues, and also that it is her last resort, that she has exercised all other options. The Eminism group believes that female prostitutes are by many factors, including poverty, sexism, racism, homophobia, (Koyama). The Eminism group is also adamant about the institution of health and rights when dealing, particularly, in the field of prostitution; they proclaim protect other women from sexual assault, domestic violence, etc. and other workers from unfair labor practice, unsafe or hostile working our rights to safety, dignity, and respect that all people Considering the commonality between both the Breaking Free organization and the Eminism group, specifically the maturation and prosperity of health, it would be mutually beneficial for the Breaking free organization and the Eminism group to consider pushing for the Thorpe 2 legalization of prostitution in more districts, to aide with decriminalization of the women and to focus on there their health, sexually and physically while simultaneously acting as outreach programs to help provide outlets to a less licentious life. The Breaking Free organization helping sisters break is based on the freedom from sexual oppression in women. Founded in October 1996 by Vednita Carter, the organization prompts themselves to act on the United Nations Declaration on the elimination of violence against women. Therein the realms of said declaration is the mention of form of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual or psychological harm or suffering to women, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or private (United Nation). The organization interprets this declaration as pertaining to prostitution, sex trafficking, and declinations in health such as brain injury (TBI) occurs in prostitution as a result of being beaten, hit, or kicked in the head, strangled, or having head slammed into objects such as car or early onset cervical cancer. These health issues influence the mission of the Breaking Free organization: provide direct services to victims and (Farley, 14). Specifically, they provide and have provided: victim-centered services, trauma-informed services, permanent housing, and rental/placement assistance to over 500 women a year. The Breaking Free organization is equally driven about the education of prostitution to the masses as they are about their great services. The organization works with multiple police departments and city attorneys such as Saint Paul Police, and Minneapolis Police; Minneapolis City Attorney, and the Ramsey County Attorney, etc. to heighten their voice and speak more easily to the communities through these institutions. The Breaking Free organization is to the diversity and empowerment of (Carter) Thorpe 3 The Eminism group the Emi back in was established in 1975 by Emi Koyama. By no means is this group an organization that carries out work to forward the advancements of their issues; rather, it is a tool through which feminist voice their ideas and beliefs concerning the world that circumvents them. The Eminism group is a feministic vlog whose platform includes the push for acceptance and respect for female sex-workers as well the rights, policies, and laws that would govern their mental, physical, and sexual health. As a part of their defense tactics for prostitution, arguments such as, prostitution is a form of slavery draws the following rebuttal: exploitative working conditions exist in many different fields. Two of the contemporary examples are offshore sweatshops ran by large U.S. corporations, and the U.S. farms where undocumented migrant workers (Koyama). The Eminism group juxtaposes the confinements and reality of prostitution with other lower class jobs to explicitly announce that all faults found in the field work of prostitution are reflective of poor governmental intervention. What is mainly misunderstood is that spells regulation of some kind: licensing or registration, con- fining prostitutes to red light districts, state- restricted brothels, mandatory medical exams, special business taxes, etc. Implicit in the idea of legalization is the principle of harm reduction: that is, that regulation is necessary to reduce some of the problems associated with (Weitzer, 87). When approaching the possible solutions to prostitution, government can take three approaches to prostitution. First, prostitution and prostitution-related activities can constitute criminal offenses. Second, prostitution can be legalized and subject to formal government regulation, such as restrictions regarding licensing, location, health precautions, and advertising. Third, prostitution can be decriminalized, completely removing the activity from the criminal code, although the participants may still be subject to health, tax, or business code Thorpe 4 (Rio). To expound on the third approach a compromise that would mutually benefit the Breaking Free organization and the Eminism group requires cooperation and ultimately, the sacrifice of one belief or value of each invested party. The idea of legalizing prostitution in more counties, and districts to decriminalize the women in the field would aid the ideas, and beliefs of the Eminism group; however, this would be the sacrificial act of the Breaking Free organization considering the strong opposition, and personal experience with prostitution. While legalizing prostitution the idea provided by the Eminism group that this practice, for some women, is the only means by which they can make due must become temporary. Each investor should become an outreach programs to make sure that women in this field have a way out. This aspect of the compromise would be favorable to the Breaking Free organization and the sacrificial act of the Eminism group, considering that the group is not in the business of dissuading women from their practice. Consider the application of decriminalization in Nevada where prostitution is legal in only eight counties. There are implications and very strict restrictions that govern safety. Perhaps pandering, which is the unlawful act of persuading a person to become a prostitute or more simply, a pimp (Nev. Rev. Stat. Ann.), and is punishable by for not less than one year and not more than four years, a fine of not more than $5,000, or both. (Nev. Rev. Stat. or the practice of prostitution after testing positive for HIV which is punishable by of not less than two years and not more than 10 years, a fine of not more than $10,000, or both. (Nev. Rev. Stat. (England, Deborah). With sanctions and statutes as such, it would become increasingly difficult for the criminality in prostitution to manifest and health to further decline. If the Breaking Free organization and the Eminism group could push Thorpe 5 for the replication of the applied system of governed prostitution in Nevada in other states across the United States, the possibility of government health aid may become accessible As seen in the Nevada application of governed prostitution, it is evident that with policies and laws, government intervention can regulate safety and health for the women in this field. With the cooperation from the Breaking Free organization and the Eminism group, unmeasurable advances for women can be made. It is imperative that these two foundations equally support the practice of prostitution as a temporary means for monetary acquisition while engaging with the culture of prostitutes to provide a series of outlets and sources for a less sexual career. The gathering of both foundations could influence a movement. The coming of age for prostitution, from government intolerance, inequality, and legislative neglect to acceptance, outreach, and governmental intervention. And with government intervention, responsibility can be distributed more evenly between the community, the sex-workers, and law enforcement, for instance prostitution were tolerated by the law in certain areas of the the public visibility of prostitution would enable the police to cope more effectively with what- ever violence or fraud exists. Patrons would be more likely to complain candidly to the police, and, conversely, prostitutes them- selves would be more likely to bring to police attention the violence or fraud sometimes directed against them by patrons or (Richards). This makes it evident that governed prostitution is beneficial to all invested parties and invites a more peaceful flow in the community. Thorpe 6 Work Cited A/RES/48/104. Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against  United Nations. United Nations, 20 Dec. 1993. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Angelique.  Article. 2011 Coalition Against Trafficking Women, 22 Aug. 2011. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. England, Deborah C. Prostitution in Nevada: Laws and Penalties Criminal  CriminalDefenseLawyer.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Farley, Melissa. Bad for the Body, Bad for the Heart: Prostitution Harms Women Even If Legalized or  Violence Against Women 10.10 (2004): 1087-125. Web. Koyama, Emi. Support Rights  Support Rights Now! N.p., Apr. 2001. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Raymond, Janice. Learn  10 Reasons for Not Legalizing. N.p., 2003. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Richards, David A. J. Commercial Sex and the Rights of the Person: A Moral Argument for the Decriminalization of  University of Pennsylvania Law Review 127.5 (1979): 1195. Web. Rio, Linda M. Psychological and Sociological Research and the Decriminalization or Legalization of  Archives of Sexual Behavior 20.2 (1991): 205-18. Web. Weitzer, Ronald. Crime, Law and Social Change 32.1 (1999): 83-102. Web.