Ortega 1 Yosselyn Ortega B. Hernandez ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Animal Cruelty Compromise Regardless of all its technological and scientific advances, the United States has still not completely banned the use of animal testing on cosmetic products. Organizations such as the Humane Society and PETA work towards ending this practice by spreading awareness. They determine what it means for a cosmetic company to be cruelty free. According to these organizations, there is a difference between a company claiming to be cruelty free and a company truly being cruelty free. The exception to being cruelty free, in this case, would be when a cosmetic company sells its products in China. By law, foreign makeup products must be tested on animals before being put on the Chinese market. Wet N Wild Beauty and MAC Cosmetics are the two cosmetic companies whose practices will be examined, Wet N Wild being the company that does not sell to China and MAC being the company that does sell to China. Cosmetic companies that brand themselves as cruelty free, whether they truly are or not, should strive towards being a cruelty free cosmetic world by donating money to an organization whose purpose is to end animal testing or finding alternative methods for testing cosmetic products. The cosmetic company Wet N Wild Beauty is known for its affordability and for being completely cruelty free. On their social media pages, the company reminds its followers about the fact that they refuse to test their products on animals by hashtagging on every Ortega 2 one of their photos. Their official website has its own subheading where the brand states its commitment towards keeping their products cruelty free. Wet N Wild explicitly state on their website that true! wet n NEVER tests on animals, and we are super proud of this. We never have, and we never will. We believe in beauty without cruelty (Wet N Wild)! This cosmetic company does not sell to China, and they clearly pride themselves in their care for animals and their rights. With Wet N devotion to eliminating animal testing, it would be difficult for them to agree with the practices of another company called MAC Cosmetics. MAC Cosmetics is a company that consider themselves to be cruelty free because they do not test on animals and they do not pay another company to test their products on animals. The reason PETA and the Humane Society do not consider MAC to be cruelty free is because of the exception where they sell to a foreign country. For example, China tests foreign products on animals in order before being sold in the country. website states that does not test on animals and we never ask others to test for us. If a regulatory body demands it for its safety assessment, an exception can be (MAC). This can be interpreted as MAC wanting to appeal to cruelty free shoppers by not testing on animals themselves, although they sell to a country that does. Both of these cosmetic companies would proudly brand themselves as cruelty free, especially in the United States where vegetarianism and veganism are popular because it attracts consumers who do not eat meat 0r animal products. Some consumers go out of their way to purchase from brands that are only cruelty free. The problem seems to be that some cosmetic companies are cruelty free with an exception, like MAC, and advocate cruelty free alternatives for makeup, yet sell in China. They come off as being hypocritical, but because China has a large and growing market Ortega 3 for foreign cosmetics, it would cost companies, such as MAC about 16% of their revenue (The Humane Society). Then there are companies without exception, like Wet N Wild, that are marketed as opponents to animal testing, yet do not actively fight for animal rights, almost as if they are using the label only for profit. The organizations Wet N Wild and MAC should consider donating to are the Humane Society of the United States and PETA. The Humane Society of the U.S. has a campaign that encourages consumers to donate towards their cause, to shop cruelty free, and to support the Humane Cosmetics Act, a legislation to end animal testing for cosmetics. Their website informs its readers about how animals are being used for testing, which types of animals are being tested on, alternatives for animal testing, and the issue of the Chinese law requiring makeup products to be tested on. PETA is the more known organization involving animal rights. They educate their readers about the reality of animals being killed during experimentations and inform the public about how to prevent animal suffering. Both organizations put effort into fighting for animal rights and not strictly for animals being used for cosmetic testing. In fact, slogan is are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other (PETA). They fight for the lives of animals and the safety, and are not limited to the cosmetic world problems. One would believe that because makeup products are regularly tested on animals, problems associated with human reactions to these products would be uncommon. The reality is that the results of animal testing are not very accurate. That is because the animals commonly chosen for experimentation are small rodents, leading to inaccurate results (Institute In Vitro Sciences). Human reactions to ingredients cannot be compared to those of guinea pigs or rabbits Ortega 4 because humans are not small rodents or small mammals. There are alternatives to animal testing that would produce more accurate results. Human volunteers for one, but also methods include sophisticated tests using human cells and tissues (also known as in vitro methods) advanced computer-modeling techniques (often referred to as in silico (PETA). These techniques are more efficient in producing results and do not involve the lives of innocent animals and the health of humans, and by donating to the Humane Society and PETA, these methods could be what completely bans animal testing in the United States. By donating to these organizations, Wet N Wild be a more reputable advocate for animal rights, because marketing themselves as cruelty free and doing nothing else to support the movement has real effect on animal rights. By donating to these organizations MAC could help positively impact the animal rights movement. The cosmetic companies Wet N Wild Beauty and MAC Cosmetics, differ in their branding of being cruelty free. In order for both companies to be active in the fight towards animal rights in the United States, they should donate to the organizations the Humane Society and PETA, who work to end animal testing and advocate alternative methods for testing cosmetic products in order to be completely free. Both companies have large following, especially on social media, and their voices together can help further the movement. But where does this leave the China issue? Well, because MAC cosmetics will be donating to the animal rights cause, it would force them to publically acknowledge the fact that testing on animals or humans is cruel and inhumane. Perhaps this will motivate them to slowly transition from not testing on animals but selling to China to not selling to any countries that test on animals, including China. Ortega 5 Works Cited IIVS . Institution In Vitro Sciences N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cosmetics  Cosmetics - Official Site . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Humane Society of the United States : The Humane Society of the United  . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Wet N Wild Beauty Stay Wild with Our Stunning Beauty  N Wild Beauty Stay Wild with Our Stunning Beauty Products . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Ortega 6