Kitana Atienza ENC 1102 2017 0212 Death with Dignity and True Dignity Death with Dignity and True Dignity are both organizations that are associated with educating individuals seeking physician-assisted suicide about their choices of whether to end their life. Physician-assisted suicide, which is also referred to as euthanasia, is the process in which a physician consciously provides a patient with the means and/or knowledge for him/her to commit suicide. While Death with Dignity promotes an individual practicing his/her right to die, and True Dignity believes that suicide is never death with dignity, both organizations claim to have the patients best interest in mind. With the patient being each main concern, having the two organizations come to an agreement should be accomplished easily; however, being that the organizations have different views as to what dying with dignity is, they cannot come to an agreement. If the Death with Dignity and True Dignity organization were to counsel individuals considering euthanasia and make them optimistic about the time they have left to live, while also supporting their reasons for desiring euthanasia, then both organizations would accomplish their goal of doing what is best for the patient. By both organizations remaining unbiased, then truly the best interest is the concern rather than the opinions of the organizations. In addition, if this were a regular protocol for individuals seeking euthanasia, then there would be no disagreement between organizations who claim to support the decisions; as after receiving advice on both living and going through with the treatment, the individual would have all the resources in order to make a decision they consider is best for them. Death with Dignity claims that greatest human freedom is to live and die according to our on desires and In other words, it should be at an individuals discretion to decide how they live and how they die. Aside from providing terminally-ill individuals information on euthanasia, this organization also aids individuals in making their own end-of-life decisions, excluding how they decide to die. Additionally, this organization information, education, and support about [the as an end-of-life option family members, legislators, advocates, healthcare and end-of-life care professionals, media, and the interested (Death with Dignity National Center, 2017). Death with Dignity campaigns in states that euthanasia is not legal in order that terminally-ill individuals who wish to end their live via the treatment may be more aware of the option to do so. By having access to euthanasia, where more often than not drugs are professionally administered into an individual for a painless death, individuals can have the option of dying peacefully rather than trying to commit suicide themselves and either failing, or having their death be excruciatingly painful. In 2014, Brittany Maynard, a young terminally-ill woman, became well-known nationwide due to a video she uploaded to Youtube explaining her decision to undergo the process of euthanasia. Unlike other cases regarding terminally-ill individuals seeking euthanasia, case was different due to the difference in age. Most individuals who qualify for euthanasia are considered senior citizens. Maynard on the other hand, at the time, was 29 years old. Additionally, according to the article, she had very close relationships with each member of her family. It is because of these facts that Maynard should be less susceptible to euthanasia as a method of ending her illness. However, as Death with Dignity describes it, Maynard chose to practice Death with Dignity act so that she may die peacefully be her own terms. Many associate euthanasia as feeling hopeless, when rather, the Death with Dignity organization describes it as a way for the terminally-ill to die painlessly and happily (being that the patient is dying on their own terms). Being that Maynard was known to be very social and have good relationships, this goes against the common perception that individuals seeking euthanasia are anti-social, depressed, and alone. Being that Maynard goes against this perception, it supports Death with suggestion that nobody but the individual seeking euthanasia can what dying with dignity is. Dignity is as deserving of honor and/or respect. Some individuals seeking euthanasia consider them ending their life on their own terms as deserving of honor and/or respect, while others, such as those a part of True Dignity, believe that enduring pain is dignifying. True Dignity focuses primarily on giving individuals hope for life who consider euthanasia as their only option to ending their suffering associated with their illness. As their mission statement states, is never death with dignity, and assisted suicide legislation threatens true patient choices at the end of (True Dignity, 2017). In other words, the organization believes that any form of suicide is not worthy of honor, and that by an individual choosing to end their life via suicide rather than natural death, they are actually putting an end to a variety of other decisions associated with the end of his/her life. This organization believes that an individual needs to reach their maximum point of intolerance of pain-relieving treatment before considering euthanasia as a method to end his/her suffering. Additionally, the organization believes the citizens true dignity and compassion at the end of life, not death and In other words, the organization does not support euthanasia because they believe that is not The organization also supports the idea that an end- of-life choices should be with honor, rather than others viewing them as weak. Being that these two organizations claim to have the well being and happiness as their main concern, a proposed compromise would be for the two to provide unbiased counseling sessions for each individual. Although each organization does provide individuals information regarding euthanasia, Death with Dignity provides information that supports euthanasia while True Dignity provides information against euthanasia. By these organizations providing biased information, if an individual were just exposed to that information, then they would be more inclined to consider their opinion regarding euthanasia more. However, if the individual were to be unbiasedly counseled about their decisions and supported throughout the entire process, they would be more inclined to make the decision based on what his/her desires, and not be by the opinions of others. The reason the individual should be counseled and should not make this decision alone is due to the fact that they may be unaware of the various options they have. Once being introduced and guided through this process, they can make a decision accordingly. Although this compromise seems easily feasible due to the fact that True Dignity does not fully oppose euthanasia, it is not due to the fact that each organization has different opinions as to what dignity in regards to euthanasia. True Dignity supports euthanasia as the ultimate last resort, while Death with Dignity supports euthanasia as an primary choice. Death with Dignity also believes that dignity can only be by the individual and should not be persuaded by the opinions of others. An understanding about what is considered dignity should be determined by the individual, and the individual only, then a treatment plan should be based off of this standard. By doing this, each organization yields persuasion; therefore, the dignity or the individual is preserved. This compromise is achievable due to the fact that each organization claims to have the best interest as their main concern. If this is truly the case, then by having the individuals counseled about the process, along with other pain-relieving options, each purpose would be Furthermore, True Dignity is not entirely against euthanasia; however, they believe that every other option should be explored by a terminally-ill individual who for euthanasia, rather than euthanasia being his/her primary option. Once an individual has undergone various treatments that have not cured his/her suffering then, True Dignity believes, that they can now consider euthanasia as an option. Therefore, if an individual were to be counseled and decide that euthanasia is the best option for them, True Dignity would not have much reason to suggest otherwise, being that they are not entirely against the process. Although Death with Dignity and True Dignity have opposing opinions regarding the legality of euthanasia, both organizations share the goal of making the desires their main concern. By providing an individual with the means in order to make a decision accurately according to their desires alone, and not the desires of others, each organizations goal can be achieved. In addition, by having these two organizations provide their resources in a productive way, the divide amongst the opinions within the topic of euthanasia would lessen Works Cited True True Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29. Jan. 2017. Death With Dignity. Death with Dignity National Center and Death with Dignity Political Fund, n.d. Web. 29. Jan. 2017. Kotva, Joseph. in Christian Century, 2016.