Arcay 1 Fernanda Arcay Dorinda Davis ENC 1102 12 February 2017 The Death Penalty Capital punishment, commonly known as the death penalty, has always been a controversial topic. However, not everyone is aware of basic information that should be taken into account. The United States abolishes the death penalty for a few years and then decides to reinstate it again; currently, according to Amnesty International, U.S Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976, 82% of all executions have taken place in the (Amnesty International, 2012). The United States was ranked as one of the countries with the highest death penalties in 2010, among China and others. Nevertheless, not all the states in the USA have the death penalty; there are 19 states that have abolished capital punishment (Death Penalty Information Center). Organizations have been formed, those supporting the death penalty, and those against the death penalty. Organizations with opposing views are The Death Penalty Project (DPP) and Catholics Against Capital Punishment (CACP), among others, while an organization supporting the death penalty can be the National Organization for Victim Assistance (NOVA). This topic makes us then consider whether the death penalty is ethical or not. Should all of the states abolish it? Should all of the states in the US implement it? Accepting the fact that the death penalty is a subject with several points of view, a compromise can be reached for this issue; that is, coming up with a new type of sentence: death-in-prison. A few years ago, specifically 1992, the organization Catholics Against Capital Punishment, or CACP, was founded by Christian couple Frank and Ellen McNeirney. Ever since 1992, they Arcay 2 have been working in order to raise awareness about the death penalty. This organization believes that the death penalty is something humans should not perform at all. The CACP has stated that their mission on Earth is as follows, Working in close collaboration with the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and living the mission of the Congregation of St. Joseph, [The proclaims the pro-life teaching and prepares Catholics for informed involvement in the public debate to end the death penalty and promote restorative justice (CACP). This organization uses speeches made worldwide by recognized Catholic figures to further support their mission, an example is the speech Pope Francis gave in 2016 in Oslo, Norway. He demonstrates through several arguments why the death penalty should be abolished worldwide in his perspective and One of the key points of his message is that death is not the right punishment, seeing that it was not and still continues to not be in plans for any of the human beings on Earth. He continues to communicate to us that it violates the human rights of a person and that the death penalty only stirs up more vengeance. Pope Francis expresses the following in his speech, Extraordinary Jubilee of Mercy is an auspicious occasion for promoting worldwide ever more evolved forms of respect for the life and dignity of each person. It must not be forgotten that the inviolable and God-given right to life also belongs to the (CACP). Last but not least, he says that death is not the right escape or punishment seeing that it does not give the criminal hope, and a life without hope is just plain torture (CACP). Christians have always said that supporting the death penalty is against God and his beliefs. The CACP continues to work today in order to raise awareness in this topic by communicating their ideas and what they think is right. Arcay 3 On the other hand, there are organizations that support the death penalty indirectly. The National Organization for Victim Assistance or NOVA, is an organization that embraces both points of views regarding the death penalty. It is an organization dedicated to victims any type of victims. Their objective is as expressed on their webpage, mission is to champion dignity and compassion for those harmed by (NOVA). Also, in 1975, NOVA is the oldest national victim assistance organization of its type in the United States as the recognized leader in this noble (NOVA). They take the hurt and grief of the people to support death penalty. They also express that everyone has the right to grief in their own way, and that no one has the right to judge how much of a situation can affect you and your well-being (NOVA). This organization supports these victims by making support groups and other recreational activities. Usually, death penalty supporters seek revenge and find comfort when realizing that the ones who hurt them and their family get hurt as well. The anti-capital punishment organization, The Death Penalty Project (DDP), is a group of lawyers that represent people on death penalty for free (Death Penalty Project). They are an organization that has dedicated to death penalty cases for over 20 years, and seek to enforce human rights. Their motto is, are prepared to work wherever the death penalty is imposed we will never turn a case (Death Penalty Project). While their objectives are as follows, To provide free and effective legal representation and assistance to those individuals who are facing the death penalty. To promote the restriction of the death penalty in line with international minimum legal requirements. To uphold and develop human rights standards and the criminal law. To promote increased awareness and greater dialogue with key stakeholders on the death penalty. (DDP) Arcay 4 When it comes to the death penalty, most criminals being faced with the executions cannot afford lawyers, for usually lawyers are very expensive. The problem with death penalty is that most of the people put in line for execution are colored people and people of poor economic standings. Amnesty International shows in a report that, of African-American death row inmates in Philadelphia would have received sentences of life imprisonment if they had not been African- (Amnesty International). Also, arguments against death penalty are those of innocence. Hundreds of cases have been seen where innocent people have been executed, or almost executed, and at the end it turns out the government had the wrong person. Amnesty International mentions that, 1973, 140 people have been released from death rows throughout the country due to evidence that they were wrongfully (Amnesty International). This raises the question, should capital punishment occur? What if you kill the wrong person? Another strong argument con organizations use is those of costs. The death penalty is expensive, roughly $232.7 million per year, according to Amnesty International. Last but not least is that of the actual process of the execution. Most of the executions occur by lethal injections. According to Amnesty International, there are several complications, where the prisoner does not react well to the injection and might go through excruciating pain, without being able to express it because of the paralysis the same injections cause (Amnesty International). Finding common ground in such a sensitive topic is quite challenging. This is not a common topic people encounter, this actually involves the life of a human being and whether they should live or not. However, Russel D. Covey found a reasonable argument that would be beneficial for both sides that of death-in-prison. The idea of death-in-prison is basically what the name states: letting the prisoners die inside prison, it would be as a life sentence but without the possibility of parole. In his article in Prison: The Right Death Penalty he Arcay 5 summarizes his main points as to why death-in-prison is a solution for capital punishment. First of all, death-in-prison would mean letting the criminal die in prison, and not actually performing the execution. He argues that while yes, death-in-prison would be a slow death, it would be a lot better than being executed. Also, he says that death-in-prison would fulfill the moral duty that sometimes people do deserve death for the crimes they commit; but at the same time the government is not obliged to kill them directly (Covey, pp 1121). Death-in-prison would be as if the criminal is serving a life-in-prison sentence, only that they would not be given the chance of parole. Another important factor he mentions of death-in-prison is that it would save not only those convicted wrong, but also it would save the government money. This is the perfect solution for both sides. The criminal would get what he deserves in the perspective of those hurt by him, and the family does not have to go through the pain of a member of them being executed, nor does the prisoner have to go through that pain himself. Nevertheless, both sides would have to give up certain things, but they would gain others. The CACP and the DDP will have to give up on the idea of eradicating the death penalty completely. Even though they strongly believe that the death penalty needs to be abolished as soon as possible, they have to acknowledge the fact that it is quite troublesome to do so, and the solution closest to abolishing it would be that of death-in-prison. However, death-in-prison benefits them because the criminal is paying for what he did, without being killed by lethal injections or other methods. NOVA would have to recognize that even though crime victims want justice for their harm, death penalty is not an option, and they have to accept it. Yet, NOVA would still gain the satisfaction of the death of the criminal. The criminal is not going to be killed right away, but he is still going to die, a slow death in prison. Arcay 6 Capital punishment will continue to be a controversial topic for decades. There are always going to be sides that support it while others do not. However, death-in-prison is the right solution for this issue. Death-in-prison benefits both sides seeing that they both obtain what they wanted: justice. Supporters of the death penalty still get the revenge they needed as well as organizations against the death penalty. Even though they both get a different result that what they expected, they eventually get the justice they were seeking. Arcay 7 Works Cited Amnesty International Penalty Facts and Amnesty International. May 2012. Covey, D. Russel. in Prison: The Right Death Penalty Georgia State University Law Review. vol. 28:4. July 1, 2012. pp.1121 Death Penalty Information Center, Penalty States in the Death Penalty, 2016. The Death Penalty Project, and DDP. 2016 Gushee, David P, Richard D Land, and Glen Harold Stassen. Honoring Life: How Biblical Is It To Be Pro-Life and Support the Death  Christianity Today. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. 2 February, 2012. National Organization for Victim Assistance Crisis NOVA. 2016 Message of His Holiness Pope Francis to the 6th World Congress Against the Death Libreria Editrice Vaticana. June 21-23, 2016.