Nodarse 1 Luis Nodarse Professor Bianca ENC 1102 The Death penalty in the US The death penalty has been a topic widely talked around all of the United States (US) because there are two rather big sides to this argument, which are the fact that some people want it and some people and whenever there is an execution happening there are protest and many people disagreeing outside the place of where the execution is happening. The argument about the death penalty is that it is very inhumane for the state to kill a man no matter what crime they have done. People that are against this statement believe that these men or women that have done this crime deserve all the punishment in the world and death is pretty suitable for someone that may have killed someone else or may have raped or done some crime of that matter. Some families are heartbroken because some of their family members have been taken away from them and the man or woman that did such crime is just sitting in jail with food and housing, which some people think it is unjust for some men and women to do such unspeakable acts and to only be in jail with no other punishment. The two sides believe their arguments very strongly making this a very hard thing to resolve. For both sides to be happy an agreement must be met, and that agreement is that the death penalty be still implemented but the death penalty only be used will be lethal injection, which lethal injection is not used in all states right now, because it is the most humane way for a person to die which is a big argument for the side against the death penalty which they believe that it is inhumane. Nodarse 2 The National coalition to abolish the death penalty (NCADP) is the organization that believes that these acts are inhumane. Their mission is abolish the death penalty in the United states and support efforts to abolish the death penalty which makes them a very strong stakeholder on the matter they agree at all with the death penalty and they believe in fixing the root of the problem and the system of police and prisons in the United states instead of just killing the men and women that have committed a crime (ncadp.org). They are known to be the oldest organization in this matter of wanting to ban the death penalty all across the country which it was founded in 1976 (ncadp.org). Some of their accomplishments are the death in seven states in the last (ncadp.org). The organization that is contrary to this organization is called the Marshall project. Although they are not an organization strictly for the death penalty they are an organization of trying to educate the public on the US criminal justice system and also trying to better the criminal justice system so some of their beliefs are to better the death penalty problem making them a stakeholder in the argument of the death penalty. They want to better the death penalty so it is more efficient and they believe the whole death penalty is as stated by district attorneys in California (Chammah, 2015). They achieve all of this by winning journalism, partnerships with other news outlets and public which makes them very known in the topic of death penalty due to them being constantly speaking their mind on the criminal justice system and the death penalty being a part of that (themarshallproject.org). the difference is that although they care for the justice system and they always trying to fix they still want the death penalty it is never stated that they want to get rid of it. They even post articles of how it might even better to have the death penalty for the sake since some of them are going to spend the rest of their life in jail and death would merely save them from all the pain in Nodarse 3 jail, the article says has lived in extreme isolation in 7x9 cell. He is fed through slot in the solid steel door, and some days allowed out for an hour to alone in a small, barren This describes how bad the conditions are for some inmates inside the jail for example Blake that has been in solitary confinement like this for 27 years which death would be a sweet release of this pain he has to pass by constantly. These two organizations seem to be completely at odds in what their stake is on the matter of the death penalty. Although this is true this mean that they have something in common which is that both organization want to fix the death penalty, they know that somehow the way it is right now not the best way for the prisoners to be punished which is the first step for a compromise to come together this tying back to the humanity of the whole thing both sides can agree that it might not be the best way for someone to get killed since in some states there are electrocutions and firing squads which it is not humane at all. Both sides also believe that the criminal should be in jail and they really innocent some of the people going against the death penalty are members that their families have been killed by criminals which means they deserve to be in jail (ncadp.org). A good compromise for this problem is something that has been implemented in many states already and it is the most humane way to kill a human being which this compromise gets to both sides for pro death penalty it is still killing the men or women that deserve the punishment and for the anti- death penalty it is being the most humane way possible which it is a big thing the NCADP believes in which is that they believe is this is very inhumane. Lethal injection is humane due to the components of the injection the components are which are stated by scientific American thiopental (a barbiturate to induce anesthesia), pancuronium bromide (a muscle relaxant that paralyzes all the muscles of the body) and potassium chloride (a salt that speeds the heart until it in no moment in these injection does the person feel any pain they simply go to sleep by the Nodarse 4 first drug and from there they just never wake up (scientificamerican.com). This compromise is the only one that seem to make sense for both sides because it is the only way for the criminal that deserved the punishment still get killed and the people not being completely angry at the fact that they are inflicting pain to a human being since in other states people get killed by firing squad or electrocution which cause a serious amount of pain. There is some problem with lethal injection which is the shortage of the materials made for the lethal injection which completely delays the death sentence or even sometimes people try to use replacements of these drugs and it does not work the same way the original drugs work and with help of the marshal project organization the problem of shortages of materials for lethal injection could be spoken about in their public articles could be spoken more often and death penalty could be perfected to make everyone satisfied. Concluding the only way for this problem and argument over the death penalty to stop is for both sides to come to a compromise which is have the United states put lethal injection only for all states and in this way all prisoners that the jury believe should be killed will be killed in the most humane way. Which in fact keep both sides happy on the argument and will solve the problem of the stakeholders once and for all. Word count: 1311 Works cited Nodarse 5 Abolish the Death  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Greenemeier, Larry. Cruel and Usual?: Is Capital Punishment by Lethal Injection Quick and  Scientific American. N.p., 27 Oct. 2010. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Press, Nick Ut/Associated. The Unfolding Campaign to Save the Death  The Marshall Project. N.p., 16 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. What Death Penalty Opponents  The Marshall Project. N.p., 16 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.