Graham Lester Karen Hanson Enc 1102 January 29 2017 Ending the Abuse of pit bulls to Help Reduce Dog Attacks Today pit bulls are seen as a symbol of masculinity and toughness. This view of pit bulls has led to their rise in popularity among owners wanting a dog for protection. In some unfortunate circumstances pit bulls are used as a weapon or as a form of grotesque in dog fights. These trends have pushed the pit bull breed to be at risk for exploitation and this exploitation has led to many attacks on humans, some of which are even fatal. These attacks are a direct result of the violent behavior the dogs learn while being subjugated to abuse and exploitation. A study in the United States found that up to 13,000 people a year are hospitalized from dog attacks and attacks seems to be on the rise (Langley). The animal rights group the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, also called Peta, calls for breed specific legislation and mandatory spay/neuter for pit bulls on the grounds that the abuse towards them is too severe so they should not be bred anymore. Another animal rights group The Best Friends Animal society stands firmly against mandatory spay/neuter law as fixing a dog can be an expensive and sometimes inaccessible option to lower income families. The Best Friends Animal Society also believes animals are individuals and be judged on their breed. Despite obvious differences the organization Best Friends and Peta have similar goals in mind and that is to improve the welfare of pit bulls and to help prevent dog attacks. These two organizations could both further their agendas if they come together and help support lower income families get their pit bull spayed or neutered. They could then focus their resources on calling for preemptive legislation to reduce dog attacks that applies to all dogs and not just one breed or an individual dog. At first glance views on the pit bull problem may seem extreme. Peta is in favor of breed specific legislation for pit bulls on the grounds that the pit bull has fallen into systematic abuse because of how people treat them. Peta even prefers the term breed specific protection to breed specific legislation. They also want mandatory spaying and neutering to stop pit bull breeding and they even mention that they want all dog breeding to end because of the high amount of dogs without homes. They even address that it seems odd that an organization such as Peta would be for breed specific spay/neuter laws, but it all starts to make sense as they present their case. offering an extreme solution for an extreme problem. Peta shows that tens of thousands of pit bulls are euthanized in shelters every year. In addition to that pit bulls are into fighting rings to encourage them to tear each other apart; electrocuted, drowned, or hanged for losing fights; and (Peta Investigations). This emotional appeal greatly strengthens their argument and makes their somewhat extreme solutions seem like a necessity to stop this ongoing problem where pit bulls are abused and humans are attacked. The Best Friends Animal Society has a somewhat tamer take on the issue. currently strongly against mandatory spay/neuter laws but not on an ideological level, actually very much for spaying or neutering your dog. against these mandatory laws because of the logistics. They even state that support these laws if the surgeries are made affordable to lower income people, if the surgery centers are easily accessible, and if the options for surgery are appropriately communicated (Best Friends Animal Society). The Best Friends Animal Society is very strongly against breed specific legislation. They address it as breed- discriminatory legislation and are against on the grounds that pit bulls more aggressive than other breeds. One of their main ideals is that every dog is an individual just like people. Rather than breed specific legislation the Best Friends Animal Society is more for individualistic rehabilitation of aggressive animals. These two organizations are on the opposite ends of the spectrum completely. Peta is the more extreme of the two, calling for an end to the breeding of all dogs until all rescued. The Best Friends Animal Society is very mild and has very nice ideas on individualistic rehabilitation for pit bulls and other potentially aggressive breeds but fails to present how such an individualized response would help the tens of thousands of abused pit bulls or thousands of dog attack victims. The Best Friends Animal Society addresses the bad reputation of pit bulls but fails to address the abuse that occurs because of this reputation. Peta on the other hand focuses single handedly on the abuse this reputation has brought on and think of the potential consequences of their end the breed all together solution. These two organizations are both animal rights groups but their methods and beliefs differ greatly. One thing these two organizations can agree on is that the state pit bulls are in is harming both them and us. While Peta and the Best Friends Animal Society may seem like polar opposites their motivations are the same. They want to stop the cycle of abuse for pit bulls and help prevent potential attacks because of it. One thing they could do is help lower income families get their pit bull spayed or neutered. Peta wants spaying and neutering for pit bulls to be mandatory anyways and The Best Friend Animals Society says they support this until more financially accessible. So the time is now to come together and use their financial resources to make these goals happen. Gemma Zanowski says it best when she says often seems like a forgotten (Zanowski). Zanowski continues to say that the best legislation would be legislation that combined the best aspects of low-cost spay/neuter programs and mandatory spay/neuter laws (Zanowski). Fewer unwanted pit bulls means fewer pit bulls falling into the hands of unsavory people and should directly combat the issue. Another area where room for compromise is breed specific legislation. policy of all pit bulls is too broad and The Best Friends Animal Society idea of individual rehab for aggressive dogs is too narrow. A piece in the Fordham Law Review journal has a very good take on a middle ground. Saffia Hussein proposes that potentially dangerous dog laws that appeal to all dogs be put in place to help take preventative measures against attacks. One example of this is how some states give punishments for a dogs first bite. These preventative measures would make sure that on the first bite some action was taken (Hussein, 40). Another way these two organizations can meet in the middle is if a program to exempt out of breed specific legislation for a dog with no violent tendencies. With breed specific legislation becoming more prominent people with peaceful dogs should have some way to get out of restrictive laws (Pratt, 24). If these two organizations could look past these minor differences and pool their resources for a compromise then they could really help a lot of pit bulls and People. This a minor issue, pit bulls and people are losing their lives. time for these animal rights groups to look past their differences and look to the animals that they want to protect. If they could do this for pit bulls then a win-win for both dogs and people. Works Cited Hussain, Safia Gray. Attacking The Dog-Bite Epidemic: Why Breed-Specific Legislation Solve The Dangerous-Dog  Fordham Law Review 74.(2006): 2847. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Langley, Ricky L. Human Fatalities Resulting From Dog Attacks In The United States,  Wilderness & Environmental Medicine 1 (2009): 19. BioOne Online Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Policies and Positions  Best Friends Animal Society, Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://bestfriends.org/about-best-friends/policies-and-position-statements Pratt, Heather K. Canine Profiling: Does Breed-Specific Legislation Take A Bite Out Of Canine  Penn State Law Review 108.(2004): 855. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Zanowski, Gemma N. A Fresh Look At Spay/Neuter Legislation: The Journey To A Middle  Journal Of Public Health Management & Practice 18.3 (2012): E24- 33. CINAHL. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.