Smith !1 Emma Smith Karen Hanson ENC 1102 Jan 25 2017 Humane Poultry Production Poultry slaughter can be offensive to one person and a part of daily consumption for another, but what makes poultry slaughter right or wrong is not based on opinion rather the manner of how humanely it is practiced. The slaughter of poultry and other livestock for their meat and by-products has been practiced for thousands of years. Recently however, more organizations are coming out against this practice of animal slaughter reasoning that it is inhumane and unethical to kill animals for their products. A highly known organization against such practices is the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals or PETA. views on poultry production may be considered extreme in the direction against it, in that they advocate for no poultry production to be done at all deeming it inhumane. On the other end of the spectrum there are the actual producers of poultry production such as Tyson Foods who believe animals mean safe and healthy food, [and committed to making sure the farm animals we depend on are raised and who to earn consistent and satisfactory profits for shareholders and to invest in people, products, and Although Tyson Foods may not be as focused on the rights of the poultry as PETA is, they both share a common concern for the health and well-being of the poultry being raised. When considering the stances of both of these leading stakeholders Smith !2 on the topic of humane poultry production, the most acquirable and equally pleasing compromise would include setting up more regulations that would ensure the humane raising of these animals such as a larger space requirement per bird and separating the birds into smaller flocks for their mental well being. The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals tend to do anything they can to catch the eye of the public and get their point across including having protesters covered in fake blood or posing as dead meat and creating slogans such as no meat is While these acts may give them a bad impression to some, they are definitely getting their views out about the horrors of poultry production in commercial farms. As stated on the PETA website, chickens are forcefully confined huge, ammonia-filled, windowless sheds where artificial lighting is manipulated to make birds eat as often as and The crowding in these sheds is also an issue that causes unnecessary injury and deaths to the poultry. Another issue with the sheds concerning the PETA Organization is that chickens are a social animal who do best when in small flocks unlike the large groups virtually impossible for them to establish a social structure called the pecking Chicken In the large numbers the chickens are kept in on commercial farms the chickens are not able to establish this hierarchy and end up continuously mutilating each other. advocacy for the end of poultry production and encouraging society to go vegan is not a feasible request since so much of the population consumes poultry and it is so readily available. However, according to The article of consumers following vegan diet and their attitudes towards animal Meike Janssen explains that number of consumers following a vegan diet has notably increased in many industrialized countries and it is likely that their influence on the food Smith !3 sector will continue to This statement shows that the possibility of enforcing veganism, is becoming more plausible but there is still many decades before there is a true possibility. The current effects of a vegan diet today on production are showing through more humane methods becoming more popular. Tyson Foods has a contrasting point of view on the matter of humane poultry production than the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals does. Since their profits come from the production of poultry, they must view this controversial topic from a business point of view. Tyson Foods wants and they strive to be humane, but they also want to make money to be able to continue producing and to keep their shareholders. Tyson Foods being a leader in the poultry industry plays a big role in how poultry are raised around the united states. Stated on their website is their mission to raise healthy animals and make their customers happy, the practices used on their commercial farms are also shared on their website explaining the humane handling of the animals that many misunderstand. Tyson Foods does not intend on stoping poultry production at anytime or to decrease their production as this means a decrease in profits that are benefiting the economy. In the article Present Situation And Perspectives Of Poultry Meat Production And Consumption In European And International by Ilie Van, the methods such as the ones used by Tyson Foods are described as efficient methods for large amounts of poultry production. Tyson Foods is meeting the demand for poultry products, if there a demand they do it. Although both the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals and Tyson Foods are on separate sides of the controversial topic of humane poultry production, both have important views as stakeholders to consider when forming an agreement on the topic. PETA is not known Smith !4 to be an organization that comes to compromises easily and especially with an organization they are not likely to agree with; However keeping in mind that both organizations have valid arguments, it is possible to form a compromise. Such an agreement should include new regulations to increase the square footage per bird would allow the birds more room for natural behaviors such as foraging and also decrease fatalities due to over crowding thus helping Tyson production and health of the birds leading to better profits and getting closer to goals of a humane world. Another regulation that will increase the health of the birds and create a more humane living condition for them would be to section off smaller flocks of birds. This dividing of the birds allows them to create healthy hierarchies within their flocks thus reducing unnecessary mutilation between the birds and creating a healthier mental well-being for them. The negative effects of overcrowding these birds is very apparent in current agriculture and an increase in area per bird in commercial farming would be beneficial for the health and production of poultry The production of poultry plays a major role in the income for many workers, the end of all production would be detrimental to the economy. Ending the production is not currently possible, but keeping the same methods will soon not be tolerated either. With more people coming forward with similar beliefs as there will be a larger push for more humane methods such as the regulations of more space and smaller flocks to increase humane production. The methods which should be used in poultry production are a matter of opinion by the stakeholders involved, and there is no one right way for the production to be carried out. Poultry production is a major part of agriculture today resulting in numerous varying opinions on a spectrum anywhere from agreeing with PETA to siding with Tyson Foods and many more in- Smith !5 between. In order to meet in the middle of the spectrum the compromise of adding regulations to increase the health and well-being of the birds should be put into place. The compromise will not make either stakeholders one-hundred percent satisfied but will not completely upset them either. The main goal of a more humane poultry industry must be kept in mind in order to set aside differences and come to agreement. The introduction of these new regulations will step up the standard for poultry production for the future to head toward an increasingly humane way of production. Smith !6 Works Cited Tyson Foods Core Values. www.tysonfoods.com. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Gomes, A. V. S., et al. Overcrowding Stress Decreases Macrophage Activity And Increases Salmonella Enteritidis Invasion In Broiler  Avian Pathology 1 (2014): AGRIS. Web. 26 Jan. 201 Janssen, Meike, et al. Motives Of Consumers Following A Vegan Diet And Their Attitudes Towards Animal  Appetite 105.(2016): 643-651. ScienceDirect. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Protests at Whole Foods: Reduce Suffering; Just Lie About PETA. www.peta.org. Accessed 26 Jan 2017. and Eggs: Industries That Abuse PETA. www.peta.org. Accessed 26 Jan 2017 Chicken PETA. www.peta.org. Accessed 26 Jan 2017 Tyson Foods View Points. www.tysonfoods.com. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Van, Ilie. Romanian Present Situation And Perspectives Of Poultry Meat Production And Consumption In European And International  Scientific Papers: Series D, Animal Science - The International Session Of Scientific Communications Of The Faculty Of Animal Science 54.(2011): 218-224. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.