1 Milica Devura ENC 1102 Prof. Davis 29 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft In the world we live in today, beauty standards have taken over the lives of individuals that strive to have perfect skin, perfect hair, and the perfect face. Consumers will go out and buy whatever they need to look young again, or to slow down the process of aging. This causes a huge competition between cosmetic companies and their products. In order to make more products in a more efficient way, industries test on animals to check the effects each product has on skin. It has been proven companies like Essie, Covergirl, Avon, Mary Kay, and Head & Shoulders have used such testing to experiment on animals. Of course, before getting a formula that works the way it is supposed to, many trials have to take place and there are many failed attempts. These failed attempts often result in severe injury or death of the animals. Most cosmetic companies still test on animals, but there are some such as Lush, Paul Mitchell, Smashbox, and Too Faced that are openly against it. These companies use alternative methods that allow them to test their products in the same effective way, but without risking the lives of animals. Companies such as Maybelline, MAC, Covergirl, Bobbi Brown, Avon, and Mary Kay, just to name a few, all use animal testing as a method in the making of their products. Some Devura 2 people might be wondering why these companies choose to test on animals. Some reasons include it being cheaper and easier, and so that they can sell their products in other countries such as China. In an article from PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals), it explains that, Chinese government currently requires that all foreign and special-use cosmetics be tested on animals in order to be sold in mainland (Johnson, 2016). This essentially means that these companies pay the Chinese government laboratories to test on animals so that they can make profit by selling to the country. This is the only way to sell products in certain countries and although this is animal cruelty we continue to do this to make money. This clearly illustrates how the world is solely based on agreements with certain allies to earn currency through such products like nail polish or makeup and continue to trade with America. When it all comes down to it we can see that animal cruelty is wrong but certain companies care because they will continue to make their business flourish with or without the consent of others. On the other hand, there are cosmetic companies that do not use the animal testing method and actually advertise fighting against it. Lush, NYX, Too Faced, Smashbox, and Urban Decay are some of the companies that do not perform testing on animals, and Lush is a well known industry that advertises their position on animal testing. As a whole we should continue our movement to use such products to prove that the people care about animals rights because we understand that this cruelty is wrong and we can move forward without hurting animals. They indicate on all of their packaging that they are in the fight to end animal testing in the United States. As long as we do little things like watch what products we buy from and some people go as far as even watching what they eat, moving forward, our generation has proven to be the one Devura 3 that has progressed in a positive way such as quitting cigarettes and becoming vegetarian in order to live a healthier and prospering life. We can continue as a whole to look out for our future and live positive as not hurt others including animals. These companies are part of this movement and will continue to strive in the progress of a better future for America. So, how can two sides of one argument come up with a compromise? There are many alternative options that other companies have chosen to use to test their products. Some of these methods as explained by PETA include, and tissue cultures, reconstructed skin grown from human cells, and computerized models that allow extrapolation of existing data to predict the activity of a (OECD). This goes to show that there are other alternatives to testing products, but certain companies only care about their overall profit and not the condition of the animals. Companies like Maybelline and MAC can give up their methods for these, while other companies that do not animal test can eliminate their advertisements that show their position on animal testing in order to have a level playing field when it comes to selling their products. Animal testing is seen as immoral and wrong, but it was once a normal and accepted method of testing cosmetic products. It was seen as cheaper, more convenient, and more efficient. Now that our generation is noticing the horrific cruelty that is done to these animals and want to do something about it we can truly put a stop to it by discontinuing the usage of such products. If America and its allies can come to a compromise, everyone can enjoy products that are safely made and tested, and the lives of animals can be saved. These few stakeholders can somehow come to an agreement that such cruelty is wrong and we can look to other alternatives such as experimenting with cell cultures. Devura 4 Works Cited Donnellan, Laura. Animal Testing In Cosmetics: Recent Developments In The European Union And The United  Law 2 (2007): 251. OneFile . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. G. Lawton, Quest for Valid Alternatives: Minimizing Animal & Industry , 19 (1997). Web. 29 January 2017 LUSH COSMETICS, THE HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES AND HUMANE SOCIETY INTERNATIONAL LAUNCH GLOBAL CAMPAIGN TO END COSMETICS TESTING ON  News Service 2012: Academic OneFile . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.