Ledesma 1 Kimberly Ledesma Mrs. Penuliar Enc1102 Project 1 Final Draft 12 February 2017 The Two Sides of Test Taking If someone has gone to public school, or just school in general, the chances are that standardized tests have been apart of the curriculum. It seems that every year the number of tests administered to students goes up. Obviously the organizations that provide or overlook testing are going to support more standardized assessments. An example of these organizations is the Education Testing Service (ETS) and the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP). The Center for Public Education (CPE) and the American Evaluation Association (AEA) are also involved in standardized testing but have different perspective. Although the Educational Testing Service (ETS) believes in the benefits of assessments for students and the American Evaluation Association (AEA) believes that the benefits of testing students do more harm than good, these two organizations have the best interest of the student at heart, and can possibly compromise by finding a positive alternative to the standardized testing we know today. The ETS is an organization that provides tests for students. Many people may be familiar with the ETS because of the general test taken prior to graduate school or business school. They are a nonprofit organization meaning that the money they receive from students taking their tests goes right back to their testing services. On their website they state that a lot of work goes into assuring that their tests are the best they can be by research, customizing Ledesma 2 assessments, the option of paper-and-pencil or computer testing, and much more. (K-12 Assessment Programs) These tests just provide feedback on how students are doing and learning in their classes, they also give teachers information on how they are doing their job. This potentially leads to improvement on both on more effective teaching and learning. Another positive point regarding the ETS is they consider testing anxiety and also fairness in testing. When improving and expanding their assessments and strategies, these topics are considered and dealt with in the appropriate manner. Expanding assessments and testing strategies will ensure positive progression of standardized tests and that the appropriate accommodations will be put into place. The AEA is an association that dedicates itself to evaluating in different facets. The association believes in the improvement of that be improving the testing itself or finding an alternative. The association wrote a report on their position regarding high stakes testing and how it has negative Some of these negative consequences include more dropouts, deprofessionalization of staff, and the concentration of money going toward testing (American Evaluation Association 1). Also, under No Child Left Behind, every annual test has to meet achievement leading to a of sanctions and interventions (Brown). The AEA report also discusses that one of the issues with these tests is that they are insufficient. There is more to a knowledge that an assessment cannot family environment, their economic status, and their health. These two groups disagree when it comes to the topic of testing because the Educational Testing Service believes in the advancement and growth of assessments, while the American Evaluation Association looks to find an alternative for these standardized tests. The ETS is building upon the preexisting assessments and systems in place. The AEA in their position Ledesma 3 statement on high stakes testing lists expectations for improved evaluation. Some of these expectations include: That measurement specialists and advisors involved in high stakes testing programs consider not only technical and theoretical but also consequential issues, such as the welfare of students, educators, schools, and society. Also, that important decisions (for example, grade to grade promotion/retention, graduation, certification, classification, basis of any single test or test battery, no matter how many times it may be taken. (American Evaluation Association 3) Even though they necessarily agree on how they are going to improve the situation, what matters is that they both want to make it better. Their individual missions both have several points in common. The ETS states that their mission is advance quality and equity in education by providing fair and valid assessments, research and related In the mission they also say that their and services measure knowledge and skills, promote learning and performance, and support education and professional development for all people (https://www.ets.org/about/who/) The ETS wants to promote their products and testing services. They want to make sure that they better their services for the sake of students and education. The mission says, improve evaluation practices and methods, increase evaluation use, promote evaluation as a profession, and support the contribution of evaluation to the generation of theory and knowledge about effective human (http://www.eval.org/p/cm/ld/fid=4) The AEA wants to improve the current situation of standardized testing; this portrays their passion for students, and their wellbeing. They just want to build upon what has already been put in want to Ledesma 4 look at what has been done that can be improved and go from there. The ETS and AEA both value knowledge and the students/faculty involved in the testing. A great way for ETS and AEA to compromise on the issue of test taking is not to get rid of test taking completely, but to find a positive alternative that provides the results needed and the relief for students. In an article written by Emma Brown, who was a middle school teacher and writes about national education, some points are brought up to create a compromise. They mention a continuation of testing annually third through eighth grade and once in high and also getting rid of annual testing and giving states freedom to decide. An option for states to consider is having a single assessment in the elementary, middle, and high school levels. According to the article this is known as span which is a favored approach by the National Education Association (Brown). This is an effective compromise for the two organizations mentioned because it does not eliminate testing altogether. Testing will still be present in the education system, but not as we know it today. This alternative will give students, faculty, and the government the information they need with less cost, less testing, and overall just less stress. Although ETS and AEA both have the students in mind when it comes to assessments, ETS believes they are beneficial while the AEA believes they do more harm than good. Both sides of the issue have very valid and important points. The knowledge and educational growth of the students is priority. The ETS believes in building upon the already existing assessments and systems that are in place regarding test taking. The AEA believes in finding a better alternative or minimizing the amounts of testing while still producing the results needed to improve the education of students. This issue may not seem as important as others like world hunger or poverty for example, but the fact is that this is the future of the United States. Their Ledesma 5 education matters more than it is recognized, therefore should the time they spend in school be spent primarily on absorbing material or on testing them to see if they have mastered what they are learning? At the end of the day, are scores in school enough to evaluate a progress? Or can an alternative option be found to promote even more success in students? Ledesma 6 Works Cited American Evaluation Association. American Evaluation Association Position Statement on HIGH STAKES TESTING In PreK-12 Education. Publication. American Evaluation Association, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.eval.org/d/do/128>. Brown, Emma. Teachers union, think tank propose compromise on K-12 testing of U.S.  The Washington Post. WP Company, 29 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Educational Testing Service. Student Assessment  Student Assessment Programs. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Hull, Jim. Measuring student growth: A guide to informed decision  Measuring student growth: A guide to informed decision making. N.p., 9 Nov. 2009. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. National Assessment of Educational Progress. NAEP -  NAEP - Overview. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.