Jennifer Amor Dr. Hanson ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Compromise for Immigration Reform in the United States The United States has always been a melting pot of cultures. Millions of people from around the globe immigrate to the U.S. every year. The high influx of immigrants has brought many problematic topics to the surface including the safety of Americans and immigrants. There is a broad spectrum of ways to reform the immigration system. The National Immigration Project of the National Lawyers Guild is an organization that works to make the immigration process more efficient and create more rights for immigrants. The Immigration Reform Law Institute is a stakeholder on the other side of the spectrum. They believe in creating a strenuous immigration process and increasing border security for the maximum safety of Americans. To make both Americans and immigrants feel safe in the U.S., it is necessary to create a stronger border while allowing for more non citizen rights. There are many organizations that aim to help non citizens and immigrants obtain their citizenship and feel safe in the United States. One particular organization not only believes in helping immigrants through the citizenship process, but also protecting immigrants. The National Immigration Project of the National Lawyers Guild is an organization that helps fight for the political rights of immigrants. A part of what they do is fight for immigrants who are victims of crimes and/or being threatened with deportation. One of their main goals is to make sure that every defense lawyer knows the rights of a noncitizen. To do this they provide free referrals and support for immigrants that are inside and out of prison We They believe that the Amor 2 political policies of today are separating immigrants from their families and new home. By putting immigrants in privately owned prisons they are putting the noncitizen in more risk. Another aspect of this organization is that it works with immigrants who have been victims of various crimes such as sexual assault. They have found that noncitizens do not want to confront law enforcement because it may expose themselves or increase the risk of deportation. This organization extends support to all immigrants who feel as though they do not have the same rights as a regular American citizen. Geoffrey Heeren, a professor at Valparaiso University Law School digs deeper into the problems of the current citizenship process. Heeren focuses on the non status immigrants in America and how the system should bring more justice to the immigrants that are in between citizenship. main purpose is to describe the hardships that a non status immigrant goes through to further prove why the system needs reform. Heeren gives the example that non status citizens still have to pay taxes even though they receive little to none of the benefits. Heeren describes non status immigrants as being in constant fear of deportation. Most immigrants are stuck in a limbo position of a documented or undocumented status (Heeren 1119). To fix this, Heeren suggests that the immigration process flows quickly and more efficiently. While some organizations want a quicker and easier immigration process, others believe that doing so would put America at risk. One organization that believes in tight immigration control is the Immigration Reform Law Institute (IRLI). IRLI is an organization whose sole task is to keep America safe from unnecessary harm. The Immigration Reform Law Institute also works in conjunction with The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR). The mission of IRLI is to make the public aware of the tools necessary to keep America safe from harmful immigrants. They state that one of the reasons why illegal immigration is such a big problem is because illegal aliens who abide Amor 3 by immigration laws do not always abide by regular citizenship laws such as theft Security and Public They believe that if immigrants had been properly identified and apprehended in the immigration process, then they could have protected countless victims. IRLI uses the Al Qaeda and ISIS terrorist attacks as an example of how immigrants have slipped their way through immigration system. IRLI believes that it is the responsibility to enforce immigration laws. Michael J. Larson from the University of Miami Law Review demonstrates that enforcing government laws in each state will go far for immigration in the long run. Larson talks about how strong legal immigration enforcement is the key to immigration. He uses the Arizona bill as an example of how strong enforcement of immigration policies will voluntarily push illegal aliens out of the country. Larson demonstates how if federal level immigration laws coupled with state level enforcement, then the amount of illegal aliens would significantly decrease (843). Putting the federal laws in action rather than stating the laws would better keep America safe. This greatly differs from the motives of the National Immigration Project of the National Lawyers Guild because IRLI considers deportation and believes in punishing immigrants through the American detention systems. Since both organizations are on such opposite sides of the topic, there is plenty middle ground that they can compromise on even though they might not be willing to. These organizations disagree on a multitude of topics that range from border security to the punishment of immigrants. What they might not consider is that they both believe that immigrants who do things against the law do them for their chance to live in America. They both believe that there are two types of immigrants, the ones who go through the proper immigration process and the ones who get to America illegally. They are both advocating for things that they believe would bring safety to both the American people and immigrants. They both want to start at the root of Amor 4 the problem but they have different perspectives on the itself. If there were to be an improvement in both interpretations of the roots, then there could be a compromise. To NIPNLG the root is at the safety of immigrants in the U.S. while the root to IRLI is at the safety of Americans. If the immigration policies were tightened, then there would be more leniency when it comes to rights which would then increase the safety on both ends. There would ultimately be a decrease in non citizenship crime and when crime does happen, they will have the same legal rights as any American citizen. Keeping legal rights the same for every American will ensure that the justice system is fair and the government nor the non citizen is getting favoritism. An article by Nicholas J. Ferraro describes and critiques the perfect compromise that was represented in the Senate Immigration Reform Bill. Ferraro states how an overwhelming amount of Americans believe that a part of becoming a citizen includes paying taxes/penalties, background checks, and learning English (20). A part of background checks is the authority of a workplace to check the credibility, noting if they are a documented or undocumented worker. The compromise of the amnesty side of this topic would be that there would be increased border security including fingerprints and a physical border with law officers. The compromise of the security part of the topic would be less violence for immigrants in confinement. With this compromise, both sides of the topic are giving up something while gaining something in return. Finding the perfect compromise when it comes to immigration reform can benefit not only the safety of immigrants and the safety of America, but also the economy. When building and sustaining a prosperous country, economic growth, security, and immigration go hand-in- hand. A lack of one causes the rest to decline with it. Immigrants and Americans who feel safe in this country will stop contributing to the wealth of America which therefore puts the Amor 5 country under economic stress. To have a completely successful country there needs to be sturdy security, fair immigration and economic growth and Government Without one, the others are sure to decline. With the amount of illegal/ undocumented immigrants increasing every decade, the U.S. national security as been threatened. To create a fair balance between being too rash/ loose towards immigration, there needs to be an increase of border security and legalization of undocumented immigrants. This compromise not only promotes the safety of Americans, but the safety of immigrants too. With this compromise in place, it will enforce structure and give back justice to the immigrants who went through the immigration process legally. Amor 6 Works Cited and Governmnet Immigration Reform Law Institute. http://www.irli.org/corporate-government-accountability. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Ferraro, Nicholas J. The U.S. Senate Immigration Reform Bill and The Need for Amendments Before  University of La Verne Law Review 36.1 (2014): 17-59. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Heeren, Geoffrey. The Status of  American University Law Review 64.5 (2015): 1115-1181. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Larson, Michael J. The Right U.S. Immigration Enforcement Solution: Make Haste  University of Miami Law Review 66.3 (2012): 807-845. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Security and Public Immigration Reform Law Institute. http://www.irli.org/national-security-public-safety. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. We National Immigration Project. https://www.nationalimmigrationproject.org/programs.html. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017.