Al Mamari 1 Waleed Al Mamari Professor Penuliar ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Should Marijuana Be Legalized Cannabis has been criticized by politics and global trade for many years. Cannabis has different impacts on humans and societies. Thus, people have been arguing regarding the impacts of the cannabis and how they should deal with the use of cannabis. Cannabis is known as Marijuana and it is dried leaves of the hemp plant (Anderson, 2016). It is used for spiritual aims and it can be used as mind altering substance. Marijuana has many active chemicals that work to reduce the connection between mind and body. There are different methods to consume Marijuana it can be used by rolling papers, smoked by a pipe, or it can be eaten by as edibles (leafscience, 2016). Marijuana works to change the physical and physiological situations of users. According to the National Institution of Drug Abuse the physical effects of Marijuana include increasing heart rate, daily cough, bronchitis. Besides,Marijuana has emotional and psychological effects that can be noted by users. As mentioned by the National Institution of Health(NIH), Marijuana has the ability to change the mood. For instance, users can feel anxiety, fear, tired and so on. On the contrary, some people including doctors and pharmacists believe that Marijuana has many benefits for user. For example, it helps to lose weight and reduce depression (Whitley, 2016). In addition, Marijuana is related to diagnose and treat several illnesses such as Cancer, Autism, Seizures and Diabetes (Whitley, 2016). Therefore, there is controversy and disagreement whether Marijuana should be legalized or not. In this case, Al Mamari 2 there are many stakeholders that interesting to stand for or against Marijuana. NORML organization -National Organization For Marijuana Legalization- is a stakeholder that works for legalizing Marijuana for adults because they believe that Marijuana can benefit people and boost economic growth. On other other hand, SAM organization, Smart Approaches to Marijuana, stands against legalizing Marijuana because it has the ability to destroy human health and societies. Although, NORML and SAM express different opinions about legalizing Marijuana, they both share the positive and negative outcomes of legalizing Marijuana in common. However, NORML sees the issue from economic aspects and SAM sees the issue from human health aspects and they can be compromised by legalizing only medical Marijuana for specific illnesses and ages. This compromise will help to generate economic growth and help patients and that would satisfy both the stakeholder. NORML is the National Organization For Marijuana Legalization and it is non-profit organization that founded in 1970 by Keith Stroup (Driver, 2016). This organization stands to legalize medical and non-medical Marijuana for adults. This organization uses social media in order to express and show their goals. It represents the interests of many Americans who have responsibility to smoke Marijuana. There is a sister organization which is NORML Foundation and this organization works hand by hand with NORML organization to educate the public about Marijuana and tries to reform many laws. These organizations have explained the principles of responsible Marijuana use. Those principles include adults only, no driving, set and setting, and respect rights of others(NORML Board of Directors, 1996). Legalizing Marijuana can help to boost economic growth as well for the states. There are many writers who believe that Marijuana should be legalized for many reasons. For instance, Matt Ferner who is a national reporter or The Al Mamari 3 Huffington Post based in Los Angeles, indicates to the outcomes of legalizing Marijuana legalization would produce hundreds of new jobs, raise millions for the construction of Colorado public schools and raise around $60 million annually in combined savings and revenue for budget, the report This quote expresses the economic passion of legalizing Marijuana. The author tries to explain that by legalizing Marijuana countries will boost economic growth. SAM is the Smart Approaches to Marijuana which works to stop using and trading Marijuana at all and it is launched by David Frum and liberal Patrick Kennedy, Sabet This organization tries to educate the public about the impacts of using Marijuana. SAM believes that by educating the public about the negative outcomes of using marijuana will help to make people fear about using Marijuana. other words, going to rehab whether you need it or not. You may not have a problem with marijuana use, but SAM thinks you might someday, so you need to be forced into rehab before it gets that bad or should we call it This organization recognizes the negative impacts of Marijuana on human health and society. There are several researches that support the ideas of SAM. John Hawkins who runs Right Wing News and Linkiest and rites two weekly columns for Townhall, believes that Marijuana should not be legalized because of different reasons. extremely addictive for some people, Marijuana is terrible for your mental health, Marijuana is terrible for your physical health, The drug decimates many (Hawkins, 2014) The two stakeholders- NORML and SAM- have many disagreements and agreements. Both stakeholders agree that Marijuana has negative and positive sides. However, the question is how to get benefits from Marijuana and avoid the negative impacts and who will support or Al Mamari 4 oppose legalizing Marijuana. Both stakeholders have common underlying goals to be achieved. For instance, both stakeholders try educating the public about using Marijuana and why people are arguing about use it. In this case, since there are disagreements and common goals for both stakeholders, it is possible to collaborate and be on the same page. NORML and SAM organizations can reach to common goals because they both realized that impacts and outcomes of using Marijuana. However, they still have some disagreement about using Marijuana in public because each one has different tendency. For example, they should consider the legal reasonable age for using Marijuana but since Marijuana has negative impacts on human health, it should not be allowed for everyone because it will hurt everybody. There are several discussion on how Marijuana affects a young body and mind. However, the appropriate age for using Marijuana is 21 because the person becomes responsible about his decisions and his/her body becomes stronger to deal with the chemical s of Marijuana compared with a young person who still needs someone to advise and direct him (Hillin, 2015). In this case, both stakeholders should make some concessions. NORML should recognize that Marijuana should not be allowed for the public without exceptions. On the other hand, SAM should recognize that Marijuana can be helpful for some people in some cases and they should allow them to use Marijuana. For example, Marijuana is a great solution to be used as treatment for PTSD ,posttraumatic stress disorder, which face some soldiers that joined in wars. As stated by Bailey Rahan an editor at Leafly, specializing in strains and health , Researchers found that people with PTSD had lower levels of anandamide, an endogenous cannabinoid compound, compared to those who did not show signs of This quote means that Marijuana can be allowed for treating the emotional situations of soldiers because they need something to help Al Mamari 5 them to forget what happen for them during the war. Regardless, Lee writes a MAPS affiliate and director of Project CBD, and has studied PTSD and cannabinoids in depth, to all mammals, anandamide - our inner cannabis, so to speak- triggers the same receptors that are activated by THC and other components of the marijuana there are several medical researches that prove the importance of using Marijuana because it related to diagnosing and treating several illnesses such as Cancer, Autism, Seizures and Diabetes (Whitley, 2016). In general, there is an appropriate compromise for both stakeholders by legalizing Marijuana only for medical use with reasonable age which is 21 and for specific illnesses. For example, if there is a person who has a headache pain, he should not be allowed to use Marijuana to treat his headache because there are other options to treat headache. In conclusion, studying the impacts of using Marijuana is an appropriate way to decide whether it should be legalized or not. The problem is some stakeholders see the issue only from one side and ignore the other sides. NORML and SAM organizations are an example for those stakeholders which focused only on one aspect. There are several aspects can be affected by legalizing Marijuana for the public such as human health, society and economy. In this case, the stakeholders should works on the disagreements between them and share their underlying agreements in order to reach common goals. However, even if these two stakeholders worked hard to achieve common goals, they cannot satisfy everyone because every person has different view and opinion. Therefore, these two stakeholders should work to make the majority feel satisfied about their decisions. Al Mamari 6 Work Cited Anderson, Leigh.  (2016): n. pag. Web. 13 Nov. 2016. Retrieved from https://www.drugs.com/illicit/marijuana.html Boxe, Agata . History: How One Plant Spread Through the (2014): n. pag. Web. 17 Oct. 2014. Retrieved from http://www.livescience.com/48337-marijuana-history-how-cannabis-travelled-world.html considering  (2016): n. pag. Web. 28 Oct. 2016. Retrieved from https://thinkprogress.org/5-states-weighing-marijuana-legalization-would-reap-enormous -economic-benefits-study-suggests-cb06831d154b#.bpieiz240 Demick, Danielle. It Is Okay To Expect The Unexpected With Medical  Huffington Post (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Retrieved from html Driver, Brittany. What is  High Blog (2016): n. pag. Web. 24 Oct. 2016. Retrieved from Pyke, Alan. $2.4 billion impact in Colorado is a lesson for 5 states Rahn, Bailey. Cannabis and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder  (2012): n. pag. Web. 5 Jan. 2012. Retrieved from https://www.leafly.com/news/health/cannabis-and-post-traumatic-stress-disorder-ptsd