Jimmy Jones February 12, 2017 Final Draft Comp. 2 Ms. Lay Should NCAA Athletes Get Paid? College athletics is the last stepping stone to becoming a professional athlete which is the goal for most, if not all college athlete. Some people even believe that college athletes should get paid. A question that is debated day in and day out. The National Collegiate Athletic Association is an organization comprised of business men and women who have had personal experiences with college athletics and work together to provide an international stage for college athletes to showcase their skills on the field and in the classroom. The CAPA, College Athletes Players Association is an organization that is lead by former NCAA athletes fighting for the rights of athletes playing under the NCAA. They have the view along with independent student athletes that a NCAA should get paid for playing their sport. The only way someone should make money playing a sport is at the professional level. Hence the difference between us the amateurs and them the professionals. The CAPA and the NCAA put the concerns of the athletes first. In saying so, they can reward an athlete for good play or doing well in the classroom and not limit the athlete to what is written on paper about their four years at a school. In looking out for the best interest in the student athlete, why not give them reasons to succeed and work hard on and off the field. If you know sports, than you more than likely have heard about the NCAA. The NCAA is a non profit organization dedicated to the well-being and lifelong success of college athletes (NCAA). The NCAA has strict rules on student athletes in regarding what gifts and prizes they are allowed to accept when represent their respective schools. These rules are in place to keep the athletes eligible to play in their season and continue to accept scholarship during their time at the university. Every institution in America and Canada have NCAA programs ranging from the division one level to division three, being separated by skill level. By the numbers, it includes 1,1121 colleges and universities (NCAA). It is home to nearly half a million college athletes that make up 19,500 teams that send more than 54,000 participants to compete each year in the NCAAs national championships (NCAA). The NCAA also gives the athletes; academic services, opportunities, experiences, wellness and insurance, personal, and professional development (NCAA). The NCAA invest their time in just the four years that a college athlete represents their school. Their motives stretch much further than the performance on the field by the athlete, it is networking within the world of sports to hopefully create jobs and produce the finest college athletes in the world. They are the reason college athletes get the chance to attend college at a discounted price. On the other hand there is the CAPA, the College Athletes Player Association and they fight for current and graduated NCAA athletes. Their goal is to ultimately allow players to collectively bargain for comprehensive reform in many areas such as, coverage for medical related injuries and increasing athletic scholarships and allowing players to receive compensation for commercial sponsorships (CAPA). The CAPA wants to have athletes receive money for their play on a national level. They believe since the school and the players are playing on national television that generates millions and millions of dollars for the school should be given to the people that make it possible, the players. Also, CAPA is determined to improve rights to the players in the category dealing with injuries. All CAPA members and board members are retired NCAA athletes and know what it takes to be successful in their specific trade as a player. The hours put in by athletes starts with the maximum twenty hours of practice governed by the NCAA rules and regulations, which is maxed out by each and every coach not including workouts and training (Notre Dame, The CAPA does what current and past college athletes cannot do, speak up. The CAPA is determined to make it fair and give the best chance for the NCAA athletes to succeed knowing what it takes on a day to day basis from the eyes of the people who put on that jersey and represent a college loud and proud. But, there is a way to find a common solution. The CAPA has brought to the attention of the NCAA that each sport should be given more scholarship. The NCAA as swell as the CAPA try to give the athletes the best chance to succeed on and off the field. More scholarship means more student athletes and more chances for kids to get an education before they take on the real world. The NCAA could give more scholarship based on performance. Play well and get some national recognition and that athlete could get paid in books or more money the next year. For instance, golfers are allowed to accept up to $750 in gift cards or non cash goods. It gives student athletes a chance in our other outside of school tournaments to make some to help with our living during college. It still keeps all athletes amateurs, not professionals accepting money for their performance. An amateur as defined by Websters dictionary is, person who engages in a study, sport, or other activity for pleasure rather than for financial benefit or professional (Websters, The idea for giving athletes incentives was brought to attention by Tyson Harnettt from the Huffington Post (Huffington Post, The idea gives the NCAA and the CAPA a way to cater to the athletes and make the game fun again, not a constant grind from sun up to sun down. At every school athletes are set at a higher standard compared to the everyday day student. Managing a day to day schedule is where the NCAA and CAPA need to solve and use their resource to join together and make life for a college athlete the best it can be. The compromise giving athletes incentives can bring together schools and possibly make kids work harder. Thats where it starts, working hard for a common goal. The NCAA or the CAPA be here if it for the college athletes who make it possible for them to be a fully functioning organization. The athletes and schools would thrive down the road if the NCAA and CAPA came to this common goal in giving the athletes another way to succeed not just with trophies. College athletes will forever be a personal opinion that will only change if it is seen from a college athletes perspective to truly understand why the NCAA and CAPA can have an impact on todays future. Works Cited The Official Site of the  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Sack, Allen. Real Scholarships Need To Make A  United States News. N.p., 1 Apr. 2013. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. Countable Hours - Athletics Compliance - University of Notre  Countable Hours - Athletics Compliance - University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame University Compliance Offices, 4 Nov. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Hartnett, Tyson. Why College Athletes Should be  The Huffington Post. Tyson Harnett, 21 Oct. 2013. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.