Sam Dreiling Professor Penuliar ENC 1102 January 27, 2017 For The Sake of Endangered Species In society, animals kept in human care is a hot topic with very passionate stakeholders on both sides of the spectrum. Organizations like People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals are extremely against it, while other organizations like the Association of Zoos and Aquariums believes that animals thrive in human care. The two stakeholders are extremely respect by people who stand on both end of the spectrum. If the AZA and PETA wanted to make a large impact to save endangered species, they could easily rebuild many populations of species that have high declining numbers. If these stakeholders put aside their differences and worked together, it can create a better future for wildlife. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums, AZA, has accreditations for over 230 zoos and aquariums across the United States About  About). Some of these zoos and aquariums include Busch Gardens, San Diego Zoo, Georgia Aquarium, and National Zoo. The AZA is a non-profit organization. This accreditation ensures that zoos and aquariums are kept to the highest standards of care for the animals, education for the public, and conservation efforts About  About). Zoos and aquariums under the AZA accreditation cares for more the 800,000,000 animals being cared for by highly trained professionals. The AZA annually donates $160 million dollars to conservation projects in over 130 different countries around the world, which supports over 2,400 projects About  About). They also donate millions of dollars to scientific research and education programs. Protecting endangered and threatened species is another core value of the AZA. They have created a Species Survival Program, also known as an SSP, to ensure that endangered and threatened species have a large genetic pool to be protected from extinction SSP). There are over 500 animals in the SSP. It is done through having animals in human care and carefully looking at their genetic history from observation to keep the species thriving SSP). The AZA is one of the world leaders in educating the public about conservation and nature. More than 183 million people visit AZA zoos and aquariums each year with about 50 million of which being children About  About). Zoos and aquariums offer a hands-on learning experience that will teach the general public about nature from all corners across the globe as well as conservation measures that can be taken to protect all those who inhabit the Earth About  About). The AZA goes through many measures to ensure the wellbeing of animals not only in human care but the survival and awareness of animals in the wild as well. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, PETA, have been fighting to defend the rights of animals since 1980. PETA is strongly against any animals in lives weather animals are for food, companionship, or service. PETA focuses its attention on factory farms, clothing industries, laboratories, and entertainment industries About PETA.). PETA tries to educate the public by exposing companies for their unethical treatment of animals. PETA believes that humans and animals should not interfere with each other in their natural lives. According to PETA, can eat better, educate ourselves better, clothe ourselves better, and entertain ourselves better without torturing and killing About PETA.). Currently, PETA has many campaigns against ranging from putting an end to the military using animals for training exercises and protection, exposing what happens to dogs in testing laboratories in the United States and France, encouraging people to become vegans, adopting animals in local animal shelters, and urging circuses to end all animal cruelty Campaigns.). If the two stakeholders put aside their differences and decided to work together, they would be able to put their efforts together and make a larger impact. An example of two stakeholders with the same opposing views that found common ground is the compromise between the Humane Society of the United States and SeaWorld. The Human Society of the United States, also known as HSUS, is a stakeholder that fights for animal rights About Us: Overview.). Just like PETA, the HSUS is against animals in the care of zoos and aquariums. SeaWorld has one of the top rehabilitation and release program for distressed wildlife in the world (Entertainment). Last year, the HSUS and SeaWorld put their differences aside and worked together to focus on the well being of the oceans across the globe and all of those who inhabit it. However, the HSUS only would agree to work together if SeaWorld agreed to end its Orca breeding program and eventually change their theatrical orca shows into education presentations More). SeaWorld agreed and on March 17,2016, they made an announcement of the future for their whales. Together, they had three main goals: maintaining healthy oceans, increasing protection in fish and marine mammals, and educating the public about sustainable seafood. With knowledge of gained from having marine mammals in human care and their extremely successful rehabilitation and release program, they both are fighting to save more marine animals in distress More). Also, they are trying to put an end to commercial slaughter of whales and shark finning More). Throughout all the SeaWorld parks, guests are only served seafood that is caught sustainably and are educated about why they should only purchase sustainable seafood. Finally, working together, SeaWorld and the HSUS are maintaining healthy oceans by protecting and restoring coral reefs and collecting pollution in waterways that will eventually find its way into the ocean. Even though SeaWorld made huge sacrifices, the two stakeholders came to a compromise that will greatly benefit the oceans and all those who call it home. Both PETA and the AZA want to do what they believe is best for animals and the environment. If the two stakeholders put their forces together and focused on endangered species, they could save many species that are on the brink of extinction. With the knowledge all zoos and aquariums they have gained from research of their animals, they would be able to find solutions to protecting endangered wildlife and implementing ways for a higher reproduction rate. For example, Lowry Park Zoo has been studying the breeding habits of White Rhinoceroses. The information they gather from their research can help White Rhinoceroses in the wild by having extra protection from poachers when wild Rhinoceroses appear to be in breeding season. If PETA and AZA partner together, they could make sure that wild animals do not interact with people in communities. In Africa, ninety-six elephants are killed every day. Some elephants are killed by poachers for their tusks to sell on the black market, while many are killed because they are considered a nuisance animal and wander into heavily populated areas or on farms and destroy crops that are to feed those who live in the surrounding areas. The two stakeholders should combine forces to ensure that wild populations are kept save from poachers and animals that are just trying to live their lives separate normal civilians. The AZA and PETA could make a bigger change in the world if they focus on the big picture of animals around the world. Although PETA and AZA do not agree on something they are both very passionate about, at the end of the day, they need to look at the bigger picture and take action before many species across the world will soon been extinct. If they can combine their forces, they can reverse the effects humans have caused on wild populations and hope for a better future. Work Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/about-peta/>. About  About Us: Association of Zoos & Aquariums. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <https://www.aza.org/about-us>. About Us:  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/action/campaigns/>. Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. HSUS  HSUS Partnership. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <https://seaworldcares.com/Future/HSUS-Partnership/>. More Reflections on the SeaWorld Agreement A Humane  A Humane Nation. N.p., 01 Apr. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://blog.humanesociety.org/wayne/2016/04/reflections-seaworld- agreement.html>. SSP Population  SSP Population Sustainability. N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. <https://www.aza.org/ssp-population-sustainability>.