Puneet Kaur Singh ENC 1102.027 T. Poston 2/12/17 Project 1 Final Draft Gun Control in America Gun control is a topic that Americans have questioned for decades. Gun policies in place are in constant need for revision. Still, stakeholders involved with this issue are torn between perspectives because there will always be a portion of people that are upset with their decisions. In order to guarantee that the American people will be safe, a compromise must be reached. There are multiple views about this topic, but there are two prominent ones that are every time gun control is mentioned. The National Rifle Association (NRA) and the Brady Campaign currently do not agree on policies regarding gun control. The topic of controversy between the two is discussed intently after mass shootings in the United States take place. But the conversation between the two stakeholders usually stopped when media coverage considered the shootings In this state of the nation, these two stakeholders opposing need to come together in order to resolve the safety of Americans through compromise. The main objective is to promote and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific , according to Col. William C. Church on their About page. They wish to inspire young children to properly use firearms for shooting sports. They then transferred their focus to the hunting community of the United States. The NRA is focused on emphasizing the importance of firearms education programs. However, in realm, they are most known for their dedication to protecting the second amendment right to bear arms. In 1934, the National Firearms Act was put into place in order to limit gun registrations and background checks (Berlow 1). According to Alan Berlow of the New York Times, the NRA believes that as limitations become greater and more restrictive, the second amendment right will eventually burn out. The National Firearms Act was made to prevent citizens from owning assault weapons that can take many lives at once. However, the NRA believes that all citizens should have the right to carry weapons for sport. A topic that the NRA believes should be brought up is mental health. chief Wayne LaPierre - and most Americans, polls show - say the emphasis should be on the mental health (Knickerbocker paragraph 27). This is true and can be used later on as a compromise between The Brady Campaign and the NRA. In contrast to the NRA, the Brady Campaign is an active advocate for gun safety. On their About page, they state their mission statement as well as their three main purposes. Their purpose is to lessen the amount of gun related deaths in the US by half by the year 2025. One of the three campaigns that they believe will help reach this goal is to enforce a policy to the Implying that there should be more rigorous background checks regarding gun sales. The second campaign of the three is to Gun It is a common observation that gun manufacturers will sell their guns to anyone who has more than sufficient funds to pay for them. The third campaign is to raise awareness of the risks of gun ownership. The Brady Campaign goes beyond gun control and focuses on the prevention of untimely deaths due to gun violence. The Brady Campaign has instilled certain procedures that all gun manufacturers must follow in order to register someone a gun. For example, the background check must be followed through in order to ensure the mental and physical state of those buying guns. In the majority of gun related massacres, the shooter is often deemed mentally ill which leads the population to the question of how they purchased guns in the first place. According to Brad Knickerbocker of the Christian Science Monitor, after the Navy Yard killings in Washington, former President Obama stated that we need tighter gun control laws. The NRA executive director Wayne LaPierre said, enough good guys with the good guys with guns got there, it According to that sentiment, if both the good guys and bad guys had guns, then shootings would have less casualties. There are many perspectives that stem from this issue due to the ethical dilemma many people find themselves in. Both the NRA and The Brady Campaign support the rights of the American people. Both organizations believe in the Law of the Land- the Constitution.Although they have differing perspectives on how gun sales should be handled, they both have the American safety and rights in their agenda. Discussing which weapons are reasonable for all citizens to own is a crucial element of the gun control debate. Many citizens that watch media coverage agree that citizens should not own assault rifles due to the fact that they are weapons primarily made for war. However, the NRA defends citizens that own assault rifles because they are only meant to be used for sport. Also, consumers of the media only see a fraction of that use these guns for the wrong reasons, so they assume that all assault guns should be banned from citizens. These discrepancies in opinions between divide policy rulings. The two organizations tangled with gun control can find a compromise to support their shared goal for the safety of the American people. If the Brady Campaign were to promise that the second amendment to the Constitution will never be infringed upon or expunged, the NRA would be comfortable enough to allow the addition of more regulations to the current gun purchasing process. Guns are seen as a to many Americans according to Alec Macgillis. Firearms have been part of American history from the beginning of this formation. Therefore, it will be difficult to convince them to reform gun laws. But with the right organization and education, the safety of the people can be ensured. Alternatively, the Brady Campaign could also refine its mission three contentions to something more plausible because the future can never be predicted. Instead of trying to reduce gun related deaths in half by 2025, focus on the education of gun safety to reduce the number of gun injuries nationwide. The two stakeholders can work together by creating mandatory gun safety sessions for elementary to high school students. By shifting their focus towards educating youth about gun safety, their goal will not be fixated on tearing down the NRA, but based on working with them. Another compromise that was mentioned earlier in this essay was in regards to the mental health system in America. These two stakeholders can add more rigorous mental health checks while conducting gun sales in order to safeguard the American security. This will help reduce the number of lives lost due to guns while also upholding the second amendment. In conclusion, the future of gun control lies in the hands of which steps these organizations take. Through compromise, the future of safety can be ensured. The National Rifle Association and the Brady Campaign can indeed come together in order to reach an agreement. Since they are the main stakeholders, both must give and take policies. In political climate, it is crucial that they end the stalemate between each other and work together to serve all Americans. Policy makers must continue the conversation forward. They must take preventative measures in respect to gun control in order to chop the number of American casualties due to guns down. Works Cited A Brief History of the NRA. NRA  NRA About the NRA. 2017 National Rifle Association of America, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. About Brady. Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  About Brady Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. 2016 Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Berlow, Alan. Gun Control That Actually Works:  ProQuest. New York Times Company, 31 May 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Knickerbocker, Brad. US Gun Massacres Mount Up, but No More Gun Control.  ProQuest. The Christian Science Monitor, 22 Sept. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Macgillis, Alec. This Is How The NRA  New Republic 244.9 (2013): 16-23. The New Republic Archive. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.