Scilabro 1 Richard Scilabro TA Poston English Composition II 28 January 2017 Abortion: Choice or Life? The topic of abortion tends to spark many heated discussions and is very relevant in modern-day America. Many questions arise just from the topic such as it a right to the baby have rights and even is a legitimate These questions make up a small fraction of the myriad of questions that are still debated today. Two stakeholders are present in this heated discussion, and they harbor diametrically opposed worldviews which makes compromise challenging. Pro choice is the first group in this debate. Advocates for Pro choice claim that abortion is every right as it is her body; thus, women have the freedom to make important decisions governing her own body. The second group in this discussion is known as pro life; many of these people come from conservative backgrounds and assert that after conception a baby is a life and deserves the same rights as the mother. Consequently, they seek to outlaw abortion (Scaldo 423). Altogether, both groups must not seek to reach their goal; rather, they must seek to make abortion have more agreeable and reasonable terms, as this is the only way for progress to be made in this argument. The first stakeholders, the people who are pro choice, have had many great victories for their movement. The most notable progress was seen in 1973 with Roe v Wade when the Supreme Court ruled that legal abortions could happen within the United States (Scaldo 422). This in turn created the pro life movement, as there was public outcry from millions of Scilabro 2 Americans with conservative point of views (Banaszack et al). Afterwards, this discussion started gaining momentum. Additionally, it ignited a controversy that has grown in the United States ever since its inception (Banaszack et al). These two stakeholders have their own respective endorsers and companies that have branched out to support them. However, it is the pro choice organizations that have gained more popular support and recognition throughout the years. The most noteable support came to the pro choice movement with President Barack Obama backing organizations such as When one analyzes the pro choice movement, many general trends and beliefs are demonstrated throughout the movement (Banaszack et al). For example, a fundamental core belief that pro choice people all seem to harbor is the notion that women have the right to choose what she can do to her body (Banaszack et al),(Scaldo 421). The unborn baby is seen as dependent on the body for nutrition. Therefore, a woman can choose to terminate the pregnancy if she deems necessary. The numerous instances of rape, incest, and even when a pregnancy can jeopardize the health of a woman are commonly used by the pro choice movement to demonstrate why legal and safe abortions should be allowed and to show the public that abortions are absolutely necessary for maintaining public health (Banaszack et al). Ultimately, their goal is to maintain the rights and health of women in the United States by ensuring that safe and legal abortions are available. A prominent organization that is associated with the pro choice movement is known as PlannedParenthood (www.plannedparenthood.org). It is probably the most mainstream organization that is affiliated with the pro choice movement. Being funded by the government, they use the slogan No matter Scilabro 3 believes in providing health care procedures and advice to the general public , including abortions. They regard the health of both women and the rest of the public as valuable (www.plammedparenthood.org). not only believes in providing abortions and information on abortions to the public, but also it believes in educating people on health and safe sex (www.plannedparenthood.org). They often provide plans and contraception to the general public. Furthermore, they give sexually active couples more options if a pregnancy does occur (www.plannedparenthood.org). Other Organizations such as , National Abortion Federation, and have similar programs that aid in maintaining public health (prochoice.org), (www.narl.com), (www.mergerwatch.com). The second stakeholder in this situation, people who are pro life, tend to come from religious and conservative backgrounds. They hold a life dear to them, as if it were their own (Thomas 524). Having less funding and support from government officials in the Obama administration, this movement has gained momentum in the recent years, as the controversy has become more relevant to many Americans. Pro life organizations often gain little to no political ground as well as legal ground. Demonstrations are often made to show what they believe, and why their movement is so important (Thomas 524). At the same time, many people and organizations that are associated with pro life have been linked to violence. For example, there have been a number of instances where planned parenthood clinics have been attacked by religious fanatics associated with pro choice groups (Manninen). Delving deeper into the groups beliefs, one can see that the Bible is ultimately the core foundation of what they stand for (Scaldo 422),(Thomas 524). To pro life people, abortion is associated with murder since an unborn fetus is considered a person. Advocates believe that most Scilabro 4 cases of abortions occur because the mother was not sexually responsible (Scaldo 423) ,(Thomas 527). Moreover, they proclaim that most reasons that are given for abortion are only given to justify They often clash with pro choice individuals in every fundamental way. Lastly, their goal is to completely outlaw abortion and wipe it off the face of the planet . A number of organizations are associated with the pro life movement including Right to Life which is a Christian-based organization that encourages people to take a stand against abortion in any possible way (nrcl.com). They are often present in demonstrations and want to overturn Roe v. Wade. Other similar organizations such as the Life Action League, Priests for Life, and for Life are founded on Christian principles and ultimately view abortion as a plague that has fallen upon our great nation (studentsforlife.org), (prolifeaction.org). Adding to this, many of these organizations are peaceful and seek diplomatic means to accomplish their goals. For instance, for Life prays for our nation and exemplifies peaceful demonstrations (preistsforlife.org). Abortion and the feud that comes with has seen little to no compromise, and no resolution is evident in the near future. For both groups to be content, none can completely accomplish their goal. They can only seek to make abortion more agreeable to their terms. If abortion was eliminated, then the pro life movement wins completely, and the pro choice group loses everything. Therefore to lessen the conflict, a set of reasonable and agreeable terms needs to be presented to our government. This is the first step to resolving this national crisis in the United States. Scilabro 5 My proposal for a compromise involves a passage of laws that dictates the circumstances in which an abortion may take place. This law would grant safe legal abortions in the event that the health is at risk because of the pregnancy. This also includes early-term and late-term abortions. Plus, the law should be inclusive for early-term abortions no matter the circumstance so that mothers still have a choice in the beginning of their pregnancy. Along with this piece of legislation, more funding should be allotted to pro choice organizations to enable them to educate the public on contraception as well as make contraception more widely available to the general public. The compromise that is proposed would ultimately provide some level of progress for both movements. Late-term abortions will no longer outrage pro life organizations, and at the same time, health would not be compromised. Even many pro life individuals believe that abortion is necessary when the pregnancy harms the mother (Kelly). This common ground gives the compromise viability. Pro choice groups will benefit as well since they will still have early-term and late-term abortion as an option for many women. It will just be under different circumstances in which they can occur. Lastly, the funding many pro choice organizations receive will result in the decrease in the percentage of unwanted pregnancies in the United States and lessen the need for abortion. In conclusion, Roe v. Wade has sparked an unending controversy between two completely fundamentally different sides. Abortion can be viewed from a wide variety of angles, and the solution that I have proposed is just one of many that are viable options to the conflict at hand. Pro choice and pro life need to learn to coexist and tolerate each values as if they have some sort of meaning. Also, both groups not only need make the terms of abortion more Scilabro 6 agreeable, but also reasonable, so that both groups can exist. Abortion is one of the many topics that divides Americans in this current generation. A compromise is desperately needed to ensure unity within the United States, so that this conflict might one day be non-existent. Lastly, whether pro choice or pro life, we are all Americans living in the greatest nation in the world so we must seek to maintain unity no matter what . Scilabro 7 Works Cited studentsforlife.org , studentsforlife.org/prolifefacts/prolife-movement/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. www.nrcl.com , https://www.nrlc.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. prolifeaction.org , https://prolifeaction.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. priestsforlife.org , www.priestsforlife.org/plgroups/atoesites.html. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. The Merger Watch  , www.mergerwatch.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. The State of Productive Freedom is www.naral.org ,www.naral.org/?referrer=https://www.google.com/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Help us Protect Abortion  , https://prochoice.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. www.plannedparenthood.org , https://www.plannedparenthood.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Thomas, Dan. Better Never to Have Been  http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=fe85dee2-bd 76-496f-ad02-b . Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Path: http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=fe85dee2-b d76-496f-ad02-b55181c5e159%40sessionmgr120&vid=5&hid=119. Kelly, James R. Sociology and Public Theology: A Case Study of Pro-Choice/ Prolife Common  , Oxford University Press, Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Banaszak, Lee Ann, and Heather L. Ondercin. Explaining the Dynamics between the Movement and the Conservative Movement in the United  , Pennsylvania State University, Sept. 2016 of South Florida Libraries . Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. Scilabro 8 Manninen, Alvarez Bertha. Pro-Life, Pro-Choice : Shared Values in the Abortion  , Vanderbilt University Press, of South Florida Libraries . Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. Bertha Manninen in this article explains the shared values that pro choice and pro life Scaldo, Stacy A. LIFE, DEATH & THE GOD COMPLEX: THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INCORPORATING RELIGION-BASED ARGUMENTS INTO THE PRO-CHOICE PERSPECTIVE ON  of South Florida Libraries , eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=fe85dee2-bd76-496f Accessed 29 Jan. 2017.