Higher Taxation on Tobacco Products Qihang Zhou Professor Posten ENC1102.027S17 Feb 11, 2017 Smoking has been considered as chronic suicide gradually. The serious damage to body attracted government attention to introducing policies to bring the better living environment to the publics. Smoking could help to release stress, but some activities have to put into the effort to improve the health, such as change the tax policy on tobacco productions. Different scholars have the different opinion on fiscal policy on tobacco products. We can separate those experts in two sides roughly. The rest of the paper would pick ideas from Hoang Van,et al. and Callison wrote the article, also Kaestner as two odds parts to analyze. Hoang Van,et al. believe that higher tax could help people to reduce smoking whereas Callison, and Kaestner thinks this is not that true actually. Both of them can eventually come into agreement of support different group of people to stay aware of smoking and possible ways to keep the health of smokers could address. Hoang Van, et al. draws a conclusion that higher tax that imposed on tobacco can reduce smoking of the publics (1), which matches the common sense of the majority experts. More specifically, poor people especially stay around the rich place are the more likely response to the price change. In another word, if government impose the tax on tobacco product, those people are more liable to reduce smoking. It is not only Hoang Van, et al. believe that higher tax could reduce smoking. Lots of experts highly support this opinion. When we talk about smoking, there is another indicator that cannot miss, which is the smoking rate. Bowser, et al. got a similar result which is higher tax rate on cigarettes can moderate smoking rate and thus reduce death that generates from smoking (3). The smoking rate tells the speed of growth of smoking people. When there is the moderate smoking rate, that means the smoking population is currently stable and seems not have the big jump in the following years. Salti et al. also conclude that higher cigarettes tax decrease the volume of smoking of the publics (2). They directly provided evidence that imposes the high tax on tobacco products could prevent publics from smoking. Smoking people highly respond to the price change, which is addressed by Hoang Van, et al. resulted from the particular tax policy in Vietnam. Vietnam added fixed amount tax on each pack of cigarette no matter what kind of brand or what kind of price. Consequently, once government reduces the tax on cigarettes, the most noticeable effect is the price of cigarettes would reduce by the same amount. People who have small personal dispensable are more likely to affect the price change. More interestingly, poor people especially mixed with rich part are more responsible for the price change. Also, the authors further discussed the how effective the tax policy affect health. Apparently higher tax reduces the quantity of smoking, but the reduction of smoking does not mean protecting health. Increase tax on tobacco products will Shift tobacco products consumers to low price cigarettes instead of stops them from smoking altogether. Low-price cigarettes are usually non-filtered cigarettes with poor quality tobacco, which have severe damage to body. Low-price cigarettes cannot achieve the standard quality because it subjected by costs. At the same time, when the government increased the tax to make price higher, low-price products become more attractive. Thus, increase tax of tobacco product indeed reduce the amount of consumption of tobacco products, but the resulted consumption of poor quality of cigarettes even more harmful to body. There also exist other voices to against the previous opinion. Experts like Callison and Kaestner, conclude that there is no enough evidence to support the healthy relationship between tax and smoking volume, tax and tobacco volume have the weak negative correlation. Higher tax could reduce the only much amount of smoking, but this conclusion is too weak to trust. This point of view seems not as what always told, but it is not only Callison and Kaestner got such result. This week relationship between tax and smoking volume is also supported by academic magazines. According to the Smoking the analyzed report even obtained the result that higher tax does not necessarily effect the habit of smokers, on the contrary, it may stimulate tobacco use (1). Smoking refers that change tax policy on tobacco products do not have many effects on habits of smoking peoples. Even if the government increases the amount of tax or the tax rate, people would not respond to such changes. It could be even worse that people may start smoking more after government increase tax or the tax rate on tobacco products. Overall, the fiscal policy plays a minor role in reducing smoking. Callison and Kaestner try to find the current relationship between smoking volume and tax rate. Fiscal policy in the investigating place is quite different from Vietnam. Fixed rate of tax is applied. So that tax moderate market prices of different cigarettes. Cigarettes with the higher price were added more tax and vice versa. According to historical data, the overall smoking quantity is decreasing as time goes on together with the increase of tax rate. After such a long time, the tax rate of tobacco products is pretty high. Those who cares and highly response to price change had already given up their hobby. The majority of smokers regarding their research place are dominated by who have strong preference of smoking. It is true that increased tax will shift smokers to relatively cheaper products. But, considering the small gap of prices between right or bad cigarettes, move to a cheaper brand is even not worth to have a try. Callison and Kaestner discussed the reasons that why tax policies do not works well in their place. Firstly, fiscal policy had moderated market prices. Thus there is no big difference between high-quality cigarettes and low-quality cigarettes. Secondly, those who are still smoking have the high preference of smoking. Those people could accept such high price and would not be able to affect the price change. Moreover, using regression model mathematically confirmed that the relationship was proofed as a week relationship even there is the existence of the negative correlation between tax rate and smoking volume. The authors further put forward that change tax of tobacco products do not protect the health of smokers. The best way to prevent from damage of smoking is relevant education before adults start smoking. These two papers seem to have the different opinion about how tax policy affects choice, but there are lots of common ground exists in two articles. The first article thinks higher tax added into tobacco productions will lead to decrease to smoking, which is also clarified in the second paper. The second article explained the trend of relationship between tax rate and tobacco use at the beginning. Both items are agreed with this relationship even this information used in different place. Furthermore, both papers come into an agreement that higher tax policy does not help smokers. The first paper concludes that higher tax will shift consumers to cheaper, low-quality products, which have no advice on protecting body. Thus increase tax does not, in fact, protect publics from smoking. This point of view is also demonstrated from the second paper. The second paper believes changing tax does not affect consumption of smokers, and consequently, higher tax does not necessarily protect health. All in all, both articles try to seeking an efficient way to protect smoker. They all believe fiscal policy is not a good way to prevent smokers. In conclusion, this paper is comparing two stakeholders that have opposite opinion about how fiscal policy effect smoking behavior. The first article is written by Hoang Van, et al. It concludes that put higher tax on tobacco products could effectively recede volume of smoking. Callison and Kaestner write the second article. The result showed that fiscal policy does not have the great affection of choices. However, these two paper eventually come into an agreement that economic policy can not address as a powerful way to keep the health of smoking people. Also, the increase in tax could reduce volume of smoking is recognized in both papers. Work Cited Bowser, Diana, David Canning, and Adeyemi Okunogbe. The Impact Of Tobacco Taxes On Mortality In The USA,  Tobacco Control 25.1 (2016): 52. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Callison, Kevin, and Robert Kaestner. Do Higher Tobacco Taxes Reduce Adult Smoking? New Evidence Of The Effect Of Recent Cigarette Tax Increases On Adult  Economic Inquiry 1 (2014): 155. Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Hoang Van, Kinh, et al. The Effect Of Imposing A Higher, Uniform Tobacco Tax In  Health Research Policy & Systems 4.(2006): 6-16. Academic Search Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. New Smoking Data Have Been Reported by Researchers at University of Illinois (Do Higher Tobacco Taxes Reduce Adult Smoking? New Evidence Of The Effect Of Recent Cigarette Tax Increases On Adult  Economics Week 2014: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Salti, Nisreen, Elizabeth Brouwer, and Verguet. The Health, Financial And Distributional Consequences Of Increases In The Tobacco Excise Tax Among Smokers In  Social Science & Medicine 170.(2016): 161-169. ScienceDirect. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.