Pagan 1 Cheyenne Pagan Professor Roth ENC 1101 26 January 2017 In the year 2016, the cosmetic industry thrived with the launch of many new and exciting products. It is prosperous for anyone to be a part of this industry, as it is a multimillion dollar business. Ever since cosmetics have first been introduced, animal testing has always been a major factor. These companies wanted to see if their products were safe enough for human consumption. Now that its 2017, many brands have found alternative ways other than testing on animals to see if their products were safe. Some of these include brands. But there are still many brands that have not jumped in on this new trend. So why do some of these luxury cosmetic brands still test on animals when many affordable brands have found alternative ways to sell their products without animal cruelty being involved? Pagan 2 Kumar, Sameer. Exploratory analysis of global cosmetic industry: major players, technology and market trends. Science Direct. 2005. This source is a study of the cosmetic industry as a whole. It gives the major players involved and the business side of things. It tells about the money involved because this is a multibillion dollar business. So it lists the major players behind it all and the financial aspects of it. It talks about companies from all over the world and tells about their contributing to the cosmetic industry itself. It gives helpful resources because it is a study overall of the entire business. And most importantly it gives the key players that play the major roles they do. This source connects to my research question of how these companies are still managing to test on animals when others have found better alternatives. It gives the financial side of things and makes it clearer to understand these companies footing in terms of money. So it begs the question of whether or not corporate greed would play a role or not. The credibility behind this source lies with the author, who is a professor who has many credentials in this subject area. They lie in global communications and technology management. Also some of his studies include different kinds of fields pertaining to management. Adler, Sarah. Alternative (non-animal) methods for cosmetics testing: current status and future prospects. Springer. 2010. This article is talking about the alternative methods there are besides animal testing. It talks about how cosmetic companies could be using alternative methods instead of using animal cruelty. It gives specific examples that are current to the industry today. So this source is very relevant in that aspect. It also gives prospects for the future and tells the reader information about where the cosmetic industry might be heading when it comes to animal testing, based off of Pagan 3 current information and research out there. It tells about how long it will take to get rid of it all together in Europe specifically. This article was written by a bunch of authors of all different backgrounds. They all contributed equally to this piece of work. It makes it credible because they used research and specific examples to help strengthen their work. This whole article ties into my research question, on how these companies are still using animal testing when there are better alternatives, by actually giving examples of these alternatives and informing the reader of them. This article goes into detail about that. So it is very useful at providing the actual research behind my research question. It tells of the alternative methods these huge companies could be using but are not. Abbott, Alison. Animal testing: More than a cosmetic change. Nature. 2005. This magazine article touches on the social and scientific aspect of animal testing. Alison Abbott talks about how different kinds of pressures are calling for a quit on animal testing altogether. She gives really in depth examples of how animal testing is outdated and often wrong. It gives the reader a very vivid picture of what animal cruelty is really about. After reading, the reader fully understands what this whole industry really calls for. She talks about how this whole industry is mostly coming to an end in Europe. She argues that all of this is for the better of the scientific end of cosmetics. This article is basically everything my research topic is about. It talks about how animal testing is something of the past because there are better and more efficient ways to test if products are safe without involving animal cruelty whatsoever. Alison Abbott is Nature magazines senior European correspondent. That makes the source more credible because of that Pagan 4 reason right there. It was published by Nature magazine in 2005 and a lot of the information still holds true to this day. This article is very informative for the reader because it talks about all aspects involving animal cruelty. Why a thing and why she considers it to be outdated. Wang, Jianfel. Current Status of Animal Welfare and Animal Rights in China. ATLA. 2013. This article focuses on animal rights in China. This is very crucial to the topic of animal cruelty in todays society because most of the products in the cosmetic industry are manufactured in China. One of the requirements for a product to be made in China is it has to be tested on animals. This article is talking about the current status of these regulations as well as the rights animals have over all. This article explains Chinas place overall with societies views of animal testing changing as a whole. They are becoming more exposed to it and that is mainly what its talking about. This all ties into my research question because my research paper is all about animal cruelty that these cosmetic brands still use. Since most of these luxury brands are made in china, that could be a reason why they are still using animal testing. This article dives deeper into the rights that these animals have and views on them overall. It is written by a total of 3 people and its credible because they credit all of their research at the end and it seems to be very solid. The whole article is just simply stating facts over all about the current status of animal welfare in China. Donovan, Josephine. Aestheticizing Animal Cruelty. College Literature. 2011. So this article is talking about the aesthesis behind animal cruelty. It is talking about how in American culture it used to pretty normal to see something with some time of animal cruelty Pagan 5 in it, like a circus or something. This article discusses that and the exploitation in the media about it. Its talking all about animals and their presence. And how their presence has an effect on the social norm when it comes to the treatment of them overall. This article talks about all of it. Its main focus, however, is on if an animals suffering on screen or in real life, is for aesthetic. This article dives deeper into that question. This may seem like a stretch because my topic is about animal cruelty in the cosmetic industry. And it is, kind of. So this article can be related because these companies that still test on animals are so desensitized that they still test on animals. That ties into the moral question that the article raises. The author behind this article is a professor at the University of Maine and is a decorated novelist. That helps with the credibility for my research because it is coming from an author who has published many items before. So the work she has come up is more likely to be credible. Fluhr, Joachim. Practical Aspects of Cosmetic Testing. Springer. 2011. This is a scientific guide to cosmetic testing. It is very lengthy and it gives all of the information one will ever need when it comes to cosmetic testing. It gives a guide on how to tell if products are safe to use. It states that cosmetic testing is a necessity to see if any product is safe for human consumption. This book goes over all of it. It does not talk about animal cruelty whatsoever. So it focuses on cosmetic testing on skin and all of that. This is a guidebook for anyone who wants to know more about cosmetic testing. This book ties into my whole research question by talking about cosmetic testing. It will help me give a detailed explanation on one alternative to animal cruelty. Given that that this is an actual published guidebook, it is very reliable and credible. This guidebook is very scientific and Pagan 6 it was written by several scientists respected in their fields. This book will help me discuss the safer alternatives to animal testing, which is cosmetic testing on humans instead. This book goes in depth over those options. It will help me connect the more practical and physical aspects to my paper. It will help me physically understand the things that can be done instead of animal testing.