Ireland 1 Cameron Ireland Dori Davis ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Medicinal Marijuana, an Unlikely Compromise In the current political and social climate, a controversial issue has arisen with two very distinct sides. The issue at hand: marijuana. One side calls for all out legalization while the other seeks to keep this drug illegal. One such group that is opposed to legalization is Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana (CALM), while on the other side, a group advocating for legalization is the Marijuana Policy Project (MPP). These two groups do not appear to have anything in common, but delving below the surface, one can see that there is a compromise, which would benefit both groups. Despite their immense differences, both CALM and MPP would benefit from combining efforts and working towards the legalization of medical marijuana on the federal level. Before investigating the reasoning behind this compromise, the intricacies of each group need to be examined. As stated on their website, the mission statement of CALM is, are a dedicated group of individuals, parents, business owners, medical professionals, crime and safety officials, young and old-all working to defeat the legalization of marijuana in California and other targeted (calmusa.org). A key takeaway from this is that CALM is dedicated to making its lives safer. Parents, medical professionals, and safety officials join this group in an effort to ensure their own safety, the safety of their children, and the safety of their community. In addition to their mission statement, website also examines many of the Ireland 2 beliefs. One of these core beliefs is listed as follows, affirm the 2006 FDA finding and vast scientific evidence that marijuana causes (calmusa.org). It is important for the purposes of the compromise to note that the evidence CALM cites is all from a 2006 FDA report. Being 11 years old, this evidence is outdated, and to get CALM to understand the beneficial effects of medical marijuana, evidence will be cited proving that medical marijuana can in fact make their communities safer, which can be concluded as their end goal. On the other side of the debate is the MPP. As written on their website, the vision statement of the group is, and MPP Foundation envision a nation where marijuana is legally regulated similarly to alcohol, marijuana education is honest and realistic, and treatment for problem marijuana users is non-coercive and geared toward reducing (mpp.org). The key takeaway from their vision statement, which will inform the compromise and allow it to appeal to them, is the realistic and honest marijuana education as well as the treatment for problem users. This can be achieved with the goal of combining forces with CALM, and lobbying together in an attempt to legalize medical marijuana on the federal level, as this will require a realistic and in depth look at the new studies and research released on the effects of medical marijuana. In tying evidence into the compromise, a few parameters must be established. The compromise should be considered successful if CALM succeeds at gaining a safer community, and if MPP achieves a realistic approach to marijuana and the benefits or detrimental effects of it. The first piece of evidence to be analyzed is a journal by Dr. Edward Shepard titled Medical Marijuana and Crime: Further Evidence from Western States. Dr. Shepard is the chair of Economics at LeMoyne College, and has done Ireland 3 extensive research regarding the effects of medical marijuana on crime in the states where laws are already in place. In his article, Dr. Shepard finds that, based on evidence, from recent studies that show no evidence of significant, negative spillover effects from MMLs [Medical Marijuana on (Shepard, p. 8). The evidence presented by Dr. Shepard shows the effects of medical marijuana on communities, and that is decreased crime. This point should really speak to the members of CALM who are parents and business owners, among other things, who are all working toward a better community. This new evidence, published in 2016, should show them that their answer for a safer community in keeping marijuana outlawed, but in pushing for medical marijuana. Dr. Jill Cavalet is a clinical professor at Saint Francis University, who also practices clinical psychology. In one of her recent studies, she examined the benefits and negative aspects of medical marijuana on the body. She believes, are some additional areas of potential therapeutic use of (Cavalet p. 44). The research presented in her paper examines conditions which medical marijuana is currently prescribed for in some states, and discusses the benefits of this prescription. While further research may be needed, she also discusses health effects on systems of the body, such as the detrimental effects that smoking marijuana can have on the respiratory system (Cavalet p. 43). This kind of honest approach to medical marijuana is what the MPP is looking for. Another key takeaway, which would help win over members of CALM, and show them the benefits of medical marijuana on their communities, is the decreased use of prescription opiates. In American society, the detrimental effects of these legal drugs are common knowledge, as people see daily news headlines about overdose rates and the Ireland 4 overall negative things that come from these drugs. The answer to this crisis can be medical marijuana. In a journal published in the JAMA Internal Medicine database in 2010, medical experts and doctors combined forces to investigate the effects of the newly implement MMLs on the rate of opioid overdose deaths. Dr. Bachhuber and his team found that, Cannabis laws were associated with a mean 24.8 percent lower annual rate of opioid analgesic overdose (1670). These findings show that medical marijuana can be an alternative to already legal prescription drugs, which have caused an epidemic in the United States. If the medical professionals and other members of CALM were really dedicated to safety in the community, they would recognize that medical marijuana can save lives in chronic pain patients, and greatly benefit their communities. Discussing not only the positives of medical marijuana, but also the negatives, shows an honest approach, which is exactly what vision statement says they want. The last expert who can shed light on why medical marijuana is the most logical compromise for these two groups is Dr. Rosalie Pacula, who is a senior economist with RAND medical group, as well as the director of their center for health economics. It is her opinion that, practice, most states marijuana use only for pain caused by a diagnosable medical (Pacula, p. 5). This last piece of evidence is key to tie in the compromise between CALM and MPP. Since the prescriptions are available only to those who need them, it keeps the drug out of the hands of children, which in turn will satisfy CALM, by allowing parents to keep their children and families safe. The evidence provided shows that Medical Marijuana is a clear compromise for the two groups. CALM can build safer communities with it, while MPP gets an honest Ireland 5 real approach to the view of the drug, and can keep marijuana education truthful and based in fact. The hard part of this compromise is implementation. While the two groups cannot change laws, they can combine forces. Through fundraising together, lobbying, and educating the public on the benefits of medical marijuana, these groups can get the attention of lawmakers and government officials. Two groups, with seemingly nothing in common; Citizens Against Legalized Marijuana and the Marijuana Policy Project, have underlying ideas that can go together. An unlikely compromise for the two is medical marijuana. CALM is dedicated to bettering their community, a goal which is more than achieved by medical marijuana. With decreased detrimental effects on the public, and medical marijuana only prescribed for certain conditions, the communities that its members live in are made better. In addition to achieving goals, the MPP will have one of its goals achieved. By looking at all the facts presented and educating the public about marijuana in a manner that is fair and honest, MPP will be happy with the compromise as well. In all, this is why lobbying together for medical marijuana is the best compromise for Citizens Against Legalized Marijuana and the Marijuana Policy Project. Ireland 6 Works Cited Bachhuber MA, Saloner B, Cunningham CO, Barry CL. Medical Cannabis Laws and Opioid Analgesic Overdose Mortality in the United States, 1999-2010. JAMA Intern Med. 2014;174(10):1668-1673. doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2014.4005 DEA / Drug  DEA / Drug Scheduling. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pacula, Rosalie L., Anne E. Boustead and Priscillia Hunt. Words Can Be Deceiving: A Review of Variation among Legally Effective Medical Marijuana Laws in the United  Journal of Drug Policy Analysis, 7.1 (2014): 1-19. Retrieved 25 Jan. 2017 Project, Marijuana Policy. Our Mission &  MPP. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Shepard, Edward M., and Paul R. Blackley. Medical Marijuana And  Journal Of Drug Issues 46.2 (2016): 122-134.Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Vargo Cavalet, Jill. The Highs And Lows Of Medical  Clinician Reviews 26.10 (2016): 40-53. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.  CALM USA. CALM USA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.