Atkins 1 Michael Atkins Kristen Rouisse Composition II 28 January 2017 The Endless Gun Control Debate in America Growing into one of the most talked about and controversial topic in mass media today, gun control in America has torn the country in two; those who support gun control and those who feel gun control laws in America are too strict. Two organizations on opposing sides of the argument are the National Rifle Association (NRA), who are in support of less restrictive gun control and are in favor of the riddance of gun free zones, and Everytown for Gun Safety who are for stricter gun laws and suggest gun free zones are beneficial and should be expanded. Recently there have been a number of laws passed that are in favor of more restrictive gun control, however there have been just as many vetoed due to politicians who are lobbied by organizations such as the NRA and Everytown. Although, there is give and take within government on the issue of gun control, these two sides have an opportunity to compromise with each other in order to satisfy both parties while making America safe for all people all while protecting 2 nd Amendment rights. One of the most popular and well-known organizations against gun control in America is the National Rifle Association. According to the NRA, the organization is started out seeking to form a location to practice marksmanship and support shooting sports, however, is now recognized today as a major political force and as foremost defender of Second Amendment (NRA). The NRA is one of the most influential lobbying groups in the United States, spending over $3 million annually, allowing for the organization to persuade Atkins 2 government officials to vote on laws which favor less restrictive gun control (Martin). Also, the organization has spoken out against gun free zones, stating that these gun free zones put citizens at even greater risk with the Crime Prevention Research Center stating that 98% of FBI criteria labeled happen in gun free zones (Morse). The NRA executive vice president has vocally called for changes regarding these gun free zones, stating only thing that stops a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a (Cervantes). The NRA promotes the idea of properly carrying and shooting a weapon while protecting oneself from being a victim. Although the organization fights for gun rights and wishes to see a greater, less restrictive gun presence in the United States, the NRA is a large proponent of gun safety and education. On the other side of the argument, Everytown for Gun Safety has set out to create more restrictive gun control laws, targeting stricter background checks, domestic violence, preventable deaths, and gun trafficking. Everytown is the largest gun violence prevention organization in the United States. The organization has spoken out again gun lobbying organizations in Washington, such as the NRA, stating that such organizations have too much power politics and strive to push their own political agenda without keeping all American citizens in mind. Unlike these organizations, Everytown claims to unite Moms and Millions of By uniting these groups of people, Everytown hopes to focus on certain issues related to guns, and gather supporters to head to the polls and vote for laws that enforce greater gun control. Founded in 2014, the organization has already experienced much success. For example, Everytown saw a 60/40% victory requiring mandatory background checks on all private gun sales as well as 23 that would have allowed for open-carry in various locations such as airports and schools (Drash). Regardless of the head-start or the spending budget that the NRA has, Atkins 3 Everytown is set to informing the American voter about the dangers of guns and stresses the ideas of gun free zones while advocating for increased gun control (Everytown). Although these organizations are each unique in their own ways with very polar views in many circumstances, it is possible for these organizations to come together and find a solution that protects the rights of all law abiding citizens while making sure guns do not fall into the wrong hands. The solution proposed is a compromise of the two sides brought together creating a best case alternative. This compromise consists of two of the biggest arguments on both sides; to create the safest yet most amendment-protective agreement to satisfy both the NRA and Everytown. The solution would consist of a lift on gun free zones in places such as schools and airports, yet open carry would be illegal and gun owners would be forced to carry concealed. In order to carry concealed, gun owners would be required to undergo an extensive background check, physiological evaluation and gun safety course before the rights are granted. However, the law would also ban the purchase of automatic rifles such as under all circumstances unless by authorized personnel, for example active duty military, police officers, etc. Gun owners would have the right to defend their property and family under all circumstances as protected by the law. This alternative would be viable as it is statistically proven that gun free zones are more dangerous for everyone but the attacker (Kopel). Gun safety plays an important role in both the NRA and platform which is a reason why laws would be enforced to make sure individuals. While the NRA loses its right to carry concealed and rights for citizens to purchase assault rifles which in fact benefits Everytown platform, it keeps the rights of citizens to defend themselves within their 2 nd amendment rights.This compromise seems to be a fair trade off for both organizations and would allow for both sides to come together and find a viable solution to gun control in America. Atkins 4 Both organizations have created a platform that are uniquely different to each other which create much tension between the two organizations. With such tension, very little room for compromise is present due individuals within these organizations that are so passionate about the ideals and views of organization. However, it is possible for those with very different views to come to a sensible agreement regarding each topic to hopefully make America come to a valid and agreeable alternative to gun control issues within society. Atkins 5 Work Cited Drash, Wayne. The Other Gun  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Everytown. Everytown for Gun  Everytown for Gun Safety. Everytown for Gun Safety Fund, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kopel, David. Gun-Free  Gun-free . Wall Street Journal, 18 Apr. 2007. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Lott, John. A Look at the Facts on Gun-Free  National Review. National Reviewer, 25 Apr. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Morse, Brandon. Over 98% of Mass Shootings Occurred on Gun-free  TheBlaze. TheBlaze, 09 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. NRA. NRA  NRA Home. National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.