Pena Castro 1 Daniela Pena Castro Composition II Bianca Hernandez 12 February 2017 The Paradigm of Food on the 21st Century Organizations such as the Food Standards Agency (FSA), which main objective is to protect and regulate adequate hygiene, and safety food for the consumers; might seem in odds at first sight with Organizations such as The Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), whose main goal is to reduce food wasting and support sustainability projects. However, these organizations are highly interested on the adequate consumption of food for the people, not only on the quality but also the quantity; making sure that the food that is being eaten by the people is not only safe but enough for an adequate life and development. For this reason, achieving a compromise between this apparently contrary organizations will result in a common benefit for all the individuals involved. A proposed compromise between these organization will consist on an agreement in which both organizations accept to work under the supervision and sponsorship of the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO), by doing so the FSA will be in charge of developing the correspondent regulations and food laws for all the countries that belong to the FAO committee; while the NRDC will have the necessary budget in order to expand their social programs, and provide more and more communities with the necessary strategies and information to start developing sustainability, while reducing food waste and world hunger. Pena Castro 2 In 2012, the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) reveled an alarming report, showing that almost 40% of the food produced in the United States is thrown away (NRDC 2). This organization is a non-profit organization dedicated to protect and the people, its plants and animals, and the natural systems on which all life since 1970 (4). To do this, the organization supports itself out of donations and scientific activists that support and fund its programs. In terms of food wasting awareness, they are determined to work for a food system that is more efficient, meaning less wasting and redirecting of supplies. To achieve their goals, they have worked with different entities participating throughout the supply chain; such as communities, business, policy makers, and the food industry in general (NRDC 3). Currently, the organization works in the cities inspiring and teaching consumers with strategies to waste less food at home and redirect surplus food to people in need. On the other hand, the FSA is the institution that represents England, Wales, and Northern Ireland in the European Union (EU) on food safety and standards issues (FSA 4). Their biggest interest is to develop an effective European food law and improve food safety within the EU. For this reasons, for the FSA the food wasting rates may not seem as a priority. However, as the representatives for the EU in food related issues research studies such as the one made by the FAO in 2011, their concern about food wasting has considerably increase. This increasing concern is due to the results founded by the FAO showing that per capita food waste at consumer level in Europe and North-America is 95-115 (5). This means that the safety food regulations proposed and enforced by the FSA until this point, have not be effective enough. Due to the latest statistics about mal nutrition and food wasting, such as the one presented by the Action Against Hunger Organization in 2016, which revealed that more than 34 million Pena Castro 3 kids worldwide suffer from severe malnutrition, and that 1 out of every 8 people in the world receive enough food to eat (Action against hunger 2). Organizations such as Feeding America, World Hunger, the NRDC, and FAO are working together to develop programs and ideas to reduce food wasting, malnutrition, and promote sustainability programs. However, entities such as the FSA are not yet included in this programs. For this reason, a compromise needs to be made between not only the FSA and the NRDC, but also between all the organizations dealing with food wasting and food regulations. To achieve an agreement between these two organizations that seem to be difficult to redirect each goals, an International Organization such as FAO must be involved. In order to facilitate not only increment on the amount of resources that each organization receives separately, but also the amount of governmental vigilance of the projects that are proposed. If the NRDC and the FSA start working together under the approval of the FAO, ideas such as a food regulation that promotes the commercialization of safe non-perfect looking products could be developed. By doing so, wasting products before they even get to the businesses will be avoided. In the case of fruits and vegetables, the FSA regulations would protect the safeness of the product, while the educational programs and connections of the NRDC would have a bigger impact. Thus, businesses, communities, and food industries would gain consciousness about the safeness of non-perfect looking products and the reasons why those should be commercialized and consumed. The economic support for this projects will come from the USD 34.4 million budget that corresponds to the FAO budget for emerging projects, set in the FAO medium term plan 2014-17 and Program of Work and Budget (33). Another example of the goals that could be achieved with a possible compromise between the FSA and the NRDC supervised by the FAO, will be the creation of a food policy that benefits entities and businesses that prove to donate Pena Castro 4 their unused or uncooked meat. The entities must maintain the necessary cold chain to keep the product safe for the final consumer. With this type of policy, problems as the one presented in the research paper published by the Chronicle, reporting about concerns over safeguards to control killer bug and eating contaminated products (Chronicle, 2016), will be avoided. In conclusion, to work for important issues such as world hunger, which takes the life of over 1 million kids every year. A compromise between major agencies such as FSA, FAO and NRDC, between many other must be achieved. If achieved, the compromise between these three organizations will consist on a teamwork between the FSA and the NRDC, supervised by the FAO. This partnership will become a win-win situation for all the participants, not only the implied organizations, but also the people in need, the rates of malnutrition, the safeness of the food that is being consumed, and the number of people working on sustainability projects. The FSA will oversee keeping the safety over the food regulations and the governmental presence for all the countries belonging to the FAO committee. While the NRDC will oversee connecting the community and the industry to the projects that are being developed, such as empowering the commercialization and consumption of safe non-perfect looking products. Overall, the FAO will be uncharged of the economic development and sponsorship of both projects, and the general supervision for the efficiency of the programs. Pena Castro 5 Works Cited (2015, October 28) Food waste in America. Food Forward. ACF. Hunger  Action Against Hunger. BBB , Apr. 2016. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Berkenkam, JoAnne.  NRDC. N.p., 21 Aug. 2012. Web. 25 Jan. 2017https://www.nrdc.org/issues/food-waste FAO. Technical Platform on the Measurement and Reduction of Food Loss and  Food and Agricultural of the United Nations. N.p., 17 Aug. 2014. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. FAO. The Medium Term Plan 2014-17 (reviewed) and Programme of Work and Budget  Thirty-ninth Session of the Conference(2015): 30-35. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Fish recalled from shops following botulism scare and warnings; Food Standards Agency say there is concern over safeguards to control killer bug and eating contaminated products could have serious health  The Chronicle (Newscastle upon Tyne, England) 2016: General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.