Blichasz, 1 Joanie Blichasz Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Euthanasia/Assisted Suicide The debate over whether or not patients should have the right to decide if they want to die on their own time and by their own hand instead of suffering has endured through decades. Some organizations, such as Dignity in Dying, are for these patients having the right to kill themselves or having others assist them in dying. Dignity in Dying is an organization in the United Kingdom that is campaigning for change when it comes to assisted suicide. They everybody has the right to a good even if they are ill, mentally competent However, others such as the American Medical Association (AMA) believe that assisted killing is wrong and that one should die naturally. The AMA is a medical association that is against assisted suicide because it goes against their beliefs as physicians who are suppose to care for their patients. Thus, both organizations, the AMA and Dignity in Dying, should consider a compromise so that society as a whole would benefit and quality of life would matter over quantity. The American Medical Association (AMA) believes that physician assisted suicide/euthanasia is wrong. To them helping patients means furthering their life and reducing their pain through, but not limited to, ventilation, renal dialysis, chemotherapy, antibiotics, and artificial nutrition and To them have an Blichasz, 2 obligation to relieve pain and suffering and to promote the dignity and autonomy of dying patients in their Regarding the principle that they hold physicians to, combined with the goal of bringing up the public and what their perspective is, the AMA believes that if patients have comfort, respect for patient autonomy, good communication, and adequate pain then this could decrease the demand that the public gives for euthanasia/assisted suicide. If physicians were involved in assisted suicides this could create societal risk as the public would be less trusting of doctors if they believed they would also help someone die. In other words, the AMA promotes physicians to care for their patients as best as they can even though it could possibly hasten death, however, that does not include assisting in suicide. The AMA defines physician assisted suicide as, a physician facilitates a death by providing the necessary means and/or information to enable the patient to perform the life-ending (Association). They also define euthanasia as administration of a lethal agent by another person to a patient for the purpose of relieving the intolerable and incurable (Association). However, the AMA believes that physicians are healers and as such they should not assist in killing patients. According to an article by David Forrest, and the American Medical of euthanasia may reasonably query whether the terminally ill patient is really capable of deciding rationally what he wants, especially if he is slipping into a semi-conscious or comatose Dignity in Dying is an organization that is for euthanasia/assisted suicide. The campaign slogan that appears on its main website page is over where we die, who is present and our treatment options. ACCESS to expert information on our options, good quality end-of-life care. CONTROL over how we die, our symptoms, pain relief and planning our own the This organization believes that patients have a choice of when and how Blichasz, 3 they want to die, especially if they are terminally ill. They want their patients to be relieved of their pain and suffering that they have gone through. However, for them to do this they would need help which is why they came up with their campaign of choice, access, and control. According to the article Right to live vs right to by Suresh Math and Santosh Chaturvedi patients in a persistent vegetative state or else in chronic illness, do not want to be a burden on their family However, the medical field has gotten around this dilemma because of living wills, which allow the person who would be in such a state to say what he or she would like to happen if anything were to happen with them, such as being in a vegetative state, in order not to become a burden on their family. The two organizations do have some common ground between them. They both want what is best for the patient. Neither group wants a terminally ill patient to suffer in pain. Both organizations also believe in autonomy which is control over themselves. This means that they themselves can make decisions without being coerced into anything. The compromise to benefit not only the two organizations, but the public as well, is to come up with a law that has certain restrictions that the patients must pass in order for them to choose to die. The restrictions would include doing interviews of the patients that want to die to determine if they are mentally competent, as well as interviewing their family members to see if they are in agreement with the decision. Another restriction would be to consider the severity of their illness by using medical records and their testimony to verify their condition. The AMA officially declared that they any bill to legalize physician-assisted suicide or euthanasia, as these practices are fundamentally inconsistent with the role as a and However, on September 30, 2016 an article by Blaine Conzatti stated that American Medical Association (AMA) is considering whether it will drop its stridently help Blichasz, 4 position against physician assisted Per the article by Blaine Conzatti majority (54%) of American Doctors support physician-assisted suicide, according to a 2014 Medscape As of June 7, 2016, physician-assisted suicide is legal in five U.S. states: Oregon, Vermont, Washington, California, and Montana. Montana is the only state out of the five that is mandated by court ruling and the other four states each have specific criteria that patients need to meet or done in order for them to die. In order for the compromise to work the AMA could possibly allow physicians to have a say in determining if a patient meets certain criteria such as the severity of illness, mental status, and family acceptance, in order for the patient to choose assisted suicide as a medical remedy. Also, Dignity in Dying would have to give up the broad scope they have on assisted suicides, such as narrowing down the illness included in a statue governing assisted suicide. In conclusion, the AMA and Dignity in Dying should come to the compromise of creating a law with certain restrictions that would be in place that allows for patients to choose to die. They both have some common ground including the fact that they want best for the patient and that they both believe in autonomy, and this might help them come to this conclusion. However, with the firm belief that they disapprove of any law condoning assisted suicide/euthanasia, they would definitely need to come up with something such as having the physicians have a say in the decision. Some positive impacts that could possibly come out of the compromise is the relief of the medical expenses burden to the family or to the themselves, as well as there is a chance for everyone to know ahead of time in order for goodbyes to be said. Another positive impact is that it can be an emotional and stress reliever to some. Word Count: 1240 Blichasz, 5 Work Cited Page Dignity in Dying, www.dignityindying.org.uk/about-us/. American Medical Association, searchpf.ama-assn.org/SearchML/search.action. Association, American Medical. 5: OPINIONS ON CARING FOR PATIENTS AT THE END OF Cm-2016-Chapter-5-20161117, pp. www.ama- assn.org/sites/default/files/media-browser/code-of-medical-ethics-chapter-5.pdf. Coggon, John. AND THE CONTEXT OF DEBATE: VERSUS Medical law review 18.4 (2010): PMC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Conzatti, Blaine. Family Policy Institute of Washington, Blaine Conzatti 11 Dec. 2016, www.fpiw.org/blog/2016/09/30/ama-reconsidering-position-on-euthanasia- and-suicide/. American Medical Association, searchpf.ama- assn.org/SearchML/searchDetails.action?uri=%2FAMADoc%2FHOD.xml-0-497.xml. Forrest, D M. and the American Medical Canadian Medical Association Journal 131.6 (1984): Print. the Dignity in Dying, www.dignityindying.org.uk/. and American Medical Association, searchpf.ama- assn.org/SearchML/searchDetails.action?uri=%2FAMADoc%2FHOD.xml-0-1860.xml. Blichasz, 6 Math, Suresh Bada, and Santosh K. Chaturvedi. Right to Life vs Right to The Indian Journal of Medical Research 136.6 (2012): Print.