Cohen,1 Zachary Cohen Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 27 January 2017 Animal Testing Over the past decade, animal testing has become a well-known and discussed controversy. Animal testing is primarily used by cosmetic and medical companies to test their products on animals before they become available to the market. Doing so allows the companies to make sure their products are safe before they are used by humans. Because of the amount of discussion regarding this topic, a significant amount of research is available about animal testing in many different forms and how certain companies do it opposed to others. Aside from this, there are enough stakeholders on both the supporting and opposing side to attain a knowledged opinion on animal testing. However, time for a compromise. Two stakeholders in the issue, Clorox and PETA, must come to an agreement on the issue of animal testing so that both organizations are satisfied with product testing. PETA is an organization that stands for for the Ethical Treatment of What they stand for is eliminating animal cruelty around the world and for everybody to stand for animal rights Josephine, Their motto is are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other (PETA). This slogan basically sums up the PETA organization in a single sentence. Since PETA was founded in March 1980, they have done miraculous things and have saved countless animals from slaughter and torture. Cohen,2 A recent positive thing that PETA has done was that in 2006, they convinced Polo Ralph Lauren to remove all fur clothing from the shelves and donate it all to people on Mongolia who need it. As a result, they are no longer skinning animals for their fur, and poor people in Mongolia who needed warm clothing were able to get it for free (PETA). In 2007, after PETA discovered cruel animal testing and the death of many animals from well-known beverage companies, they convinced POM Wonderful, PepsiCo, and Coca-Cola to eliminate all animal testing for their products. As a result of this, PETA gained more recognition and animals were saved from potentially getting sick or dying from their products (Donovan, Josephine). In 2011, PETA filed a lawsuit against Seaworld stating that five wild-caught orcas were being held at Seaworld and being forced to perform for the entertainment of human beings They considered this as the animals being held as slaves since they were forced to perform which is a violation of the 13th amendment of the U.S. Constitution After five years of lawsuits and arguments, Seaworld announced that they will no longer be taking in whales in will be ending their breeding program (Allen, Greg). On the other side of the controversy, one of the stakeholders is Clorox. Clorox is a cleaning product company that was founded on May 3, 1913 in Oakland, California (Clorox). Since they use products that contain toxic chemicals that can potentially cause harm to humans, they test their products on animals before they are released. Clorox also owns 409, Greenworks, Brita, Glad, Pine-Sol, Tilex, SOS Pads, and Kingsford Charcoal (Clorox), which all test their products on animals as well. The way the testing works is they put the product into the eyes and lab-made cuts to see the results of the product on them. They are also fed the product to test what would happen to a human if the product was consumed (Donovan, Cohen,3 Josephine). With the information gathered from these experiments, the companies are able to alter their product to make it safer for human use. Without animal testing, they be able to determine if their product is safe enough to be on the market. As a result of this, people may potentially be injured from these products or have serious illnesses (Adler, Sarah). To satisfy both stakeholders, they need to be able to come to an agreement on product testing. One way they could agree on a topic is to pay willing humans to have the products tested on them instead of forcing animals. This would give the experiment a more accurate result since it is being tested on a human instead of an animal, and is not cruel or inhumane because the person being tested is doing it willingly. Since they would have to pay the people to have their products tested on them, Clorox could raise the cost of their products slightly to pay for the cost of the testing. If this compromise was made, both the opposing and supporting side would be getting what they want. Clorox would be giving up animal testing and potentially losing money on testing (they have the option of raising product costs so it affect their income) and PETA would have to understand that products need to be tested and doing it on willing humans is humane. As part of this deal, PETA could also assist in paying for some of the testing to further convince Clorox to end animal testing. If this compromise was made, animal testing would end, and the companies would still be able to test their products before they were released. Almost all medical and cosmetic companies test their products on animals before they are released to the public (McNamee, Pauline, 197-209). The reason they do so is so that their products are safe for human use or consumption. In order for both sides to compromise, they would need to test their products on humans who are willing to do so, rather than on defenseless animals. A positive thing about testing on humans instead of animals, besides the fact that Cohen,4 animals will no longer be tortured for testing purposes, is that the results of their experiment will come out more accurate since their products are being testing on humans. Since companies will have to pay the people that are being tested, they could slightly raise costs of their products so that it cost them any money out of pocket to pay humans to be tested on. Word count: 1191 Cohen,5 Works Cited Adler, Sarah, et al. Alternative (non-animal) methods for cosmetics testing: current status and future  of toxicology 85.5 (2011): 367-485. Bebarta, Vik, Dylan Luyten, and Kennon Heard. Emergency medicine animal research: does use of randomization and blinding affect the  Emergency Medicine 10.6 (2003): 684-687. Brandon, Esther FA, et al. An update on in vitro test methods in human hepatic drug biotransformation research: pros and  and applied pharmacology 189.3 (2003): 233-246. Donovan, Josephine, and Carol J. Adams. Beyond animal rights: A feminist caring ethic for the treatment of  (1996). McNamee, Pauline, et al. A tiered approach to the use of alternatives to animal testing for the safety assessment of cosmetics: eye  toxicology and pharmacology 54.2 (2009): 197-209. Cohen,6  . N.p., 16 Feb. 2016. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.  News Events, Multimedia, Public Relations . N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights  . N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Feb. 2017.