Sulbaran 1 Helio Sulbaran Professor Karen Hanson ENC 1102 29 January, 2017 Electoral System in the United States The United States of America has created an electoral system that does not use a direct democracy. Instead, they have indoctrinated the Electoral College System. In the Electoral College, the population of a state votes for a representative, or Electoral College voters, that will cast their Electoral College vote for the candidate the state selects. However, the Electoral College voter is not obligated to follow the corresponding election result, and may vote for whomever they please. Additionally, the winner of an election does not have to win the majority vote of the country; as long as the candidate acquires at least 270 electoral votes, the candidate can win the election. This has created tension between two groups: the National Popular Vote and the Constitution Party. The National Popular Vote organization, or NPV, supports the idea of eliminating the Electoral College and establishing a direct democracy system, one where the popular vote determines the elected candidate. However, the Constitution Party defends the system utilized today and is against the popular vote idea that the NPV believes in. They both posses a firm position on whether the Electoral College should be kept as the system used by the U.S. to elect their president, or if it should be eradicated and become a direct democracy in order to not violate the choice of the people. The two organizations could by compromise by leaving the Electoral College, while eliminating the winner-take-of-all system and distributing the Electoral College votes between the percentages of popular votes that each candidate gets. Sulbaran 2 The Electoral College debate has many organizations involved, but out of all the organizations, they all fall between two choices: either keep the Electoral College, or eradicate it. The NPV, in this argument, will represent the side that wants to eradicate the Electoral College and become a direct democracy system. The NPV is a corporation whose specific purpose is to study, analyze and educate the public regarding its proposal to implement a nationwide popular election of the President of the United Their purpose is to introduce people to the idea of implementing a new electoral system, one where the popular vote elects the President of the U.S, which culminates the Electoral College system that is used today. The priority is not to eradicate the Electoral College but rather to protect and make each vote count. They believe that due to the winner-take-all system, the candidates do not pay much attention to the small states. Instead, they spend most of their time campaigning in the battleground states and consequently ignoring the population and votes of the states that are predominantly lenient to one side. To support their claim, the American Civil Liberty Union, or ACLU, support the idea by saying how of voters in a few swing states deciding the outcome, candidates will need to speak to and listen to all citizens throughout the country the National Here, they mention how the popular vote will give each vote equal weight and the elections will not be decided by a few swing states. The proposed solution for this issue goes as followed: they will not get rid of the Electoral College and will continue to allow the states to control the elections. What they will change, however, is that the popular vote will decide where Electoral College votes go. Therefore, the winner of the popular vote will receive the Electoral College votes of each state, regardless of whomever the state voted for Among the Sulbaran 3 On the other side of the coin, the Constitution Party is found. They represent the side of the argument that supports the Electoral College and are completely against the bill that the NPV wants to put in effect. The Constitution Party was founded in 1992. Their principles come from their name itself, the Constitution. Their idea is to protect the views that the forefathers had and to not to let them get corrupted. Now, this is why they want to protect the Electoral College and are against the bill introduced by the NPV. The Constitution Party states that the idea presented by the NPV of eliminating the Electoral College, and basing the elections on popular vote, would make many states, particularly the smaller ones, lose their votes, due to the candidates only campaigning in big population states. Just as stated by the League of Women Voters, NPV Compact allows as few as 11 states to determine a presidential election and could shift political power between states that are and are not party to the Just 11 states, states with major population, can decide the result of the elections. This makes candidates pay less attention to smear states. Also, the Constitution Party says that the NPV does not have a of what constitutes a under National Popular Adoption of National Popular This means that if a majority is not specified, then electing a candidate with a clear majority will be difficult. The Constitution Party wants to protect the Electoral College because it allows each state to have representation and makes sure that their votes count. If the Electoral College is abolished, then the candidates will only campaign in the states that have a large population and will therefore just ignore the smaller states Although they look different, similar characteristics can be found in each views. Both the NPV and the Constitution Party are concerned with equal representation for each state and want to make sure that each votes matter and that therefore, candidates will campaign in every state. They both care about maintaining democracy and ensuring each voter Sulbaran 4 that each voter will express their opinion through their vote no matter what state they are from. Now, even though that both organizations are pitted against each other, their beliefs and principles are actually not too different. It is true that the Constitution Party is against the idea of eradicating the Electoral College, while the NPV supports the idea of moving towards a popular vote system. However, by establishing the similarities between both of the core values, they can both reach a compromise that they will both benefit from. The compromise states that the Electoral College system will be kept but the Electoral College voting will not follow a winner-takes-all system. Instead, the Electoral College votes will be redistributed according to the percent of votes that go to each respective candidate. This will make the idea of the popular vote more important, giving the popular vote winner the majority of the Electoral College votes. This fixes the issue that the NPV had of winning an election without winning majority. Now, given that each state will split their Electoral College vote according to the popular vote percentage of each state, the candidates will have to campaign equally in each state. This is due to the fact that even if they have a state that supports them, the votes that they do not get will go to the other candidate, which will hinder their advantage to win. This covers the issue of smaller states not having equal representation and therefore, not receiving enough attention from the candidates. This resolution also satisfies the idea that the Constitution Party has of keeping the Electoral College that the fore fathers proposed, and allows each state to be represented equally. An example of a similar idea to the resolution presented can be found in Electoral System. Maine utilizes the Congressional District Method. This method consists of state divides itself into a number of districts, allocating one of its state-wide electoral votes to each Electoral College Maine and Nebraska); this means that the state is divided Sulbaran 5 in multiple districts, and each district has its own Electoral College voter. The method works by distributing the votes for the presidential election, not by state, but by districts within the state. As a result of the Congressional District Method, the votes can be split accordingly to what each district votes, and does not have to follow the winner takes all system. It is a system has been supported by many, including senators of the United States. Cindy Gamrat, a republican senator, said that the system make the votes of every individual citizen much more impactful, providing for accurate representation of the great diversity of the people and geography of the (Ross). The Congressional District Method is a system that is very similar to the one in the resolution and has the same purpose; to protect the vote and make them all equal. The resolution presented in the paper, however, defends the vote better and makes sure they count more equally. One of the reasons why the Congressional District Method is flawed is because of gerrymandering. Gerrymandering is manipulation of district lines for partisan (Polsby). This means that the boundary lines of each district can be redrawn to help boost the popular votes towards a specific candidate. With the resolution presented in the paper, gerrymandering will no longer be a problem because the popular votes will no longer be assigned to a district. Instead, it will be a direct vote towards the presidential candidate and once the popular vote results have been counted, the division and distribution of Electoral College votes will begin. All in all, the Electoral College has always been a controversial issue and may always be. The biggest issue is whether it should be eradicated or not. The NPV supports the idea of eradicating the Electoral College and transforming to a direct democracy, following the popular vote. On the other hand, the constitution party defends the Electoral College and argues for the integrity of the current system. One particular compromise entails the idea of keeping the Sulbaran 6 Electoral College, but eliminating the winner takes all system and ensuring that each vote counts equally. With this compromise, both stakeholders can work together to strengthen the electoral system utilized in the U.S. Sulbaran 7 Work Cited  National Popular Vote. http://www.nationalpopularvote.com/about, 19 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Agreement Among the States to Elect the President by National Popular  National Popular Vote. www.nationalpopularvote.com/written-explanation, 12 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dryden, Gail , and Barbara Klein. LWVUS National Popular Vote Compact Study, Opposing Arguments  N.., 2008. Web. 08 Feb. 2017.  Constitution Party of Utah. www.constitutionpartyofutah.com/introduction/. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Oppose Adoption of National Popular Vote And Support the Electoral College Constitution Party National Committee. http://www.constitutionparty.com/resolution-to-oppose-adoption-of-national- popular-vote-and-support-the-electoral-college/ (2011) Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Polsby, Daniel D., and Robert D. Popper. Third Criterion: Compactness as a Procedural Safeguard against Partisan Yale Law & Policy Review, vol. 9, no. 2, 1991, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/40239359. Ross, Robert E.; and the Electoral College: The Development of the General Ticket Method for Selecting Presidential Publius 2016; 46 (2): 147-169. doi: 10.1093/publius/pjv043 Sulbaran 8 Support the National Popular  American Civil Liberties Union. https://www.aclu.org/other/support-national-popular-vote , n.d. Web. 08 Feb. 2017. The Electoral College - Maine and  The Electoral College - Maine and Nebraska., n.d. Web. 08 Feb. 2017. What is the Electoral  National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 08 Feb. 2017. <https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/electoral- college/about.html>.