Meaney 1 Ryan Meaney Professor Dori Davis English 102 29 January 2017 Sticking to Your Guns Throughout the most recent turbulent election cycle there has been a distinct point of contention between opposing ideological groups. This center of contention of course is gun control. Gun control has been a polarizing topic among Americans as of late, due to the steady increase of gun related incidents and the heavily publicized election we as Americans just witnessed, a very visible divide has taken hold of our beloved country. Although this ideological divide is by no means exclusive to just gun control rights, take foreign affairs, immigration laws, and the economy as prime examples of this divide, but what makes gun control laws stand above the rest is by how widely publicized and how devastating the repercussions of gun control rights or lack thereof can be. But amidst all the opposing viewpoints and failures to listen, is there any way to create a compromise between the two opposing groups on a topic so divisive as gun control? To achieve this compromise between the two factions we first need to look at the stakeholders involved on both sides of the spectrum. The only way to achieve a true compromise in any walk of life is to fully understand both opposing parties driving incentives. To start off, those who are for keeping gun control rights are a passionate set of groups who believe that the government should have little to no say in the distribution of firearms to the general populous. Groups such as the NRA, Republicans, firearm distributers, firearm enthusiast and countless manufacturing companies are part of this pro-gun resolve. These groups Meaney 2 affectionately support the right to obtain any type of firearm for their own respective reasons under the guise of the second amendment of the constitution, right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be Each respective stakeholder has their own reasons behind being pro-gun rights, but for the sake of time lets categorize them into two distinct categories. Groups such as the Republican party, NRA and firearm enthusiasts wish to uphold gun control rights because of a sense of personal devotion or adhering to their constitutional rights, while groups such as firearm distributers and manufacturing companies wish to make monetary gain. Some have questioned these rights, some suggest that the right to bear arms has been misinterpreted throughout the years. Although there certainly is a common goal to diminish these gun related incidents between both opposing ideologies, pro-gun groups believe that banning these weapons would not be the way to do it. President Trump suggests that markets should annunciate red flags on certain suspicious behaviors regarding guns. During a presidential debate, President Trump stated was the gun store that did report It could have been Many studies suggest that an assault weapons ban would do very little to change the amount of gun related deaths in the US. According to Christopher S. Kopher, during the assault weapons ban under the Clinton administration, firearm related deaths stayed the same. Moving on, on the other side of the spectrum are the groups that passionately support banning firearms. The Democrats are the frontrunners in the fight to make it harder for the populace to obtain firearms. The mindset of the Democrats is due to the rising shootings, which peaked last year at 58,150 incidents, they wish to halt the sale of assault rifles, the main culprit of most these heinous acts. The democratic party does believe that the constitution is the law of the land but due to the increasing gun related deaths something must be done to curb this disturbing statistic. The idea behind this train of thought is that if sale of these weapons goes down the Meaney 3 amount of gun related incident will also follow suit. The Democrats are so passionate about this belief that they caused a sit-in the House of Representatives causing a government shutdown for an elongated period. All in all, both sides of this issue hope to decrease the amount of deaths due to gun related incidents but both have significantly different strategies in order to do so. In addition, the real question is how could two ideological differences so well realized really be able to come up with a compromise that will satisfy both parties involved. In my opinion the best compromise between the two opposing parties is undoubtedly to regulate these weapons more heavily but not ban entirely. Both parties will be benefited by more strict regulations in a few ways. Pro-gun groups will be allowed to buy any form of weaponry that is already legal in the United States. Anti-gun groups will be able to rest assured that those who are looking to use weaponry for malicious intent will be hard pressed to make it through the regulatory process. The parties should be content with this compromise for they will be able to receive parts of their proposed solutions while showing compromise for the groups on the other side of the spectrum. Jamie Lincoln Kitman of the New York Times proposes and their users should be regulated like cars and drivers Mr. Kitman brings a strong relation between how guns should be treated like cars and drives in terms of regulation. it comes to buying and operating cars, it is quite clearly the case that there is no exception, like the gun show, or private sale, that exempts drives from otherwise applicable If regulations are enacted not only would groups get what they want but also gun related violence will likely go down. In conclusion, gun control rights are most certainly a hot topic as of late. Due to the vastly publicized election cycle one would be hard pressed to avoid this argument. There are strongly opinionated groups on both sides of the argument whether it be the NRA, Republicans, manufacturing companies, gun enthusiasts, or Democrats. One common ground found by all Meaney 4 parties is that gun safety is at the precipice of their concerns, but the way both sides go about this concern is oppose the other. Having said this there is a compromise between the shareholders that could mutually benefit either side. This compromise is a regulatory system for guns. A regulatory system, in particular a system, would increase government response to suspicious activity. A regulatory system would allow guns to be kept by the populous as well as for those same guns to be kept in check by the government. This system will allow it to be harder for those who are looking to use these weapons maliciously to be able to obtain the guns and at the same time it will allow those who are passionate about guns to be able to have guns without any legal penalties. Meaney 5 Works Cited Kitman, Jamie L. and their users should be regulated like cars and drivers The New York Times, 29 April. 2016 Constitution of the United States-A  National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://www.archives.gov/founding-docs/more-perfect-union>. Gun Violence  Gun Violence Archive. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.gunviolencearchive.org/past-tolls>. Kopher, Christopher. Assessment of the Federal Weapons Ban: Impacts on Gun Market and Gun Violence, www.ncjrs.gov. 15 July 2004. Web. 17 Nov. 2016 Donald Trump on Gun  Donald Trump on Gun Control. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.