Stokes 1 Jesse Stokes Karen Hanson ENC1102 22 January 2017 The Electoral College: A System of Controversy The Electoral College is an ideal of much controversy in the present times of our country. With a surprising turn of events in the recent Presidential elections, the world saw one candidate secure the popular vote, however not the White House, resulting in many to wonder if our system is due for a reformation. There are two specific organizations that hold stake in this issue. The Our States who are heavily in favor of keeping the electoral vote intact, and the Popular Vote, who are the abolitionists that see no purpose in the current voting system remaining the way that it currently is. As divided as our country already is, however, it is time to come to a consensus on both sides of the argument for the betterment of the longevity of our nation as a whole, not as a nation spilt between the red and the blue. The best possible, and most formidable way of doing so is by implementing sanctions on Presidential campaigns that mandate the amount of time and perhaps more importantly, dollars, spent in each state. The Our organization (SOS), is a group that strongly believes in the constitution and feels that the Electoral College was put into place by our founding fathers with the idea of power distribution in mind. Therefore, the system should remain unchanged, and anyone who thinks otherwise is a legitimate threat to democracy as we know it Next, National Popular (NPV), spearheaded by expert lobbyist and founder of the scratch-off lottery tickets, John Koza, this group has a collective thought, much indicative by Stokes 2 their name, that it is time for the Electoral College to shut the school-house doors once and for all, and leave the power in the hands of the all of the people, by enacting a Popular Vote, nation-wide in regards to electing someone to the office of the President of the United States of America Popular The mission of the pro-electoral group states the following, is the result of a group of people who care about the United States and are dedicated to preserving constitutional federalism because it helps protect our In short, the group has taken on the task of unswervingly impacting Mr. Koza, and his assemblage of change-makers. The SOS means no harm to anyone that opposes them on a personal level, they however have no problem causing harm to their belief systems, as they are fighting what they believe to be the good fight to prevent the big, like-voting states, such as New York, California and Illinois from running the proverbial board and ultimately deciding each and every outcome of the elections at the national level, while leaving the municipally populated, mostly mid-country states, behind. On the opposition, stands the National Popular Vote corporation. The mission statement is concise and to the point by stating the following: Popular Vote Inc. is a 501(c)(4) non-profit corporation whose specific purpose is to study, analyze and educate the public regarding its proposal to implement a nationwide popular election of the President of the United States Popular To elaborate, the group fears that politicians are spending far too much time by only concerning themselves (and their dollars) with the battle ground states (ex. Florida, Ohio, North Carolina, etc.). Koza and his colleagues are of the impression that imposing a popular vote would prevent such occurrences from happening, thus resulting in the Presidential candidates paying more attention to the American people of non- Stokes 3 battleground states, which in-turn would help the issues of citizens spread across the entire nation, including the often forgotten fly-over states, not just the coastal regions. Some may consider egotistical personality traits and tunnel vision are to blame for the reason that these two stake-holders are at odds with one another, instead of working together on a common goal. John Koza (founder, National Popular Vote, inc) is the beholder of a reputation, whether warranted or not is a topic of a different debate, as having one of the largest egos and money hungry personalities in the business and science worlds. As a result, he has created many enemies over the years: some he knows personally, and some can be easily determined as nothing more than an internet troll. Nevertheless, his reputation may prove to be the downfall of his own corporation for a cause in Computational On the other end, with SOS, that is where the tunnel vision comes into play. It is clear that their organizer, Trent England, the director of the Oklahoma Council of Public Affairs, is attempting to make a name for himself for his future in the political arena at the expense of Mr. Koza. This is evident on the SOS website, which has a direct link to the personal bashing and internet crucifixion of John Koza. However, if these two gentlemen would lose their personal agendas and feelings, they would have a much easier time finding their common ground. Both sides argue that their proposed model, whether it be the Electoral or Popular Votes, have the intention of preventing the battleground and states from holding too much power within their borders. Mr. England and SOS are doing so to prevent the few overly populated, like-voting states from speaking for the country, and forcing their beliefs on all other Americans. MR. Koza and NPV, inc. are acting to prevent the overlooking of the states like Wyoming and Oklahoma, which also happens to be the home state of his rival, thus producing another commonality already! Stokes 4 As previously mentioned, the most easily achievable action that would bring both England and Koza, as well as their groups together, would be to enforce mandates, nation-wide, on Presidential Candidates, which would dictate the amount of time and dollars that each candidate/campaign is permitted to spend per state. Thinking locally, it is clear that the residents of Idaho are not treated in the same manner, nor bombarded with the same number of political attack ads as those of us in the widely-diverse and populated i-4 corridor regions of Florida. In fact, according to a recent study done by a bi-partisan group, during the 2012 elections the Obama/Biden and Romney/Ryan campaigns made 40 stops in the Sunshine State, second only to Ohio who had a whopping 73 visits from the executive branch hopefuls. Referring back to Idaho, the state was not even listed in study. Rather, it was grouped with 38 other states, all of which did not include one single stop from either campaigns Tracker The argument that imposing such regulations would help to mend the different voter types in regards to the Presidential Election spending, is something that has already been widely discussed. A journal report created by a number of professors throughout the country on the effects of spending in states that widely differ in population. The report includes that due to a lack of change to federal campaign finance laws for nearly three decades, the what is now regarded as the have, in a sense been treated as second class citizens by Presidential aspirants et. In changing the laws on campaign spending, the studies done in the journal show that the forgotten citizens may very well be forgotten no more. This proposed compromise would benefit group by ultimately forcing the candidates to pay closer attention to those that they hope to govern all over the country, not just in a centralized location. This would too assist group because the Electoral College (and constitution) would remain intact. Stokes 5 The time for divisiveness in our country is over. It is abundantly clear that we are a nation of citizens with opposing views and outlooks, and come from differing backgrounds and support systems. The key word there, being: Regardless of social-class, political party or view on the Electoral College, we, as Americans have one undefeatable commonality in our patriotism. We recognize that this nation is the land of the free, because of the brave. We have seen our ancestors overcome trials and tribulations that lead themselves down a path of unthinkable triumph. We are brothers and sisters of different races and religions, however we all bleed and blue! There are far more pressing matters in our country than how and why people vote the way that they do, and it is our responsibility to come together, and resolve all tensions, so that we live up to the potential that our founding fathers and bloodlines fought for and blessed us with. The proposed compromise will put an end to the battle between the Electoral College and Popular Vote proponents once and for all, thus healing one divide amongst many on our way back to once again becoming the United States. Stokes 6 Works Cited About  Save Our States. Trent England, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Gross, D. A., R. K. Goidel, and T. G. Shields. State Campaign Finance Regulations and nnnnnnElectoral  American Politics Research 30.2 (2002): 143-65. Web. 11 Feb. zzzzzzz2017 National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Lipkowitz, Kenny B., and Donald B. Boyd. Reviews in computational chemistry. United States: nnnnnnWiley, 2010. Print. National Popular  National Popular Vote. N.p., 22 Jan. 2017. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Presidential Tracker  FairVote. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. What is Popular  Save Our States. N.p., 22 Mar. 2013. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.