Caroline Jeczalik Professor Aranda ENC 1102 February 5, 2017 Immigration in the Unites States For years, immigration has become a soft topic of discussion for many individuals who have a strong say for their side. As time moves on we still have people drawing over to one side or another. either a group that supports immigrants coming into the United States, or the group that is against immigrants coming into the United States. Both sides have points that are open to discussion for all people that believe in either side. However, although both sides chose one way over the other, they both share a common ground. Many people fear of disorder and diversity because not the way they are used to in their everyday lives. For some individuals they look at immigration as a competition. As more immigrants come into the United States, Americans fear that the immigrants will take over their jobs and cause problems inside the United States. An appropriate stakeholder for anti- immigration is NumbersUSA. Education & Research Foundation provides a civil forum for Americans of all political and ethnic backgrounds to focus on a single issue, the numerical level of Unites States immigration(About According to NumbersUSA, Immigration has environmental Impacts with congestion, low farmland available, increase illegal immigration, are involved with the taxpayer burden and have a high unemployment rate (Sprawl, Congestion, and Farmland). As many immigrants come into the US legally we have a significant number of illegal aliens coming into our country. Having illegal immigrants come into the Unites States causes a large problem. Not only is finding a job hard for illegal immigrants, they also add to the list of the unemployed individuals or individuals who work for cash and contribute to taxes. According to NumbersUSA, it states Unfortunately, low-skill immigrants pay enough taxes to cover the cost of the benefits they That means American taxpayers must heavily subsidize the costs of services to Burden). The individuals who are against immigration look at the following examples as a problem contributed. We only have so much land in the United States. As more and more construction and reinnovatin happens just around the corner many of our farm land is decreasing while more people are moving into new constructed homes. Census Bureau estimates the population of the United States to be 459 million by the year 2050 (Sprawl, Congestion, and As our population increases the less land is attributed for crops. NumbersUSA states say the average American needs 1 acre of farmland to produce the food necessary for a sustainable diet. The United States has more than 2 billion acres, but much of the land cannot be (Sprawl, Congestion, and Farmland). The stakeholders that attain to minimize immigration look at the economic, social and political aspects of immigrants coming in to the united states. Aside from the stakeholders pertaining to anti-immigration, there are stakeholders that are for immigrants coming into the United States. An appropriate stakeholder for pro immigration would be National Immigration National Immigration Forum is one of the leading immigrant advocacy organizations in the country, with a mission to advocate for the value of immigrants and immigration to the Border Security). Stakeholders for Caroline 2 immigration believe that everyone is equal and deserve the same opportunities as everyone else. The United States was built by immigrants for centuries. America opened its arms to all people who had the American dream to prosper and to make something great in this country. Many famous people were immigrants including Albert Einstein, Andrew Carnegie and John Muir. These people built the United States from the ground up with many complications along the way. The National Immigration Forum have many programs for individuals including Immigration 2020, this program that new Americans have the opportunities, skills and status they need to reach their fullest potential. Immigration 2020 is a multi-constituency effort to find and inform these Boarder Security). This organization want immigrants to be as equal as the Americans that live in this country. They believe that immigrants should have opportunities that will help them succeed and not have any contemplations in the way because they came from another country. Individuals come to this country for the purpose for finding the American dream as well as getting away from the destruction from their homeland. The opportunity for them can help us in the long way. For example, Andrew Carnegie was an immigrant from Scotland who made the phenomenal business of steel which made America what it is today (Andrew Story). The stakeholders for pro immigration believe we should accept everyone into the United States of America because the immigrants are the people that built this country. Both stakeholders are on opposite side from each other. As one stakeholder opposes immigration the other stakeholder is for immigration. NumbersUSA looks at immigration as an economic, social and political problem for the United States. They look at the negative factors associated with immigration. They want the county to strive without having the problems of Caroline 3 environmental Impacts with congestion, low farmland available, increase illegal immigration, are involved with the taxpayer burden and have a high unemployment rate. On the other hand, The National Immigration Forum is an organization that welcomes everyone with the hopes of immigrants prospering in a new country with the same rights and opportunities as Americans do. This organization has programs to help immigrants so they can be successful new Americans without having troubles. Although both organizations are from opposite sides from each other, they have solutions that can benefit both of them. As Numbers USA states that farmland would decrease if more people come into this country. Many people enter the country everyday for business and vacation. People consume millions of food everyday, it matter if individuals permanently live here or not because of the vast amounts of people coming into this country. Numbers USA believes immigration increases illegal immigration which increases unemployment which causes less taxes being filed by illegal immigrants. The National Immigration Forum goal is not for illegal immigrants to enter the United States, they want people coming into the country to be legal and to have the same opportunities as Americans have. They provide services to make immigrants great. A common ground both stake holders could share is having immigrants get the legal documents so they have to break the law. Both sides can conclude that having more security along the border and secure immigration laws would not cause problems in the United States. Both sides want everyone to be safe and strive as a country. If we have certain rules that involve both stakeholders we could compromise this topic. Immigrants should be able to come to this country in a legal way. You cannot come into this country illegally because thats what both stakeholders Caroline 4 are not looking for because that is what causes all the problems. Illegal immigration stirs up all types problem inside the United States. Overtime the discussion for immigration had been either for or against this topic. There are any organizations that support either side. However, although both sides chose one way over the other, they both share a common ground. Following the rules for immigration the right way will decrease many problems. By becoming a legal citizen you can find a job easily and be a successful American in the United States. Immigration is a large topic. However, following the rules and accepting everyone will result in an easier turnout. Caroline 5 Work Cited About  About Us. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. <https://www.numbersusa.com/about>. Andrew  Carnegie Corporation of New York. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. <https://www.carnegie.org/interactives/foundersstory/#!/#keen-eye-opportunity>. Sprawl, Congestion, and  Sprawl, Congestion, and Farmland NumbersUSA. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. <https://www.numbersusa.com/problems/sprawl-congestion-and- farmland>. Sound Border  Sound Border Security National Immigration Forum. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. <http://immigrationforum.org/policy/borders/>. Taxpayer  Taxpayer Burden NumbersUSA. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. <https:// www.numbersusa.com/problems/taxpayer-burden>.