Sutton 1 Brandon Sutton Professor Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 13 February 2017 Gun Control Gun control in America has been a widely debated subject amongst Americans. There are many strong opinions on either end of the spectrum. Some people favor gun control, while others vehemently are against the idea that gun control should be a concern. Many people have argued that anybody having the ability to own a gun is a dangerous move. One article states that the issue is the gun, but the person wielding (Younge 12). This, in fact, states that it is a social issue and not an issue on guns. The problem with gun violence is most of it, while the mass shootings are tragic, it is usually in lower-income communities that suffer, due to criminals in these communities. This article also states how it is so common for colored families to see their loved ones lost in gun violence. Should there be more gun control in America, or are they controlled enough? Bogus, Carl T. Gun Control And Cities: Public Policy And  Government Law Review 1.2 (2008): 441-482. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This is an article about gun control in cities, and murders involving guns in the United States. It discusses the violent crime rates due to handguns in American cities. In fact, the article discusses how in handguns were used in 60% of all (Bogus 441-82). That is a staggering statistic considering guns were used only in of these homicides Sutton 2 (Bogus 441-82). The article points out that most guns in America are not actually handguns, only of guns in America are responsible for of the deaths caused by guns. It is possible that handguns in America are an endemic in American culture. The journal article also mentions the issues amongst the African-American community involving gun violence. The author of the article discovers that of the murderers in the United States are Black and of those killed by gun violence are also Black (Bogus 441-82). According to the article, socioeconomic situations in America also lead to more murders. Lack of education due to in poor neighborhoods cause people in these neighborhoods to resort to violence (Bogus 441-82). The law review journal, Albany Government Law Review, is from the Albany Law School in Albany, New York. It is a valuable source because it is published in the state capital of New York. The author of the article, Carl T. Bogus, is a Professor of Law at the Roger Williams University School of Law, so he has insight on law in regards to the article he published. Payne, Brian K., and Riedel Jr., Robert Gun Control Attitudes And The Criminal Justice Student: Do Differences  Student Journal 36.2 (2002): 314. Source . Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article gives 254 opinions on gun control from students. The people questioned were a mixture of graduate and undergraduate students. From the results, most people who oppose the gun control laws are criminal justice majors, people who own guns, people who have experience with guns, and residents in rural (Payne, Reidel 314). However there is always another side to the statistic. Not everyone agrees that there should be less gun control. In fact, females, urban residents, non-criminal justice majors, and Sutton 3 non-gun (Payne, Reidel 314) favored the idea of stricter gun control. This proves that this issue has multiple and equally important facets to it. Also, many criminal justice students are more inclined own guns than their counterparts, probably because they study criminal justice, and are more vigilant about criminals. This was taken at a Southern university, so it is probably a little more biased toward more conservative policies, considering the South usually leans towards the right in political stances. On a similar note, according to the article, the study found that the correlation of gun experience and gun ownerships with criminal justice majors is much greater than people of other majors (Payne, Reidel 314). This might be an incorrect statistic because it is just from a single university, so it might be inaccurate. This article is from a reliable source College Student Journal. The journal investigates college students and takes surveys from students attending these universities. Brian Payne, one of the authors of the article, is a PHD at the Old Dominion University in Norfolk, and is part of the Sociology and Criminal Justice Department there. Robert Reidel Jr. is a Psychology professor at Lynn University in Boca Raton, Florida. Rostron, Allen. Gun Rights and Improving Gun Control after District of Columbia v. & Clark Law Review 13.2 (2009): 383-418. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the controversial Supreme Court case of of Columbia v. Heller, talks about the final outcome, and discusses how it impacts other sects of the government. The article discusses how the Second Amendment of the Constitution is questioned and interpreted in various ways. Justice view on the case a solid presentation of textual arguments and historical evidence for interpreting the Second Amendment broadly to Sutton 4 protect non-military use of (Rostron, 383-418). This states that there is evidence supporting a claim that common man should have the ability to own a gun if they wanted to own one. However, there are also limitations rule. Scalia states how any weapon considered and is prohibited under (Rostron, 383-418). So to every rule, there are always limitations. The article is from & Clark Law Review law journal. It is an accredited law review journal at Lewis & Clark Law School in Portland, Oregon. The author of the article, Allen Rostron, is an Associate professor of law at University of Missouri-Kansas City and went to Yale Law School, so his viewpoints on the matter have validity in regards to Constitutional topics. Younge, Gary. Why The Gun-Control Movement  303.19 (2016): 12-15. Academic Search Premier . Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article discusses why gun control is more a socioeconomic issue and less a gun ownership issue. This implies that maybe the person that owns the gun is the problem and not all guns are bad. He also states that most people of color that die in these sorts of incidents were brought up in the worst of situations. They did not have the easiest childhoods and were born around impoverished and very high-crime areas. The author of the article points out how pursuit and promotion of the ideal victim has long been a staple of social-justice (Younge 412-15). In his opinion, people seek out the victim, and then stirs up media into a frenzy. Also, while people dislike guns, people cannot simply just get rid of them. It is nearly impossible to make that happen. This article gives statistics on how many men are killed per year by gun violence, and makes a point that many of them are of color (regarding to Hispanic or Black populations) which is a tragedy. It is a matter of living in these harsh Sutton 5 environments that plays a role within the governmental system. Parents who have children in these situations are genuinely afraid. (Younge 412-15). This article was published from a column in the journal Nation. It was also in book Day in the Death of America. Younge also happens to be a regular columnist in the journal. The journal focuses on political commentary and opinion.