Al-Ghaithi 1 Ghaith Al-Ghaithi ENC1101.004S17 February 04, 2017 Rapid advances of technology in every front is transforming the society at an alarming rate in a continuous manner. Automated methods make the life easier as computers and machines gradually take over the manual operations previously done by humans. Comfort and the speed achieved through the adaptation of technology in day to day activities encourage humans for more innovations and technology use. The latest trend of developing self-driven cars adds to the phenomenon that humans becoming more dependable on computers and automated machines that need only minimal human intervention in operating them. However, operating a vehicle on the road without consistent handling by an experienced human raises the question of safety of commuters as well as others. The question of far we can trust self-driving cars and their use in daily needs the consideration of many aspects related to safety and reliability of this novel technology. It is stated that self-driving cars hold out the promise of being safer than manually driven cars since human errors are the major cause of accidents (Nyholm and Jilles). However, it is not possible to ensure 100% safety because programming computers to be sensitive for various unpredictable scenarios still needs to address many issues. This also raises another question of how people would tend to pass the responsibility of safety on to machines. Developing full faith in self-driving technology may gradually discourage drivers to fulfil their responsibilities and dedication towards the safety associated with driving. Self-driving cars may struggle to acquire the needed knowledge on the impact of its trajectory, speed at the moment of collision and the actual weight when making decisions on avoiding a crash (Evans). While self-driving technology may be safer than manual driving, it is important to Al-Ghaithi 2 address the issues related to sensitivity levels of this technology and humans taking less responsibilities on safe driving. Use of improved technology in self driving cars has the potential to reduce safety risk related to manual vehicle operations. It is estimated that millions of people are killed due to traffic accidents worldwide (Zeng). GPS and mapping technologies provide cars to understand the road conditions and control the movements accordingly. Automated cars will deliver not only safety benefits but also the environmental benefits because they enhance the fuel efficiency (Zeng). Traffic congestions and other disturbing events experienced by drivers on the road lead to frustration and being panic. This can diminish their attention and therefore, increased of crashes. Self- driving technology can address the issues related to traffic congestions because of increased efficiency in operating a car without frustration and lack of attention (Coeckelbergh). They can exhibit discipline in driving according to computer algorithms that control the sensors and movements. The argument of higher safety has not changed over time and focus has been on how to improve the safety further and transfer complete control of a car to computers. Although testing of automated cars has proven to deliver the expectations of researchers and engineers, the challenge of fully autonomous urban driving has not yet been met (Zeng). The article titled Ethics of Accident-Algorithms for Self-Driving Cars: an Applied Trolley highlights that although self-driving cars may deliver higher safety than manually driven cars, there is more to be done to ensure the 100% safety level (Nyholm). Programming the self-driven vehicles to give the ability to make quick decisions in the face of imminent accidents is a challenging task. This issue arises due to the need of collaborating many aspects of different technologies simultaneously. In addition, many issues related to moral and legal responsibilities need to be addressed since the drivers can assume to have zero responsibility in the event of a crash. The increasing dependency on automated Al-Ghaithi 3 operations would discourage humans to pay attention because of keeping total faith in computerized machines (Nyholm). Therefore, assigning total operations to computers and staying away from responsibility leads to moral violations. At the same time, ability of automated cars to make decisions when complex situation arises is highly questionable. The article titled Influence of Car Mass and Size on Driver Fatality discusses the factors other than computer technology that would impact the acquiring of needed level of knowledge to make the automated systems sensitive enough to avoid crashes (Evans). Historical data and research conclusions have shown the impact of weight of passengers and cars on the risks of involving crashes. These are important when designing self-driving technologies to avoid or minimize risks in order to enhance the confidence in this technology. The technology needs significant enhancement to react to sudden risks and decisions on stopping a car that need to consider all these factors and integrate the impact. These areas have been consistently on the focus over the years as to who is responsible for traffic accidents; driver, manufacturer or the car itself (Coeckelbergh). These issues need to be addressed in order to maximize the utilization of his technology. Self-driving technology have been on the focus for the recent decades as technology proves its potential to achieve higher safety in driving compared to manual operations. This argument has not changed over the years as the technology continues to improve at a rapid rate. However, there are issues related to achieving 100% safety and total transfer of driving actions to automated cars. Also, the ethical questions on how this affect the responsibility of drivers and whom would be responsible for a crash remain a challenge. The sensitivity level of self-driving in responding an emergency situation has been on the focus for years. Al-Ghaithi 4 Works Cited Coeckelbergh, M. (2016). Responsibility and the Moral Phenomenology of Using Self Driving Cars. Applied Artificial Intelligence, 30(8), 748-757. Evans, Leonard. influence of car mass and size on driver fatality Am J Public Health 91.5 Nyholm, S., & Smids, J. (2016). The Ethics of Accident-Algorithms for Self-Driving Cars: an Applied Trolley Problem? Ethical Theory and Moral Practice, 19(5), 1275-1289. Urmson, C. (2008). Self-driving cars and the urban challenge. IEEE Intelligent Systems, 23(2).