Alexander M. Grant Instructor Nancy Carr ENC1101.004S17 5 February 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Since the signing of the Declaration of Independence, Greek-letter organizations have stood as a prominent symbol of university and college culture in the United States. The first of these student associations was Phi Beta Kappa, founded in 1776 at William and Mary College. As collegiate institutions made further developments. allowing accommodations for female students, Greek-letter organizations followed suit. Fraternities and sororities, meaning male and female social organizations, respectively, spread from campus to campus nationwide promoting an exclusive lifestyle that revolves around camaraderie and personal development. With the cliques of women sporting graphic t-shirts printed with Greek initials, groomed men in blazers and colored trousers, and designated neighborhoods of large residential-esque homes meant just for fraternities and sororities members, the influence of at a university or college is sometimes difficult to ignore. This is especially true during rush week: the period where fraternities and sororities recruit new members to undergo the process of pledging for their individual organization. Pledging a Greek-life organization begins after a student participates in the events of rush week. At the end of rush week, fraternities and sororities distribute formal invitations called bids to prospective members inviting them to commit to joining the society through an eight-week process. Phrases such as rush week and pledging trigger students who are both affiliated and not-affiliated of a time that is filled with excitement and stress. As a perennial influence that has woven itself into the fabric of this country, the pleasantries and dark underbelly of Greek life have been exploited, and often put up for debate. Television programs and films will depict Greek-life as a religion of alcoholism and partying, and in its radical form, hazing and humiliation. Still, dozens of politicians, CEOs, musicians, and prominent figures who involved themselves in Greek-life organizations during college, stand as evidence for the benefits of community, strong networking, and interpersonal and personal development. With all that is considered, do the benefits of joining fraternities and sororities outweigh the costs? Works Cited Rosenberg, S., & Mosca, J. (2016). Risk Management in College Fraternities: Guidance from Two Faculty Advisors. Contemporary Issues In Education Research, 9(1), 7-14 Monmouth University professors at Dr. Rosenberg and Dr. Mosca highlight the issues associated with Greek-life, specifically fraternities, which include alcoholism and hazing. Although the main focus capitalizes on controversial events within fraternities of different universities, the authors highlight clear benefits of fraternity lifestyle. They discuss leadership, personal development, and involvement as a few of these key positives in a Greek-letter organization. For the fact that the two authors of this article have Ph. D and Ed.D degrees, their research and discussion is considered more credible. This is in recognition of the years of scholastic research and training to get their degrees, as well as their interactions with students throughout their years in academia. The source that was presented through their research fuels both perspectives that will be given attention within the essay. The essay will discuss benefits and drawbacks of joining a fraternity or sorority, and this scholarly article discusses both. Routon, W., & Walker, J. (2016). Going Greek: Academics, Personal Change, and Life after College. Change: The Magazine Of Higher Learning, 48(1), 60-66. This source written by doctoral economics professors presents an objective overview of Greek letter organizations. This includes a review of positive and negative aspects regarding the effects and activities found from the involvement of these societies. The article provides cited statistics and figures for a credible argument to defend either side of the emotions when it comes to judging Greek life. The authors credibility is given from their credentials as doctoral economics professors. With degrees of such prestige, these authors hold a responsibility to present a scholarly article with fine and ethical research. This article strengthens the essay with credible definitions and instances that detail exactly what Greek-life is and what it is considered around the country. Christensen, K., & Levinson, D. (2003). Encyclopedia of community: from the village to the virtual world. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications. The Encyclopedia of Community: From Village to the Virtual World provides a detailed definition of North American Greek-life social organizations. Each aspect of the Greek-life social organization, from original origins to contemporary considerations, are covered objectively. These topics listed in the print of the encyclopedia relating to Greek-life social organizations include the following: Antecedents of American Fraternities, The Early Development of American Fraternities, 1800-1860, College Acceptance of Fraternities and Sororities, Fraternities and Sororities As Communities, and The Debate Over Fraternities and Sororities, 1945 to the Present. With this broad discussion of topics within the subject of Greek- life social organizations, the source provides more than enough information for discussion and debate. Do the benefits of joining fraternities and sororities outweigh the costs? The Encyclopedia of Community: From Village to the Virtual World, allows for more than enough room to debate this question. From the history of the development of fraternity and sororities in North America to the objective coverage of the benefits and drawbacks of Greek life involvement, the fuel for the conversation is abundant. As a published encyclopedia, it is heavily cited with the other compilations of entries within the publication. The credibility falls within the objectivity, since encyclopedias merely provide detailed and researched information on a variety of topics. Shirley, Z. E. (2014). Declining participation in fraternity and sorority life: A comparison of perceptions of greek-lettered organizations between affiliated and non-affiliated students (Order No. 3691194). Available from ProQuest Dissertations & Theses A&I; ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global. (1668131295). Retrieved from https://search.proquest.com/docview/1668131295?accountid=14745 This article documents the statistics of declining involvement in Greek-life organizations. From Dissertation Abstracts International Section A: Humanities and Social Sciences, Vol 76(8-A)(E), 2016, the utility of the study was for the determination of the perceptions that give probable cause to the withdrawl of participating in collegiate fraternity and sorority organizations. The article provides detailed statistics broken down by demographic as well as citations decorated throughout the document. The credibility of this source falls under the deliverance of statistics and reference of students for the purpose of evidence that appeals to ethos. This study was conducted from the University of North Texas, and serves as a guide to proper presentation of survey results from different demographics. This provide the essay with quantitative references for the appeal of logos. CAITLIN, A. (2004, March 9). Pledge of allegiance; Fraternities, sororities help college students develop sense of community. Boston Herald (MA). p. 40. This article comes from a 2004 edition of the Boston Herald, a publication that provides daily local, national, and international news coverage. Some of the topics of this periodical include lifestyle, entertainment, horoscopes, reviews, and crosswords. By addressing the portrayal of fraternities and sororities, which is negative, more often than not, as well as the benefits and strengths of involvement discussed by students, this article captures a holistic view of Greek life. As a periodical source, the Boston Herald requires its articles to be written by qualified and certified journalists. As journalists, the personal views on the topic are absent from the written work. To draw passion and emotion, others who are relevant to the conversation are interviewed, and quoted. This source provides both sides of the debate of being involved in fraternities and sororities, but more so leans to the side of involvement in Greek life being more positive than negative. This works well for the paper considering the argument takes the side of defending the decision to become involved in Greek life. McCabe, S. E., Schulenberg, J. E., Johnston, L. D., P. M., Bachman, J. G. and Kloska, D. D. (2005), Selection and socialization effects of fraternities and sororities on US college student substance use: a multi-cohort national longitudinal study. Addiction, 100: doi:10.1111/j.1360-0443.2005.01038.x This 2005 article covers the concerns of substance use within the populations of students involved fraternities and sororities, nationally. This examination collected data from 5883 full- time undergraduate students, both men and women, both Greek-affiliated and non-Greek affiliated. With this comes a strong comparison of Greek-life students to non-Greek-life substance usage. The study finds that active members of fraternities and sororities had higher levels of substance use than those who were not involved in either. The study is conducted and written by Sean Esteban McCabe, an interim director and assistant research scientist at the University of Michigan. The credit of credibility is given to the setting of conduct, a university and the occupation, which is a researcher. The article provides a number of statistics that allow this essay to appeal to the rhetorical device of logos. Not only that, but it also allows the essay to discuss one side of the argument with evidence.