Watts 1 Aaron Watts Lorie Jewell Comp 1 1101.21 5 February 2017 Early Draft Project 1 Since the issue has first surfaced, assisted suicide has been a growing topic that seem to be one-sided or have any agreement over it any time soon. Assisted suicide is formal aid from a legal doctor and/or physician in yourself but as easy as it seems. This is because, as of now, assisted suicide is only legal in a handful of states. Oregon, being the first state to legalize assisted suicide, has received a lot of hate for doing so. Even though Oregon has not been favored for doing it, other states that have legalized assisted suicide since then has used Oregon as a when setting up their own laws and rules. They use a combination of laws and rules made from other states or use similar ones and tweak them to what seems best for their own state however, arranging assisted suicide always simple by any means. The process from request of the patient to the stage of yourself is quite a long one. In some states, for correct procedure, it requires other doctors or key authority figures to witness the event. A major concept of assisted suicide is that there are a wide range of quantitative opinions about it where there are pros and cons that generally sway the population for or against the issue. Being a national issue from yesterday and world means that a topic that is ultimately hypothetical, having more than enough support on both sides that both sides can be considered right or wrong. In researching my topic, found qualitative sources ranging from 1997 to 2017 that show how a lot of different people feel and believe about in this topic. The question Watts 2 is assisted suicide in some states legalized but not in will be answered from the comparisons and differences between different scholarly articles. Frank, John N. Physician-Assisted Suicide Up For Debate In States: What Role Should Physicians Have In States Where Assisted Suicide Is  Medical Economics 9 (2016): 36. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Overall, this source used national organizations and well known high end authority figures to show that most of the opinions were against the legalization of assisted suicide. Some said do more harm than and another basically said that we trust our doctors that easily. However, even though many may be against it, with the few states that actually do have it legalized, their state medical association actually have a neutral stance on assisted suicide. Furthermore, all states that have legalized assisted suicide since Oregon being the first one, actually use the as a template for how they set up their laws. California has been the latest state to legalize assisted suicide and this has showed that better to attack bigger states because it would have a bigger impact and it has. Since then Minnesota, Massachusetts, Iowa, and other states have thought about changing too. The source then goes on by explaining the Oregon model and gives examples why assisted suicide be legalized and a few why it should be. A good reason for why I can connect this source to my research question is because even though national organizations and high authority figures were giving great reasons why assisted suicide is bad, you still have state medical associations who legalize it. The article shows that even though some people have good evidence or are against something mean you should too. It showed that every state and their medical association all have different views on the Watts 3 subject and that can be why some have assisted suicide legalized and some I say this source has credibility because not only does he seem educated on the topic but he also has a lot of quotes from national organizations and educated professionals which in turn can be trusted and acknowledged. Mariner, Wendy K. Physician Assisted Suicide And The Supreme Court: Putting The Constitutional Claim To  American Journal Of Public Health 87.(1997): 2058- 2062. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Two cases in 1997 had different grounds for rights to physician assisted suicide in saying that the 14 th Amendment protected fundamentally right for terminally ill However, the 14 th Amendment allow anyone to take any person of life, liberty or property, without due process of The Justices did end up agreeing that the Amendment does not protect assisted suicide when people would compare it to abortion and try to show their comparison. Overall, the Supreme decisions change anything and said that there is constitutional right to commit suicide but remains because you punish someone who is dead. Even though it was considered medical states were still free to discourage it and prohibit physicians to do it, as suicide was the 9 th leading cause of death in that time. Overall, the reason for assisted suicide back then was for for the terminally ill. This source connects to my research question because it showed how the controversy was for assisted suicide back then in 1997. It showed that there were many differing opinions and was so serious that they even got an Amendment involved. It also connects because it had a connection to world, where no one side that is right or everyone stands for, but Watts 4 quantitative and qualitative data for each side try to persuade you why right. It showed how the justices and the people of our country even agree on the same side, and so, that carried to world. I see this as a credible source because she uses a lot of references, evidence from case studies throughout, and uses plenty of evidence that involves stats and facts. When someone uses references to back their information it shows credibility because took the time out to gain education from their sources and actually retained info from doing so. Emanuel, Ezekiel J. What Is the Great Benefit of Legalizing Euthanasia or Assisted  Ethics 1999: 629. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Overall, the article is mostly about the pros and cons of assisted suicide and whether worth having it legal or not. A main argument for why we should legalize assisted suicide can be found on page 630 of the article where is states individual autonomy, reducing needless pain and suffering, and providing psychological reassurance to dying This shows that back then our people cared more about enjoying their last moments with loved ones instead of seeing them suffer or go through a worse time. People back then want people to suffer in their last moments or be someone they mentally, but leave with a sense of reality. On the other hand, a main argument for why we can be found on page 336 where it states the integrity of the medical profession, psychological distress and harm to surviving family members of the and more. This shows we because they believe it would make our medical professionals look weak or dishonest. jobs are to do anything they can to help someone no matter the risk and they believe assisted suicide goes against it completely. The article also goes more in depth with each reason it gives whether it is positive or negative with factual information. Watts 5 This source/article connects to my research question because it not only addresses assisted suicide and understands that it is legal in some and not in others, but that it also approaches my source in a different way. It answer my question directly but instead gives us the advantages and disadvantages if assisted suicide is legalized, still answering my question but in a different way. Emanuel establishes credibility throughout his article by stating both sides of the argument, but also being unbiased throughout it as well, talking and explaining both sides. Another way he establishes credibility is by using authentic information and evidence throughout and comparing the topic to what professionals see the topic as. MCCRAE, N., and J. BLOOMFIELD. Mental Health Nursing And The Debate On Assisted  Journal Of Psychiatric & Mental Health Nursing 20.7 (2013): 655- 661. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Basically the whole thing about this article is that it is a great short overview of the whole debate on assisted suicide. It also gives a background of the issue telling you what the definition of assisted suicide is, shows what the major talking points are for both sides, and even what race/ethnicities are taking this issue more seriously. It also talks about how ethics and religion plays into assisted suicide and how some reject accepting assisted suicide no matter what because of their firm beliefs. However, it goes into different levels in why people would or not want assisted suicide in the first place. It goes into dementia and depression levels and gives examples from each that help the reader choose which side they agree more with. Watts 6 Again, this source aids in support in giving the answer to my research question. It gives trustworthy information, whether facts or information from case studies they used. The source gives a good balance of knowledge about assisted suicide, giving a background of it, different talking points for both sides, and etc. I believe to see article as a credible source because of the fact he uses different types of educational resources whether statistics or case studies. His ability to restate knowledge that considered common and pull reasoning or conclusions from the sources he uses increases his credibility as well. easy to see that he is educated about his topic and can be trusted.