Molano 1 Luis Molano Prof. Davis ENC1102 29 January 2017 The Fight About Marijuana Medicine is the answer to a longer, healthier life but who would have thought that one day thus medicine would be marijuana. In an upcoming political issue, marijuana has been backed up by select politicians and opposed by pharmaceutical companies and organizations. If both stakeholders are able to find common ground and set aside differences to work with each other they can satisfy their visions. One of the important stakeholders in this issue would be the DPA (Drug Policy Alliancy) supported by medical users. The DPA was founded on the principles that people should no longer be punished for what they put in their body, an idea based on sovereignty of the people. The other stakeholder, ARDPO (Arizonans for Responsible Drug Policy in Opposition to prop 205) is an organization supported by the pharmaceutical companies against the legalization of marijuana. The Drug Policy Alliance is an alliance in support of the legalization of marijuana. They believe that there is more to marijuana than it just being a recreational drug. The uses of marijuana are exponential; the most important use of marijuana is that it can be used medically. It is most commonly used as an alternative to pain pills which tend to have the user hooked on until the point where they are going through withdrawals if they do not go a day without their meds. The reason behind it being used as pain reliever is as follows by the Business Insider THC in the pot binds to receptors in the nerves and muscles to relieve (Business Insider, par.35). In addition to marijuana being a pain medicine, marijuana can also be used to reduce Molano 2 seizures which is a problem mostly found upon children that rely on a set of pills and are fully dependent until their brains are cognitively deficit. Every child deserves to go a day without getting a seizure and that was not possible for many children until a CBD primary strain was introduced and reports of children going from 300 seizures a week to just one with the help of marijuana. Speaking aside from the uses of it medically, it is also used recreational just like alcohol and tobacco. Why is it that there have been more deaths from alcohol and tobacco than any marijuana related death, yet marijuana is still illegal? Since federal prohibition, there have been rumors about what it does and how it affects you but this is mostly just rumors spread around as there is no hard evidence to prove these rumors. It only makes sense to put down the misconceptions and only state the proven facts about marijuana. The second stakeholder is ARDPO (Arizonans for Responsible Drug Policy in Opposition to prop 205) supported majorly by big pharmaceutical companies. The claim they make is that marijuana legalization negatives outweigh the positive, anywhere ranging from public safety to being a major monopoly. The common standpoint in their claim is that marijuana is the gateway drug that leads to a life of a drug abuser. According to The Washington Post studies have shown that overdose deaths fall in areas with access to medical (The Washington Post, par.7). As well to being a gateway drug, the legalization of marijuana also imposes a danger to children. The creation of edibles has caused a scare in children just looking for a snack, or even with labeling in a child too young to read they could pick an edible and lead them a trip to the hospital. According to the National Poison Data System 1.05 out of 100000 people in the US had made a call in regards with an overdose of marijuana (NPDS, 36). The standpoint on being against the legalization of marijuana is that it is a schedule 1 drug according to the DEA website, it is also classed with heroin, LSD, meth, etc. On the ARDPO Molano 3 website it also uses the statistics from experience with legalization, including youth being number one user for marijuana, and an increased 62% marijuana-traffic related accidents (2016). The legalization of marijuana is not possible without a compromise that incorporates a safe environment for all. Both being in the same topic have conflicting interests, unfortunately there is no history between the two organizations. The issues that they are most opposed to have to deal with the issues about legalization and how it affects the country. The DPA have a strong standpoint on marijuana being a medicinal use drug that can help relieve pain and seizures while the ARDPO believe that marijuana being a psychoactive drug can leave children traumatized affecting their lives permanently if taken the wrong dose or accidentally dosing. The other standpoint which both organizations conflict is that marijuana is a gateway drug, the DPA claims that people who have experienced with other drugs do not become dependent or have associated problems with the other drug, while the ARDPO alerts the statistic of a rise of overdoses from opiates in cities where marijuana is indeed legalized. The common ground here is, to keep the people safe without interfering with the right and sole decision about what they decide to do with their body. With the whole conflict of interest between both organizations there has never been up for debate a common ground between both parties. Overlooking their primary intentions and how they oppose each other both organizations want safety and care of the people. Both organizations can come up with a compromise to satisfy both their views. A valid compromise in which each stakeholder makes a sacrifice would be that the DPA suggests a plan for users to keep marijuana behind closed doors in their own home with responsibility to prevent others being affected. While the ARDPO sacrifices their opinion for marijuana, for the safety of the public. Another compromise would be Molano 4 for both organizations to educate the users and non-users of marijuana, just like how in school they teach us about sex-ed, well a dedicated course about drugs and it should give enough details for the user / non-user to be responsible and well educated about the drug. This benefits the ARDPO as they are all about safety and handling of the drug, this can eliminate that interest of theirs as well as it being a gateway drug. The benefits for DPA are that users can get the medical benefits behind the drug and can also enjoy the drug responsible as alcohol and tobacco are also meant for. With both stakeholders being opposed to each other, the common ground set for both organizations is an ideal solution. The Drug Policy Alliance is all for recreational and their medical use while the ARDPO is for public safety. A plan for use in closed doors, as well as a course to educate both users and non-users would satisfy both stakeholders vision for a safe environment and use of the drug whether it be recreational or medically. Molano 5 Works Cited ARDPO. Reasons Why We Oppose Prop  No on Prop 205 - Keep Arizona Drug Free. ARDPO, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Barnes, Robert. One striking chart shows why pharma companies are fighting legal  The Washington Post. WP Company, 9 Sept. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. DPA. Reforming Marijuana  Reforming Marijuana Laws Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. James B. Mowry, Daniel A. Spyker, Daniel E. Brooks, Ashlea Zimmerman & Jay L. Schauben (2016) 2015 Annual Report of the American Association of Poison Control National Poison Data System (NPDS); 33rd Annual Report, Clinical Toxicology, 54;10, 924-1109. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Jennifer Welsh and Kevin. 23 Health Benefits Of  Business Insider. Business Insider, 20 Apr. 2014. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Molano 6