Johnathan Clarke U15228936 Fidel Impact Due to the passing of Fidel Castro Former President of Cuba And Commander of The famed Revolutionary Army. Many like myself have taken the time to on his impact not only in Cuba but in the long list of countries aided in some way or the other. This Bibliography will venture to the beginning of legacy looking at where he began ,the famed Bay of Pigs Invasion , the trials and tribulations both he and Cuba endured together, the he had as a world renowned leader. as well as the legacy he made for himself and for Cuba. Though many like myself regard Fidel Castro as a great leader and a hero for his country ,many others would deem him a ruthless dictator thus causing a level of disparity for those who are interested in becoming educated about what the man really did for his country. Leading to the Question Castro, Dictator or National The Article shadows of Cold War over Latin America: the US reaction to Fidel nationalism, details the issues the republican North America had with the idea of a third word country such as Cuba undergoing a Latin American nationalist movement a thing of concern. The biggest issue fro America was the similarities between nationalism and soviet foreign policy with obviously they would be against due to the unstable relationship with Russia at the time. Meaning the United States saw call for nationalism in Cuba instead as a soviet strategy and as a result strengthen their rivals though they might not have been entirely wrong. The article also details the of both Cuba and the soviet union and how the development of this relationship would be detrimental to their national security. The article also details the means by which Castro came to power as well as the reasoning behind his ideologies. The relevance of the article is that it highlights both the issues that Latin American Countries were facing at the time as well as the reservations the Us administration had about the newly developing relationship between these developing countries and the USSr. By extension the article details some of the issues Fidel Castro and his government had to deal with, the emergence of a new ally as well as the growing concern and surveillance from their strongest neighbors. As far as the question. Fidel Castro, Dictator or National Hero? the article presents factors to consider when determining a distinction by providing an over view of the political environment of that time during emergence. The Article Journal Of Third World details in South Africa and more the presence he established in Angola in aid of their liberation. the excerpt also details the humanitarian acts led by cubans in Angola during this time such as medical support that were of great need in the country due to both lack of personnel as well as the navigational challenges Angola presented. It also refers to a number of speeches made by Castro himself in which he that the aid he provided to Angola were not ones that required payment but were in aid of the defense of freedom and sovereign rights. The relevance of this article is present due to the explanations of aid of a foreign country without the expectation of from his actions. It further his actions were purely in support of the nationalistic views he shares as well as their right to freedom. This article aids in the view of Fidel Castro being a National hero in my opinion as it shows his belief in supporting what he believes. The Survival Adaptation And Uncertainty: The Case Of Cuba presents both an overview of issues both post and pre Fidel Castro more the socioeconomic and political issues Cuba would still have to face during the transition of power between the Castro brothers. The article also both the economic and political strategies that were employed during reign as leader as well as the he had to guide the country through after the decline and successive fall of the soviet union. There was also a small portion of the article devoted to the concerns of what will occur after the end of the terms of the Castro brothers as well as if the successor will be able to steer the country in the same way they have both been able to. The legacy Fidel Castro left behind will never be forgotten this being due to the fact he led the country for the better part of 7 decades as well as afforded to give Cuba a certain level of stability in terms of their economic situation. The stability brought about by Fidel Castro was not easily attained and therefore just as to maintain. Leadership such as this is not frequently seen and worry from the people about whether or not his legacy can be continued only boots the reasoning for the title of national hero. References: Works Cited Gonzalez, Edward, and Kevin F. McCarthy. Uncertain Future After  Brown Journal Of World Affairs 14.1 (2007): 27-39. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web Works Cited Mujal-Leon, Eusebio. Survival, Adaptation And Uncertainty: The Case Of  Journal Of International Affairs 65.1 (2011): 149-168. Business Source Premier. Web. Works Cited Fenyo, Mario. Castro, Fidel, Raul Castro, Nelson Mandela. Cuba & Angola: Fighting For Freedom And Our  Journal Of Third World Studies 1 (2015): 352. Academic OneFile. Web. Works Cited Pettina, Vanni. The Shadows Of Cold War Over Latin America: The US Reaction To Fidel Nationalism,  Cold War History 11.3 (2011): 317-339. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.