Selmeci 1 Juliette Selmeci Instructor Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Drinking Age in the United States The National Minimum Drinking Age Act was officially signed into law on July 17, 1984 (Koroknay-Palicz). The National Minimum Drinking Age Act changed the legal drinking age in the United States from eighteen years of age to twenty one years of age (Liebschutz). This law has drastically impacted the young adults at that time and the adolescence that followed them. The organization, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), not only support the law change but they also played a huge role in the passing of the law. As a result of the law change, organizations such as the National Youth Rights Association (NYRA) support lowering the current drinking age in the United States. This association and many others like it came about in order to protect the civil liberties of young adults. Although these stakeholder organizations have completely opposing views, a compromise may be able to be reached that would bring about change that both sides would be willing to support. Since, both stakeholders want what they believe is best for the young people of today I believe that changing the drinking age to eighteen, but also incorporating alcohol education and safety courses in the American school system would satisfy both. Mothers Against Drunk Driving was established in 1980 to protect the daughters and sons of the American people. The purpose of MADD is to make people aware of the consequences that can occur as a result of drinking and driving. In this day and age, technology has made many improvements that make it easier for intoxicated people to have options such as the Uber and Lyft apps that allow people to access to ride anywhere. Ride sharing services such Selmeci 2 as these are proven to reduce drunk driving deaths and DUI arrest. Because certain studies have shown that adolescents are more susceptible to dangerous risk-taking behavior, reduced decision- making ability, addiction, memory loss, depression, and violence when consuming alcohol stakeholder organizations such as MADD have been opposed to changing the legal minimum drinking age (Barnett 106). Alcohol is the most widely abused substance among the youth in the United States (Siqueira 718). Sixty percent of eighteen year olds have already consumed an alcoholic beverage. Because of this, the National Youth Rights Association recognizes that the current alcohol policy toward is not working and a change needs to be made. The NYRA supports lowering the drinking age because it would allow for young adults to consume alcohol in safe and regulated environments rather than unsupervised places when irresponsible drinking can occur. In turn, this would allow people to get cut off when it is apparent that they are to intoxicated. By allowing young adults to drink in places like bars and other supervised establishments, commonly reported crimes that occur at many colleges today such as alcohol related sexual assault would be less common. The NYRA states that alcohol is neutral substance that can be good or bad depending on how it is The dinking age in the United States causes young adults to consume alcohol in an such as pregaming and binge drinking and this is often a result of young adults viewing alcohol an enticing forbidden (Engs 2). Because of the lower drinking age in Europe and around the world, the young adults of other countries are taught to consume alcohol in a responsible manner and they also receive less social pressure to participate in the consumption of alcohol. By using the drinking laws of European countries as an example, stakeholders can assume that by changing the national minimum legal drinking age in the United Selmeci 3 States to eighteen, we will be able to accomplish lower binge drinking rates among teens and young adults. Thus, lowering the health risks associated with heavy alcohol intake such as blackouts, injuries, memory loss, and alcohol poisoning. In conclusion, if both stakeholders agree to this compromise it will not only be able to satisfy the National Youth Rights Association because by lowering the drinking age from twenty one years of age to eighteen years of age it twenty it would no longer violated the civil liberties of young adults, but it will also be able to satisfy he Mothers Against Drunk Driving organization because further education of adolescence on alcohol abuse and safety will teach students that drinking and driving is unsafe and there are alternative options such as Uber and Lyft that can be used to get home safely. This begs the question: will both stakeholders agree on this compromise of a lower drinking age along with mandatory alcohol education classes held as a school requirement? Selmeci 4 Works Cited Alex Koroknay-Palicz. Analysis of the National Minimum Drinking Age The National Youth Rights Association, 1999. Web 29 Jan 2017 Ruth C. Engs. the Drinking Age should be Lowered: An Opinion Based upon Indiana University Bloomington, 2014. Web 10 Nov. 2016 Barnett, N. P., Clerkin, E. M., Wood, M., Monti, P. M., Tevyaw, T., Corriveau, D., & Kahler, C. W. and Predictors of Positive and Negative Alcohol-related Consequences in the First Year of Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs, 2014. Web.9 Oct. 2016 Sarah F. Liebschutz. National Minimum Drinking-Age The Journal of Federalism, 1985. Web. 29 Nov.2016 Lorena Siqueira, Vincent C. Smith. American Academy of Pediatrics, 2015. Web. 1 Dec. 2016 Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 (1200-1400 words) that explains the perspectives of two different stakeholders on a given issue or topic, identifies common ground the two stakeholders share, and proposes and argues for a compromise that benefits both stakeholders. This draft should include a thesis, all major points, evidence to support these points Selmeci 5 .