Allyssa Baker English Composition 1 February 5 2017 This past election has left a great impact in its wake, pertaining to acts of discrimination, prejudice, and social injustice. If your future children had the opportunity to witness such an election would you want to teach them the right from wrong? I strongly believe we witnessed what will soon be taught in our history textbooks for years to come. Whether you voted for Trump or Hilary or a third-party candidate there was plenty of wrong doings on all sides of the spectrum. This past year so many issues have finally been brought into the light, and although a clear majority is not happy about our new president I think it became very necessary in show casing what Americas values and what we as Americans hope to change coming forth from this latest election. As Joel Stein says in This is the most enlightening election in more than a century and why presidential elections have focused on issues like how to structure the income tax, or what the best health care system is, but this time addressing core issues that divide us: racism, sexual assault, Islamophobia, immigration, elitism, anti-Semitism, authoritarianism and whether to require drug tests before political And I completely agree, instead of just discussing what policies needed to be implemented, the candidates said things that brought forth disagreements regarding racism and sexual assault. Stein, Joel. This Is the Most Enlightening Election In More Than a Century and  Time. Time, 21 Oct. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Although not easy topics to talk about, ones that we must. Thus, bringing forth some positivity from the negative. For years to come I think we will reference back to this election to educate our future generations. Whether that be to show that women can do anything, considering this was the first year a woman ran and had a 50/50 chance of winning. That being a prime example for a young girl who may be affected by some of the opposing candidates words and actions. It has given young girls someone to look up to as an example. Not to say all the actions and words of campaign are a good example, but she is the first of her kind and that is acknowledgeable. Another reason this election will in my opinion make history being that it has been a huge era for activism. Just throughout the past year we have seen so many individuals and groups coming forth and standing up for what they see as right and just. Whether that pertains to a candidate being unjust, and prejudice to a group. Without the acts of discrimination and bias we saw this election we would still see it being pushed aside, and because of this we have the grounds to say this is wrong, now how can we change it. I hope that we take this as a stepping stone for future years and teach the children and young adults to come what we accept during a candidacy and what we as America can come together to do to stop the bias and binary that we allow a specific group to display without reprimand. Hill, Anita. Opinion Anita Hill: election is disappointing for feminism. But not the final  The Washington Post. WP Company, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Another example of the effect this election set into action being the march that just recently happened. As Anita Hill predicted in her article election is disappointing for feminism. But not the final word.: For me, Nov. 8, 2016, felt like an unwelcome flashback to October 1991 -- another sadly missed opportunity. Jan. 21, women from all identities and circumstances will march in Washington and in cities around the globe in numbers too great for Trump to ignore. Yes, women are moving past the election, but not as spectators, as participants in our democracy -- as patriots. That is cause for Being as she was correct and it was such a large movement for not only women but transwomen and women of color and the LGBTQ community and all those who support feminism and what they believe is the right path Allyssa Baker English Composition 1 February 5 2017 for change in the world. It became not only a march on Washington but a march around the world and should show in our history books as a day to never forget. A day that stood or more than just people protesting the election or our new president but a day protesting the wrong in the world. Powell, Kashif. Studies in  The Year of the Ballot or the : A Discussion of Race, Revolution, and the 2016 Election: Studies in Communication: Vol 39, No 4. N.p., 1 Oct. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. In this article Powell states inability to verbalize the injustice faced by American citizens and blatant disrespect are indicative of the frustratingly slow pace of developing the racial consciousness Malcolm X called for fifty years This in tail showing the means behind some of the movements and protests we have seen this election. Groups like Black Lives Matter having a large impact on not only the past presidential election but a large impact on the world. This relating to my research question being that this is a very controversial topic we will continue to talk about in school and discuss with our peers and friends until we finally see social and political change pertaining to how people of color are perceived in the everyday and media biased world. This being a topic that needs to be discussed more often, and in doing so during this past election with the Black Lives Matter Movement being started I believe we will continue to educate and update out textbooks with such as they impacted so widely. Anand, Bharat. The U.S. Problems Are Much Bigger than Fake News and Filter  Harvard Business Review. N.p., 12 Jan. 2017. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. In this source Anand says presidential transition has been marked by the same attitude: if only the media were less distractible and headlines more And goes on to further discuss the impact the social media world held during this past election as well as the impact it has on marketing elections and getting information out to the people/voters. In the question of history making in this past election it has seen such a huge social media impact compared to the rest, a generation of younger voters being given information on a platform unlike other years. I think it may have caused added problems being that not all article are factual, many being biased towards one particular party. While on the other side it allowed for a platform of younger voters to share and disperse information. Enthrall leaving in its wake an election that marketers and companies trying to promote a candidate will learn from for future reference as well as the next generation of voters.