Ruble 1 Courtney Ruble Taylor Poston ENC 1102 9 February 2017 Physician-Assisted Suicide Physician-assisted suicide is the act of aiding an individual end their life by means of a lethal dose of medication prescribed by a physician. The term assisted suicide was first coined after an infamous pathologist named Jack Kevorkian would devise a machine that would aid terminally ill patients end their lives. Dr. Kevorkian would go on to help over one hundred people end their lives, earning him the nickname Dr. Death Society has come a long way since the invention of the suicide machine. This is a sensitive topic that can be quite personal for many individuals, but nonetheless, is a subject of many heated conversations. Aid in dying has been a topic many have been divided on, but if we can put in place an improved palliative care option, the need for this practice may lessen or cease to exist. Opponents against physician-assisted suicide contend that there is no to and we should help these individuals see the value in life again instead of granting them death. Not Dead Yet is a disabilities rights group that opposes the legalization of assisted suicide. This organization also likes to think of themselves as the Resistance. The activists of this group feel as if assisted suicide is a deadly form of discrimination. One of the points that they listed on their main webpage, is that misjudge quality of life (Not Dead Yet para. What this means is that an individual with disabilities, who may or may not require a caregiver, would be treated differently than the average person that wants to commit suicide. Every life Ruble 2 should be valued, whether they are the average joe or they have a mental or physical disability. Physicians are bound by the Hippocratic Oath, which they are to follow to the best of their ability. Mr. Tony Y. Yang and Curlin A. Farr argue that in regards to suicide, the physician is to disregard what is perhaps the most universal moral not write a lethal prescription with the express intent of helping patients kill themselves Mr. Yang is strong opposer to the practice of physician-assisted dying. Opponents of assisted suicide say that because physicians are bound by this oath, they should to the best of their ability keep their patient alive and are to not administer any drug that would kill their patient, even if the patient begs for them to do so. On the other side, supporters of the doctor-assisted death believe people should have the right to choose when they want to die. In 2015 data summary, majority of the patients that are considering assisted suicide are elderly patients that have been diagnosed with some form of a terminally ill disease, such as cancer or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) (para. 7). These patients like having the option of choosing to end their life if the pain becomes too unbearable. This option gives them the opportunity to die with their dignity, which patients feel they lose as the disease affecting them slowly takes over their body. The Death with Dignity National Center is an organization that supports the use physician-assisted suicide and advocates for its use around the United States. The work they do is primarily based on the Oregon model, which is an act that was passed in Oregon state in October of 1997 that allows residents of the state partake in assisted death under certain parameters. Since the passing of this act, four additional states have followed suit to pass the Death with Dignity Act. These states are primarily in the North West region of the United States, with the exception of Vermont. Patients Ruble 3 that consider assisted suicide do not necessarily always go through with the decision. But having the option there gives these people a sense of relief to know that if things become too unbearable, the choice for end of life is there for them. It allows these terminally ill adults the freedom to die on their own terms, in a place that could be of great comfort to them, should they choose to do so. In 2014, there was a young woman named Brittany Maynard that was diagnosed with a terminal brain cancer. After careful consideration, she decided to partake in death with dignity. The act was not originally available in her home state so she moved to a state where it was legal. She recognized many people could not up and move as easily as she could, so she partnered with Compassion and Choices, one of the oldest end of life advocacy organizations. Between them, she wanted to raise awareness on the issue in order to provide more available options for Americans that could qualify for aid in dying. The members of Compassion and Choices are currently still pushing to make a larger impact around the United States to make this something that is more widely available to more people. There is no easy solution as to whether physician-assisted suicide is an ethical decision, but together we can create and put in place a viable alternative. The stakeholder for the opposing argument, Not Dead Yet, sees that there is a value to every soul on this planet and no life should be taken prematurely if it can be avoided. The stakeholder for the affirmative argument, Death with Dignity, believes the choice of life or death should be a choice given to every patient to decide for his or herself. My proposed solution for this complex issue is to improve our palliative care facilities. Palliative care units are facilities that are designed to relieve the suffering of its patients. Improving our palliative care could provide ill patients with comfort and a sense of worth that they would not otherwise feel near the end of their natural Ruble 4 lives. The Life is an organization that addresses many life-related issues, such as this one. In regards to palliative care and physician-assisted suicide, they believe that, once a patient feels welcome and not a burden, ... once his pain is controlled and other symptoms have been at least reduced to manageable proportions, then the cry for euthanasia disappears (The Life para. Providing a dying individual with competent care, a way to help ease the pain, as well as compassion and empathy towards what they are feeling, could go a long way in changing mindset. The answer is not to kill the patient, but to kill the pain when a cure is not possible. If we can find a way to reduce the pain to a manageable level and help them feel a sense of worth, there would be a chance that we could change the minds about whether death would be the way out of the suffering. In order for this plan to work, we would need to better train the doctors and nurses that take care of these patients. We would need to give doctors the knowledge to treat and provide support to patients feeling that their life no longer has any meaning. If we were to put this compromise in place, it would allow patients to live the full extent of their life and die when God decides it is time for His angel to come home. Ruble 5 Works Cited The Brittany Fund , 2017, thebrittanyfund.org/. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Death with Dignity. With Dignity , www.deathwithdignity.org/. Accessed 16 Jan. 2017. Jack  , A&E Television Networks, 3 Dec. 2015, www.biography.com/people/jack-kevorkian-9364141#making-headlines. The Life Resources Charitable Trust. Alternatives to  , 2011, www.life.org.nz/euthanasia/euthanasiakeyissues/alternatives-to-euthanasia/.Life Not Dead Yet Disability Activists Oppose Assisted Suicide As A Deadly Form of  Dead Yet: the Resistance , http://notdeadyet.org/assisted-suicide-talking-points. Accessed 18 Jan. 2017. OREGON DEATH WITH DIGNITY ACT: 2015 DATA SUMMARY . Oregon Death with Dignity Act, 2015.public.health.oregon.gov/ProviderPartnerResources/EvaluationResearch/Deathwith DignityAct/Documents/year18.pdf. Yang, Y. T., and Farr A. Curlin. Why Physicians Should Oppose Assisted  , vol. 315, no. 3, 2016, p. 247, dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1001/jama.2015.16194.