Osorio,1 Nicolas Osorio Dorinda Davis Composition II 28 January 2017 Head in the Game: Should College Athletes Be Paid Like Professional Athletes? Professional athletes, by definition, are individuals paid to entertain and perform to the best of their abilities in a certain sport. Student-athletes are participants in a competitive program that is offered by an educational institution. These individuals balance the life of a full-time athlete and a full-time student. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) is the athletic institution that organizes and provides the monetary resources for all the athletic collegiate tournaments. To become a one must meet certain requirements. According to the NCAA webpage one needs to earn a GPA of minimum a 2.3 in minimum 16 courses from a high school, meet the sliding scale requirement of GPA and test and to have the required physical set of skills to be part of the program. During the past decade the NCAA and the College players association (CAPA) have been debating the differences and similarities between professional and student athletes. Student athletes should receive the same benefits professional athletes receive, student athletes work as hard as professional athletes. Are they participants or employees of an athletic program? Through the past decade athletic programs like football, basketball, baseball and soccer have become more rigorous and time consuming. Due to these circumstances many have begun to Osorio,2 wonder if student athletes should be compensated for dedicating their daily lives to their sport. A possible solution to this ongoing issue is to make the amount a student athlete is paid dependent on the scholarship they receive. Should student athletes receive an annual salary? Several lawsuits that address the issue of student-athletes earning an annual salary have demanded some certain conditions. According to the Northern District of California decision, which student-athletes from earning money from the use of their likeness in video games, were an unreasonable restraint on students cannot earn any sort of monetary resources from anyone while they are part of any athletic program. Recently, the Northern District of court decision was upheld by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals addressing them as rules that violate antitrust laws, causing confusion and scandal. One of the other lawsuits addressed the NCAA, describing how programs from different institutions were unfairly using the athletic scholarships given to student athletes, as excuses for students to practice instead of attending their classes . An example of this is the Northwestern University Football team, who asked the National Labor Relations Board to entitle their team as employees of Northwestern University since the student athletes claim that they are being treated as employees. Another example is a well-known football play Chris Burnette from the University of Georgia, who expressed his outraged through his twitter the issue the NCAA is full of crap. Being a college athlete who profit of your own name?! NCAA give him his talent or his name. (Burnette). Chris Burnette is just one of the student athletes that has been living an economic struggle that is in need for action. These are just some of the numerous examples that can be found about the injustice that student athletes go through in their daily lives. Osorio,3 On the other hand the National Collegiate Athletic Association has been going through a secret economic crisis, one that could lead to the disappearance of the athletic departments of many educational institutions around the nation. The ASHE expresses their ideals in the article NCAA Division I Athletic Funding (ASHE) by addressing the economic problems that the NCAA have been facing during the past decade. Certain factors like the increase on the tuition would obligate the athletic programs to offer full ride scholarships to most of the athletes who cannot afford to be part of the community. Nonetheless if tuitions decreased, the amount of money given to the athletic department for scholarships and student athlete supplies would decay. Hurricane Katrina was one of the many other factors that affected universities like the University of New Orleans which led catastrophic consequences on the entire campus leading the entire department to quit the Division I program to enter the Division III program, which does not offer athletic scholarships. According to the ASHE (ASHE) abandoned the institution. In conclusion the athletic programs across the entire nation are suffering from an economic crisis that needs to be taken care of, perhaps, by supplying monetary aid that could subside most of the programs or some emergency aid educational institutions could supply to the athletic departments. The NCAA supplies for every athletic department around the nation with no economic equilibrium then it is highly probable that new policies like student-athletes earning an annual salary would be denied and would not be prioritized. The compromise between the student athletes and the NCAA could be the idea of a percent of money per semester that the student-athlete receives depending on his or her scholarship. For example, a student athlete receiving a full ride scholarship should receive an Osorio,4 additional 20% of that scholarship. This would require universities and the NCAA to pay the athlete a stipend, however it would also require the student to work hard enough to earn a scholarship. Several students have spoken up about their opinions towards receiving no pay for their dedication to their sport. Jaden Rose is an example of a student who has spoken very publicly on his opinion in paying student athletes, saying in an interview with the Huffington post that they should be paid 2,000 dollars per semester. His opinion is one that reflects the opinions of many other student athletes. On the other hand, the NCAA sees the opportunity to be a student athlete as a privilege as a result of hard work, rather than a right just because a student has a certain amount of athletic talent. Though this compromise each side is somewhat satisfied, the students receive some pay for their work and the NCAA maintains the priority of keeping their student on par with education . This way both could find a compromise and found benefit from it. Finally, the NCAA objective will always be to prepare the student-athletes with the best tools and set of skills to survive and live a life full of success and achievements. Student-athletes will always be provided with the aid needed. In order for them to find the full compromise there has to be another private party that fulfills what is missing, a party that provides the monetary resources that are needed for both the NCAA and the student athletes. Osorio,5 Work Cited Burnette, Chris. Man the NCAA Is Full of Crap. Being a College Athlete Who Profit off Your Own Name?! NCAA Give Him His Talent or His Name.  . Twitter, 09 Oct. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. DeMaio, Kevin1. Letting Go: Ncaa Reform As An Alternative To The Unionization Of College  Hall Law Review 46.1 (2015): 307-332. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 25 Jan. 2017. NCAA. Frequently Asked Questions About the  - The Official Site of the NCAA . NCAA, 26 Aug. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Roessler, Victoria1. College Athlete Rights After Where Do College Athlete Intellectual Property Rights Go From  Journal Of Entertainment & Technology Law 18.4 (2016): 935-963. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Seunghyun, Hwang1, and yjhouse@korea.ac.kr Youngjun Choi2. Data Mining In The Exploration Of Stressors Among NCAA Student  Reports 119.3 (2016): 787-803. Full Text (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Sports, Aaron McMann. Jalen Rose Proposes a $2,500 a Semester Stipend for College  Today . Gannett Satellite Information Network, 25 Sept. 2013. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. The NCAA Division I Athletic Funding  Higher Education Report 41.5 Full Text (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 25 Jan. 2017.