Long Term Health Effects of Running Throughout years of scientific research and countless varying arguments, a fully conclusive argument on the long term health results of aerobic, or running, has yet to be reached. While running offers multitudes of health benefits such as heightened cardiovascular strength, lower body mass index, and increased vascular performance of major arteries and veins, running also includes a long list of lesser-known health drawbacks. These health hazards can include deterioration of joints and tissues, potentially life altering blood mineral deficiencies, and in severe cases a condition hypothesized and referred to by scientists as a phenomena resulting in heart attacks later in life due to the rigorous nature on the heart that distance running provokes. While these drawbacks could be considered hazardous to health, we must also consider the weight of these drawbacks in comparison to the imposed by a total lack of exercise. In most cases, the health impairments associated with rigorous exercises outweigh the risks associated with less active lifestyle habits as the trade-off between the two lifestyles results in a net gain for those who consistently work and better their bodies through exercise. With all of this taken into consideration, we must test the legitimacy of common stereotypes associated with running actually add years onto your life? Can running improve the bodies ability to fight disease and and lead to an increase in metabolism performance? Or on the other end of the there a proven link between running and long term joint pain and even lower testosterone in men after 40? In an effort to moderate the volume of running one does to achieve physiological optimality, we must first answer the age old question-- how does long distance running really affect the body, and how do the facts contrast from these common stereotypes? Bibliographic entry 1: John A. Hawley. Oxford; Malden, Mass. 2000. Oxford College. 2017 January 29. This book pertains mostly to the drawbacks of running, listing several unwanted side effects and long term ailments associated with distance running. More specifically, in Chapter 6, titled Considerations for we find an in depth analysis of the unwanted health drawbacks brought on by running. Chapter 6 lists how running can seriously damage the intestines of runners and how they digest different foods, posing a serious threat for long term damage to digestive tract if not given medical attention. Another common and often times undetectable side effect of running is dangerously low iron levels in the blood brought on by the bodies natural tendency to deplete iron levels during strenuous long term exercise. Perhaps the most prominent side effect listed in chapter 6 is how badly running can impact the bodies immune system. Regular long distance runners have been proven to be more susceptible to contagious diseases and infections due to the body having to work to help itself recover from strenuous exercise, thus taking energy from the immune system to support its own physicality. Bibliographic entry 2: Petra Wolseiffen. The Effects of Running on Brain Activity, Mood, and Cognitive Performance. Stefan Schneider; Lisa Anne Martin; Hugo A. Kerherve. Institue of Movement and Neurosciences, German Sprt University Cologne. Cologne, Germany. 2017 January 29. In this article, several authors explore the effects running has on brain activity, mood, and cognitive performance. The text claims exercise has been linked with the psychological model of The article summarizes sound research conducted by scientists specializing in cognitive ability seeking to find how long duration exercise can improve or impair the way our minds think. The results concluded substantial increases in cognitive performance following long duration exercise as well as an increase in perceived physical relaxation. Some sections of the article even claim that with the increase in exercise came a noticeable increase in overall motivation and optimism throughout the day following strenuous exercise. This article is substantial to my research as it poses a very strong argument for how running can improve not only physical health but mental health as well. Anderson, L. M. (2007). Body Image (Vol. 17). New York, NY: Body Image. doi:6 February 2017 In this book, the author discusses how running positively affects physiological aspects of a life even after they stop running. The introduction explains an experiment conducted on 9 different healthy males running the same intensity and duration on a treadmill. The results consistently showed improvements in posture, balance control, lower body weight and lower blood pressure after exercise. These results strengthen a staggering argument for the long-term benefits of running and why the pros outweigh the cons. The improvements in posture and balance help strengthen the spine and prevent injuries and sorenesses brought on by long term muscular imbalances most people notice until their later stages of life. The lower body weight and lower blood pressure do volumes for any persons health as it reduces the amount of stress the body is typically put through in a lifetime; thus contradicting the stereotype claiming running adds wear and tear to the body causing aches and pains later in life. This book relates to my research as it provides studies that address stereotypes about running with actual facts as well as test results that I can cite in my paper to provide insights on how running really affects people long term. This book offers a multitude of summaries about experiments conducted to see how a human body reacts to long-term exposure to long distance running. I plan on citing this writing frequently to contrast common misconceptions from truths based off experiments described in this book. Not only does this book offer feedback on experiments, but also an impartial vantage point on health effects of running as opposed to a book dedicated to proving why running is necessarily a good or bad thing. This aspect is important because it will potentially offer research for both sides of my argument so that a weighed, unbiased decision can be accurately made. Jensen, B. R. (2004). Journal of Applied Biomechanics (4th ed., Vol. 32). Copenhagen: University of Copenhagen. doi:6 February 2017 In this study conducted and summarized by Lisa M. Anderson, we discuss the mental drawbacks of long distance running that eventually turn into physical problems and dietary deficiencies. The article entails that through a combination of general sociocultural influences and mental habits brought on by the need to improve imposed by distance running, people over time begin to develop unhealthy eating tendencies such as anorexia and a common condition referred to as body dissatisfaction. In several studies conducted on habitual distance runners, nearly half (47%) reported an elevated feeling of dissatisfaction with their physical appearance and abilities. Apparently these tendencies can occur naturally in the brain due to a chemical imbalance also brought on by exercise in athletes ranging from teens all the way up to adolescents in their late Since 2000, there has been a 17% increase in these cases in the U.S. in non-athletes and a 33% increase in athletes, indicating that distance runners are at a major predisposal for this disorder as they feel much more obligated to engage in unhealthy dietary habits and dangerously high amounts of running that can and have caused hormonal imbalances and ultimately long term damage to minerals and vitamins in the blood such as anemia and hemoglobin deficiencies. This article is extremely relevant to my research as it poses a very strong argument against distance running and why it causes more problems than it fixes in long term health. I will use this research to offer a counterargument to my own opinion stating that long distance running is a healthy cardiovascular activity. It is important that I include this argument in my paper so that I offer a proper contrast to my opposing research. It is imperative to compare different biased viewpoints side by side so that the reader can make an educated decision and have full awareness of the pros and cons of each side to create a well-balanced and thorough argument. I plan to continue reading this book and cite more details on the research such as how the results differed between male and females and any possible flaws in the research that could taint the outcome of my argument. Finally, I will be using this research as it also offers its own opposing points to the research conducted later in the book in the same style I have presented my information in my paper to neutralize the argument and prevent bias and disposition.