Feyas 1 Victoria Feyas Dr. Jennifer Paquette ENC1101.701 29 January 2017 Effects of Adderall on the Human Body and Mind Mental Illness effects an estimated 26.2% of people or one in four people. Even though a large portion of the population is effected by these diseases, an even larger portion of the population chooses not to educate themselves on the topic of mental disorders. One concept in particular that is generally misconstrued is ADHD or Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. ADHD is a type of mental disorder that causes people to have a hard time staying concentrated on one task. Today, doctors rely mainly on a medicine called Adderall to treat this disease. Adderall is a drug that alters the amount of amphetamine and dextroamphetamine, two central nervous system stimulants. By increasing the amount of these two stimulants in the brain, it allows users to better focus and control behavior problems. (Drugs.com) Although the drug seems to work miracles, some scientists are questioning the drug, if Adderall can affect your Central Nervous System then it is safe to say it is effecting other physical and mental abilities as well. Farah, Martha J., et al. we enhance cognition with Adderall, do we sacrifice creativity? A preliminary Psychopharmacology, vol. 202, no. 1-3, 2008, pp. The author of this article concluded that overall Adderall does not affect the creativity of an individual except in some cases where the individual is coming into the situation as very Feyas 2 creative then Adderall may tone down their creativity level. The study that was conducted involved both convergent and divergent tests of creative thought and Adderall only effected the performance on the convergent task. (Farah 546) Martha J. Farah is a cognitive neuroscience researcher at Pennsylvania University. She studied at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard University, and MIT and Boston school of medicine. Martha is now a professor at Pennsylvania University and directs the center for Neuroscience and Society. Moneer, Osman, et al. Addicted To  Columbia Undergraduate Science Journal 9.(2015): 8. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. to is a journal that talks about students who struggle with an addiction to Adderall(obviously.) Adderall is an extremely addictive drug that alters the brain. Numerous students use this drug to help them focus and do better on assignments. The article closes with saying that even though Adderall seems to be a super drug, its side effects can vary from person to person. side effects include nausea, loss of appetite, dry mouth, anxiety, agitation, mood changes, sleep problems, headache, dizziness, and more. Other side effects may include fast, pounding, or uneven heartbeats, numbness, tingling, and dangerously high blood (Moneer 8) Osman Moneer is a Chemical Physics Major at Columbia University in New York. He has spent two years as a research assistant and is expected to graduate in 2018. Moneer has collaborated with multiple researchers in mechanical engineering, physics, and chemistry. Stolz, Stephanie. Abuse: Regulating the Academic Journal of Law and Education, vol. 41, no. 3, July 2012, pp. Feyas 3 Abuse: Regulating the Academic Is about how Adderall not only negatively effects people but also education system. This powerful drug has become increasingly popular on college campus and per recent studies out of 1387 students 591 of them had used Adderall before even though they were not prescribed the drug by a doctor. (Stolz, 585) Because the drug is addictive to people who are not supposed to be taking it, numerous schools are beginning to have a problem with a for Adderall. This main purpose was to prove that Adderall is too easily accessed, but it also provides details as to why Adderall is harmful to people, especially for those it is not prescribed to. Stephanie article, Abuse: Regulating the Academic Was published in the Journal of Law and Education. Stolz is a Lawyer and attended the University of Louisville for law. Jerk Magazine, vol. 16, no. 8, Nov. 2015, pp. Is an article that was included in a magazine to raise awareness about negative effects on the body. The article begins by addressing the obvious, Adderall is a and that all too often people become addicted to the drug. After mentioning addiction, they begin to list more side effects that one may have when they take the drug. A of to be exact, a rush that has ended lives due to its ability to cause a heart attack in whoever took the pill. The article also mentions that the use of Adderall, also known as can cause weight loss, which some may deem as a good aspect until they are notified that after one ceases taking the pill their decreased dopamine levels will once again slow their metabolism and therefore cause them to gain the weight back. Also mentioned is the fact that Adderall is a stimulant while alcohol is a depressant and because numerous students mix the two Feyas 4 in order to harder and and because of this they may be faced with serious health risks. (56) This article did not have a specified author but the source is reliable. is a student-run monthly publication at Syracuse University. Their goals include local, state, national, and world politics and issues that breed controversy and keep our reader informed of Additional Sources Cited: Uses, Dosage, Side Effects & Safety Uses, Dosage, Side Effects & Safety Info - Drugs.Com, Drugs.com, www.drugs.com/adderall.html. Http://facebook.com/jerkmagazine. Jerk Magazine, www.jerkmagazine.net/about/.