Brittany Badertscher ENC 1101, Professor Roth 02-05-2017 Intermediate Draft Throughout recent years the political movement of equality has made a huge move in a positive direction, but has not completely ended to say that men and women have equal rights. For centuries women, have been deprived from social influence due to the lack of gender equality. The approach in finding gender equality, lies within having more political figures as women, especially in controversial issues such as birth control, planned parenthood, and the Gage Rule. Women already having personal involvement in these types of issues will create a righteous impact on the choices for the country of the United States, as well as eliminating the perspective of sexism. The question is, will this approach of having women more politically involved effectively work? It took several years for women to earn basic civil rights, its time where these rights are in full affect as men. After all men are not the ones creating the future generations of America, why should they get complete control in deciding what happens to a body? The fight of gender equality all started in 1848, when Elizabeth Stanton and Lucretia Mott in Declaration of meet at an Anti-Slavery Convention after they were not allowed into the convention due to the ladies being females purely, (Stanton pg. 207). The anger that ran through these ladies, motivated them into creating the Declaration of Sentiments, within every rule and regulation of this official document states the importance of gender equality as well privileges women deserved as well. The support from Declaration of when they state its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and provides a core foundation for women to step forth in this political world, make a change in feminism as well as sexism. If women have as much free will as men, then that should include the choices about their bodies as well with no other outside influences. In era with our current president Donald Trump, he has been slander by the media with several acts of degrading women, but social slander can only go so far. In 2009 former president Obama rescinded the Gag rule; the gag rule is a regulation that prohibits government funding family- funding clinics to inform families or patients about abortions. When Obama rescinded this regulation, it gave these government funded clinics to have the right of free speech again, giving them the chance to inform every woman about all their options in the safest way. With the support from Pathfinder.org on January 23, Trump not only reinstated this rule but is now creating a all the way to Mexico City. This brought a lot of turmoil with woman and their rights to do what they want with their bodies freely. Now that this rule is instated again, any clinic that informs any women about all their options will be immediately shut down. Pathfinder supports this argument when they state will reverse decades of progress on reproductive, maternal, and child health by increasing unintended pregnancies, unsafe abortions, and maternal and newborn (Pathfinder International 2017.) If women do not have the right to choose what happens to their bodies in the United States, they will go somewhere where their rights can be expressed freely, creating harmful effects to their bodies if an abortion is not done properly, deaths could even come about if not done right. The focus is not on women and their deserved rights, nor freedom of speech to be informed about their options. No one is to say where focus is valued, but if it is not for the rights of the American people, especially the women of this great country, then to say he is making Great Bibliography Stanton, Elizabeth Cady. Declaration of Sentiments  America (2000): 207-209. The Declaration of Sentiments is the first signed document advocating rights. This article discusses the historical background of this event; how Elizabeth Stanton originally attended an Anti-Slavery convention with her husband but was unable to attend due to the fact she was a woman. It was then she started to revolt and fight for rights with another lady she had meet at the convention named Lucretia Mott. Together the two ladies mainly created the Declaration of Sentiments, where the article states each right and privilege for equal rights. Throughout the document, it is stated in detail about the importance of these rights to women, and the strict policies in abiding to the regulations. This article is extremely useful for the introduction paragraphs to give a strong leading outline, to explain the historical events leading up to the current issues of the research question. Analyzing where right originally came from, opens a compelling argument as to say that suffrage women have been facing for equality has gone far enough. Since 1848, women have struggled for liberation and have shown over time that their influences can bring a country more advantages than disadvantages. The article provides information to create the foundation of the argument in of how rights began and how they still struggle to proceed forth. Lader, Lawrence. The Margaret Sanger story and the fight for birth  (1955). This article is the story of how Margaret Sanger opened the first birth control clinic in Brooklyn, New York in 1916. Since the article is written by Margaret Sanger herself, she explains the trials and tribulations she went through to open the clinic in the time era where the movement of rights had just begun. She starts by explaining her motivation for opening a clinic, as well as teaching them about birth control. One of the biggest tribulations being that the clinic shut down only after ten days and Sanger was arrested the article also includes her personal involvement, for example having friends that reach out to her for help as far as conceiving children went. attachment was very deep with creating American history, and this article is a great source in connection to the introduction paragraphs as well the main paragraphs in depicting the importance of control in political issues such as the fight for birth control. The support of this article will create a smooth transition into each paragraph of the essay, thus making the ideas clear and concise. Annas, George J. The Supreme Court and abortion  (2007): 2201-2207. This article covers the issues of the supreme court and their decisions based off cases on abortions. The main cases discussed in the articles explain that throughout history and with current political influences, unconstitutional decisions have been made about the rights of women and their right of choice to their bodies, as well as doctors and physicians with their right to freedom of speech to be able to explain every option their patients have. One of the biggest issues the article explains is the difficulty between the morality of modern medicine with physicians and the legal limits forced to obey to on abortions rights. Analyzing each flaw within every case will help build a well-supported essay in tying up the essay in the final paragraphs. The cases show how unlawful each policy was in consideration to each case and how if it for other out influences like the strong perspective of sexism, that maybe these legal cases have even been a case. Although this article focuses on abortion trials and the unjust of each of them, I think including these types of cases will provide a well-balanced evidence base in not only my claim about all forms of birth control and planned parenthood. Global Gag Rule  Pathfinder International. N.p., 27 Jan. 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pathfinder.org/global-gag-rule-101/?gclid=CPylh6H96dECFdU6gQodTY8Iqg>. This article covers the most recent act of suffrage when it comes to the right of their choice of their bodies. The article explains how the new president Donald Trump instates the Gag Rule again after former president Obama signed off to eliminate the policy, where government funded planned parenthood clinics are unable to inform patients about all their options in consideration of their pregnancies. Where if these clinics were to provide this kind of information they would be shut down by the government. With more than enough support and data to explain the flaws in this policy of how women are forced to face unsafe procedures in abortions in other countries, or faced to try unsafe procedures in the US they could essentially kill them as well if the practice is not done properly. Pathfinder International will provide a successful support system in wrapping up the final paragraphs by tying them all together based off these core issues women have been fighting for, for years and yet women today are still having to deal the same controversial issues of planned parenthood, birth control, and abortions. The fight demands for an end at once, explaining how these policies are unlawful as well as hurt the people of this nation, by stripping away their giving rights of freedom of speech and freedom of choice.