Sarah Piddington Instructor Carr ENC 1101-005 January 17, 2017 The Alternatives to Traditional Chemotherapy Millions of men and women each year are effected by cancer. Cancer is a disease in which cells that are not normal to the body divide at an unusually fast rate and harm the body tissue. The most known and widely used form of treatment for most cancers is chemotherapy. Chemotherapy uses radiation to fight off and kill the cancer cells. Chemo is fairly effective but even when it cures the disease it still can have harmful effects on the patient. While the chemo kills the cancer cells, it also takes down white blood cells with it. These cells are the major component of our immune systems, or the system in our body that fights off diseases. Most patients lose all of their hair, become depressed, have nausea, and develop other sicknesses quickly, due to their low white blood cell count. With recent advances in medical technology, the potential for less harmful and more successful alternatives to chemotherapy are higher than ever. One such advance is Insulin Potentiation Therapy, or IPT for short. Another alternative to chemotherapy is the slightly more controversial method is The Kelly Approach. While both of these methods have been used occasionally throughout medicine, research is finding that they could be viable alternatives to traditional methods of chemotherapy. While traditional chemotherapy methods have been proven effective in most cases, the side effects are often more damaging to a person than the cancer itself. Cancer results in distressing/potentially life-threatening (Breen, 2016) These side effects can include nausea, hair-loss, and depression. The Chemotherapy is typically applied in large doses in a short time span because intervals between the applications of the chemotherapeutics are factors which contribute to (Damyanov, 2012) and also to try and maximize the damage to cancer cells. This method, however, can cause the immune system to suffer harsh amounts of damage. This weakened immune system state causes vomiting and other severe side effects that often change a personality and mood. With Insulin Potentiation Therapy, or IPT, utilizes of low dose chemotherapeutics with increased (Damyanov, 2012) to try and minimize the effect on the immune system, while maintaining the same level of effectiveness. Clinical studies have found that this method is proving to be a useful alternative to the traditional application of chemo. IPT will continue to be tested throughout the next couple years to continue gathering research and evidence that it could possibly change everything we know about chemotherapy to treat cancer. Others in the medical field are utilizing a more natural approach to curing cancer. The Kelly Approach is the method Dr. W.D. Kelly used to cure himself of his terminal illness when he was given only one month to live. He was diagnosed with tumors of the liver, pancreas and other (Lee, 1998) and used vegetarian raw-food diet with the addition of various supplements but especially with high doses of (Lee, 1998) to cure himself. However, the pancreatic enzymes can also be too effective and the patient with poisons generated by the disintegrating tumor (Lee, 1998) This method is widely discussed and controversial in the medical community, however, because some believe it to not be true. Some patients who trust the modern day medical technology try to utilize this approach but out of the 22 cases Dr. Kelly tested his method on, only 5 recovered fully from their diseases. This approach is still being tested today, hopefully with the outcome of more patients having a more natural way to overcome their cancers. Traditional chemotherapy has been a constant and fairly effective method to curing various cancers but with updates in modern technology and old-world approaches, we are discovering less harmful and more effective ways to handle the deadly diseases. Insulin Potentiation Therapy and The Kelly Approach are two of the ways we are trying to revolutionize the game for cancer research and cures. Damyanov, Christo, Desislava Gerasimova, Ivan Maslev, and Veselin Gavrilov. Low- Dose Chemotherapy with Insulin (Insulin Potentiation Therapy) in Combination with Hormone Therapy for Treatment of Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer. , 2012. Medical Center integrative , Sofia, Bulgaria. USF LibraryAccessed 17 Jan. 2017. Last, Walter. The Diversity and Effectiveness of Natural Cancer Cures. 2nd ed. Vol. 28. , The Ecologist, 1998. USF Library eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=9007d2d9-f4a9- 42eb-8477- 6d116a348fe1%40sessionmgr120&vid=8&hid=119&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#d b=gft&AN=508732860. Accessed 17 Jan. 2017. Breen, Sibilah, Sarah Kofoed, David Ritchie, Tracey Dryden, Roma Maguire, Nora Kearney, and Sanchia Aranda. Remote Real-time Monitoring for Chemotherapy Side-effects in Patients with Blood  Collegian (2016): n. pag. Edselp. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Jung, Dooyoung, Kwang-Min Lee, Won-Hyoung Kim, Joo-Young Lee, Tae-Yong Kim, Seock-Ah Im, Kyung-Hun Lee, David Spiegel, and Bong-Jin Hahm. Longitudinal Association of Poor Sleep Quality with Chemotherapy-induced Nausea and Vomiting in Patients with Breast  Psychosomatic Medicine 78.8 (2016): 959-65. PsycINFO. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Monfort, Scott M., Xueliang Pan, Robyn Patrick, Janani Singaravelu, Charles L. Loprinzi, Maryam B. Lustberg, and Ajit M.W. Chaudhari. Full Length Article: Natural History of Postural Instability in Breast Cancer Patients Treated with Taxane-based Chemotherapy: A Pilot  Gait & Posture 48 (2016): 237-42. Edselp. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Cancer. N.p.: [San Francisco, California, : Kanopy Streaming, 2014., 2014. Cat00847a. Web. 7 Feb. 2017.