Vanessa Torres Instructor Carr ENC 1101 02/05/2017 Title: Neonatal Nursing Topic question: What are the common reason why babies are prematurely born? Everyday we casual walk through our day asking ourselves simple questions like what should I wear to school today, what homework do I have due tomorrow, what should I eat for lunch, and most importantly as a college student we ask ourselves do I have enough money to buy that? I am not here to ask simple questions though, I am here to ask why babies are born prematurely? What are the contributing factors that cause a child be be born before the due date? What does the mother or genes do wrong? See these question are not simple ones that we would ask ourselves on the daily, and quite frankly they are not questions I can answer as easily as the other questions. Historically premature babies were not as common as they are now a day, and there are many contributing factors behind the change in rates between babies being born prematurely in the vs the Some factors include medical advances, socio-economic level, congenital anomalies, multiple births at once, maternal diseases, and a lot of premature babies are born prematurely for unknown reasons. Oftedal, A., Busterud, K., Irgens, L. M., Haug, K., & Rasmussen, S. (2016). Socio-economic risk factors for preterm birth in Norway Scandinavian Journal Of Public Health , (6), 587-592. Preterm birth is greatly affected by socio-economic factor and new medical inventions. Based off of a study completed in Norway medical inventions such as induction of labour, caesarean section, and an increase in multiple births resulting from in vitro fertilization is a contributing factor to premature births, also mother who are single,and have low maternal education have been more associated with preterm births then a mother who is married, and had high maternal education. The study also concluded that in many countries there is a connection between ethnicity and premature babies. Immigrant groups tend to have an increased risk of premature babies compared to a stable family in their country. Lastly, the article connects cigarette smoking, maternal age, and parity to preterm babies. With regards to maternal age if a younger female was to give birth to multiple babies at once she would have a high risk of having preterm babies, and if an older woman decides to be a mother for the first time when her biological clock has already ticked, she too has a greater risk of having a preterm baby. This article is very relevant to my topic question what are common reasons why babies are born prematurely, because of all the valid reason provided to me that I know are credible based off of all the scholarly people whom studied, and provided visual graphs to support the information that was provided to me during the course of reading this article. Also this information has denotation that will take you directly to the study that is backing up what is being told to me. The reason listed are also understandably correct because of what they mean medically, like is a medical term meaning complication at or before birth, which directly correlates to having a child being born prematurely which is a complication. Patel, R. M., Kandefer, S., Walsh, M. C., Bell, E. F., Carlo, W. A., Laptook, A. R., & ... Stoll, B. J. (2015). Original Article: Causes and Timing of Death in Extremely Premature Infants from 2000 through 2011. New England Journal Of Medicine , 372331-340. doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1403489 This article tells us that the babies that were born prematurely and ended up dying right away was due most frequently to the baby not being mature enough, and faced difficulties like respiratory distress syndrome or infections like bronchopulmonary. Then the article continues to deaths among premature babies after 12 hours of being born, and it says that these preterm babies also have the same problems of immaturity, and sadly the babies who were not intubated within 12 hours after being prematurely born die as well. In relation to the previous article called risk factors for preterm birth in preterm babies mainly was caused by congenital anomalies, and this article includes necrotizing enterocolitis. The article Article: Causes and Timing of Death in Extremely Premature Infants from 2000 through 2011 was a very interesting read, and allowed me to better understand how time plays its role in babies being born prematurely. One if the baby does not develop fully in the 9 months time frame being in the womb , then is comes out immature and facing many complication such as one born prematurely would face. Secondly helped me understand how quickly death can come to a premature baby and what are the reasons for the death. I see the credibility based off the source information at the end of the article. All of the sources are from Pediatric Departments from all over like Emory University School of Medicine and Health of Atlanta, Department of Pediatric of University of Iowa, the Division of Neonatology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, etc,. The time frames, cause, and the proportion of death of premature babies is also very clearly graphed, and the overall cause of deaths among extremely premature babies is given to us in a table that had denotation that helps us to further understand what is being presented to us, and over all the information has support to back it up at the end of the article, and the site is scholarly. Batieha, A. M., Khader, Y. S., Berdzuli, N., Chua-Oon, C., Badran, E. F., Al-sheyab, N. A., & Al-Qutob, R. J. (2016). Level, causes and risk factors of neonatal mortality, in Jordan: Results of a national prospective study. And Child Health Journal , (5), 1061-1071. doi:10.1007/s10995-015-1892-x This article explains neonatal deaths that are preventable, possibly preventable, and not preventable at all. Discussing statistics like 79% of all neonatal deaths are within the first week of being born, and 46% are within the first day. Most of these deaths occurred 27.2% by congenital anomalies, 26% by multiple births, or 21.7% unexplained immaturity. Some other causes included maternal diseases by 6.7%, specific infant conditions by 6.4%, and 4.9% unexplained asphyxia. One of the tables that provided us with information regarding the causes of babies being born premature shared information that congenital heart disease accounted for 25.8% of congenital deaths also showed us that pre-eclampsia accounted for more than 75% of the deaths in the category of and lastly this table showed us that sepsis was 70% the cause with regards to infant and 50% were due to milk aspirations in the category of The last table regarding causes told us how respiratory distress syndrome was the leading cause of death in premature babies. This article was one of the more respectable ones because a panel of experts such as neonatologist, a gynecologist, an epidemiologist, and a biostatistician reviewed all the information discovered, and decided the direct/underlying factors of neonatal deaths. Also throughout the presentation of the information regarding the causes behind premature babies, and the mortality rates I was provided with statistical proof, tables that provide the information stated in paragraph before it in the table, and everything was very well organized therefore a lot of thought had to be put behind each heading/subheading. Simmons, L. E., Rubens, C. E., Darmstadt, G. L., & Gravett, M. G. (2010). Preventing Preterm Birth and Neonatal Mortality: Exploring the Epidemiology, Causes, and Interventions. Seminars In Perinatology , (Global Perinatal Health), 408-415. doi:10.1053/j.semperi.2010.09.005 I discovered while reading this article that the reasons why babies are born prematurely vary vastly! Some of the reasons for preterm babies are where they are born, for example babies born in least developed regions of the world like Africa have greater counts of babies born prematurely. Though the regions matter, there are many motherly issues that can lead to preterm babies like genetic connective tissue disorder, vitamin C deficiency, tobacco use, short cervix, intrauterine infection, preterm premature rupture of the fetal membranes, previous cervical surgery or laceration, multiple gestation, also being medically induced. I also learned that malaria can also affect fetal growth, stress increases preterm births rates drastically, and environmental factors such as air pollutants like carbon monoxide, lead, and soiled fuels that we used to cook in our homes everyday, but if that home if poorly ventilated then the pregnant mother is just inhaling the harmful chemicals. Overall this article was an extremely interesting read, and it had so much relevant information to my topic regarding common reasons why babies are born prematurely. I would have never known if it was for this article that malaria and air pollutants are contributing factors to babies being born prematurely. Throughout the article I was provided with statistical proof, figures, and tables that allowed me to visually related all the possible reasons for neonatal death, and preterm labor and delivery into a diagram. Overall the information was connected to my research topic, and was supported by other credible articles, and people. Tsimis, M., Lei, J., McLane, M., Arif, H., Xie, L., Eloundou, S., & ... Burd, I. (2017). 330: Chronic increase in maternal systemic causes preterm birth, decreased pup survival and leads to neurodevelopmental sequelae. Journal Of Obstetrics & Gynecology , 216 S200. doi:10.1016/j.ajog.2016.11.588 Very straightforward topic and research process occurred during this article, and this article informed me that Chronic exposure led to 26% increase in preterm birth. The process occurred by observation and an analytical perspective of preterm birth occurrence after receiving either no injection, injection of phosphate buffered saline, injection of mouse recombinant for four days in a row.I also learned that this is one of the first studies done regarding and its connection to preterm births. The connection was made clear that the two do relate, but also relates to perinatal brain injury. The information provided in this research project further let me understand some contributing factors to preterm births, and this corroletected to my topic of what are some reasons why babies are born prematurely. I also found this site to be credible because all of the information was very relevant, specific, and I was able to look at logical figures that helped me further understand the research topic visually. Masho, S. W., Munn, M. S., & Archer, P. W. (2014). Multilevel factors influencing preterm birth in an urban setting. Planning & Transport Research , (1), 36. doi:10.1080/21650020.2014.896223 The preterm rates amongst non-Hispanic Black women was about 58% more compared to non-Hispanic White counterparts, but it is proven that amongst all ethnicity those in poverty or low-income experience high rates of preterm babies being born. This was discovered by individual level factors being thoroughly examined like race, ethnicity, education, and age. This article explained to me how mother who experience pregnancy complications had an issue with one of the following: diabetes, hypertension, eclampsia, incompetent cervix, anemia, or maternal infection. Whites tend to have an issue with nulliparity in relations to preterm births unlike blacks. Blacks tend to have issues correlating with preterm births with increasing maternal age, maternal smoking, and previous birthing. Those women in poverty environments are likely to experience preterm births because have high levels of stress, and inability to afford prenatal care. Understandable a very informative article providing me not only with support and answers to my question of what are common reasons why babies are born prematurely, but further goes into details of how of multifactorial preterm births are. This article helped me to answer my research topic by telling me how race, ethnicity, economic status, and maternal issues all correlate to preterm births. I also found this article to be credible by having direct denotations to other article support the claim being made. This article also made sure to include quantitative information that was valuable and relevant to the rates of preterm births, and allowed to me really understand how much really plays a role into preterm births.