Thorpe 1 Introduction The United States has narrow criteria when hiring someone in the work force and considering myself to be an American, just having a high school diploma in this society today will not carry you very far statistically. Sixty-five percent of jobs require an education or certain skill work that you will not be able to find just from graduating high school. Having free community college can open up a large amount of doors for citizens who dream and desire to do great things in order to benefit our nation. There are a large number of Americans who receive a education after high school, not because of intelligence, but because of financial situations. Even our latest president Barack Obama created a proposal of free tuition for community college. Although going to college is not easy and student success is not guaranteed, given the opportunity alone is a success to some students. Being a citizen of this country, all people should want more Americans to become better educated. I believe that with free tuition for community colleges can create a better economy in the United States. More jobs could potentially open for citizens who have an education that is higher than an average high school diploma. Although my opinion raises the question, how can this be paid for? It is too our advantage that the taxes we pay can help pay off tuition. There are so many benefits that can help our society as a whole if only there could be more educated people. Which then raises the question, why community college tuition free? Goldrick-Rab, Sara, and Andrew P Kelly. community college be free? Education next talks with Sara Goldrick-Rab and Andrew Forum. Education Next, 14 Oct. 2015. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. - This citation explains the debate of how free tuition community college can benefit or disrupt our nations education system. Also in this article Sara Goldrick- Rab who is a professor of educational policy studies and sociology at the University of Wisconsin. Helps our last presidents plan by basically diagraming the funds for students who would receive this free tuition, which includes housing and other expenses that they will need in order to pursue their education. Basically what this professor is trying to get across is that more works in our country should be able to have more degrees. Not only are there a numerous amount of people without degrees but it seems as though getting any job that pays well enough for you too live comfortably, can not happen unless you are well educated with a college degree. Although the Obama plan did not talk about student readiness and the success of the Thorpe 2 students, statistically this could increase the rates of college degrees. I really enjoyed reading Professor approach to us having free community college, as a support of her work everything she pointed out is something that I stand by. Funding students can help our nation tremendously with the economy that is why it is important for Americans to keep this under consideration. Reim, Mary Clare. community college is a bad deal for taxpayers and students. The Heritage Foundation, 15 July 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. - This citation is speaking of how free community college would not be entirely free. Just like grade school children and major teens that are attending high school, our taxes pay for their books and accessories to receive a certain level of education. Having free community college, which is obviously considered a higher level of education, would have to be paid for by our everyday taxpayers. This article also speaks on academic underperformance by students. She states than 20 percent of students attending community college full-time for the first time complete their program within 150 percent of the time their program is supposed to Almost half of the students who attend community college pay for their tuition through Pell Grants, which are provided by the school. This citation also talked about information about the research that found out that almost forty percent of students in the year two thousand nine received their college degree within six-years of school. Obama in this article suggested that community college could be as free as high school; imagine how many benefits could come from mostly everybody being able to get the chance to graduate from college. This article will be very beneficial too final paper. Kudler, Jesse. free college is Article. Dissent Magazine, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. - This citation talks about how free community college is not a new idea to our society and that the national debate between colleges being free is long overdue. Obviously there are a handful of people who do not attend college but is the cost the answer to why there are people not in college. This article also talks about free college could only benefit the ones who are not able to receive a higher education. Not that everybody in this world wants to go to college, in order to work for a high paying job it is almost impossible without having a four too six year degree. Free college will not solve inequality but the topic is allowing us to consider what it could be like if community college could be free for the first two years. What is the point of higher education? Only so that a select few can receive this type of education, if only there were more people educated maybe the crime rate could reduce. Education in Thorpe 3 this world is basically everything, being educated is power amongst you. Not all who are educated are successful but it is also an advantage. Berke, Jeremy. why a lot of economists hate the idea of free public Business Insider. Business Insider, 2 Mar. 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. - This citation talks about how free college is likely too not be a good idea according the several economist. Seven hundred billion dollars were donated to waive tuition at colleges for any type of students. A lot of professors in this article were able to give their small opinion on what they think if free community college would ever happen. is the association that is collecting all of this data for free tuition of college. Economist believe that helping students who can not afford tuition need to have increasing finical aid from the school so that the student can be able to live normally while giving their best effort in the class room. A lot of benefits go to the more fortunate students who are able to pay a lot of their tuition in most cases receive free scholarships. Free tuition in our generation today is more of a donation to students but with the amount of students who could actually afford college, it cancels out the students who are less fortunate to be able to afford school but could be educated enough to succeed at a high level. Low income students will more likely receive more grant money if free tuition ever became possible for community college.