Rodriguez 1 Elle Rodriguez Professor Davis ENC 1102 1/30/17 The Fight Between Religious Liberty and LGBT Rights Millions of LGBT Americans will experience discrimination based on their sexual orientation or gender identity at least once in their lifetime. One of the main reasons this occurs is because other Americans cite their conservative viewpoint and religious views to deny service to gay and lesbian individuals. Two stakeholders who would arise from this situation would be the Human Rights Campaign and the Family Research Council. These two stakeholders are on opposite ends of the spectrum when it comes to their viewpoint. The Human Rights Campaign advocates that individuals should not be able to discriminate against LGBT Americans on any basis and that they should be legally protected. But the Family Research Council expresses that individuals should have the right to refuse service to LGBT Americans if it is against their religious beliefs. Even though they have extremely opposing viewpoints, common ground can be found between them. Common ground between the stakeholders would be that both the Human Rights Campaign and the Family Research Council advocate for legislation that would protect their civil liberties and that members of both organizations practice Christianity. The only compromise between these two stakeholders would be to use their practice of Christianity to change how they treat each other. While this would be a challenging compromise, it would solve a major social problem of the United States. Rodriguez 2 Conservative individuals and organizations have historically been the main opposition towards gay and lesbian rights. The viewpoint that religious rights should be prioritized over LGBT rights has been around for several decades. And millions of individuals still have that viewpoint. The Family Research Council perfectly embodies this conservative viewpoint. The Family Research Council is an organization that promotes a conservative Judeo-Christian worldview and thinks individuals should have the liberty to discriminate against LGBT Americans if it is against their beliefs. The Family Research Council states on their website that they the vigorous efforts of homosexual activists to demand that homosexuality be accepted as equivalent to heterosexuality in law, in the media, and in (n.p.). So, this stakeholder opposes LGBT rights completely. They also have arguments similar scholars who have published peer-reviewed articles in Academic Journals. For example, Travis Gasper expresses that freedom arguments are already being used to (Gasper 395). Gasper was referring to arguments made by conservative officials in the government. Gasper also argues that accommodating LGBT Americans would the sincerely held religious (Gasper 395) of other individuals. Other scholars such as Nancy Knauer point out that legislatures and Congress have begun to consider religious marriage (Knauer 749). All these conservative scholars also express that religious liberty must be protected even more as it faces opposition. The Human Rights Campaign feels very strongly about laws concerning religious liberty. When these laws are enacted, discrimination towards LGBT individuals increases. The Human Rights Campaign states on their website that it is an organization that advocates for world where lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer people are ensured equality and embraced as full members of society at home, at work and in every (n.p.). The Human Rights Rodriguez 3 Campaign carries out these principles by backing supreme court cases that involve discrimination towards LGBT individuals. Many scholars also advocate for what the Human Rights Campaign does. Scholar Brian Levy suggests that inequality increases hate crimes because they provide discursive opportunities for (Levy 159). This means that if laws are enacted to allow religious freedom to justify denying services to LGBT individuals, hate crimes would rise. Some scholars also go to the extent to say there is a standing cultural war against LGBT (Swan 159). This encompasses the feelings of millions of LGBT Americans. So overall, these stakeholders are opposed to legislation that would allow for discrimination towards LGBT individuals because it prioritizes religion. These two stakeholders have been at odds for decades. The Family Research Council and LGBT Americans have yet to come to a compromise. The Family Research Council refuses to support protections for LGBT individuals over expanded religious freedom and what it allows you to do. When it comes to LGBT Americans, they refuse to have any compromise that would put them at risk for discrimination. A compromise that is workable is using the two stakeholders common ground of practicing Christianity. A solution to these two stakeholders opposing viewpoints would be to appeal to their shared Christianity and morals to change the way they treat others with opposing viewpoints. Solutions like this are not simple and it would require open minds from both stakeholders. Some say that this compromise is too weak and that a law needs to be passed to protect either stakeholder. But that would mean that it would be forcefully making one stakeholder to compromise. So, the compromise must appeal to both beliefs and morals. But the compromise is also spiritual because appealing to the spirituality of both stakeholders. The solution would also involve a very peaceful meeting between the leaders of each organization Rodriguez 4 that would be focused on spirituality, morals, and the act of compromising like civilized individuals and organizations. This is the only peaceful solution for opposing viewpoints of the Family Research Council and the Human Rights Campaign. LGBT rights is a sensitive issue for some while religious liberty is important to other individuals. Stakeholders that side with the Family Research Council want improved religious liberty that does not protect LGBT individuals. While stakeholders that stand behind the Human Rights Campaign want protection from discrimination towards them due to a religious views. These stakeholders have had opposing viewpoints for decades and immediate action needs to be taken for a compromise to take place. The compromise would be using the two groups spirituality and morals to realize that they need to treat each other as equal under the law. This compromise may be challenging, but it would solve one of Americas biggest social problems. Works Cited Family Research Council. Research Family Research Council. Family Research Council, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Gasper, Travis. Religious Right To Discriminate: Hobby Lobby And As A Threat To The LGBT Texas A&M Law Review 3.(2015): 395. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Campaign, Human Rights. Mission  Human Rights Campaign. Human Rights Campaign, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Knauer, Nancy J. Exemptions, Marriage Equality, And The Establishment Of UMKC Law Review 84.(2016): 749. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 1 Feb. Rodriguez 5 2017. Levy, Brian L., and Denise L. Levy. Love Meets Hate: The Relationship Between State Policies On Gay And Lesbian Rights And Hate Crime Social Science Research 61.(2017): 142-159. ScienceDirect. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Nosanchuk, Mathew S. Endurance Test: Executive Power And The Civil Rights Of LGBT Albany Government Law Review 5.(2012): 440. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Sumerau, J. Edward. Of Us Are Good, God-Fearing Justifying Religious Participation In An LGBT Christian Journal Of Contemporary Ethnography 46.1 (2017): 3. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Swan, Wallace. Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, And Transgender Civil Rights: A Public Policy Agenda For Uniting A Divided America. Boca Raton: CRC Press, 2015. Discovery eBooks. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Rodriguez 6