Caleb Scott Jenifer Paquette ENC1101 29 January 2017 Elimination of the penny While researching about the penny I found that there are far more reasons to eliminate the penny than to keep it. I have found many articles online that are written about this issue. Most of the sources come from journals or newspapers, but all of them can be found online.These authors often agree that the penny is a waste of time and money. For example We Get Rid of the Written by Amy Livingston tells us that it costs 1.7 cents to make a penny. My goal in this paper is to bring the reasons for the abolition of the penny into light by drawing connections between these articles. 1) .Amy Livingston http://www.moneycrashers.com/get-rid-penny-reasons/ My first source We Get Rid of The by Amy Livingston , holds tons of information regarding the penny. Also it acknowledges both sides of the argument for and against the penny. While reading it is obvious that the author is anti penny but the information that she presents is more or less unbiased. Livingston has four main anti penny points; Useless , They waste time, They waste government money, and bad for the On the other hand Livingston also points out that they have sentimental value and removing them may cause a problem with the economy. Overall this source provides great historical context and gives plenty of information on the creation of the penny rid of the penny by Amy Livingston is a great source for many reasons. It was written in 2014 making it current and it also pulls plenty of information from many other valid sources like the federal reserve bank and The Eastern Economic journal. Also i found that all the links are in working order so the site is well maintained and up to date. As for Amy credibility she has written many other articles on a large variety of topics and is more than qualified to speak on this topic. 2) U.S. Department of treasury, History of the lincoln cent, January 4 2011 My second source history of the Lincoln provides a lot of information regarding the history of the cent and how it came to be the penny we all know today. According to the site the original penny was composed primarily of copper,but during world war two the mint was denied the copper required to produce the coin so they had to seek a new material and thus the zinc coated steel penny was born. Then again in 1982 the penny was changed to the cent that we all know today being 97.6% zinc and 2.4 % copper. This peer reviewed is source very reliable on account of the fact that written by the representatives of the US Treasury, a source more than qualified to write on the topic. Also its was written in 2011 so not the most recent but there been any recent changes to the penny so reasonable to not want to update the information. There are no broken links and it seems to be a well maintained government site. 3) New Republic, NonCents,August ,8,1994 ebscohost.com, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=e636a109-c642-49 38-b133-2ccd96d0fd65%40sessionmgr104&vid=31&hid=108 The third source published by New Republic was written just before the 100 dollar bill that we know today was released. According to the article by the year 2000 the government had printed all new bills because of the ability to easily counterfeit (New Republic). The biggest reason that this article is included is to show historical context. The controversy on whether or not to eliminate the penny has been brought up many times in the past and has been shot down for one reason or another. The most prominent issue with eliminating the penny is that all transactions would round up to the nickle and that would end up being an indirect tax on the poor(New Republic). This source seems to be reliable based on its well organized updated website. Also the source has plenty of experience writing on the actions that our government has taken in the past as well as keeping up with more current events. While this article may be an older one the source is still publishing new content on controversial topics. This is a peer reviewed source that supports my claim that pennies are a waste of governments money and the time. Bacharach, Jere L., Thoughts about pennies and other money,, Middle East Studies Association Bulletin, July 1 2001 This next source provides a plethora of information on coins in general and how they impact trading. It gives us a cultural historical view on how everything is tied together and even offers different forms of currency. While it does not offer much to the argument on why we should rid ourselves of the nuisance we call pennies it does a great job of showing how currencies come and go out of commerce. It brings to light that the penny is not that ancient and that trade will go on without it without much impact. Over all the concepts that this article brings to the table are unique and give a great perspective about foreign and historical coinage. This sources reliability can be found in its experience in writing. Jere L. Bacharach is head of Middle East Studies Association of North America and often writes on historical topics. The peer reviewed research article is current and draws information from a variety of other reliable sources in history. On top of all of that the website is well maintained with no broken links making this a full proof source.