Name: Zhen Tian Class: ENC1102.027S17 Professor: Ms. Poston Date: 02/12/2017 Date:02/12/2017 Different Types of Vehicle Affect the Global Warming The climate change is a long time question since the industrial revolution. As the main reason of climate change, the global warming always attracts attention. With the development of economy and technology, people take different kinds of measures to control the global warming, but will not address the root of the problem. average global temperature has increased by about 1.4 degrees Fahrenheit (0.8 degrees Celsius) over the past 100 years, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (Confronting the Realities of Climate Change-impacts). In fact, the carbon dioxide emitting is the major contributor to global warming. No matter power station, steel, cement production, oil refinery or gas purification, almost all industrial sectors emit carbon dioxide. But vehicle exhaust emission is the most noticeable part. With the increasing in the number of cars, the emission from cars are more and more seriousness. results indicate that GHG emissions from passenger vehicles were about 486 mt CO2e in 2014, accounting for roughly 5% of national total GHG (Liu 2). To deal with this problem, many people and the government appeal to use the lower emission cars. In addition, many companies like BYD and Tesla are committed to the development of electric vehicle, which is powered by electricity and does not discharge any pollutant. However, there are still many people and organizations like National Alternative Fuels Training Consortium, they believe only the fuel vehicle can make a balance between the environment and the market. As the delegate of electric vehicle, Tesla said leadership in electric vehicle design and production satisfies the component. This component implies the use of advanced technology to address current concerns, such as environmental (Rowland 1). They believe that, electric vehicle is the future of the world. Because any fuel vehicle emits carbon dioxide, no matter how much it discharges, pollution will not be allowed in a high-technology world. more, a zero-emissions car have to sacrifice power or comfort. can treat a Tesla car as an App that can be upgraded on the fly when bug or better algorithms are at the same time, experience for different drivers with car seat, climate control, and other (Katzor paragraph 2). In addition, the electric vehicle also deals with other serious problem, like the air pollution, noise, and gas shortage. Because of these proprieties, more and more people tend to support the electric vehicle. There are also many organization, like ENE (Environment Northeast), which at the forefront of efforts to combat global warming and promote clean energy and clean air solutions in New England and Eastern Canada. It thinks the electric vehicle will make the environment better. These organizations and companies believe that electric vehicle has a better prospect than fuel vehicle. However, there are still many companies stick to produce fuel vehicle. Because the electric vehicle is not suitable for current market. The cost of the electric vehicle is much higher than fuel vehicle. A basic of Tesla sales 7,2000 dollars. People can buy almost any fuel vehicle with this price. In addition, not only the purchase price is high, but also the use-cost. For the electric vehicle, charging is always a problem. first is the limited EV driving range which varies between 80 and 130 km for light duty EVs. The second weakness is related to the long charging time of EVs. The third weakness concerns the development of charging infrastructure networks and the limited capacity of the electricity (Sassi and Ammar paragraph 7). In fact, he charging column is only universal in few developed countries. Even in American, there is not enough charging column in all states. more, not all motor corporation grasp the core technology of electric vehicle. If they want to produce electric vehicle, they have to give up the working experience before and back to square one. That needs enough courage and also has the risk. Because just develop electric vehicle will increase the manufacturing costs. It does damage to economically sustainable development. In addition, there are also many organization supporting the fuel vehicle. Like National Alternative Fuels Training Consortium, they believe that through the technology developing, fuel vehicle can also be environmental. These organizations and companies reflect that the fuel vehicle are more suitable than electric vehicle to this social class. To satisfy each of these stakeholders, there are many different compromises provided by people and governments. Like increasing tax of fuel vehicle or advising electric vehicle companies to share the technology with other companies. However, these two compromises are difficult to achieve. Because they cause directly damage to each stakeholder. The increasing of tax will reduce the sales volume and make the dealers have to reduce the price of the fuel vehicle. That will upset the balance of the market, even the government will not allow it. As the same time, sharing technology is also impossible. The core technology is the secret of the electric vehicle, sharing the secret is equivalent to suicide. However, there is a suitable way, which can satisfy each of the stakeholders and is quite practical. Today there are many companies that are trying to develop gas-electric vehicle, which is powered both from fuel and electricity. This type of car has both advantages of fuel and electric vehicles. The price of these vehicle is lower than electric vehicle but the emission is also lower than fuel vehicle. hybrid electric vehicles as well as electric vehicles are recognized as one of the most promising avenues to materially reduce automobile contributions to petroleum dependency, air pollution and carbon dioxide (Nanaki 66). Electric vehicle companies can open the market and reduce the production cost. For fuel vehicle companies, they can produce the car with less emission to attract more people who support protecting the environment. BMW provides many kinds of gas-electric vehicle in recent years. more than a decade UTC Power part of United Technologies Corporation has been working with BMW to develop highly efficient, zero-emission, and freeze-capable fuel cell (paragraph 1), They are based on the original models, but change the power. system uses UTC proprietary ambient pressure technology, which does not require a compressor to deliver air to the cell stack. This results in a quieter, more efficient (Barrett paragraph 3) The sale volume of these type of car is increasing, that shows people are more and more acceptable for that. If possible, the government can also take some measures, like offering financial support on the research of gas-electric vehicle or reduce the tax on these cars. Because this method is really suitable for the current social situation. Works Cited Barrett, Steve. UTC Auxiliary Power In BMW Hybrid  Fuel Cells Bulletin 2010.4 (2010): 3. Academic Search Premier. April 2010.Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Katzor, Elana. is competitive Quora. 26 Jun 2014.Web.29 Jan.2017. Nanaki, Evanthia and Christopher J. Koroneos. Comparative economic and environmental analysis of conventional, hybrid and electric vehicles the case study of  Journal of Cleaner Production 53 (2013): 261-66. August 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rowland, Christine. Tesla Motors, Vision Statement & Mission Statement (An Panmore Institute. N.p., 24 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sassi, Ons and Ammar Oulamara. Electric Vehicle Scheduling And Optimal Charging Problem: Complexity, Exact And Heuristic  International Journal Of Production Research 55.2 (2017): 519-535. Business Source Premier. 07 Sep.2015 Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Union of Concerned Scientists. Confronting the Realities of Climate Change-impacts.  Web.29 Jan.2017. Liu, Zongwei. et al. Scenario analysis of energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions from passenger  Energy 91 (2015): 151-59. November. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.