Music technology has been drastically refined over the past few decades. With music recording and production beginning as early as the late so much has become available for the common musician. Having access to different microphones, digital audio workstations, and a plethora of electronic instruments allows us to experiment our craft with ease in the modern day. Today composers use music notation software to write music literature efficiently and commercial musicians work in advanced studios. Software has been used to mimic live recordings of tuned instruments and vocals. Many are currently working on more reliable, realistic-sounding, and functional inventions for those in the workforce in music education, the music industry, and other performers. What may the future have in stock in terms of music technology for the modern musician? Hamman, Michael. From Technical to Technological: The Imperative of Technology in Experimental Music  Perspectives of New Music 2002: 92. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Music composition is described as the dialectical notation of music literature written for a live performance, as compared to electronically produced soundtracks that are ready to play aloud from a device. Different sections of this article go over the importance of being musically literate and being open to experiment with electronic elements in acoustic music. Information on studies similar to computer usability were helpful in constructing new ways of creating musical pieces with technology. Towards the end of the this research has led to the first user in which the user can manipulate sound through the software. Having the resources necessary to produce electronically-altered music, artists began to bring electronic- acoustic works into the mainstream.Many musicians used a mix of acoustic-music writing traditions and music production methods to create music with not only live instruments, but also with electric ones and other sounds made through a computer. Some use electronically made instrumentals instead of recording with a live band, which some argue is far from authentic and lacks talent. This revolutionized how music was created with the new elements included into the production, and inspired new techniques and music genres that we still listen to today. Perspectives of New Music is credited as an academic journal based off of research of the evolving music industry. This research reveals how growing artists began to incorporate new methods of music making into the industry, rather than completely leaving behind the original music writing process, hand-written music notation. Allowing technology to do some of the work for us can open up a plethora of new possibilities. Tjora, Aksel H. The Groove in the Box: A Technologically Mediated Inspiration in Electronic Dance  Popular Music 2009: 161. JSTOR Journals. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. Now that the common person could engage in high-quality music composition in their bedrooms, many began to experiment with music genres, especially in the electronic dance music category. One of the first musical instruments of its kind, the Roland MC303 Groovebox was created in 1996. The groovebox records music notation, contains a synthesizer, and many features for the operator to use as they are improvising with their recorded tracks. The information in this article is based on studies made on different users of the product and how different musicians perceive the instrument. Because it has so many controls and options, every one came up with varying musical ideas and used the features differently to achieve this. Many new subgenres such as techno, jungle, and acid were developed and continue to be created today in 2017. Many argue that this model of the instrument is superior to others or did not exceed their expectations, which grew from the huge diversity in musical desires and projects being made. As more instruments and systems created, more electronic music artists found new ways to pursue a disc jockey occupation using similar controller boards that have the ability to alter music on the spot. These studies were published through the Cambridge University Press. Musicians who engaged in using advanced music-producing machinery were able to experiment more in the electronic dance music route, using non-traditional instrumental sounds to create new atmospheres and adding dance rhythms. This is how this major genre was born. n Homer, Matthew. Beyond The Studio: The Impact Of Home Recording Technologies On Music Creation And  Nebula 6.3 (2009): 85-99. Humanities Source. Web. 8 Feb. 2017. This article pertains to the closing of Olympic Studios (2009) from music company EMI and artists opinions on what may look like the of music production. Several musicians mentioned that these studios were outdated in terms of technology and recording methods, while others felt that there is no longer a desire for live recording environments. Another claim was that popular music of the time (focusing on the rapidly growing pop and hip hop genres) has influenced a need for new equipment in a new music studio setting. These technologies would allow recording artists to recreate new techniques such as sampling and mixing their songs efficiently. Having these resources set up in the comfort of your home can make it easier to save money in the long run as you would purchase advanced technologies to use yourself instead of renting a studio space. Many commercial artists today also have a big sense of independence. Many work on producing their work themselves without having to hire someone else for assistance. New pieces of equipment alike to USB microphones you can connect to your laptop and affordable mixing consoles have become accessible to the work-at-home musicians. These sources have allowed recordings to be easily posted to the internet and especially on social media applications to promote the craft-- all through the power of a desktop. Nebula is a certified academic journal and this article was written by media producer and researcher Matthew Homer. Randles, Clint. Being An  General Music Today 1 (2013): Academic OneFile. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Author Clint Randles writes on his ideas on how an iPad tablet can be used as a musical instrument. This is far after music notation software made to compliment groovebox-like systems were created. Using a computer laptop to store, record, and edit music was already common until many wanted to mobilize the concept a bit more. As disk jockeys began to mix music with the cell phones in their pockets on the go, musicians like Randles use portable computer tablets to perform with others in a live ensemble. Not many people have heard of an iPad band prior to University of South iPad band, Touch. Computer software and applications alike to GarageBand are experimented with to prepare a music setlist of original or sampled music and add additional embellishment as the artist pleases. Clint also informs us that the device in which he uses does serve a musical purpose, but also just happens to include other features such as email applications, search engines, and other tools. Performing with a mobile device in a concert setting is another example of what has stemmed from the development of music technology. Touch is an iPad band comprised of members of the University of South Florida music education faculty and some doctoral students. The ensemble began in 2010 when the iPad was available for user consumption and they toured quite a bit. This writing was published to inform others on how tablets can be used in the music performance industry as well as a teaching tool in a musical classroom. Thwaites, Trevor, (Author). Technology And Music Education In A Digitized, Disembodied, Posthuman  Action, Criticism, And Theory For Music Education 13.2 (2014): 30-47. RILM Abstracts of Music Literature (1967 to Present only). Web. 8 Feb. 2017. With advances in technology to create music, many have thought of bringing machinery and equipment in the classroom to spread the knowledge of the resources musicians now have available to them. Teachers across the nation have gone beyond simply instructing their students how to read music and perform better, but to also include new technologies in the real world to aid them with their music careers. Interactive applications can be used to log their progress over time and recognize elements of their performance such as volume (dynamics), pitch (tuning), and rhythm accuracy. Some educators are against the idea of engaging their students in working with much technology as they feel that our youth is already absorbed in it. With the huge acceleration in evolution of technology since the many have been thought to have become dependent on using these resources to grow and function in their daily lives. Some professors and researchers suggest that it is imperative to musical education and performance that they can analyze sound nearly as well as a computer can. Trevor Thwaites works in music education at the University of Auckland. He seems to be uncomfortable with the growth of using music technology in educating students. His opinion on the subject is that it destructs a human experience and may interfere with how someone should enjoy music-- living through the experience of an acoustic piece without the need of extra machinery to produce sound or deliver it to an audience. He describes this as a post-human condition that will demolish the authenticity of music making. In his case, he believes that music technology in the industry is wrong and that there are other ways to revolutionize the art. Thivierge, Bethany, BS, MPH. Music  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Science (2016): Research Starters. Web. 8 Feb. 2017. To wrap things up, different elements of music making have become enhanced with software, hardware, and experimental craftsmanship. Music composition has become a more rapid process as these layers of sound (harmonization) are dictated onto notation software like Finale or MuseScore, which can then be translated (transposed), edited, and played black in real- time for the composer to analyze. Recordings can be added into similar programs where their analogue form can be altered or converted into a digital track. Mixing layers from different works to come up with a new project became possible and resulted in the creation of new types of music. MIDI (Musical Instrument Digital Interface) keyboards are another example of an instrument that can record performed sound to be stored and potentially edited as well. Many artists have come up with innovative ways to achieve all of this with a budget and in a home environment, allowing those in the underground to exceed performance expectations. Hyperinstruments have been invented to suit the needs and desires of music virtuosos, such as Lady lead keyboardist, Brockett new 360, circular piano arc. The evolution of music machinery has allowed us to create so many things we would not have thought of long ago, and technology is still advancing at a rapid rate as we read this. Concepts for new and extensive systems are in progress. While musicians will use different mediums of preference to reach their artistic epiphanies, eventually there will be something available for everyone, and much, much more. The Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science looks into this research every year and this article is used as a popular, current research starter.