Shannon Trehy Instructor Carr Comp 1 February 5, 2017 The Causation of Serial Killing The psychology of serial killers intrigues many people because of how heinous the actions of popular serial killers are. People naturally are interested in violence and death, as evidenced by successful action movies and their litanies of sequels. Many wonder how one can be so devoid of humanity to ruthlessly murder people repeatedly and often times in grotesque fashions. What makes serial killers different enough to find a sense of comfort or pleasure in the act of killing? One of the first serial killers, H. H. Holmes, whom dates back to 1888, had a violent and alcoholic father and was subjected to bullying at the hands of his classmates who forced him into a closet with a human skeleton at a young age. Jeffrey Dahmer, one of the most popular and recent serial killers in America, had parents however who aggressively abusive, but abusive in their neglect of him. Serial killers just a Western novelty however, even though the number of them seems to be much higher than in Eastern countries, but given the more dense population, it may appear that serial killers are a phenomenon of this country alone. Serial killers can be found all throughout the world. So why everyone a serial killer? What makes serial killers different from the average human being? Annotated Bibliography Harmening, WIlliam M. Serial Killers. Charles C Thomas, 2014. subject-titled work on Serial Killers provides the reader with an array of knowledge about the psychological research conducted on serial killers and what the results yielded. Harmening helpfully produces a chart for the reader to observe the categories of serial killers with to get a more clear and succinct understanding for what the differences of the serial killers are and kicks off the entire book with having it smack dab on the first page. work is pertinent to my research question because it analyzes what is unique to serial killers that other average do not possess. It provides other interesting information on the topic as well that I can use to further solidify my claims. William M. Harmening has many publish works in the field of criminology, all of which that have been deeply researched and peer reviewed by other specialists. Harmening is a proper source to use for my work. Biagi-Chai, Francesca. Serial Killers: Criminology, psychiatry, responsibility. Abingdon, Oxon; New York, N.Y.: Routledge, 2012. concentration on Landru provides the reader with the ability to better understand the situation and the terms the Lacanian psychoanalyst and senior psychiatrist uses to detail the account of Landru and why he is being analyzed for the psychology of serial killers at all. Biagi-Chai contests the ideas of and mental illness against each other in a critique of the plea for innocence due to insanity. research and compilation is useful to my research in that it provides a succinct example for me to reference for my work and to use as a springboard into certain topics or points that I am trying to make. Her dedication to this specific case will allow me an in depth analyzation of my topic and produce key details that will further my claims or yield new topics to broach. Vronsky, Peter. Serial Killers: The Method and Madness of Monsters. Electronic ed. New York: Berkley, 2005. book Serial Killers tells his personal accounts of running into two serial killers and not knowing at the time of the encounter that they were in fact men who murdered several people. One instance, Vronsky brushed past Richard Francis Cottingham, a serial killer who took pleasure in dismembering his victims. Another Vronsky came in contact with is Andrei Chikatilo, a Ukrainian cannibal whose victim count is fifty-three. telling of his stories provides a unique perspective to how one views serial killers. easy to see them as monsters, as vicious horrible creatures, as not human, but when it comes down to it one would most likely not be able to pick one out in a crowd. Serial killers could be anywhere and it would be difficult to distinguish one from a regular person. This furthers my work by showing the subtlety of the madness of serial killers. Blundell, Nigel. Serial Killers: Murder Without Mercy. Pen and Sword, 2010. accounts of multiple serial killers is very useful in that it dedicates a chapter to serial killer and their ideology and their reasons for killing. Each chapter entails the life and what kicked off their sprees of killing. The reading is very easy as every account of the killers makes it easy to stay interested in because of how horrible these people can be. work cites many crime experts and professional psychologists to make his work credible. He has compiled many researches and their findings into his book, making it a comprehensive hive mind for information pertaining to my topic. His work will be greatly advantageous to furthering mine. Berry-Dee, Christopher. Cannibal Serial Killers. Ulysses Press, 2011 Berry-Dee starts his book off with a splash in retelling his encounter with Arthur John Shawcross, one of New most notorious serial killers and cannibal. Berry-Dee managed to get Shawcross to confess to the killings of Jack Blake, a young boy, and Kimberly Logan. He describes Shawcross grotesquely and makes note of his fidgety nature. Berry-Dee goes on to the story of Armin Meiwes, a cannibal who met up with someone who was willing to be eaten. work is very interesting in that while most people find serial killers interesting in a morbid way, people find cannibals even more so. The topic of eating another human is an interesting one to broach and may be a difficult thing to address in my work. Berry-Dee is a good source because of his first hand encounter with a serial cannibal; he has one-on-one time with the very subject of his book. Lorenz, Patricia and Martin, Herman. Serial Soul. Title Town Publishing, 2010. Lorenz and Martin detail the story of a compulsive thief who ended up in jail for armed robbery and was then in the cell next to Jeffrey Dahmer, one of most infamous serial killers. He recounts how sensationalized Dahmer was by everyone, the media, the law enforcement, parents, even fellow inmates were astonished by heinous acts. Serial Soul is an interesting read and provides a lot of details first hand about what a serial killer is like in person. That is beneficial to my research because it allows me to approach my topic from a new perspective and better understand why so many fall prey to serial killers. Waller, S., Fritz Allhoff, and John M. Doris. Serial Killers, edited by S. Waller, et al., Wiley, 2010. ProQuest Ebook Central book delves into the world of philosophy while dragging the topic of serial killers with him. Waller explores ideas that many may not have considered when thinking about such a dark and ominous topic. He makes you question things that you may not be comfortable questioning and definitely leaves a lasting impression. book is useful for my purposes because it provides me with questions to pose in my work. Trying to answer those questions with empirical evidence will shed a light on what we think we know about serial killers and ourselves as people and where we think our morals lie. It will question how different we truly are from the very monsters we popularize.