Student 1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 29 January 2017 Intermediate Draft Project 1 have become a norm in our society today they have consumed the agriculture markets all over the world and, now they make way towards other markets such as medical field and biological (animals). When it comes to GMOs a lot of scientist question if they are beneficial GMOs has been known to have an impact on the environment when it comes to the environment Also. Can gmos later on in life have demanding effects on the humans that consume it will lead to some health issues? are relatively new scientific inventions only been around for about 30 years, but through those thirty years, there has been a large mass of forms of That have been created; there seems to be a very controversial l side when it comes to GMOs some people fear that they beneficial because of the mystery of the chemicals that are in place for these news crops. Others believe that they are helpful providing with breakthrough and allowing to improve the quality of life for humans. How has GMOs change the way we consume nutrients have they improve the quality of life or hinder it, and what sort of impacts does GMOs have when it comes to the environment? Genetically engineered crops: experiences and prospects. Washington, DC: National Academies Press, 2016. Print. In this handbook, which is publish by the committee of Genetically Engineered Crops: Past Experience and Future Prospects this source provides a lot of groundbreaking research. They have done extensive research for an extended period deal with they have Student 2 sourced in multiples sources within this handbook to achieve and. back up the hypothesis that they place one being that. have little to no sort of health effects when it comes to humans, and the reports state that people be concerned with any damaging effects that will arise from consuming is this source related to the research question. This reference deals with the concept of are GMOs a demeaning towards It provides a full-on report that gives lots of factual knowledge on while are not demeaning to the health and they actually no ill effects on the humans that consume them. is this source credible first publish by some of the most elite and scholar scientist organization the National Academy of Sciences has been around since 1863 and is known as one of the most renowned and respect group when it comes to the matter of science. Perry, E. D., F. Ciliberto, D. A. Hennessy, and G. Moschini. Genetically engineered crops and pesticide use in U.S. maize and  Science Advances 2.8 (2016): n. pag. Web. . In this journal entries, which has multiples authors, they created a hypothesis where they relate the use of GMOs to increase of pesticides, this. Whole journal entries show the patterns that are created throughout the years and offers factual details that over the environment impacts of the pesticides use to farm all the genetic modified organism crops at the end of the whole reports they can figure that. The GMOs market has led to an increase in some pesticides and herbicides use now this sources provides a lot of data but formulate a sort of options in it just shows that there has been an increase of chemicals for How does this relate to the research question this goes with the question does the use of GMOs has some effect to the environment and it seems like this journal provides data which Student 3 helps and answers and give some sort information over this question. Phys. Org is aa website that only posts articles and journal entries that are peer review meaning that the people in the field must consider all the post before they can be added to the website, adding to the credulity of this journal entry Lee, Maria. EU Regulation Of Gmos : Law And Decision Making For A New Technology. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar Publishing, 2008. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 22 Jan. 2017. In this book, the author Lee Maria Goes on about the regulation of in the European unions .and they talk about handing the way that industry use GMOs. And how people can consume GMOs in the nation, why is this book applicable to my research question.Because I believe that this show a society that deals with GMOs and it demonstrate its effect in an actual community and allow me to see how GMOS work within the European nations, it helps answer the question about do GMOs have a real impact on life or not.. Why do I find this source to be credible because it provides aa lot of citations within the book showing that the person when and research about the matter and has a sense of knowledge over the whole issue? They also provide me the reader a bibliography at the end of the book with all MLA citations for every single quotation this mean time and effort were put to cultivate the whole book. Also, it was an in a scholarly database which gives it a bit more credibly compare to another database such as Google. These were checked and only offered for scholars.. so this means that source reviewed by people that are educated over these topics Hemphill, Thomas A., and Syagnik Banerjee. Genetically Modified Organisms And The U. S. Retail Food Labeling Controversy: Consumer Perceptions, Regulation, And Public Student 4  Business & Society Review (00453609) 120.3 (2015): 435-464. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This source talks about the controversy that occurs within the GMO community. And mostly focuses In the United States It speaks of the misperception that consumer views GMOs in the United States and how a controversy has formed that deals with labeling GMOs. I think this is extremley beneficial information to the research question. It talks about just like the previous source where it talks about how GMOs have become a debatable topic. In the EU this what has a similar take but instead it talks about how labeling it a huge debate when it comes to GMOs because some people find To not be beneficial in the United States , this sources correlates with the research question that deals with are they useful, to one health or not. Why is this source credible because it comes from a business and society review and this is known as peer review. That is peer reviews which mean that each piece within this journal entries in the review by people that are educated in the current field allowing. Those who use this source to be certain that they are receiving well credible information that is check for any false or wrong information. So this piece is reliable.