Sharipbayev 1 Sharipbayev S. Yernar Instructor Nancy Carr Composition I February 4, 2017 Impact of Psychology and Emotions on Their Behavior in Markets Nowadays there are many markets and businesses all around the world, which were only amplified by comprehensive globalization and its means of social media. This fact implies one very important aspect of those markets, which is what goods and services are being produced and sold. But, as one of key concepts states, consumers are the ones who determine which goods and services firms will be producing or selling because obviously being competitive and trying to satisfy potential buyers is the only way for a business company to survive in the market. That, in turn, leads to another significant question, which is what makes people want what they buy and that is where human psychology and emotions play vital role. The goal of this research is to identify what specific emotions and feelings influence willingness to buy certain products or use various services provided by business companies. Another aim of this article is to make readers conscious of the psychological aspect of their and its effect on their decision-making processes because they are the one who will eventually decide what goods will be made, what type and amount of world resources are to be sacrificed for this purpose and what world they want to live in. Annotated Bibliography Dhaoui, A. (2015). What does matter in economy today: when human psychology drives financial markets. Arab Economic and Business Journal, 10(1), 1039-47. This article draws the connection between partial dysfunction of the economics in explaining inconsistent return and trading volume behavior in major international stock markets to human psychology. Author makes an attempt to expose why the hypothesis of absolute rationality of behavior fails to explain variability of returns and trading volume by the fact that in previous decades of this theory did not take in their consideration human biases, beliefs and feelings. The investigation of these issues was based on daily data of five international Stock Markets in Japan, U.S., France, U.K. and Switzerland over the period from June 10, 2002 to November 17, 2011. Results Sharipbayev 2 of study show that people be fully rational in making decisions of how big trades should they make or if they should at all because there are several types of psychological behavior involved such as and As seen from the research, mostly investors base their decisions on outcomes of those acting non- rationally first but even after these observations and looking at benefits or losses of their previous trades they tend to act overconfidently or too pessimistically. Thus these decisions drive the economy and significantly influence the trading volume of major stock markets. This article perfectly fits in my topic because it clearly explains the aspects of emotions and feelings and their presence in the decision-making process in the field of investments. Kim, S. s., Park, G. g., Lee, Y. y., & Choi, S. s. (2016). Customer emotions and their triggers in luxury retail: understanding the effects of customer emotions before and after entering a luxury shop. Journal of Business Research, 69(12), 5809-5818. This article is based on the survey conducted in duty-free complex in in which customers visited luxury stores were asked to describe their emotions before and after entering the shop as well as intensity of those emotions. The results of this survey supported 9 hypotheses proposed such as: whether different emotions may have different influence on shopping experience for customers and those familiar with brand; whether different emotions influence diversely for customers with various shopping motives such as to or both; which service quality dimensions such as etc. is important for which types of customers and so on. This study also reveals other interesting findings. For example, some so said like pride or have negative effect on brand attitude because people visiting luxury stores with purchasing motive do so in order to feel more privileged and therefore goods that supposed to feed this feeling seem meaningless on the background of their and thus it may reduce willingness to buy a particular good or service. Findings of this research could be helpful in understanding emotions and feelings and how those are being used in the retail management by luxury firms in order to make them buy their products and assure strong mutual relationship. Wolter, J. j., Brach, S., Jr. Cronin, J. J., & Bonn, M. (2016). Symbolic drivers of brand identification and disidentification. Journal of Business Research, 69(2), 785-793. This article examines human tendencies in self-identification with brands and their products. Many business companies use a strategy of creating a certain image of their product, which is satiated with trough means of advertisement. As mentioned in the article, an example of it would be a TV commercial of Dos beer producer, in which qualities of most interesting man in the were prescribed to a beer. As a result of this campaign, their more than and brand has outpaced the growth rate of the top ten import There also was a survey conducted and its results showed that about 28% of beer consumers confirmed that they experience self-definition with the product, about half of which were themselves with a certain brand of beer and another half were or in other words, were strongly against those presented by this brand. This article illustrates that many consumers are constantly trying to find fulfillment of their personal values in the products they buy and even though, as study revealed, they can have negative attitude towards certain goods and their qualities attributed by producers it only strengthens the argument that people are easily inclined towards believing in the of brands and thus they are prone to experience similar Sharipbayev 3 feelings towards them as they may have feelings towards a real individual in some aspects. Honea, H. (2005). Investigating the impact of negative self-conscious emotions on consumer memory, processing, and purchase. Advances in Consumer Research, 32(1), 189-192. The effect of negative emotions such as guilt, shame and embarrassment on consumer behavior was drawn based on the experimental study, in which the task of evaluating certain shop was given to the participants. However, after entering the shop a playing a role of salesperson was whether interacting with the particular participant by starting and thus establishing connection or not. After completing the task participants were asked to complete the questionnaire, in one section of which they had to indicate of they experienced by not making a purchase in this store. Outcomes of this study displayed that participants with whom was established by the salesperson felt necessity to make purchase by being given a second opportunity to visit the store. It was also examined that feelings of guilt and shame can even arise if one does not consume socially normative products and thus these feelings can make an individual do the opposite instead of remaining passive or neutral towards certain goods or services. Studies of this article show how businesses may use different strategies of interaction with their customers in order to make them feel subconsciously as though they ought to buy something in a particular store and by doing so show their reciprocity to others. Kim, J., Ju, H. W., & Johnson, K. K. (2009). Sales appearance: links to emotions, store image, and purchases. Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, (5), 407. Investigations of this article concerned the importance of sales appearance for behavior. 62 undergraduates enrolled in retail course instructed to go shopping for apparel, shoes or accessories in a specialty or department and after that they had to complete a questionnaire with open-ended questions, sections of which required them to: list store name, time and date they shopped; describe what associate cues made them feel good/annoyed; describe aspects of dress that affected their thoughts about image and purchase intention. It was also mentioned that age ranged from 18 to 47, about 77% of which majored in clothing design or retail merchandising and had experience working as a sales associate in an apparel, shoe or accessory store on average for 2.9 years. Results had shown that majority of participants indicated that appearance made them feel either good or annoyed, majority correlated appearance to the image and about 30% bought items that were worn and recommended by sales associate that seemed looking in the eyes of a particular participant. Examinations of this article show interesting findings of how people make their decisions of buying certain products and base their judgements about brands looking at appearance and evaluations of others or, as data provided in this example, at sales associates. Comiati, R., & Negrea, N. O. (2009). Romanian consumers attitudes towards different types of emotions used in advertising. the Proceedings of the International Conference, Marketing - from Information to Decision, (2), 127. Impact of different emotional strategies used in advertisings on psychology is observed in this article. Humor was found to be one of the most popular technique of catching attention and also received the most positive evaluation by the interviewees with whom the data collection was conducted in Cluj-Napoca, Romania. Sharipbayev 4 Another popular used in the ads is called and it is based on giving the effect on the audience through the images depicting love, friendship, tenderness, empathy etc. and thus it makes people thinking positively so that probability of finding counter-arguments towards the is reduced. One of the emotional strategies is fear and it is found that people remember the advertisements using this strategy more frequently and more accurately, although mostly people usually find their content and evaluate it in a negative way. And the last impactful emotional strategy is This type of ads is given to be attention- catching and is usually aimed towards male audience for whom it is the most effective. Effects of different emotionally aimed advertising strategies that are explained and exemplified in this article are valuable for understanding comprehension of the information he or she receives by watching advertisements and it is also useful for getting the idea of how these persuasion strategies influence our decisions of either doing or not doing certain things.