Peoples 1 Corynn Peoples Professor Theodosieu ENC1102-075 27 January 2017 Resolve for the Conservation of Animals in Zoos The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) and the Captive Animals Protection Society (CAPS) have different perspectives on the intentions of zoos, which has led to a deepening dispute between the two organizations. Representing more than 200 institutions, the AZA is an organization that strives for the highest standards in animal care. Through zoos, their goals are to provide an entertaining and educational experience for families and contribute to scientific research and conservation (AZA). Formed in 1957, the CAPS is an organization that is concerned with the welfare of captive zoo animals. Their goal is to return captive animals back to their natural habitats and end the use of animals for human entertainment (CAPS). Despite these similar interest in zoo animal care, their disagreement starts with the approach of conservation. AZA believes that zoos are vital to the conservation of wildlife animals, whereas CAPS believes that zoos are damaging conservation efforts through animal captivity. Having a well-developed compromise to satisfy both stakeholders would resolve this conflict. As stated previously, the AZA is a thriving organization that is in full support of the existence of zoos under high standards. They are dedicated to the advancement of zoos and aquariums in the areas of conservation, education, science, and recreation (AZA). Over a thousand endangered and threatened species are in the care of AZA. In regards to conservation, zoos that are regulated under the AZA are being introduced to programs that enhance the Peoples 2 protection of endangered wildlife species. These programs are a part of the Species Survival Plan Program that includes field conservation, reintroduction programs, captive breeding, and public education (About Education). This organization values education and through zoos, aims to provide the public a deep understanding of wildlife and how they are threatened by society (Bemused Backpacker). The AZA argues that zoos are vital to conservation efforts because they provide homes for animals that are rescued from the wild (Bemused Backpacker). On the other hand, the CAPS organization is determined to phase out zoos and return captive animals back to their natural habitats. With this mission in mind, CAPS works to educate the public about the treatment and exploitation of captive animals. Their primary focuses are on the welfare of zoo animals and properly conserving endangered species to prevent them from going extinct. In terms of conservation, CAPS maintains the belief that zoos have inadequate amounts of space and resources that would provide an endangered animal the fundamentals of their natural habitat. Although zoos contribute to conservation, CAPS argues that they are far behind in obtaining a resolution. According to David Hancocks, a zoo director, is a commonly held misconception that zoos are not only saving wild animals from extinction but also reintroducing them to their wild habitats. In reality, most zoos have had no contact of any kind with any reintroduction (CAPS). Even though zoos attempt to recreate the natural environment for each of its animals, this organization believes the most effective way for wildlife to be saved is by protecting their own natural wild habitats so that they do not have to live in captivity (Open Democracy). Despite these differences in perspectives between the AZA and CAPS, these two organizations do share common objectives. They both have the ambition to increase conservation efforts for threatened and endangered species, improve animal welfare, and the ambition to Peoples 3 educate the public about those species and their natural habitats. This demonstrates that there is a lot of potential for a compromise to happen between them. Since there are set responsibilities to captive animals and the conservation of species and habitats in the wild, these two organizations must deal with finding methods that preserve these species within the confines of a zoo as well as within the natural environment. To satisfy both stakeholders, the proposed compromise would have to be attentive to both of their goals. One way they can go about an agreement is if zoos put an end to their captive breeding programs. This would benefit CAPS because it would divert the zoos intentions of filling their exhibits for the use of entertainment and profit towards a more improved method of conserving wildlife species. Research shows that captive breeding programs focus on species that are not endangered but rather species that bring in a large audience (Faunalytics). The AZA would be in favor of this because their commitment to conserve species and educate the public would still be fulfilled but with more emphasis on finding a solution to protect natural habitats themselves. This solution is feasible because it would not take much to eliminate captive breeding programs. However, in this situation the AZA would have to sacrifice much more than the CAPS. This includes not having exhibits that are at full capacity, a decrease in profits as there are less animals to observe, loss of jobs at the zoo, and spending their money on more effective conservation methods. To make up for the decrease in zoo profits, the CAPS would have to establish a way to get zoos positive media attention on their new efforts to conserve endangered animals. This could be through the news or through advertisements, which would cost a little bit of money for CAPS. Another way CAPS could help in transition away from captive breeding programs is to send their volunteers to assist in field conservation. Peoples 4 To conclude, the dispute between AZA and CAPS involving the conservation of animals in zoos has been an ongoing event for a while. Their different perspectives on zoos has called for a consideration of a compromise that would benefit both organizations. Eliminating captive breeding programs that are harmful to captive animals can only lead to positive outcomes in regards for those animals and conservation efforts. This solution would resolve the conflict because the AZA would receive more support from those who are against captivity and CAPS would be successful in introducing zoos to better conservation applications. Peoples 5 Works Cited Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. The Captive Animals Protection Society (CAPS) is an organization that is dedicated to ending the use of animals in entertainment, particularly in circuses, zoos and the exotic pet trade. CAPS believes that wild animals in zoos suffer physically and mentally because their needs are not satisfied in unnatural environments. They also believe that zoos are not effective in the conservation of animals. Using CAPS as a stakeholder in the topic of zoos and conservation of animals will provide insight on why zoos may not be effective in conservation. CAPS would be willing to compromise with the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) if animal welfare is improved. Believe in A Better Future for All Living Association of Zoos & Aquariums. N.p., n.d. Web. The Association of Zoos & Aquariums (AZA) is an organization that is dedicated to the advancement of zoos and aquariums in the areas of conservation, education, science, and recreation. AZA believes that zoos are effective and vital in the conservation of animals and educating audiences. Using AZA as a stakeholder in the topic of zoos and conservation of animals will provide insight on why zoos may be effective in their purpose to conserve, educate, and provide entertainment. AZA would be willing to compromise with Captive Animals Protection Society (CAPS) if they can continue their conservation efforts, even if it is improved, and still educate the public. Prideaux, Margi. Are the Problem, Not the Solution to Animal Open Democracy. N.p., 22 June 2016. Web. The author of Are the Problem, Not the Solution to Animal is Dr. Margi Prideaux, an international wildlife policy writer, negotiator, and academic scholar. She has worked within the conservation Peoples 6 movement for twenty-five years. Prideaux received a PhD for International Relations that is focused on wildlife policy and law. The information she provides supports the goals and beliefs that the Captive Protection Society (CAPS) believes in, such as zoos focusing on entertainment and profits rather than true conservation efforts. This article can aid in elaborating on position as a stakeholder on the topic of zoos and the conservation of animals. Jennifer. Role of Zoos in Endangered Species About Education. N.p., 24 Nov. 2014. Web. The author of Role of Zoos in Endangered Species is Jennifer a former field biologist and longtime contributor to the National Wildlife family publications. She is the Endangered Species specialist on About.com. The information she provides supports the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) goals and beliefs that zoos are vital to the conservation of wild animals and are essential to educating the public about the endangerment of species. This article can aid in elaborating on position as a stakeholder on the topic of zoos and the conservation of animals. Barber, Joseph C.E. Approaches to Assessing and Improving Animal Welfare in Zoos and Zoo Biology. Vol.28, no. 6, 2009, p519-530. The author of Approaches to Assessing and Improving Animal is Joseph C.E. Barber, alumni from Hunter College (CUNY) in New York, New York. Hunter College is one of only nine institutions of higher education in the country to offer an interdisciplinary program in quantitative biology. research article is based on the improving of animal welfare and withholds information that derives from various credible sources such as those of scientific assessments. It is published out of a special Peoples 7 issue on zoo animal welfare. This journal article can aid in confirming the proposed compromise between the AZA and CAPS and provide information on how it will be applied and carried out. Alroy, J. (2015). Limits to Captive Breeding of Mammals in Zoos. Conservation Biology, 29(3). pp. 926-931. Huxley, Michael. Zoos Are an Important Part of Responsible Wildlife Bemused Backpacker. N.P., 14 Feb. 2016. Web.