Rodhouse 1 Nick Rodhouse Professor Theodosiou Writing Composition 2 01/29/2017 Government Surveillance and The Awareness The government recently has developed software that allows them to collect data on your computer. This data could be your pictures, documents, messages, emails, and even you through your webcam. They do this all without leaving a trace of evidence. Some people, like Timothy Birch an ex-cop for the Oakland police department, passionately believes that people should know the capabilities that the government has with its hacking software. Another perspective of this issue would be that of head of CIA, Mike Pompeo. Mike Pompeo plans on increasing government surveillance, in order to increase the safety of his country. A way to accomplish both of these goals in one action, would be to have a public debate with a vote in regards to government surveillance. With people pushing to inform the knowledge of the surveillance system, but also people pushing to increase it; our country and many others would benefit from an open public debate concerning this issue. Timothy Birch, an ex-cop of the Oakland police department, worked hands on with the surveillance system. Timothy Birch says, in an interview with Ars-Technica, bizarre that you actually have, in my opinion, a world in which we want the public to know what we are doing or what we are doing with it. What equipment we have or how we are using (Farivar, 2) Our government has technology they inform the public about. This causing one to wonder why? If the government always has our best interest at heart as the people, then why would they neglect to inform of the technology they use to keep of safe? The title of this Rodhouse 2 interview is if we explain to public what our snooping gear (Farivar, 1) It seems only fitting that they use the word snooping to describe the data-collection the government does. An ex-cop, someone who has pledged to protect and serve our nation and keep the people safe, has described surveilling the United States government does as This and this alone is a reason to believe that some form of action needs to be taken place here. On the other side of the spectrum, head of CIA, Mike Pompeo, believes in our best to increase the surveillance. This would include him wanting track information from social media (Hautala, 1) This shows how strict Pompeo wants to make the surveillance. Pompeo has plans restart its bulk collection of metadata and combine those records with even more information: financial and details that would be accessible in a huge, searchable (Tate, 1) So not only does our head of CIA want to increase the monitoring of our lifestyle and social media, but also the financial decisions. He plans on this helping him catch and other people wanted by our law. Pompeo does not have bad intentions using this technology, but instead plans on using to protect the citizens of the united states. Being the head of the CIA, he has the people of the United States of America best interest at heart. With our nation growing in use and capability of the internet, naturally monitoring should increase as well. Our nation is not the only one with internet capabilities either. Terrorist organizations, such as ISIS; Cartels running drugs across our border, such as MS13; and other enemies of our state have internet capabilities as well. So with this being said, if our ability to monitor what they do increases, then our ability to track down and catch our nations enemies naturally increases as well. Glenn Sulmasy, a reporter for CNN, says that might have been reasonable 10 years ago is not the same any longer. The constant armed struggle against the jihadists has adjusted our beliefs on what we think our Rodhouse 3 government can, and must, do in order to protect its (Sulmasy, 1) Sulmasy is saying that with our nations state now with terrorist groups and also the current advancements in technology, it is necessary to increase the monitoring we do with technology and the internet. An idea to mediate both sides of this issue, would be to hold an open debate on the topic. This would educate the population on the current capabilities our government has with cyber- monitoring. This also would allow more laws, regulations, and acts to be discussed on this topic. The government can then explain their reasoning behind the monitoring, but also the past infringements on the privacy will be revealed. This would allow for revision to be made on the mass surveillance program, that could possibly benefit both sides. Educating the public and addressing privacy concerns would be discussed on one hand, and increasing spending and expanding the program overseas can be proposed and voted on as well. This also would allow both sides to point out the flaws in each arguments, but also reveal the strongpoints and benefits of both sides. This would allow internet surveillance to evolve to a better plan to fit both the government and not hinder privacy. Recently Edward Snowden leaked classified intelligence exposing the surveillance plan and system. Snowden said willing to sacrifice all of that because I in good conscience allow the U.S. government to destroy privacy, Internet freedom and basic liberties for people around the world with this massive surveillance machine secretly (Sulmasy, 1) This caused huge controversy over this issue. In recent times, software has been developed, that can go into a operating system and pull out files and hack into their webcams. This has caused an uproar in the defense industry. Cops, governments agencies, and the people of the United States all have reacted to these programs, after Edward Snowden leaked the plan and program our government has on Rodhouse 4 internet surveillance. One of the people who voiced their opinion on this issue was ex-cop, Timothy Birch. He said, in an interview, how he thought bizarre that you actually have, in my opinion, a world in which we want the public to know what we are doing or what we are doing with On the other side of things, head of CIA Mike Pompeo decided it would be best to expand our surveillance program and raise the monitoring of the internet. The issue here is he plans on monitoring financial moves and social media posts of the United States citizens. A plan to resolve all these issues in one movement, would be to host a public debating regarding this topic. In this debate the public would vote in the end. This would allow us to better the surveillance program, by revealing the faults in both sides. It would also allow the public to make their own choice on the issue, which seems more suiting seeing how the privacy being debated on. With people pushing to inform the knowledge of the surveillance system, but also people pushing to increase it; our country and many others would benefit from an open public debate concerning this issue. Rodhouse 5 Work Cited Hautala, Laura January 23, 2017 5:53 PM PST. Pompeo Confirmed as CIA Head as Dems Raise Surveillance  CNET. N.p., 23 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Farivar, Cyrus. Ex-cop: If We Explain to Public What Our Snooping Gear  Ars Technica. N.p., 29 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sulmasy, Gregg. Why We Need Government  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tate, Curtis, and Lindsay Wise. Rep. Mike Pompeo Wants to Revive Mass Surveillance  Mcclatchydc. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.