Campbell 1 Jason Campbell Professor Maria Theodosiou ENC1101.075 Combating Invasive Species The Wildlife Conservation Society is a preservation organization that aims to protect and conserve the largest wild places in the world, which hosts more than 50% of the biodiversity. Founded in 1894 with President Theodore Roosevelt and notable members of New York City, the society has protected millions of animals of all species throughout the world (WCS.org). Hunters against PETA is an organization of hunters who have joined together to protect hunting rights in America. HAP opposes any group that protests hunting in an attempt to protect animals, claiming that hunting is a right that every American is entitled to (Huntersagainstpeta.com). Invasive species can be defined as are plants, animals, or pathogens that are non-native (or alien) to the ecosystem under consideration and whose introduction causes or is likely to cause (National Invasive Species Center). The most apparent invasive species in the state of Florida is the Burmese python. If HAP collaborated with WCS to target invasive species such as the Burmese Python, the numbers of invasive species in the wild would dwindle. The Wildlife Conservation Society and Hunters against PETA have conflicting goals and beliefs. Despite their differences, they can unite to combat the issues caused by invasive species, and help restore the balance in ecosystems. The Wildlife Conservation Society was formed with the desire to maintain the relationship between humans and nature. WCS preserves wildlife through science and research, Campbell 2 conservative action, education, and inspiring people to value nature. WCS currently manages four New York City wildlife parks, as well as the New York Aquarium, Prospect Park Zoo, and Central Park Zoo (WCS.org). In addition to the management of these facilities, WCS is launching a 2020 strategy for wildlife preservation that reflects the vision of saving wildlife and connecting people to nature through the Bronx Zoo. A majority of people have the opportunity to explore or learn about nature firsthand, and a result, value our environment, or the animals that live in it. Hunters Against Peta is a nonprofit, pro-hunting organization composed of roughly 12,000 hunters across the United States. United under their slogan the beginning of time man has been a HAP educates people on the benefits of hunting, while petitioning and protesting for the rights of the more than 20 million hunters across the United States (Hunters Against Peta.com). When a vegetarian species in the wild has numbers too large, they can overeat or and can drastically change the landscape. Some resource managers suggest controlling overpopulation through hunting, although controversial with many people (Johnson 924). HAP also aims to preserve public land through hunting and service acts, as well as preventing natural predators from dangerously reducing the numbers of wild deer and elk. The Wildlife Conservation Society and Hunters Against Peta both have an interest in the condition of wildlife and nature. Although one side is composed of people who hunt animals, while the other maintains zoos and does service projects, both groups make an effort to preserve nature, and care for animals. Invasive species present a great danger to the animals and plants in nature. Of the 170 extinct species that have died out due to an identifiable cause, invasive species played a role on over 50 percent of the exhausted species (Clavero). Campbell 3 The Wildlife Conservation Society and Hunters Against Peta can combine their efforts to eliminate the threat of invasive species. With the experience and expertise of professional hunters, as well as personnel and knowledge of the Wildlife Conservation Society, invasive species can be targeted and hunted. This can be done through community hunting events, or special projects. The Wildlife Conservation Society would educate the hunters on the habits, favored places, and other details to help profile the species and formulate the most effective elimination tactics. Armed with detailed information, hunters would easily be able to reduce the population of the species and slowly restore balance in the wild between predators and prey. A systematic attack and hunt for a particular species is more than possible for a group of skilled hunters. In Key Largo Florida, a competition was orchestrated to fish for the invasive lionfish species. Lionfish were first seen near the Fort Lauderdale coast in 1985, and since then have managed to colonize over 4 million square kilometers (Hoag). The lionfish population has grown and expanded due to the fact that the lionfish has a large diet. The stomach contents of roughly 150 lionfish were analyzed, and results showed about 80 different species of fish and crustaceans, including the French grunt and graysby fish. Both of which are sources of food for local people. Participants of the lionfish hunting competition, or totaled over 700 caught lionfish over a single afternoon. If hunting through the combined efforts of the Wildlife Conservation Society, and Hunters Against Peta were to happen, the WCS would risk their image as a pro-wildlife organization by supporting the murder of animals. HAP would potentially lose the percentage of the organization that have a bias towards the WCS. If both stakeholders are able to focus on the importance of wildlife, they can easily collaborate to eliminate the threat of invasive species. Campbell 4 The Wildlife Conservation Society was founded to connect people with nature, and protect wildlife and the environment, while Hunters Against PETA formed as a group to combat organizations that conflicted with the principle of hunting, while uniting hunters across the nation. The goals of both groups are affected by invasive species in the wild, disturbing the balance in ecosystems and slowly killing off species. However, these groups can eliminate the threat of invasive species by combining their knowledge and resources to hunt the predators. Campbell 5 Works Cited Clavero, Miguel. species are a leading cause of animal TRENDS in Ecology and Evolution, vol. 20, no.3. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Miguel Clavero is a renowned researcher in biological sciences. Clavero has a doctorate in Biology, and has recently worked as a researcher and professor for the University of Girona and the Forest Science Centre of Catalonia. His article discusses the dangers and impact of invasive species in the wild. Hoag, Hannah. control: Bounty Springer Nature, 12 Sep. 2014. Accessed 24 Jan. 2017. Hannah Hoag is a journalist from Toronto who has written for magazines such as Nature, Canadian Geographic, and many others. Serving as a board member for the Canadian Science Association, Hoag has a degree in Biology from McGill University, as well as a degree in science and medical journalism from Boston University. The article explains a hunting competition in Florida that is used to cut down the number of invasive lionfish in Key Largo. This competition is a direct example of my compromise. Campbell 6 Johnson, Branden. about Ecological Impacts Predict Deer Acceptance Capacity and Hunting Society and Natural Resources, vol. 27, no. 9, p.915-930. Accessed 24 Jan. 2017. Johnson is a senior research scientist at Researching mainly in the environment, fields has done projects on black bears, climate change, the wetlands, and others. His article describes the choice of hunting to control population, which has been accepted and practiced by some resource managers despite the controversy. Hunters against PETA. Hunters against PETA, http://www.huntersagainstpeta.com. Accessed 24 Jan. 2017. Hunters against PETA are a NPO that was formed to protect the rights and freedoms of hunting by educating people of the benefits hunters give to preserve and maintain wildlife. The biggest contribution HAP directly gives to wildlife is the planting and spreading of natural food in areas during the spring to assist the survival of big game during the winter. Wildlife Conservation Society. Wildlife Conservation Society, https://www.wcs.org/. Accessed 24 Jan. 2017. The Wildlife Conservation Society aims to preserve over two million square miles of wild places throughout the world. WCS manages roughly Campbell 7 500 conservation projects internationally, and is staffed by over 200 PhD scientists with expertise in zoos, aquariums, and field work. WCS also manages four wildlife parks in New York City as well as the Central Park, Bronx, Queens Zoo, and others.