Li 1 Kailun Li Instructor Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 29 January 2017 The impact of Climate Change on Human Living Environment The issues of climate change have been widely concerned, the earth is now the only environment that we can survive with, climate change will undoubtedly impact the environment we are living. Although those impacts are mixed, global warming brought by climate change has become an important issue for the future survival of mankind. Sea-level rise is one of the major problems of global warming. The accelerated melting of the polar ice caused by global warming has an increase from 4.4 mm/y to 8.8 mm/y, which means that sea-level rise will continue to accelerate and sea-level will increase by two meters in the next 100 years (Masciopinto,2016). Therefore, the rise in sea-level will directly lead to significant impacts on human living environment such as that land area is reduced and freshwater resources are destroyed (Breslyn,2016). So, in this situation, human living environment and resources will be how people respond to the changed brought by global warming is the topic that has interested me. Based on the research questions how people face the impact of that sea-level rise has led to a reduction in coastal urban areas, which countries will be affected by the decrease of freshwater for the reason of the rise of sea level, and what impact will have to these countries, I want to explore the decisions that how people are going to make about climate change and find out the answers. The first bibliographic entry Li 2 The first article I have chosen as my secondary source is written by Masciopinto Costantino. In this article, he states the impacts of sea-level rising on groundwater resources in coastal. He extrapolated the height of future sea-levels by studying the rate of sea level rise, which he predicts the rising sea-level will destroy the scarce groundwater resources. In many countries, such as Spain-Chile and Australia, agricultural development will be constrained by the lack of groundwater resources, while water-scarce country such as Greece, where agricultural development is the mainstay of the economy, will be deeply suffered from water scarcity. The reason for all the issues is caused by melting two glaciers brought by global warming. This article is the main information source of my topic, because it accurately analyses the reason how sea-level rising impact life and environment. I have learned a lot of information about the influences of global warming to human, not only because this article is so suitable for my research question, but also the writer is an environmental research expert. Masciopinto is one of the members of the institute of water research IRSA from Italia, all of his articles were written about environmental sciences. In addition, his articles are made of large data and citations, which shows the basic credibility. Masciopinto, Costantino, and Isabella Serena Liso. Assessment Of The Impact Of Sea-Level Rise Due To Climate Change On Coastal Groundwater  The Science Of The Total Environment (2016): 672. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The second bibliographic entry In the second article, the author Breslyn Wayne describes the impact of global warming on sea level by introducing a learning process. In fact, this learning process is what this article Li 3 tries to deal with. Even through climate change is not the main point that the author wants to explore, this article also describes the negative impact of climate change on human civilized societies in general. Accounting to literature review of the article, climate change is becoming more and more important in the field of scientific research due to the rapid rise in sea level. Global warming will be harmful to human society, whether it is economic or the environment. In order to improve the quality of the climate, educational activities should be undertaken to enable students to understand the climate change system. This article introduces the basic result of climate change; this is a great resource for getting started this research paper. It briefly introduces the problems of climate, which eventually led to changes in the direction of education, this is one of the answers I want to know from my research question. The author is a researcher at the University of Maryland working on the Maryland and Delaware Climate Change Education, Assessment and Research program, so he has a strong professional on researching climate change. In addition, this article was published by Journal of Research in Science Teaching in 2016, in terms of timeliness and research, it has a certain degree of credibility. Breslyn, Wayne, et al. Developing A Learning Progression For Sea Level Rise, A Major Impact Of Climate  Journal Of Research In Science Teaching 10 (2016): 1471. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The third bibliographic entry According to the article, the author Hansen states out that Future urban planning and land-use systems will be the means of combating global warming in order to mitigate the effects Li 4 of catastrophic impacts of sea-level rise on cities. three aspects of research and analysis illustrate the complexity between activities and climate change in coastal areas. Firstly, research on urban emissions, pollution emissions caused by population growth and economic development is a major cause of global warming. Secondly, research on Flooding due to sea level rise. The author makes a study based on the previous flood disaster to speculate the impact of flooding on the coastal cities. Finally, after collecting the data from the first two data, the author creates the land-use system model to access the relationship between activities and climate change. According to my first research question, this article is a good illustration of how people should face of climate change in the future. The research of climate change and urban planning management are the best answers I want, also the data from this article can be the strong evidence for my project. This article is reliable; author Hansen was appointed to Aalborg University in August 2008 following a career in the world of GIS. Since he was primarily interested in climate and climate change, he ended up as a climatologist, so this article has an academic dimension in geography. Hansen, Henning S. Modelling the future coastal zone urban development as implied by the IPCC SRES and assessing the impact from sea level  Landscape and urban planning 98.3 (2010):141-149. Web. The fourth bibliographic entry Li 5 According to the article, the authors Maric, Pucar and Kovacevic state out that information technology affects urban planning and architectural design, With the increasing awareness of climate change and its consequences, information technology is becoming more and more important. By using information technology, the authors can simply analyze the future changes in land using and planning of cities, the negative effects of climate change will be subject to the corresponding restrictions. This article presents two projects that rely on information technology to promote the urban planning process. The first one is the development of mountain construction, the second one is the urban residential area reconstruction. This article analyzes the cause and result of climate change through the research of information technology, and the main reason is human energy use and economic construction. And the solution to it is to start from exploring the two projects. From my research questions, the information brought by the information technology is undoubtedly my best research information. Furthermore, the focus of this article is also on human actions that how they are going to fact climate change. To explore the credibility of this article, it is based on information technology research, information technology must use a lot of other resources as evidence of logos, which provide very solid arguments. I. Reducing the impact of climate change by applying information technologies and measures for improving energy efficiency in urban  Energy and buildings 115(2016):102-111. Web.