Kyle McGorty ENC 1101 Professor Carr 01/29/17 ADHD drugs- Problem or Solution? ADHD drugs are some of the most widely abused drugs on college campuses. Whether it be in the form of Adderall, Vyvanse, Ritalin, Focalin, or Concerta, students will take them to help last that finals week all-nighter. These drugs are commonly prescribed for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, but can also be used to treat narcolepsy. The basis of these drugs are stimulant based amphetamines and they are classified by the DEA as a Schedule II drug. Chemically, the make-up of Adderall is very similar to Meth, and the effects of it are similar to cocaine. Despite this, many users feel they are doing something quite as bad as that because it is widely prescribed to many people. Day, M. Misuse of ADHD drugs by young people is rising, US poisons data  Bmj 339.Aug25 3 (2009): n. pag. Web. This article talked about how the problem with misuse of these adhd drugs has become a problem over the last few years and not a problem that has lasted for a long time. There was a study over eight years that showed that the rate of misuse rose 75% since the beginning of the study, and it continues to increase today. The drugs they focused on were Ritalin and aderall, or methylphenidate and amphetamine. These specific drugs were estimated to have had an increase of abuse percentage of 80%. Study: Peak age for initiating prescription stimulant abuse is  Alcoholism & Drug Abuse Weekly 28.9 (2016): n. pag. This article delves more into the age at which adhd drugs are turned to help a student with his or her exams. The claim of the article is that this age is actually between 16 and 19 while a student is in high school, rather than starting to abuse these drugs for college exams. To fight this, the author introduces the idea of having students undergo classes in high school to warn them the dangers of abusing these drugs. People at the ages 13 and 14 had just the same likelihood of starting stimulant drug use to focus and study. Kmietowicz, Z. (2012). Children say ADHD drugs turn them into robots. BMJ: British Medical Journal, 345(7879), 2-2. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/41723998 This article is a writing to combat the beliefs of others about ADHD drugs. People claim that ADHD drugs change the brains of children, robbing them of their individuality and making them robots. However, the article references a study that a research was done with 151 students who were on the drug. The results showed that the children actually felt bennefitted from the drugs and kept them from lashing out as much. Jacobelli, F., & Watson, L. (2008). ADD/ADHD Drug Free : Natural Alternatives and Practical Exercises to Help Your Child Focus. New York: AMACOM. This article refernces safe, non drug alternatives to ADHD drugs in the form of stimulants. ADHD drugs are very addictive and are controlled substances. That is why many parents are reluctant to giving them these drugs to treat their ADHD or ADD. Some of the Ways listed in the article were more of things to do, rather than things to take.