Annotated Bibliography Sahelle Rolles 1 Juveniles In Solitary Confinement The act of being alone away from other people is sometimes what a person needs. To get away, think clearly, and just being able to distress. Being place in isolation for long periods on time with no sense on time and no way of connecting with others seen as something pleasant like having alone time. To be place in solitary confinement is a punishment in the United Stated prison system. said to be used to control the inmates from harming him or her-self and others. Though the practice of solitary confinement new to the world one that is now being debated on whether it should still be being used or if come to a point that just been made a form of cruel and unusual punishment that should be banned from our prison system. In the early 1970s solitary confinement was used to control men, women, and children. Through time people have started to question the practice with the increasing amount to inmates who have been put into solitary confinement whether it had been for minimum of 22 hours or the maximum, till they died. The affect of solitary confinement on the mind, body and emotions has lead to the question; how has solitary confinement in juvenile detention centers affected the growth of the youth? ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY Franklin, V. P. (2013). COMMENTARY- SOLITARY CONFINEMENT: I FEEL LIKE... NO ONE CARES ABOUT . Journal Of African American History, 98(2), 197-199 Annotated Bibliography Sahelle Rolles 2 In the academic journal Franklin gives us real accounts from those who have gone throw solitary confinement and those who have gone investigating the matter for themselves. He tells of how prisons when from public institutions to being privately owned. Because of this change there began to be a need for these private owners to have more people in their jails and prisons to have the work. It can to the point that children were being sent to juvenile centers to mean this quota of bodies. When the children resisted be sent to solitary confinement for hours at time. The long periods of loneliness would lead to psychological a physical harm to the children. account on the United States prison system and it use of solitary confinement shows that beings of how a institution meant to keep the public safe became something now slow psychological and physical maiming the youth. The historical value of this article stems from the fact that it speaks on how African Americans went from being some what free back to being enslaved and working for noting do to private facilities wanting their jails and prisons filled with free workers. The use of testimonials and other articles in his journal play to his credibility on the topic of the youth in solitary confinement. His article connects to my research question of the affects of solitary confinement of the youth because it touched on the mental, physically and emotionally affects on the loneliness the children went through. It goes beyond my question because it brings up the issues that not only children but also African American children had to go through. The bad behavior of an African American child would lead them to be felt all alone in a room with no simulation, depriving them of what any child would need to grow up health. Annotated Bibliography Sahelle Rolles 3 Owen, M., & Goldhagen, J. (2016). Children and Solitary Confinement: A Call to Action. Pediatrics, 137(5), 1-3. doi:10.1542/peds.2015-4180 Owen and Goldhagen tell us of the lack of knowledge that we have on the use of solitary confinements in adult and juvenile institutions. They give us the small facts that could be gotten about the way that solitary confinement is operated in the detention centers. The facilities do not have to report any of the information to the public. They also do not have to report why or for how long the juvenile are placed under isolation. Owen and Goldbagen tell of how solitary confinement may affect the growth of the youth through the knowledge that most people already have about the growth of children and what they need to grow up healthy. The historical point made by this article is that here we learn that reports of the length and reasoning be kept if not enforced by the law. The credibility of Owen and Goldhagen come from some of the other articles that they use as reference like that percentage of youth in custody who reported to the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention of when they were held in solitary confinement and for how long. This article connects to my research questions because it shows just how little we know able solitary confinement, its use in juvenile detention centers, and the lack of knowledge we still have on how it may affect the growing mines of the youth. Though the article does reiterate the same points as Confinement: I No One Cares About when it states that the long periods of isolation may lead the youth to destructive metal, physical, and emotional defects and also be a cause of the suicides. Being that these are children it is a point that should be Annotated Bibliography Sahelle Rolles 4 made clear because children in juvenile centers are there for rehabilitation not to be placed in rooms where not able to get the help that they need. Rademacher, E. M. (2016). The beginning of the end: using plan to eliminate juvenile solitary confinement as a model for statutory elimination of juvenile solitary confinement. William And Mary Law Review, (3), 1019. Rademacher begins the article by telling us of the steps that the Department of Justice and the State of Ohio had to take to reach common ground on solitary confinement in juvenile facilities. The historical act that Ohio juvenile centers made from over using solitary confinement to focusing on the rehabilitation of the youth. Rademacher tells us that through out the years there been any supreme court decision made about solitary confinement in juvenile centers but some local state laws have made some decisions about solitary condiment that have been vague which allows the continued use of the practice. The article goes on to speak on the effects of solitary confinement on the youth such as the mental and physical tolls. Rademacher then goes through the policies at state federal and nation levels about solitary confinement. The article end with a proposal on how to reform the juvenile centers to bring them away from using solitary confinement as a punishment for everything to rehabilitating the youth like the center is meant to do. This article draws its credibility from the facts of what happened between the Department of Justice and Ohio. It connected with my research question from the Annotated Bibliography Sahelle Rolles 5 beginning when it started with the life of William and what being in solitary confinement for 178 days out of his 225 did to his mental and physical health. The article went beyond my research questions by not only speaking on the effect that solitary confinement had on the youth but also providing alternatives. By providing the alternatives it shows that there be a focus on just what the problem is but also how to fix or at least modified the what that children are handled in these centers Castillo, L. C. (2015). No Child Left Alone: Why Iowa Should Ban Juvenile Solitary Confinement. Iowa Law Review, 1001259. Castillo start the article by giving a background on juveniles and why they are separated from adult criminals. The historical meaning of court cases like Roper v. Simmons and Graham v. Florida and Miller v. Alabama created the precedent for sentencing juveniles. Castillo then defined solitary confinement and then when on to describe four different types of solitary confinement. One being punitive, the second being protective, the third administrative and the fourth being medical. Most of the youth were placed in solitary confinement for protective reasons, one being if being charged as an adult. Or more likely then not the youth are placed in solitary confinement for punitive reasons though what children need is rehabilitation and not punishment. The article goes on to point out why solitary confinement violates the Eight Amendment under the terms of cruel and unusual punishment. Juvenile solitary confinement meant this because their brains are not fully developed and being put in a room with nothing for them to do and nothing for them to be able to simulated their brains. Castillo Annotated Bibliography Sahelle Rolles 6 goes on in the article to mention states that have already taken action on banning solitary confinement. All this to build a case on why the case on why Iowa should adopt viewpoint on solitary confinement. Castillo draws credibility from the research that was made on the states that have already taken action on juvenile solitary confinement. By using the proven actions of other states the proposal that Castillo is giving to Iowa is not one that can be seen misguided. This article connects to my research questions because it speaks on the lack of rehabilitation the youth in juvenile centers are revising leading to their mental and physical health diminishing. The article goes beyond my question by giving the out line on when and how solitary confinement in juvenile centers should be used. Like as a last resort and making sure that if a child is up in solitary confinement that they speak to a mental health clinician with in an hour of being confined and every four hours from then on.