Gregorie 1 Rachel Gregorie Nancy Carr Composition I January 29, 2017 of the LGBT Community My whole life I grew up with two, gay aunts in my family so nothing ever felt out of the ordinary. As I continued to get older I started to notice more people staring at my family when we would walk down the streets and one of my aunts would be holding her girlfriends hand. It make sense to me why people looked so disgusted and confused that they were just holding hands. Around the age of eleven my parents sat me down at told me that it an accepted thing for two women to be together. As an eleven year old I was so confused on why people would be so affected by something that involve them. Over the years started to see more and more acceptance of the LGBT community and the growth and support that they are starting to get, but people always as accepting. name calling and yelling in my face, those the ones that hurt they are obviously born of bigoted hatred but it is the slights that you get from straight friends and family even doctors when your relationships are discounted as not real or as important as said Diane Melesio. THESIS Gregorie 2 Liebelson, Dana. Supreme Court Legalizes Gay Marriage  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 26 June 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Supreme Court nationally legalized gay marriage on June 26, 2015. The vote on equal marriage rights was voted 5-4 by the Supreme Court. President Obama was the first president to public support marriage equality and when the law got passed to Obama said it was victory for Massachusetts was the first state to pass the law for marriage equality, after that the country started to look more into the 996 Defense of Marriage Act, that prohibited same sex marriage. The Huffington post is a very well respected online and paper newspaper that millions of people read daily. It is very creditable newspaper that only post the top, accurate news stories that are affecting our nation. This article is very relevant to this topic because it is showing the legal rights on marriage equality and the LGBT big win on getting this law passed. Tauber, Michelle, et al. TERROR IN ORLANDO Unspeakable Horror, Unending Heartbreak. (Cover  People 85.27 (2016): 40-47. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. June 12, 2016 is the night that shocked the world. In Downtown Orlando at a very popular gay nightclub 50+ people lost their lives. The shooter Omar Mateen walked into the club with machine guns and decided to kill a lot of innocent people. After looking into Mateen investigators realized that he was a very troubled man who had been on the radar before for possibly being in connection with ISIS. Gregorie 3 This article has a lot of relevance to this topic because even though marriage equality was legalized, there are still extreme amounts of hate towards the LGBT community and it shows that there is still hostility to the community. It also shows that after the tragic event more and more people have put aside their dislike or disgust towards the LGBT community and came together to realize that they are no different then any straight person and they did not deserve to lose their lives just for expressing who they are and trying to just have a good night out on the town.