Olson 1 Benjamin Olson ENC 1102 Ms. Theodosiou Project 1 S.T.E.M and Arts/Humanities Programs in U.S. Public Schools Increased funding and support for STEM education remains an agenda pushed by many in government given the United record of innovation historically, especially post cold-war (Beering et. al, 16). One of the strongest proponents of increased STEM education funding is the U.S. Government, and most directly the National Science Foundation (NSF). With more and more jobs opening in the STEM field and subsequent jobs lost in the arts, organizations like for the Arts resist cuts in arts/humanities education in favor for more holistic teaching and equal funding. Given this, there may be a compromise to be had amongst these two stakeholders where funding would be allocated according to educational field interest above the High School level, and will be dispersed accordingly amongst the arts and sciences from K-12 schooling. The National Science Foundation (NSF) is an independent federal agency particularly concerned with promoting STEM education in public schools. The mission statement of the NSF is, promote the progress of science; to advance the national health, prosperity, and welfare; to secure the national  (National Science Foundation). This agency believes that the United States is vastly behind other countries in areas such as science and math, citing, the United States lags behind many other nations when it comes to STEM education assessment. American students ranked 20th in science and 27th in math among the top 34 developed countries of the world in the most recent 2012 Programme for International Student (STEM Education Act). Given that many jobs in the United States are related to the technology field which relies heavily on science and mathematics Olson 2 education, it is understandable to want to ensure these subject areas are adequetaly covered in K-12 public schools, and the STEM research gets plenty of funding from the government. The NSF requested a budget of $7.724 billion in 2016, and each year this has tended to raise slightly (National Science Foundation). Though the NSF does not question that arts/humanities are very important, a practical approach has to be taken. Since the U.S ranks below so many other countries in the fields of science and mathematics, it is rational to think that increased funding in STEM would help solve this issue. The question comes then, to what extent can increasing funding toward STEM be detrimental to other fields like the arts? Americans for the Arts is a nonprofit organization and primarily is concerned with increasing funding and support for more Arts in schools. But just how different does the U.S really treat the Arts than STEM? A very similar independent government agency to the NSF exists to support increased funding for the Arts in schools and to sponsor projects external to simply schools known as the Endowment for the Arts. According to the 2015 annual fiscal summary, $116.633 million was provided for the Arts from the federal government to this agency. That number is only 1.51% the amount given to STEM funding for grants and support through the NSF. There exists a blatant inequality between the two sides, and causes one to wonder what exactly the need for Arts/humanities is. The mission statement for Americans for the Arts is, to serve, advance, and lead the network of organizations and individuals who cultivate, promote, sustain, and support the arts in America. we can work to ensure that every American has access to the transformative power of the (Americans for the Arts). Though this mission statement is quite general it is apparent that for the Arts believes that the Arts have a role in society of transformation whether this be through creative innovation, personal wellness, or perhaps even morality. The Arts and humanities take root in the less concrete parts of society which are relationships, morals, beauty, and kind of thinking. Though the United States may stand as a country unique in its ability to conduct research, discover new scientific solutions, and compete in a global economy, there needs to first be innovation to catalyze the process as a whole. With research in the Olson 3 sciences consistently being on the cutting edge of what has never been done before, there needs to first be innovation and an ability to think about things in a way that they previously been considered. Hard facts and statistics are wonderful knowledge, however, science training provides a solid foundation of facts and basic science technique, but rarely examines how to foster creative, cross-disciplinary problem identification and solving (Madden, 1). Since it is apparent that creativity and outside-the-box thinking is required for all disciplines whether they be scientific/mathematical or artistic a compromise can be reached to benefit both stakeholders. The U.S. Government (specifically the NSF) will produce more effective scientists into the workforce, and Americans for the Arts will gain more funding for the Arts in the United States. In every K-12 school, children should be taught arts and science together complementary to each other. Students should be able to see and experiment hands-on with artistic models of scientific concepts and be able to design and create their own ideas. Funding could be allocated jointly for years K-5 such that every student will have the same opportunities with equal time and resources to experiment with both the science and the arts. Depending on class interest in grades 6-12, funding can be provided based on statistical interest in each field. Say the budget was $3 billion for grades 6-12 in one year, and interest measured by class registration showed that about 40% of students opted to take art focused classes, and 60% opted to take science focused classes. That would mean that $1.8 billion would be dispersed to the science programs, and $1.2 billion would be allocated to Arts programs. This plan would give all students equal opportunities to explore interests and be funded while also benefiting both stakeholders. Both stakeholders would also need to be willing to give some things up. NSF would have a decreased budget for STEM education, and Arts programs would need to agree to integrate Arts with science and not just have the Arts be taught separate in grades K-5. Olson 4 Works Cited About the Arts Education  for the Arts . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. The organization for the Arts , is a biased organization toward Arts education in schools that pushes for more equality in the arts, specifically their mission statement reads, for the Arts serves, advances, and leads the network of organizations and individuals who cultivate, promote, sustain, and support the arts in America. Founded in 1960, Americans for the Arts is the leading nonprofit organization for advancing the arts and arts In my paper, I plan to use mainly the mission statement, and groups main ideas for arts education changes to fuel the argument of this particular stakeholder. Beering, Steven, Patricia Galloway, Mark Abbott, et. al. Preparing the Next Generation of STEM Innovators ... -  National Science Foundation, 5 May 2010. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. The National Science Foundation is a U.S government agency that supports the sciences and engineering fields This particular foundation offers grants for research and academic endeavors to people or lab groups who show a true interest in the sciences. The agency at the time of this publication in 2010 was President of Purdue University from 1983-2000 and worked as Dean of Indiana University School of Medicine for 9 years. I plan to use this source to back my point of the U.S. government supporting STEM funding through grants specifically for STEM majors and this particular paper lays out exactly why the National Science Foundation believes that STEM is of utmost importance. Chu, Jane. National Endowment for the  Annual Report . N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Chu is the chairman for the National Endowment for the Arts. I plan to use this source in my paper as a statistic for the amount given by the federal government to the cause of Arts/Humanities in schools and beyond. Madden, Margaret E., Marsha Baxter, Heather Beauchamp, et. al. Rethinking STEM Education: An Interdisciplinary STEAM  Computer Science 20 (2013): 541- 46. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Olson 5 This particular piece has a lot of great scientific data and proposes integrating science and creative studies like arts/humanities because we more creative This paper was written with many co-authors, many of which distinguished and with their I intend to really dive into this particular source and read about how they would remedy this problem. I particularly enjoy the fact that they seem to be thus far putting together arts and science so that we can move as a society to being more appreciative of arts. National Science Foundation - Where Discoveries  NSF - Overview NSF National Science Foundation . N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. The National Science Foundation is an Independent Federal Agency and is one of my stakeholders for this paper. The NSF is what specifically receives and redistributes STEM funding, so it is a wonderful source to use as a stakeholder. S. Rept. 114-115 - STEM EDUCATION ACT OF  Rept. 114-115 - STEM EDUCATION ACT OF 2015 Congress.gov Library of Congress . N.p., 4 Aug. 2015. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. The STEM Education Act of 2015 was lobbied for by members of the National Science Foundation, and proposed by the educational committee of the United States Congress. In my paper, I have used this source to show the viewpoint that STEM education is a necessity in the United States especially when compared to other countries who rank far above the United States in the areas of science and mathematics.