Mary Warwick ENC1101 Planned Parenthood and Family Planning Planned Parenthood Federation of America (PPFA) is a nonprofit organization that provides reproductive health services and sexual education. In 1916 Margaret Sanger opened the first birth control clinic in the U.S. in Brooklyn, New York. In 1921 Sanger founded the American Birth Control League which later on became Planned Parenthood in 1942. Their organization contributes to research in reproductive technology and performs advocacy work aimed at protecting and expanding reproductive rights. While it may seem like Planned Parenthood handles only abortions they actually provide many other helpful services such as other forms of contraception, pregnancy tests, sexual education, cancer screening and prevention, STI/STD testing and treatment, etc. Since the conception their organization has faced support, protests, and attacks due to the fact that abortion is a highly controversial topic. You have people arguing that it should not happen because it is murder and others arguing it should be up to the woman considering it is her body. For years legislatures have argued to keep or get rid of planned parenthood. That being said why is it fundamental that we keep planned parenthood? Claeys, V. (2010). Brave and angry The creation and development of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF). European Journal of Contraception & Reproductive Health Care, (Sup2), S67-S76. doi:10.3109/13625187.2010.526726 This article talks about the development of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) and the people involved in starting it. It mentions how important it was when it started and is to this day. It goes into how the organization got involved with many different countries throughout the world and its effect. They mention the efforts needed to protect the human rights involved in the organization. It is important that we keep Planned Parenthood because it not only provides services for the U.S. but they work with other organizations to work internationally. They provide things such as contraceptives and have gotten other countries to establish FP and population policies in the past. Their work surpasses just abortions they are providing necessary things for fertility control and it affects more than just our country. Lindberg, L. D., Frost, J. J., Sten, C., & Dailard, C. (2006). Provision of Contraceptive and Related Services By Publicly Funded Family Planning Clinics, 2003. on Sexual and Reproductive Health,38 (3), 139-147. doi:10.1111/j.1931-2393.2006.tb00262.x This article is addressing the data from a 2003 survey about the different services that separate publicly funded family planning clinics provide. They go into the specifics of what percentage of clinics offer certain types of contraceptives, pap smear tests, or STI tests. Also the percentage that offer non-reproductive health services for men, counseling about abstinence for minors, and availability of staff for non-English speakers. The authors are using logos by giving you all these statistics. It concludes that public funding for these clinics is important to keep up with their diverse client base and new technologies. This article showed the diverse services that Planned Parenthood provides and how many of them provide each service. It mentioned how even if certain clinics did not offer something they could always refer you to other resources that would. They also showed that their services go beyond contraceptives and a lot of people, specifically low income women, rely on these services to survive. This is why it is imperative that we have clinics like planned parenthood. Allen, R. H. (2007). The Role of Family Planning in Poverty Reduction. & Gynecology, 110 (5), 999-1002. doi:10.1097/01.aog.0000287063.32004.23 The focus of this article is on how family planning plays a big part in population growth, Poverty reduction, and human development. They said that a failure to maintain family Planning programs, both here and abroad, will lead to increased population growth and Poorer health worldwide, especially among those who are poor. Aside from the fact that these family planning programs like Planned Parenthood provide many other beneficial things towards our health we do really need to make sure we are not taking away too much funding from them. Women need these reproductive rights because they will overall effect everyone especially with the rapid increase in the human population. Brandhorst, J. K., & Jennings, F. J. (2016). Fighting for funding: Values advocacy and Planned right-to-life. Relations Review, (4), 723-733. doi:10.1016/j.pubrev.2016.06.002 This article analyzes the rhetoric of Planned Parenthood and more specifically their response to some controversial videos released by The Center for Medical Progress in July of 2015. While this article is more focused on rhetorical skills and identifying how they were used in that specific situation it does bring up points about Planned importance. Browne, S. P., & Lalumia, S. (2014). The Effects of Contraception on Female Poverty. of Policy Analysis and Management, 33 (3), 602-622. doi:10.1002/pam.21761 This article addresses the relationship between early access to legal birth control pills and poverty rate. They provide you with a background on access to birth control then goes deeper into all the aspects of how they affect each other. They use statistics and provide graphs and tables based on a census with data from 1960 to 1990. They concluded that having legal access to birth control pills by the age of 20 significantly reduced the probability that a woman was later on in poverty by 0.5 percent. While that does not sound like much it is quite a lot considering that the poverty rate for households headed by single women were very high. Seeing as Planned Parenthood is one of the main providers of birth control and other forms of contraceptives it would be very damaging to lose funding for them or even try to get rid of them all together. It would most almost definitely have an effect on the female poverty rate, especially considering the fact that they do cater so much to low income women. If they already do not have as much money they probably will not be able to pay too much more for it from other sources. Oglesby, W. H. (2014). Perceptions of and preferences for federally-funded family planning clinics. Health, 11 (1), 1-16. doi:10.1186/1742-4755-11-50 This article is focused on whether we still need Title X family planning with the while we have the Affordable Care Act. They conducted a study by surveying 696 clients who received services from 1 of 8 Title X-funded family planning clinics in Northeast Ohio. They found that a majority of the clients who participated stated having very positive perceptions of Title X funded clinics. They provide tables with the details of the results. While doing this they go into the importance of having sexual and reproductive health services. The article gives you the statistics like nearly half the percentage of women who became pregnant that year did not intend to. The rates were highest among young women with the fewest attained years of education and poor or low-income women. Women who do not want to have a child whether they are in that situation or not need a safe alternative or at least info on how to go about handling this very new and big thing in their life. With planned parenthood they can provide you with options on what to do if you are not ready whether you would like to terminate the pregnancy or just learn how to prepare.