Elijah Langlois Nancy Carr Composition I February 4th, 2017 Annotated Bibliography Intermediate Draft Over the past century many things have changed such as technology, education, and social norms which has made a very apparent generation gap. The purpose of this writing is to deepen my knowledge about how marriage has been affected by this stretch of time, particularly the age that people are deciding to get married at. Gives polls to and show you how the difference in how the ideal age for marriage has been decreasing, then showing what factors make people avert marrying at an earlier the age for marriage. What factors changed the age of marriage? Jones, J. M. (2006). Ideal Age for marriage: 25 for women and 27 for men: average ideal age for both genders has increased in last 60 years. Poll Briefing , 5-8. Jones gives us multiple graphs on polls the they took asking 500 men and women about their ideal age for marriage, this gives you a good perspective on how the views of marriage have changed over time. Graphs show how a majority of the people in 1960 thought that they had to get married before the age of 25, especially the women. While people in 2006 also had a majority vote for getting married during 21-25, they voted a majority after 21-25. Talk about how education might play a role in why the ideal age increased. Schumm, W. (2010). Alone together: how marriage in america is changing. Of Comparative Family Studies, (5), 872. Schumm states that marriage is less of a privilege and more of a lifechoice, briefly describes the generation gap, but the beginning was cut off, explanations of how education and marriage at a later age can increase the average ideal marriage age but by having an increase in those two things they can lead to both positive and negative things. Gives ways to increase the longevity of marriage. Brown, S. L., Van Hook, J., & Glick, J. E. (2008). Generational differences in cohabitation and marriage in the US. Research And Policy Review, 27(5), 531-550. The authors show how cohabitation, sex before marriage, and nuptiality, proportion of couples who get married in a particular changed from the last generation while going over multiple ethnic groups. Gives more info on nuptiality, about how the percentage of marriages will lower from 2 major factors, immigration and education. Gives different cultures form of marriage and finishes off by giving data. Yabiku, S. (2005). The Effect of non-family experiences on age of marriage in a setting of rapid social change. Studies, (3), 339-354. Yabiku explains how employment, social, and educational status deters the marrying process, and gives us a real life example, people in the Chitwan Valley. Since the Chitwan marriage remained constant for so long, it shows how marriage was affected by the influence of employment, schooling, and the media. Ends with giving us data and graphs. Ono, H. (2003). economic standing, marriage timing, and cross-national contexts of gender. of Marriage & Family , 65(2), 275-286. Ono explains about how gender roles affected females in the Japan, The U.S., and Sweden, also clarifies how these gender roles changed over time and how they affected the age that women got married at. States that an increased economic position for women will also there chances of marrying. I feel that this article would work as good support of the first source used, Poll Briefing, because it can explains why the graphs changed more drastically for women but not as much in men while giving a good visual. Sah, N. (2008). How useful are the demographic surveys in explaining the determinants of early marriage of girls in the terai of nepal?. Of Population Research , 25(2), 207. Gives a good real world example of a place, Nepal, affected by a law that forced them to raise their legal age of marriage, especially for the women, which was previously at 15.4 years old in 1961, went to around 19.5 y/o in 2001. Talks about factors that could change and that would include: sex/gender, caste/ethnicity, religion, ecological region, education, occupation, economic status and types/forms of marriage.