Alvarez 1 Gabriela Alvarez Professor Spencer ENC 1102 28 January 2017 The Inclusiveness and Understanding Associated with Sexual Education It appears that no matter how far our world progresses, people cannot seem to find ways to overcome what they have to be a topic of fragility; this topic being sex. For decades, people have had a difficult time conforming to the idea that sex is a natural part of life that must be explored and learned from. Due to this negative perception, a large part of the youth today is unable to access the information needed to understand sex and carry it out safely. Not only are the curriculums vague and they exclude students with learning disabilities who require gradual and in-depth explanations. A group called Advocates for Youth have been trying to fight educators for rights to a better sexual education, being that students with disabilities are neglected of such education by the school board based on myths and discomfort. Although the curriculum for sexual education courses do have set curriculums, the rates of understanding are what challenge the inclusivity of the students and how effective the courses are amongst a broad range of students. To reach a compromise, both groups must construct either a separate course for those with disabilities or structure the current courses in a way that allows it to be inclusive to all students. To begin, Advocates for Youth is an organization that advocates young rights to sexual health opportunities and services. The primary goal of this organization is the resources and opportunities necessary to create sexual health equity for all 1). They believe that society should view sex with a more positive outlook of healthiness and Alvarez 2 normality. The organization also focuses on the fact that youth with disabilities are facing a harder time when it comes to sexual education. Although policies have changed to include those with disabilities, society still has not eliminated the various ideas and myths associated with them. People not acknowledge that experience sexual feelings, needs, and desires, regardless of their abilities; receive little or no formal sexual health (Szydlowski 1). Taking a sexual education course is a necessity no matter who it is that is taking the course. Everyone should be educated about sex so that they may practice it safely. The only way to do this is to be educated appropriately and gain a strong understanding of the topic at hand. The organization believes this can be done in the form of parents/guardians in developing a plan of instruction that is positive, gradual, and takes into account the individual young developmental and maturity (Szydlowski 1). If more effort is put into creating a more rounded and informative course, then it would be easier to learn about sex and how to go about it in a safer matter. Advocates for Youth want all students to be included in and understand sexual knowledge no matter who they are or what disability they possess. In contrast, educators and the school board are of course the ones who decide the course contents and curriculums to benefit all educations. Being that different counties pass different policies and course lesson plans, all aims and ideas are different. For example, the mission of the Tampa School Board is to an education and the supports that enable each student to excel as a successful and responsible One Plan. One Vision.: ). Although the school mission statement is broad in order to serve as a general goal, advocates for youth sees it as the inability to target a (Szydlowski 1). Being that sexual education is one of their provided courses, it proves that educators want students to Alvarez 3 have the opportunity to learn about The problem with this is that in order to cater to all students and fit within the allotted curriculum, the course is often relying on euphemism and vague describe sexual behavior to (Boehning 59). Although it may seem like they are viewing sex as an topic, this is not their intention. Due to the wide variety of opinions on the subject, the schoolboard may be trying to cater to all student and parent opinions while also creating a general framework for the subject. Contrary to the ideas of the Advocates for Youth group, the educators and school board try their best to make education available to everyone through as many policies and course structures as they can. Overall the Advocates for Youth and educators have somewhat similar goals. Both groups want students to obtain sexual education but they focus on the matter differently. While the school board and educators believe that a vague yet simple method would benefit all students, the Advocates for Youth organization begs to differ. They believe that a more comprehensive course would benefit students with disabilities being that they are often left out due to the vague information which leaves them with countless questions and lack of knowledge. A study done by department of psychology even found that the method in which the course was taught affected greatly the efficacy of the learning and understanding, especially in those with disabilities (Health Psychology 1). The school board needs to implement a more specialized form of course material that is more descriptive and slower paced. Not only would this in-depth and gradual lessons help disabled students, would help students overall. A greater portion of the student body would understand sex in greater detail and would not be confused by such unclear stories such as birds and the Improvement of the course and lesson structure would be one solution to this issue; being a more moderate and inexpensive Alvarez 4 compromise. They could implement informative course videos and special workbook assignments that allow students to dive into the concepts and ideas about sex and how to stay safe. A more visually stimulating and hands on experience would create a more well-rounded course. The other compromise would have to be creating a separate course specifically for those with disabilities. Although it is feasible, it is more complex due to the cost and budgeting of creating a new course. On average, the school board has to pay $502 per pupil for a noncore class and the price may even be higher (Roza 1). As is evident, this compromise may be even harder to reach since it would be costly and harder to develop a separate class when one already exists. Making the school board pay would not be fair nor would it be carried out easily. Advocates for Youth could help fund these courses through donations or various other methods but it still may not be enough. In brief, it would be best if both organizations just work together to adjust and modify the current course plan to meet halfway or just completely meet the requirements for the inclusion of students with disabilities. In conclusion, although sexual education courses have come a long way from what they used to be, they still do not meet the most effective teaching or inclusiveness. Students are left with various questions due to vague explanations. Being that normal students have this issue, it can be assumed that students with disabilities face an even more terrible fate. They are often excluded from such knowledge being that they lack the capability to process the lessons. They need a more specialized form of course material that is more descriptive and slower paced. The school board does take this into consideration for multiple factors such as the need to keep the class simple and readily available to teach the basics. Meanwhile, the Advocates for Youth have been trying to push for the improvement of sexual education courses so anyone may learn about sex. They strongly believe that and skill practice are key to promoting healthy and Alvarez 5 mutually respectful behavior, regardless of the young (Szydlowski 1). Creating a more in-depth and detailed course would be the best compromise for both groups in the creation of a more inclusive and effective sexual education course. Alvarez 6 Works Cited Boehning, Alison. Sex Education for Students with  Law and Disorder 1 (2006): 59-66. Indiana University. Web. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.deldhub.gacec.delaware.gov/pdf/boehning%20sex%20education%20for%2 0students.pdf>. Health Psychology, Vol 34(4), Apr, 2015. Special Issue: Qualitative Research in Health Psychology. pp. 328-338. Advocates for Youth. Feb 2016. Web. 28 January 2017. <http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/about-us/mission> One Plan. One Vision.:  Hillsborough County Public Schools. Hillsborough County Public Schools, n.d. Web. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.sdhc.k12.fl.us/doc/573/strategic-plan/about/strategicplan/>. Roza, Marguerite. Breaking Down School  Education Next. Harvard, n.d. Web. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. <http://educationnext.org/breaking-down-school-budgets-2/>. Szydlowski, Mary Beth. Sexual Health Education for Young People with Disabilities Research and Resources for  Advocates for Youth. School Health Equity Advocates for Youth, Feb. 2016. Web. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/publications/publications-a-z/2559>.