Ishaat Musrur Hussain Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 Section 51 14 th February 2017 The Choice to Die Death. This term is the end note of any functioning being. Whether by own choice or by other factors, every living being faces death eventually. However, could this grim crossroads of human life be beneficial to some? Physician assisted suicide provides the option of death to patients for whom death would be a well-served alternative. Materialized in the form of the Death with Dignity Act, physician assisted suicide has been in effect in Oregon, United States of America since 1997 (Death with Dignity). However, this has faced a lot of controversy as it brings into question a right to life. The nonprofit organization Death with Dignity National Center aims to make all qualified terminally ill Americans capable of making their own end of life choices, including how they die. On the contrary, Not Dead Yet, a national disability rights group opposes legalization of assisted suicide as they believe it as a gateway for discrimination against old, ill and disabled people. Although both organizations are at opposing views regarding physician assisted suicide, their common goal is to protect and ensure human rights. For the further protection of human rights, an integration of both the goals can be obtained by limiting the demography capable of using physician assisted suicide to people who are eligible for it. Death with Dignity National Center has firm belief in the Oregon Death with Dignity Act and provides legislative support for its legalization across the United States of America. They believe that greatest human freedom is to live and die according to our own desires and (Death with Dignity). The Death with Dignity law allows Oregonians suffering from terminal illness to request and receive a physician prescribed medication to hasten their inevitable and imminent death (Death with Dignity). This law has several safeguards in place to ensure correct judgement by both patient and physician. Such safeguards include, proof of residency, age of 18 years and older, capable of making his/her own choices and have a life expectancy of six months. Additionally, the physician prescribing the medication must also consult another physician and both must reach an agreement of the mental and physical diagnosis before prescribing the medication (Werth Jr. 502). However, even in place of such safeguards, this act has faced reasonable opposition as it is considered a violation of moral and ethical codes in medicine like the Hippocratic Oath. This oath taken by all physicians, dates back to the third century B.C. (Huntoon 99). A part of this oath states that, all I must not play Evidently, taking life can be considered by some as an act of playing God (Huntoon 99). Due to this and additional factors, the legalization of physician assisted suicide is being opposed by groups like Not Dead Yet. Not Dead Yet opposes the legalization of physician assisted suicide as they believe the old, ill and disabled could be subjected to when their lives would be judged as worthless (Not Dead Yet). Instead of assisted suicide, they promote better and long term end of life care for patients. They bring into light the common misconception that only people suffering from intolerable pain choose assisted suicide. Per data from the Death with Dignity act Annual reports of 2016, 92% of the people asking for physician assisted suicide were people with loss of autonomy, 90% were people unable to engage in activities and 79% of the people had a feeling of loss of dignity (Death with Dignity Act Annual Reports 2016). This trend shows that, rather than pain, the main issue is disability. Not Dead Yet also reckons that physician assisted suicide could lead to involuntary euthanasia. In the year 1984, Governor Richard D. Lamm stated that people who are terminally ill have a to and get out of the way instead of trying to prolong their lives by artificial (Huntoon 99). This demonstrates how the elderly can be subjected to involuntary euthanasia through discrimination. Furthermore, Not Dead Yet points out that physicians are the ultimate decision makers in physician assisted suicide (Not Dead Yet). Although patients ask for the medication, they are at the mercy of the diagnosis, which in case of false diagnosis would result in an unexpected and possibly earlier than expected death. Although Not Dead Yet aims to stop legislation of the Death of Dignity act, their agendas show that their main goal is to ensure proper rights like the Death with Dignity National Center. The right to life and the right to death are both paramount human rights. However, like all rights, these rights must be implemented by shunning discrimination and abuse. Statistics over the last four years show that loss of autonomy (85%) and making life enjoyable (77%) are the prime reasons for desire for assisted suicide (Werth Jr. 503). In contrast, financial issues were the cause for only 2% of the people choosing physician assisted suicide. This was because people with proper education are more likely to be financially solvent and also because these people are likely to be more educated about end of life decisions (Werth Jr. 512). Also, 99% of the people choosing physician assisted suicide had health insurance (Werth Jr. 512). This shows that most people who want physician assisted suicide do not do it out of external factors like financial pressure but are influenced by psychological factors such as not being able to lead a normal life. Not Dead Yet also points out that assisted suicide might decrease the quality of health care, however further statistics showed that it was not the case. The Oregon Hospice Association, which strives to ensure high quality health care no evidence that assisted suicide in Oregon has undermined end-of-life care or harmed the best interests of vulnerable (Almagor 436). As disability appears to be a prime factor for assisted suicide, prohibiting access of disabled patients to assisted suicide measures can lower discrimination of the disabled. Additionally, by limiting assisted suicide measures only to people suffering from intolerable pain, diagnosed with shortened life and possessing substantial mental health, both organizations can meet each other half way as this solution would serve only the people who really need it. This can be accomplished through medical, financial and psychological evaluation of patients to find the correct candidates for physician assisted suicide. Such a compromise would make terminal medical conditions the sole reason for assisted suicide and would encompass both the goals of ensuring proper rights. Although it may seem like Death with Dignity gets the most benefits out of this compromise, Not Dead core values are not lost. By limiting the demography of people capable of receiving physician assisted suicide, those who are old and disabled can be saved from discrimination. This key factor assures that Not Dead Yet does not have to sacrifice its goals for the compromise. Another significant factor in assisted suicide are the families of the patients. Their emotional distress must also be considered along with the However, patients suffering from severe mental illness cannot relieve their families from such pain by availing assisted suicide as they are not eligible until the very end. This is because assisted suicide hands control to the patients until the very last moment of their (Cohen- Almagor 437). As the patients have to wait until the very end, their mental state deteriorates rendering them incapable of making their own decisions. A possible solution to this could be to allow patients to choose physician assisted suicide for a future point of their lives upon early diagnosis of a fatal disease or mental disorder. For example, patients will be able to opt for assisted suicide for a future point in their life before becoming mentally incapable of choosing for themselves. This would again ensure that the main benefactors are the patients. The controversy regarding a physician assisted suicide shows that organizations like Not Dead Yet and Death with Dignity National Center actively advocate for human rights. Although at opposing sides of the argument, these two organizations bring into light various perspectives of the issue. Such perspectives are essential for ensuring human rights, like the right to live and the right to die. Through cooperation, organizations like these can utilize a multi perspective approach for implementation of laws like the Death with Dignity Act. (1393 words) Work Cited About  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Annual  Annual Reports. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cohen-Almagor, R. Dossier To Live And An Argument For Physician-Assisted Suicide And Against  Ethics, Medicine And Public Health 1.(2015): 431 441. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Huntoon, Lawrence R. Physician-Assisted Suicide And Euthanasia: The Destruction Of Morals, Ethics, And  Journal Of American Physicians And Surgeons 4 (2016): 98. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Not Dead Yet Disability Activists Oppose Assisted Suicide As A Deadly Form of  Not Dead Yet. N.p., 05 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wineberg, Howard, and James L., Jr. Werth. Physician-Assisted Suicide In Oregon: What Are The Key  Death Studies 27.6 (2003): 501-518. AgeLine. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.