Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Leading Individuals to Self-Happiness Numerous people every day suffer from a common, yet demeaning illness known as and its often questioned what precautions can be taken to minimize these negative feelings. HELPGUIDEORG INTERNATIONAL was established in 2012 as a California nonprofit public benefit corporation dedicated to charitable and educational purposes Our Non-Profit This main purpose was to discover various treatments and coping methods for mental, social, and emotional illnesses. The website is embedded with tons of articles and interactive quizzes to help focus on the underlying issue as well as the measurements one should take to prevent and hopefully diminish their sickness. Revealed on the home page of the site, the topics listed vary from bipolar disorder and depression to suicide prevention and diet and weight loss. The broad assortment of subjects provides a reliable and supportive article of tips and procedures to overcome these unfortunate setbacks and assist in improving self-health. Their collaboration with Harvard medical school proves consistency and dependability on the professionals while enhancing the research and supplying the greatest feedback possible to those diagnosed. As well as the logical enquiry conducted, they also use captivating images to support and push individuals to make a difference for themselves and find the help necessary to extinguish these battles. Student 2 HelpGuide provides the public with numerous images that display the effects of depression and utilize specific techniques to improve their happiness. Specifying on an image that is associated with depression helps introduce those, knowledgeable of the matter or not, to an illness that is obviously life-draining With Depression/Best Way To The image (Figure 1) displays a middle-aged woman with a discontent expression holding her face and dazing out into the universe. In the background, it appears to have a slightly blurred out wall or possibly a bright window. Displaying dull, cold-temperature colors that this image contains delivers a pessimistic ambiance and constructs a distressing notion that this woman is simply not content with certain things in her life. HelpGuide gives an apparent impression that the intended audience for this image would be those who suffer with this mental instability and are attempting several measures to consider in hopes of improving their well-being. Conceptualizing any perspectives from this image would be that it reminds those who agonize from depression are not alone. Depression is quite a common disorder in individuals and the reasons behind each case could vary from person to person. Overall, the intended purpose of this image embedded in their website is to help those feel disconnected to the world, feel more connected to those around them. The use of this image persuades the patient with a sense of security and comfort with the visual applications it partakes. The blank expression bestowed upon the face appeals to the pathos that uncovers the emotions engraved. Her dazed look and lack of amusement shows the discontentment she has with herself and the world around her, much like what many individuals experience today. Kairos is also represented in this image in which it unfolds the sense of timeliness. From my understanding, it is shown that this woman is staring out a window feeling disengaged from the world around her. Her exploring the universe outside from within the walls of the room trapped in could depict her reflection of her past and how she got to the withdrawal state she is in today. Her holding her face up with her cupped hands could be due to her holding Student 3 onto her past struggles and negative encounters that continue to impact her mood even now. The organization founder included this image to form an emotional joining of the victims of this cruel disease. Following more accommodating tips for this article comes more images to better illustrate the message. One particular image (Figure 2) that stood out was a more positive and soothing picture that conveys the goal in a different way With Depression/Get A Daily Dose of This image itself unravels more optimism in ways that it provides the aftermath of the treatment being successful versus the other image of the woman seeking the treatment. The image exhibits another middle-aged woman with her hands over her head and a smile that reveals true peace with the world. She is outdoors under a ray of sunlight with beautiful, radiant flowers blooming in the background. Unlike the previous visual, the colors unveiled are more warm-temperature and with a greater quantity of saturation. The intended audience for this display are those losing hope and drowning in the sorrows of depression. Those who simply cannot establish another way of living than engulfing theirself with pity. Including this image had one purpose only and that was to deliver a positive notion that not impossible to live with depression forever. With enough effort, taking a walk outside and submerging yourself with the positive environment that this world provides is one easy solution to completely terminating depression. Not only does this elevate ones mood but it has positive effects on body that will chemically boost health. Instead of being trapped in a room like the woman in the image above, commute to taking those negative thoughts and leaving them behind and focusing on refining yourself spiritually. Pathos appeals to this image in terms of the woman expressing her happiness and release of stress. Her eyes closed, hands placed behind her head, and the obvious smile on her face reveal that statement. Along with the flowers in the image that conveys the sense of purity and relaxation that she is recently encountering. This image also pertains to ethos because of the credibility of the sunlight being present in the image and the feeling of cheerfulness that the woman releases as rays of light have been known to increase levels of serotonin. It is Student 4 blatantly obvious that the excitement is resulted from her presence outside under the sunlight and that is what is triggering the enhancement of her serotonin levels in her body. Attaching this image to the article about coping with depression exemplifies the perspective of pushing past any doubts and setbacks occurring with depression and taking the necessary steps such as increasing your daily dosage of sunlight to overcome and become a better you. Building an organization of logical research and compelling images makes for a great strategy to get victims of depression to treat themselves and follow any suggested tips for this illness. Those who suffer from this can feel a sense of detachment from society and themselves but HelpGuide lists numerous possibilities that can help regain any lost hope over the length of their depression. Attaining a successful track record of conducting valuable research and sharing it with those in need to accompany a better and healthier lifestyle has been the number one priority of this organization. (WC: 1149) Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Smith, Melinda. Coping with  Coping with Depression: Self-Help Tips to Deal with and Overcome Depression. Robert Segal, 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Marsicano Figure 1 https://www.helpguide.org/images/depression/depressed-young-woman-500.jpg Marsicano Figure 2 https://www.helpguide.org/images/depression/woman-enjoying-sun-280.jpg