Garcia 1 Anibal Jose Garcia Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Electric Cars Steering the Future When one thinks about cars, it is an immediate thought to think about motors, gasoline, and pricey maintenance. Elon Musk, founder and CEO of TESLA Motors, thinks about cars in a different manner. Elon envisions what the world could be like, and should be. Founded in 2003, mission is accelerate the transition to sustainable (About Tesla). The company based in Silicon Valley, wanted to show the world that electric cars could overpass gas- powered cars (About Tesla). One way to accelerate this process is by switching from gasoline powered cars to electric vehicles. A few years ago, it seemed like cars would never be anything but gasoline powered machines. Tesla is part of the few organizations who are committing all resources to make this once impossible concept, possible. In recent years, electric cars have made a huge impact in the automobile industry, Tesla is one the main competitors with all their models being powered electrically. Tesla, with the use of images, promotes the change from gasoline-powered vehicles to electric-powered automobiles and persuades viewers by using visual and rhetorical strategies to help change the world one car at a time. Tesla, being the credited company that it is, knows exactly how to get a message out, in any way possible; using images is a main way companies are getting their goal out to consumers. On their website, Tesla uses large, bright, colorful images to impact viewers. One persuasive image is found on the Tesla website under the tab on the menu (see Fig. 1). Figure 1 shows the most-sold Tesla model being charged by a home-charger. On the website, under the Garcia 2 image is a users can use to estimate how much money they will be saving on gas when switching to a Tesla electric powered vehicle. Figure 1, and the information under it shows how easy and cost-effective it is to own a Tesla. The company shows how a complex subject, such as electric vehicles, can be simpler than what people are used to with gas-powered cars. It is easier to arrive at house, plug in the car and let it charge, rather than having to go twice a week to a gas station to re-fuel and spend more money. The color white is another aspect that is very impacting. Using the white car with the white background gives out a sense of peace and perfection, which gives the user a sense of security and ownership, even before purchasing the vehicle. Tesla uses many elements of rhetorical analysis to transmit their mission to their audiences. According to Lane et al., logos is the to logic and (Lane et al. 22). use of the wall-charger is a clear example of how it is more logical to own a car that in own home, rather than having to drive to a gas station each time the automobile needs gas. The presence of the wall-charger shows how Tesla is taking the steps necessary to make the transition from gas-powered to electric vehicles. Pathos, per Lane et al is the to (Lane et al. 23). Figure 1 gives off a sense of tranquility. Viewers will know that as owners of this car; they will never have to worry about running to a gas station if their automobile is running low on fuel. Additionally, figure 1 shows a sense of change. A person can feel that they can make a difference to the pollution problem just by looking at the figure. People know that even one grain of sand makes a big difference in the end. This is what Tesla has in mind when creating these images, the transition to sustainable (Tesla About). Garcia 3 Images are an important part of getting a product out on the market. Tesla not only uses them to influence people into buying their products, but to show people how their products are superior in many aspects. Figure 2 not only shows an electric automobile, but the capabilities that this SUV has. Figure 2 shows the Model in a snowy mountain terrain which displays how the SUV is dependable on all topographies. Mountains in the background shows how the SUV can be taken nearly anywhere and let the user down. Snowboards and skis on the back of the car show how the SUV is also very practical, with the capabilities to carry these objects as well as giving the viewer the impression that they can also mount a bike rack or anything they need. Color and form of the car also give the viewer the understanding that this is a luxury vehicle that doubles as an all-terrain SUV, which gives the audience confidence that the car will look good, will have the mobility desired while driving into the future of sustainable energy. Rhetorical analysis elements are also present in this image from Tesla. As defined by Lane et al., ethos is the to (Lane et al. 20). Since Tesla is a world-wide known company, one can assume that what they state and show in their images is an accurate representation of what the vehicle is supposed to do. If this the case, people could have easy motives to doubt the capabilities of the Since Tesla wants to persuade viewers to buy their product, it is such an advantage for them to tell the truth and for them to show accurate information. This helps Tesla have the credibility they have which in turn leads to more customers wanting to buy their products which leads to sales. Figure 2 also transmits the sense of security. One thing many people look for when buying a vehicle is security. When seeing the way the car in the image can handle not-ideal terrains such as snowy mountains, confidence Garcia 4 immediately sparks. Viewers know that the car will be very safe when driving on a normal road or any other conditions. The two images show many of the major aspects that Tesla want to portray. The use of pathos, ethos and logos, in addition to visual appeals are contently present in both figures. Because of the creditability of Tesla Motors, one can trust the content of both figures. From figure 2, one knows that the Tesla Model X is a dependable and multi-use vehicle. Tranquility is something that all car owners want to feel when owning a car. When looking at figure 1, this emotion stands out clearly. use of the wall charger shows how it is more logical to refuel car at home. Overall, goal of the transition to sustainable (About Tesla) is clearly present in both these images in order to persuade viewers to help change the world, one electric vehicle at a time. (WC: 1144) Garcia 5 Works Cited About Tesla, https://www.tesla.com/about. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Charging Estimator, https://www.tesla.com/models. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily, Lee, Kendra Gayle, McKee, Jessica, McIntyre, Megan, and Pantelides, Kate. Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 19-52. Print. Model X, https://www.tesla.com/modelx. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Moxley, Joe. Writing Commons, http://writingcommons.org/visual-literacy. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Sheffield, Jenna Pack. Down an Writing Commons, https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/747/01. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Tesla, https://www.tesla.com. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Garcia 6 Figures Figure 1 https://www.tesla.com/models Figure 2 https://www.tesla.com/modelx