Santos !1 Jordan Santos Spencer ENC 1102 12 February 2017 The Effects of Anesthesia on the Human Body Anyone who has ever had surgery knows that it is hard not to be nervous and a little antsy. Imagine not being able to have anesthesia while you are having surgery, and the pain you would experience just at the beginning stages of the surgery. Anesthesia plays a huge role in the comfort of the patients as well as the comfort for the surgeon. What if that necessity in every surgery was causing postoperative effects for several hundreds of patients. After everything that they have already been through now they have to deal with this new or even reoccurring problem. The two main stakeholders in this paper are specific researchers who are studying how anesthesia effects the brain and The United States Public Health Services. The disagreement between these two stakeholders is The United States Public Health Services believes the issue is not quite a detrimental occurring case where the researches believe the case numbers can only increase from here on out. A possible compromise for the two is to set protocols for the group of people who are most afflicted by this topic while funding for research could increase to better understand the effects anesthesia has on the body. Furthermore, the first stakeholder on this topic is The United States Public Health Services (USPHS). The mission of the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps is to protect, promote, and advance the health and safety of our Nation. uniformed service of Santos !2 public health professionals, the Commissioned Corps achieves its mission through:Rapid and effective response to public health need ,leadership and excellence in public health practices, and advancement of public health science (About Regarding the topic at hand USPHS believes the affects of anesthesia are not dangerous and do not affect the patient for long periods of time. The side effects are not harmful and are common after most surgeries. In all USPHS believes the issue is not critical and there are other important issues at hand. With respect to the patients who do have these side effects but they are considered rare. Anything in the medical field is possible and new effects for all anesthesia is commonly reported. Secondly, the view that the second stakeholder has is different on how the topic should be handled. With new ideas being speculated constantly researchers have been putting out information about the effects on how anesthesia may be effecting cognitive brain function and in the human body itself. Researchers have found an increase in postoperative cognitive dysfunction, as well as reoccurrence of cancer, within the elderly population and young children (Ologunde and Ma 151). Along with more common affects like emergence agitation, loss of cognitive function for motor control, and delirium, a confused state of mind (Lee et al 58). Also researchers have already been looking at a possible solution to the problem with a replacement to anesthesia. GTS-21 is the solution to anesthesia still in the early stages of studies with current trials with rat subjects. The point of view researchers are taking is to solve the problem as early as possible while they can still control it. Since anesthesia is such a big part in the medical field and a lot has been accomplished with it they find it crucial to solve this problem. There is an understanding that there is still a minute number of cases where serious effects have reoccured but research is leading to more knowledge on how anesthesia is affecting the population.Ideas Santos !3 and point of views within the researchers believe protocols should be adjusted due to new knowledge about the topic. With all this information given, the reason why these two stakeholders cannot agree on a compromise is USPHS looks for immediate issues that needs to be handled quickly throughout the country. Like disease outbreaks and naturally occurring disasters that have left people deprived of supplies (Where We Work). On the other hand the researchers are looking at smaller details and are looking at future issues that may become a major issues later on. That is why there is issues coming up with a compromise because USPHS and researchers have different point of views and different ways of dealing with issues at hand. Nothing against either of them they just have different jobs and different protocols within their communities. They could work hand in hand since researchers could warn USPHS on future events so lives could be saved. That is why a compromise could be arranged for these two stakeholders with critical meaning for a large portion of people. A realistic compromise between the two stakeholders could be as simple as putting protocols on anesthesia for the people that are most effected. To be specific these protocols will be in place for the elderly population as well as young children including infants. That may sound easy but these protocols must be precise for several situations. These protocols could determine when to use anesthesia if no other solution is successful. Also these protocols will have to define a huge grey area between obvious situations where anesthesia must be used and situation where it can be completely avoided. These protocols can be used to save several cases where effects occur but could have been avoided with different protocols. Like minor arm or leg surgeries. Going under anesthesia could be avoided with a simple solution of nerve block. The patient will be conscious Santos !4 like brain or wisdom teeth procedures and no pain will be felt similar to those procedures. In doing so patients can be happier and money could be saved for hospitals and government agencies. The second part of the compromise is USPHS could find more funding for researchers to continue finding results anesthesia may have on cognitive brain function and on the human body. This money could come from private shell companies or could be taken up with the government through acts and public laws. This could serve as a base for finding a solution to a problem that could increase it cases yearly and increase in number of dangerous and life threatening postoperative effects. In conclusion, the stakeholders have several difference on their view of the topic but the both are working for the better of all people. USPHS may look at bigger issues at hand while researches are looking at all the same details but they is no resign for a compromise to be found that benefits all point of views. This compromise could better society and save lives and unnecessary pain for many people. Santos !5 Work Cited N.d. Web, 5, September, 2014 Fei-Juan Kong, MD, Lei-Lei Ma, MD, Hong-Hai Zhang, PhD, and Jia-Qiang Zhou, 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist GTS-21 mitigates isoflurane-induced cognitive impairment in aged of Surgical web. Rele Ologunde, Daqing inhalational anesthetics cause cognitive Anaesthesiologica web. Sellbrant , M. Brattwall , P. , M. Warren-Stomberg , S. Forsberg , J.G. Jakobsson. and analgesics; neurocognitive effects, organ protection and cancer reoccurrence an Journal of 41-46 web. UnCheol Lee a, George A. Mashour b, Seunghwan Kim c,*, Gyu-Jeong Noh d, Byung-Moon Choi induction reduces the capacity for neural information integration: Santos !6 Implications for the mechanism of consciousness and general and cognition journal web.