Prive 1 Several hundred students make their way to their assigned examination room. There, they locate their seat and wait patiently as nerves begin to settle in. Examination booklets and answer sheets are being distributed, testing instructions are being issued, and then the formal testing begins. Hours later, the booklets are collected and the next step is for the student to wait until their scores arrive in the mail or online. The day they receive this score is also the day where they receive insight on what their future holds. Standardized testing has been apart of the American Education system since the mid 1800s, and is one of the most debated topics in our education system today (ProCon, Par.1) Politicians and civilians, also known as the parents/educators have opposing views on how students should be assessed. On a positive note, both sides have a common goal, student achievement. However, the methods on how we measure it differ greatly. Politicians are in favor of testing students many times throughout the year while parents/educators believe these tests consume too much time and place too much stress upon those involved, so applying some limitations to testing will satisfy both parties in the end. The reason why standardized testing exists is because politicians believe that it would almost be impossible to track a academic progress without any form of standardized test. These proponents argue that standardized tests are necessary and fair when asked to measure a intelligence. the 1980s and early 1990s, several governors argued that they had to test all their students to raise school standards and Kayla Prive Professor Spencer ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Standardized Testing in America Prive 2 improve their (Matthews, 1). For the next two decades, politicians certainly started to make a lot of reforms when it came to the education system. In 2002 the No Child Left Behind Act was passed, mandating annual testing in all 50 states. President George W. Bush was responsible for signing this law, which required states to math and reading tests every year to students from third to eighth grade and imposed increasingly harsh punishments on schools that failed to make yearly on these (Mullohand, Paragraph 3). To some, this law may seem like a size fits approach to our education system, and stresses too much on these tests when there are more relevant issues in our education system that need to be addressed and focused on. On the other hand, teachers and parents are arguing against standardized testing, because they view it as an unreliable measure of a performance. In other words, it is all a matter of the teacher just the This affects the validity of the exam, because if these teachers are just forcing their students to memorize important concepts in order to receive a high score on the exam, then this prevents their students from developing higher order thinking skills that will benefit them in the long run. (Smyth, 184). According to the study by the Center on Education Policy, 81% percent of teachers believe their students invest way too much time preparing and taking tests required by their state or district. On average, students spend 10 days taking district mandated tests or nine days taking state mandated tests (Robelen, 2016). Parent activist Erica Perez brought up fact that extra pressure this year on the teachers and on the students because the teachers feel it, pushing the children, but not in the way conducive for their This woman represents many parents out there that Prive 3 are beginning to realize that their children are stressing out over these tests, and it is negatively impacting their performance levels. It is also very likely that educators will go to great lengths to ensure student achievement on these tests. Schools and teachers are under so much pressure in order to excel when it comes to their testing scores, often times they are tempted to cheat. For example, in April 1, 2015, educators in Atlanta were convicted of crimes related to inflating test scores of children from struggling schools in order to keep their jobs. Around about 180 employees were accused of having a role in deceiving Atlanta school test scores to build higher ratings and receiving pay raises (Fantz, 2015). Todd Farley, a former employee of 15 years in the testing industry, admitted to the Washington post that even those in charge of test scoring cheat. Changes are made according to the circumstance to give off the idea of standardization, though it may not even exist. Farley himself stated that, companies are in it solely to make a (Au, 16). Test scores serve as indicator to the quality of education and how the school is represented, so desperate measures will almost always come into effect in when the schools reputation is in jeopardy or if a pay increase is involved. It is very unlikely that standardized testing will disappear completely from the education system, however we can place limitations on the amount of annual tests that are administered as a compromise to both politicians and civilians. We know that technically standardized testing to an extent is necessary in order for our schools to remain on the right track, and we should still use these tests to judge how well students are doing. We should not use the tests to judge the school itself, but let them be used once Prive 4 per grade level to be included in the accountability system used involved with identifying struggling and lower leveled schools (Brown, 2015). We can also look into reducing the amount of time that is used in order to prep for these tests, in order to create more time dedicated for teaching. According to a national 2007 study by the Center on Education Policy, it was reported that, 2001, 44% of school districts had reduced the time spent on science, social studies and the arts by an average of 145 minutes per week in order to focus on reading and Given this information, it is evident that test preparation is top priority, rather than actually making sure that students fully comprehend the material. If we do reduce the amount of time set aside to prepare for standardized tests, both politicians and students/teachers/parents will be satisfied knowing that students are actually being taught useful knowledge, and not just how to properly use process of elimination through out their entire exam. Limiting the number of times tests are administered will place less stress on teachers and students, resulting in better testing results. Legislators will appreciate valid testing results, and may continue to take appropriate action if schools still do not meet the required testing standards. In conclusion, standardized tests are given across our nation and are expected to reflect a true learning capacity. The question whether or not they measure accurately the material that is being learned, is still a very controversial topic. Education reformers continue to give these long and tedious tests, despite the stress and anxiety it piles on to the teachers, parents, and students. Steps that can be made in order to treat both sides include limiting the amount of time being spent on preparing for these tests, and instead of annually testing students they could be tested only few times throughout the years. If these changes occur, then more time would be available for teaching. More Prive 5 time for teaching will allow the students to actually comprehend the material rather than just memorizing it. In the long run, test scores will be more likely to increase because less stress will be put upon both educators and students. Works Cited Prive 6 Au, Wayne, and Karen Gourd. Assessment: Why High-Stakes Testing Is Bad for Everyone, Including English The English Journal, vol. 103, no. 1, 2013, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/24484054. Brown, Emma. Compromise Proposal on K-12 Testing of U.S.  The Washington Post. WP Company, 29 Jan. 2015. Fantz, Ashley. Prison Time for Some Atlanta School Educators in Cheating  CNN. Cable News Network, 15 Apr. 2015. Web. Kolodner, Meredith. Students, Teachers Sweating High-stakes Tests as Parents Rebel Against Constant Daily News, May 3, 2011 Mullholand, Quinn. The Case Against Standardized  Harvard Political Review. November 05, 2015. ProCon.org. Standardized Tests  ProCon.org. 31 Jan. 2017, 11:26 a.m., standardizedtests.procon.org/ Robelen, Erik. Education Writers  Testing and Test Prep: How Much Is Too Much? N.p., 2 June 2016 Prive 7