Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102.704 12 February 2017 Homelessness: The Overlooked and Forgotten Take a moment and imagine what being homeless and the idea of homelessness looks like. The first thing that comes to a lot of minds may have been someone asking for money or maybe a person sleeping under the over pass or on a park bench. This idea of homelessness is very black and white, a person may have become homeless because of: insert common assumption here, when in actuality it is part of a greater spectrum. It comes from not only a downward spiral from drugs, which is what a majority of humans think, but there are also the wounded veterans and everyday Americans who work hard but just fell on hard times. As of 2016, there are 549,928 people who have fell into homelessness. This statistic, found on projecthome.org, accounts for just one night here in the United States. When this number was broken down into age groups, gender, and those who were veterans, it became very evident that homelessness is a problem that this country is facing more and more each day. Of the 549,928 individuals, 39,471 were veterans. A whopping 35,686 were unaccompanied youth and only 7% are homeless due to disabilities. Many organizations believe that the problem can be solved by pushing congress to protect those who are less fortunate. While a few others think that the problem will be solved on its own or that the people who are homeless did this to themselves and shall fix it themselves. The Coalition for the Homeless is one of the major advocate for homelessness in America today. Their organization, developed in the 70s, was built Student 2 on helping those in need who are from all different parts of life with the mission statement being envision a world where everyone has a safe decent, affordable and accessible as stated on their website, nationalhomeless.org. This organizations fights for those less fortunate through their use of imagery and article about what is happening every day. To begin with, there is an image posted on the website from an article discussing the violence that homeless individuals face on daily. In order for the image to get its message across successfully they need to incorporate an appeal. In they are focusing on pulling people to help by tugging at their emotions by incorporating pathos. Fig. 1 shows the vivid image of senseless acts of violence on the homeless. A highway police officer caught from what seems to be a dash camera, with a raised fist while holding the person down. There is also images from other clips where once again the homeless individual is a victim. Due to the fact that fig.1 comes from video camera, it shows that the issue is real. It helps persuade people to try to help and become more involved in making a change, it opens their eyes to what a lot of people do not know is going on. The image pulls at the heart and makes them sympathetic for the individual enduring because the organization incorporated the pathos appeal. Which, as stated previously in the paper, uses the emotions to help persuade them. It will make the reader feel anger towards the person causing the physical and emotional pain. Also make them question as to why this is happening and what did the victim do to for this to happen. Student 3 The reader looks at the picture having some sort of knowledge to the situation even though the video may have never been watched. It is undoubtedly yet questionably obvious that the victim is homeless while the antagonistic being is senseless which ties into the logos appeal. The logos appeal uses logic to persuade the reader. In addition, there is another image, fig.2, posted on the Coalition for the Homeless website which was one of soup can with the sentence, People Deserve Food written on the label. An image with this type of coloration and font in the image pushes for people to think of an ad they see in a magazine or a television ad. By word it helps differentiate between the false misconceptions that people who are homeless ask for money or food because they do not want to work. A word like shows America that they are not asking for a meal or money because they want to, but that they are asking because they have no other choice and they need food; everyone needs food, it is the way of life which is why the coalition is pushing for people to donate and help. The coalition is also trying let the reader question what make me and this individual different. As in why should I deserve food and they should not. The picture of the soup can also give almost a mother-like nurturing feeling. A feeling that we all should help each other. In the article lists facts about how many people go hungry a day as well as the number of people who attend food sharing programs. million Americans visit food sharing programs annually. It is estimated that one out of every six Americans go hungry on a daily as stated by Arnold Abbott and Randy Mcquade on the National Coalition for the homeless website. Student 4 In comparison, the fig.1 gives an obvious strong emotional feeling focusing on more of a pathos appeal in contrast to the fig.2 which focused more on a logos appeal. In fig.2 the message of the blatant problem of homeless is there but is not conveyed in a forceful way due to the fact that the target audience is different. It brings someone who is passionate about the issue but wants more information and pushes to help in a less forceful yet still demanding way Fig.1 would bring someone who is strong hearted about helping those in need which is why the message conveyed in the image in more forceful. All in all both images push for a solution in homeless to be considered just as important as other problems in this nation. In addition to bringing this issue to the forefront. (W.C.1018) Student 5 Works Cited Facts on  Project HOME. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. National Coalition for the  National Coalition for the Homeless. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.