Dor Lotringer Karen Hanson, PhD Composition 2 12 February 2017 Drug Testing in the Workplace As society modernizes, conflicts tend to rise from the impact of people attempting to solve small, yet impactful problems such as drug testing in the workplace. Drug testing, which has been a fairly controversial issue, has been getting much attention lately regarding wether it should be mandated upon employees, or wether it should be avoided due to its interference with personal privacy. The International Labour Organization (ILO), which is an United Nations organization dealing with labour issues, international labour standards, social protection, and work opportunities for all, has set a main goal of furthering the rights of employees at work, as well as encourage decent employment opportunities, and enhance their social protection (ILO). The International Labour Organization contains a core belief that the rights of the employer over the employee do exists, and therefore can be used to test against drugs. In the published journal posted on their official website, ILO points out the positive effects of drug testing in the workplace, and its influence on the employees, their performance on the job, and the company itself (ILO). On the other hand, The National Criminal Justice Reference Service (NCJRS), is a federally funded resource that offers justice and drug-related information to support research, policy, and program development worldwide. In efforts to fight drug screening of employees, this organization provides services, statistics and resources that support the claim that the use of mandatory urinalysis testing in the workplace is a violation of the privacy rights of subject employees under the fourth amendment. As these two valid organizations posses different opinions on this matter, there is still hope for a compromising solution. In this case, the compromise conditions both organizations to work towards reducing the mandated employment drug tests forced upon employees by their employers and by the law which can diminish the infringement on personal privacy rights. The International Labour Organization has a rich history of making its case towards the campaigning on pro drug tests, especially in the workplace. On a journal entitled, and alcohol testing in the ILO discusses the importance of satisfying the regulations of testing employees upon their acceptance of the job, and on a month to month bases. They write that the policy over the last decade has focused on a shift toward prevention of workplace substance abuse and defines alcohol- and drug-related problems as health problems to be dealt with in the same manner as other health (ILO). This article focuses on targeting specific crowds and organizations that can help legislate their words and actions into laws and regulations all around the United States. The ILO contributed a WDT (Workplace Drug Testing) regulation form, which declares the specific rules in which they believe can make every workplace into a better place. The ILO credits this regulation form to hold policies that force employees towards testing monthly, while regulating employers to consistently monitor their policies to develop a professional principle towards drug testing (ILO). The WDT procedure form consists of steps of when to drug test, how to test, what happens if an employee refuses to test, etc.. For example, if an employee decides not to test, their policy states that must be a written policy document, the content of which is known to all concerned. The policy should include prevention, identification, counseling, treatment, rehabilitation, and details on at what stage disciplinary action will be (ILO WDT 1). Currently, the ILO does not posses the power to regulate these laws in the US, however, their main goal is to legislate this form to the whole country, which can be achieved over a large amount of time, money and effort. The National Criminal Justice Reference Service (NCJRS) organization currently holds a different stance on the issue. According to their publication of Urinalysis Testing and the Privacy Rights of Subject Employees: Toward a General Rule of Legality Under the Fourth this organization possesses the view that how the employer, employee, and public interests implicated in employee drug testing (urinalysis) can be reconciled under constitutional (Miller 1). This organization stands with the rights towards fighting invasion of privacy rights, which has a positive correlation to this issue. The NCJRS believes that must abide by constitutional limitations on state (Miller 1) and therefore cannot mandate any potential or currently existing employee to abide by regulations and take the drug test. The NCJRS explain that the only occurrence to when employers can be enforced by their employees to take a drug test is when the testing can be predicated on an objective, observable manifestation of the on-the-job impairment; i.e., tests can be used only to confirm a reasonable belief that the employee is under the influence of drugs or alcohol at a time when such impairment presents a clear and present danger to himself or (Miller 2). Basically, the NCJRS states that unless the employee is under the influence on the job, the employer has no right to enforce a drug test on the employee. Due to this situation being the one loophole, the proposed compromise has come to save the day. The compromise has been developed to state that the only way a drug test can only be enforced upon an employee if the employee is being promoted to a higher position in the company, or if the employee has come to work under the influence, or if the employee has had a bad history of visual representation of drug abuse and can therefore save their life. Both parties believe in this compromise because it provides a solution to both the ILO and the NCJRS. By decreasing the amount of drug test, the NCJRS organization has successfully stood by their people by supplying a service that lessened regulation towards monthly drug tests. It is also satisfies ILO by providing them with possible options towards drug testing employees and providing everyone with a safe, yet enjoyable policy. The EHS (Environment, Health and Safety in the Workplace), has been credited for citing a similar compromise, which follows the format of attempting to decrease drug tests only after employment but not before. In this article entitled, Testing: How Both Employers and Employees EHS is describing a solution that contains the exact measures that describe this compromise, while describing that even though drug testing will decrease, it is important to keep in mind that drug testing is for the betterment of everyone in the workplace. They write that, Drug testing supports a safer and more productive workplace the kind of environment in which people want to work. Maintaining the highest level of safety, productivity and morale benefits both employers and (EHS). To conclude, both organizations who posses different views on the topic of wether or not drug testing in the workplace is a violation of privacy rights, share one trait in common. On both websites for either organization, the main goal is to provide employees and employers with a safe and secure workplace. With the compromise in effect, employees are only mandated to drug tests if a) they came to work under the influence, b) show visual representation of drug abuse, or c) got promoted. This policy ensures every employee with the highest level of safety at work, and also provides both organizations with the highest regard towards fighting for a better future for all. Work Cited Current, William F. Drug Testing: How Both Employers and Employees  N.p., 12 Dec. 2002. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. International Labour Organization. Clean: Drug and Alcohol Testing in the , 01 Sept. 2006. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Miller, David A. Mandatory Urinalysis Testing and the Privacy Rights of Subject Employees: Toward a General Rule of Legality Under the Fourth  N.p., 12 Dec. 2002. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.