Thomas1 Curtis Thomas Professor Karen Hanson Febuary,12 2017 ENC1102 Genetic Cloning Genetic Cloning is considered quite a controversial topic that is discussed in society. Cloning the creation of a genetically identical copy of a (Gizmodo Brown.109). Cloning is a controversial topic among society because of the concerns of human and animal safety. Cloning is discussed to be beneficial but also others think that playing with God while using science will have its effects. While some think that genetic cloning is a good idea others believe that this is just another way for human kind to play God. Friends of the Earth Association (FOE) believes that genetic cloning should be stopped and mankind should just be left the way it is while the Genetics and Clone Saving Association(GECS) believes that cloning could change the world and help mankind. Both organizations are for helping mankind also their vision is to make the world a better place for years to come. To integrate the stance of both organizations there should be genetic cloning but with limits and regulations. Friends of the Earth Association is an organization dedicated to preserving the health and diversity of the planet for future generations. A primary goal for this organization to be a voice for the planet and they believe that all people should live in a healthy (Carter,209). This organization believes taking care of our planet and its people will help the Thomas2 world become a better place. The information that the Friends of the Earth Association presents i the are focusing more on the future of the world. They want to stop the killing of some animals and stop the destruction of many of our jungles. This Study has shown, published by Eric Smart, the research shows that with the help of the Friends of the Earth Association many animals are coming out of extinction and there are more plants being planted and less jungles are being knocked down. It concluded that this organization the circle of life get back to where it should (Hartman 98). A lot of Americans only hear about keeping the world safe and clean so that earth can have a future. Friends of the Earth organization are against genetic cloning they believe that these scientists are making artificial life so they see anything wrong with killing the original animals and plants etc. Friends of the Earth believe that scientist be trying to recreate life when there are bigger issues that need to be taken care of in the world. The Genetics and Cloning Association has a similar goal like the Friends of the Earth organization. As it states in their name they stand for the genetic cloning process and they also are thinking about the future of the earth. They believe that with genetic cloning it will be easier when it comes to human birthing and reproducing animals and plants, means a new form of evolution which means more animals out of extinction more planets and more humans to make the world (Hedderman.298) This organization believes, that genetic cloning can change the world it can help people that have children and also we can recreate old plants that could help us and more animals be extinct. An article published in 2015, by the Bioethics and Human Dignity, research shows that genetic cloning process has already begun they have already replicated a few plants (Thompson.68) This study is showing how the Genetic and Cloning Associations are trying to improve earth life, not only for the people who have children or who are in same-sex marriages genetic cloning can play a big part in helping these Thomas3 families. Like the study, know genetics organization also did a study on Genetic Cloning. They really study animals or planets they study human cloning and the ways it could be beneficial to earth. They are trying to perfect this process so that their not only cloning identical DNA but they can create a new human life. The GECS, like Friends of the earth, believes in human life and trying to make the world a better place for the future to come. The Friends of the Earth organization and The Genetic Cloning Association both have the same goals; they really could work together. Both want to make the world better and keep humanity and nature growing. In addition to making human life better both of these organizations want to make sure that the earth Is better and they want to expand. Both Organizations have similar goals, even though they may still be at odds. Both The Friends of the Earth and Genetic Cloning Association want to make the world a better place and work harder to expand on life. The only difference between the two organizations is their opinion on how to expand on life and make the world better. A simple solution can be made; beginning with scientist working on a way to make better plant life but do not experiment on animals work with the friends of the earth to keep endangered animals safe, doing test on humans should only be if a couple produce a child. Coming to a compromise in the middle still taking care of the plant and its people, but still not playing God, this would please both sides if a conflict arises. Genetic cloning can be a break thru in the world of science. The studies focus on how to make genetic cloning a good thing instead of it seeming like scientist are trying to play God (Kelly Anderson 109). Study also finds that genetic cloning can be beneficial, when doing cloning they can replicate the plant life a plant that could help us cure a sickness or a plant that could feed civilization. Genetic cloning can lead to new breakthroughs in child birthing and recreating plants that could help humanity. Thomas4 While Genetic cloning really a normal thing in society it can help in so many ways. According to the article published by scientist newsletter, genetic cloning is something that will be used in the near future. This is due to the increasing married people who want children. Both the Friends of the Earth Association and Genetics and Cloning Association want the same thing but at different points in the world. They are both working hard trying to find ways to make the world better and to add on to the worlds future. To appease both organizations a middle ground can be found by only using genetic cloning for helping that want to have children and reproducing plants. Genetic cloning only plants and helping to create children will help the world because we will make families who have kids happy and also we can cure some diseases with the plants that are cloned. Not only is it helping but it is a breakthrough in the scientific world. Thomas5 Work Cited Hartman, Joshua. Helping Restore the Earth Back  National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI). N.p., 04 July 1998. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Work Cited Anderson, Kelly.  Britannica. Britannica, Inc., 14 Apr. 2013. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://www.britannica.com/science/cloning>. Hedderman. Human Cloning Foundation Home  Human Cloning Foundation Home Page. N.p., 2 July 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.humancloning.org/>. Martian, Susan. Friends of the Earth. Friends of the Earth, 9 June 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://www.friendsoftheearth.com/terms/cloning.htm>. Williams, Travis. Genetic and Cloning  N.p., 19 May 2012. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.