Student 1 Student Professor Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Reaching out to Veterans Since 2001, the start of war in Afghanistan, the suicide rate among veterans has increased by thirty-five percent, consequently, making veteran suicide a rising epedimic in America (Philipps). As a means to support the veterans who have suffered as a result of their time in duty, Cannabis was developed by Sgt. Aaron Augustis in 2016. The newly developed organization serves to educate and support veterans suffering from mainly post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in the decision to alleviate symptoms via cannabis; support extends to family support groups as well. According to the Cannabis brochure, Sgt. Augustis served as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2003, and personally witnessed the beneficial effects of cannabis in alleviating trauma post war. The overall message being advertised by the organization is a greater acceptance and use of cannabis to treat suffering veterans. Through the use of two images utilizing appealing visual design strategies and persuasive rhetorical appeals, the Cannabis educates and acts as a support group for veterans who use or are considering using cannabis to treat mainly PTSD and various other side effects of war. Due to the overall motive of offering a helping hand to veterans, figure one is composed of red, white, and blue colors, and displays an armed soldier with text reading, are here to support our (Figure 1). The visual cues that help to Student 2 convey figure message of support include color, text, photography, and typography. The colors red, white, and blue, which devise the U.S. flag, serve to increase the perceived patriotism. are here to support our blatantly spells out the aim to support veterans, while the method of support offered is clarified by the name of the organization, Cannabis (Figure 1). The logo of the organization replaces the stars in the American flag with a cannabis leaf. The placement of the cannabis leaf insinuates that medical cannabis is an important component of America that is tantamount with the stars in the flag, which symbolize the states. The typography used in the image effectively captures the intended attention. A stark contrast is presented by the text in white juxtaposed against the red and blue background; this choice in color causes the text to stand out, while also highlighting the patriotism of the organization. The all caps, bold font tends to go along with the military aesthetic of intensity and firmness. The visual layout of the image leads the eye from the bold text to the logo of the organization and lastly to the photograph underneath. Figure one uses the rhetorical appeals ethos and pathos in order to portray the intended aim of the organization and consecutively attract the intended audience. Ethos is described as a technique in which the author attempts to demonstrate his or her authority and/or credibility, while pathos is described as the appeal to emotion (Lee et al 35; McKee and McIntyre 25). The date of establishment, place of establishment, and the name of the organization contained within the logo provide credibility because this clearly indicates a traceable, well-developed source. Furthering the use of ethos, the use of red, white, and blue appeals to the intended audience: veterans Student 3 who have experienced trauma as a result of war; the strong sense of patriotism these colors elicit helps the associate trust and honor with the organization. The second main rhetorical appeal, pathos, is displayed in this image through the use of text, color, and photography. The text reads, are here to support our (Figure 1). The phrase elicits an emotional response, as it paints the veteran/viewer as an admired, larger-than-life person. Also, the word is an inclusive term that increases emotional investment by directly calling out the shared responsibility to support veterans. The color of the text also elicits a strong emotional response, as the three colors red, white, and blue are national colors used to provoke patriotism. Patriotism is especially emotional for citizens who fought for their country the veteran has put his or her life at stake in order to maintain national security; being patriotic demonstrates loyalty, pride, and devotion to nation. In the hope of sending the intended message, the second image uses many of the same visual cues seen in the figure one. Figure two displays an armed military man in an unpeopled desert with underlying text reading, are a safe educational resource and family support group for Veterans who use medical (Figure 2). The earthy colors of the natural landscape exhibited in the image goes hand in hand with the typical military uniform of the American soldier. This emphasizes the militaristic aesthetic of the ad and whom it calls out to. The use of colors that are typically associated with rugged, adventurous people helps associate veterans with the respected nature of aesthetic principles that comes along with the U.S. military. The typography of the image stands out, as the large white text juxtaposed atop the black outline creates a vivid, contrasting text that catches the attention as intended. Student 4 Through the use of the rhetorical appeals pathos and ethos, figure two elicits strong responses from the audience, which seemingly help to elicit trust and likeability in the organization. Pathos is seen in the image through the photograph of the U.S. soldier in full uniform, holding a weapon, in the middle of a desolate area. The destitute scene appeals to veterans who view this image and relate to the conditions of this soldier. Veterans empathize with the typically lonely nature of the military experienced when switching military bases, losing friends in combat, and/or simply being away from family and friends at home. While the organization claims to offer support to all veterans, the audience targeting is limited by gender. Notably, in both figure one and two, only military men are displayed, paying no attention to military women. This is a key feature that may serve to limit the outreach capabilities of the organization. Furthering the use of rhetorical appeals, the image displays ethos by providing the logo at the main focal point. The logo provides credibility for the organization as it includes its name, and date and place of establishment. The text, are a safe educational resource and family support group for Veterans who use medical demonstrates the overall aim of the organization, while also attempting to persuade the viewer of its credibility through words such as and (Figure 2). Labeling the organization as safe creates an association of trust and security with Cannabis Furthermore, the adjective establishes credibility by reason of pedagogical institutions generally being deemed reliable; educational institutions are the main source of educating the public, which taken lightly. Therefore, it is assumed that unconfirmed facts and slanderous information are not spread in educational organizations. Student 5 Cannabis attempts to make their website more inviting and credible to their intended audience of veterans and family by supplying figures which use enticing visual cues and rhetorical appeals. Veterans often suffer from PTSD, which is caused by severe trauma experienced in service. While PTSD is the most common effect of war, various other emotional and physical tolls can be experienced as a result of service. Both figure one and two contribute to the goal of reaching out to veterans suffering as a result of their efforts in war. (WC: 1198) Student 6 Works Cited Lee, Kendra Gayle et al. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. University of South Florida, 2014. Accessed 20 Feb. 2017. McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. University of South Florida, 2014. Accessed 20 Feb. 2017. Philipps, Dave. Rate Among Veterans Has Risen Sharply Since The New York Times. https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/08/us/suicide-rate-among- Accessed 27 Feb. 2017 Veterans Cannabis Group. http://veteranscannabisgroup.com/. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Veterans Cannabus Group. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017 Student 7 Figure 1: Student 8 Figure 2: http://www.veteranscannabisgroup.com/