Reina Dubose Professor Carr ENC 1101 January 28, 2017 Annotated Bibliography Social media has a huge effect on generation and continues to transition throughout time and technology advances. As technology continues to progress, more people use social media which eventually effects people socially and behaviorally. Many tests were made to evaluate whether there were learning and network effects in the use of social media. Social media increased dramatically as certain companies, such as Apple and Samsung, continue to improve on their devices. People now have more access to various apps and social networking sites such as Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and YouTube which give them the chance to access everywhere and anywhere. Different studies have shown the results on how social media effects those who go on in different times and how it effects their behavior and other mind sets. The question to ask is, does social media effect those who go on during a long duration which later changes them socially and behaviorally? Many articles take the time to figure this out by testing their theories and comparing the results. Qiu, Liangfei, Qian Tang, and Andrew B. Whinston. Two Formulas For Success In Social Media: Learning And Network  Journal Of Management Information Systems 32.4 (2015): 78-108. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Liangfei Qiu, Qian Tang and Andrew B. Whinston are students from different universities that helped set out the effects of social media on people. They have witnessed in recent years an outburst in information technology that enables different forms of user-generated content in social media. Although they focused more on online videos, the idea was similar on what needed to be known. They specifically examined how learning and network effects drive the diffusion of online videos (Two Formulas). Testing their experiment with YouTube, they identified learning and network effects separately and found that mechanisms have a deep effect on video views and also the mechanism depends on the video type. This connects to the questions on asking if social media effects those socially and behaviorally when on it for a long period of time. In this article, the researchers concluded that social media is affected by both learning and network effects. Although for this case, it specifically focuses on YouTube, it can be seen with any other video media related sources. The longer one goes on the computer, tablet, or phone to watch videos, the more hooked and attached they get from staying on the site. It leaves an effect on the person watching once they get off such as projecting the same behavior from whatever they were watching or getting lazy to do anything else. Alan, Alev and Ebru The Effect Of Personal Factors On Social Media Usage Of Young  Procedia - Social And Behavioral Sciences 235.12th International Strategic Management Conference, ISMC 2016, 28-30 October 2016, Antalya, Turkey (2016): 595-602. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Alev Alan and Ebru helps support the question on how social media effects people socially and behaviorally. In their article, they explain how the growing and popularity of social media platforms, which leads them to the purpose of their article (Alan, Ebru). They investigate social media personality and see if it fits with the Big Five personality traits and their media usage intentions. To fully test this, a conceptual model is offered and they conducted a survey to one hundred and eight people. Data analysis was performed and gathered which then provided the social media usage and the effects on these members. The results showed that those with a high level of extraversion and an openness characteristics tend to be more inclined for using social media platforms. This changes the behavior of the members by they tend to feel the need to go on more social media to experience the feel of the community and to be socialized more easily. For those who have a high level of neuroticism, agreeableness and conscientiousness are more to reject all kinds of social networking. Choi, Mina, and Catalina L. Toma. Social Sharing Through Interpersonal Media: Patterns And Effects On Emotional  Computers In Human Behavior 36.(2014): 530-541. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Researchers, Mina Choi and Catalina Toma investigated the patterns of media use for social sharing and also the effects of mediated social sharing on emotions and behavior. In the article, social sharing is defined as act of discussing significant emotional events with (Social Sharing). After doing their experiments with various individuals, they found that easily accessible media such as texting and Twitter, are the ones that are more likely to be used for sharing positive events and news. As for more intrusive and rich media such as phone calling, those are the ones that are more likely to receive negative events and news. They also found that highly positive news was more likely to be shared on Twitter than low intensity positive news. Lastly, highly intense negative news was more likely to be shred face to face than low intense negative news (Social Sharing). The results gathered from this research connects with the question on whether social media affects those socially and behaviorally. It does because they found that social sharing effects the emotional events of people based on where they decide to tell their peers. Whether if through texting or through Twitter, if effects behaviors in various ways. Hudson, Simon, et al. The Effects Of Social Media On Emotions, Brand Relationship Quality, And Word Of Mouth: An Empirical Study Of Music Festival  Tourism Management 47.(2015): 68-76. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Barnett, Barbara, and Katherine Cothern. Social Media Use: An Exploratory Test Of Effects On The Daily Lives Of College  Journal Of International Students 1.1 (2011): 9-16. ERIC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Puijenbroek, T., et al. The Effect Of Social Media Use On Work-Related  Journal Of Computer Assisted Learning 2 (2014): 159. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan 2017.