Andrew Lindstrom Enc 1101 Professor Carr 29 January 2017 The Development of synthesized sound Prior to the 1970s, the world of music was only familiar with authentic sound produced by its appropriate instrument. This required the instrumentation to be present when recording a song and it made in very constricting to acquire the desired sound. As artists were desiring different sounds, engineers began to look backwards to develop a machine that can make new sounds. Drawing inspiration from organs and other primitive instruments, engineers developed the synthesizer. Holmes, T. (2014). The Sound of Moog: Using Vinyl Recordings to Reconstruct a History of the Moog Synthesizer. Notes, (2),219. In this article, music historian Thomas Holmes is collecting every recording that contains the sound of a Moog synthesizer. He does this to observe the history, as well as the influence of the synthesizer. He concludes that the Moog synthesizer was the gold standard for synthesizers. This article ties to the question because it analyzes (from multiple perspectives) the progress made on improving the synthesizer, as well as the synthesizers influence on culture and pop music. It is written by a well-established composer and oxford press editor. Holmes, T. (2008). Electronic and Experimental Music : Technology, Music and Culture. New York: Taylor & Francis In this article, the author investigates the electronic music scene from multiple time periods. He analyzes music both before and after various technology was implemented. It also gives insights to predecessors to the synthesizer, all the way back to the Telharmonium, from 1896. This article, also written by Thomas Holmes gives information and opinions on the early synthesizers, as well as the electronic music industry before synthesizers. Guerin, R. (2005). MIDI Power! : The Comprehensive Guide (2). Boston, US: Course Technology / Cengage Learning. Retrieved from http://www.ebrary.com This source gives an explanation of the software that goes hand in hand with synthesizers, MIDI. This stands for Musical Instrument Digital Interface. It is the language that allows synthesizer code to communicate with other synthesizers. This source is a textbook published by Cengage learning. This will help understand the software that is so closely related to the development of the synthesizer. Kirn, P. (2010, October). The minimoog at 40: from the dawn of the synth age to new voyages. Keyboard, 36(10), 32. Retrieved from http://link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/A240915522/BIC1?u=tamp44898&xid=50733d3d In this article, the author discusses the time frame, as well as the reasoning behind the development of the first Moog synthesizer. The author describes the limitations, as well as what was considered revolutionary about the first synthesizer. This article that was posted to the Gale resource library and will help in writing my paper by giving an explanation of what the original synthesizer was capable of. It will give a good understanding and will provide a base line for our technological progress. Yelton, G. (2015). The Story of MIDI. Electronic Musician, 31(11), 36-41. This article talks about the how MIDI has evolved as a form of communication. It discusses a wide array of topics from the languages and protocol of MIDI to legal action taken for MIDI. It gives the process of making the a standard in the world of synthesized sound, not just aesthetically, but also sonically. This article was written by Geary Yelton, who had a studio career in the 1980s. This article will help in understanding how the development of what helped give the Moog its iconic sound, that which laid the foundation for improvement later down the road. Vail, Mark. 2014. The Synthesizer. [electronic : a comprehensive guide to understanding, programming, playing and recording the ultimate electronic music instrument. n.p.: New York City : Oxford University Press, 2014. This article gives an understanding of where we are today with synthesizers. In other words, it gives an explanation as to how far we have progressed from the very early synthesizers to now. It analyzes what sounds have made it famous as well as how the success of the synthesizer has brought it to be redesigned. This article, being published by the Oxford Press, will be the closing statement in how far we have progressed in the world if electronic sound. It describes what factors of the synthesizer has allowed it to become still popular today.