Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Food Forward Aids in Food Waste How much food do you waste in your household? Now can you imagine how much is wasted in your community, city, and America as a whole? 50 percent of all produce in the United States is thrown 60 million (The Atlantic). Coming together as a community is the way to start reducing food waste in America. In California there is an organization called Food Forward that was founded in 2009. It all started off on the idea to collect food from wholesale produce markets, markets, and even produce from back yards of neighborhoods. Their purpose is to reduce food waste by gathering as much food from the 8 counties that they service in southern California. Food Forward manages to rescue about 300,000 pounds of otherwise discarded produce each week and they donate to hunger relief groups (food forward). To bring a community together we must first bring awareness. Food Forward has a website in which they inform others of the problem and how they can help out. A powerful image on the Food website shows a dumpster full of a large amount of produce along with some trash (See Fig. 1). Seeing the amount of food that is mostly in good condition in the trash makes the viewer think about how much each household contributes to food waste. Aside from households, the majority of food waste comes from restaurants and markets disposing of what they can no longer sell or use. In figure 1 Waste In is at the top of the Student 2 image in bold white letters, so it cannot be overlooked. is in larger font emphasizing the problem and to get the attention. In the background the bold color draws in the eye to the red tomatoes and the green zucchini. The majority of the food in the dumpster can be put to better use rather than just thrown away. In this image it shows the amount of perfectly good produce discarded when it can be consumed by those in need. Figure 1 brings awareness to just how much food can be thrown away that is still usable. Food Forward first brought awareness of the issue by using figure 1 in an attempt to bring the community together and reduce the waste. Figure 1 supports the idea that this organization demonstrates that they have a logical concern about the amount of food in the picture that is wasted. have three parts: the claim, the reason, and the unstated (Lane et al, 33). A great example of enthymemes is the claim of wasted food, the reason is Americans throw away food, and the viewer agrees that it is an issue. Based off of the evidence in the dumpster is one of the reasons why the organization was started. Another rhetorical device that this image appeals to would be a sense of pathos. When a viewer first sees this image, one of the thoughts that should first come to mind is how much food gets thrown away in their own home. It brings a sense of sympathy that those in need might not even have a meal a day, while others throw away perfectly good food. Food Forward has brought the community together by showing volunteers and staff giving their time to the cause. There is a tab labeled we that documents their efforts in the community, by recovering produce and providing it to those in need. Figure 2 displays three people that could be either staff or volunteers. Showing two females and one male, of different diverse backgrounds and walks of life to demonstrate that anyone can be part of this organization. All are smiling and happy to be helping out by providing food to their community, Student 3 which makes the viewer want to be a part of the cause. In Figure 2 those in the image are standing behind boxes of produce that seems to be collected from different areas in the community to be distributed. In the boxes are fresh produce stacked the boxes almost as tall as the people in the picture to show the quantity of food they have rescued. Some of the produce is visible, but the majority are inside the boxes that have the name Food Forward with the image of an orange on them. In showing members of the community coming together to help recover and distribute produce, it is intended to inspire others to want to help in any way they can. Food Forward has reached the community and have gotten many individuals involved in their mission on food waste. In order to continue to spread the word on the organization and their efforts their logo is displayed all over the boxes. It shows that the nonprofit is a credible source and the amount of food they collect is being put to good use. Food Forward has been involved in retrieving food that would otherwise be discarded since 2009 and have continued to expand their company. The ethos is shown by the trustworthy brand displayed on about 22 boxes that they have saved which is great progress, but without Food Forward all that food would have been wasted. When viewers see these boxes with the logo of the organization they want to know who it is, where it comes from, and how they can be a part of the movement. Figure 2 displays pathos an to emotion, and it is the rhetorical device that is most often used to help an audience connect with the argument or (Gayle lee, 37). Since those in the image are smiling and show a sense of pride based on their efforts, one feels good that there are groups that show some concern and want to help feed others. The effervescences of the group are intended to inspire the viewer to connect with the community and lend a helping hand with food waste. Student 4 Food Forward has done an amazing job to reduce the amount of food waste in their community by bringing awareness of the issue and bringing people together to help with their mission. Food Forward has been able to provide other means for food that would have been wasted. On their website they document the large amounts of food wasted in dumpsters and the large amount of recovered food by the non-profit group. These images make a clear statement of the amount of food they collect and contribute to the community. How much food do you think your household can contribute if you reduce food waste? Now can you imagine how much contributions from communities, cities, and America would save food. Bringing together a community with the help of food recovery organizations is the way we will reduce food waste in America. Word Count:1,136 Student 5 Work Cited Food Forward. https://foodforward.org/. Accessed 27 January 2017. Gayle Lee, Kendra et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentaion. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. Lane, Emily et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. The Atlantic.https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2016/07/american-food waste/491513/. Accessed 11 February 2017 Student 6 Figure 1: https://foodforward.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/Food-Waste-in-America.jpg Figure 2: https://foodforward.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/Where-We-Work.jpg