Rios 1 Dylan Rios Ms. Hanson ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Government Surveillance Government surveillance has become a growing concern for many people over the years. Ever since the 9/11 attacks, the power of the government to monitor its citizens has grown. Government agencies such as the National Security Agency (NSA) have given the reason that these new measures have been put in place in order better protect American citizens from future tragedy. This is a noble goal but many people are divided on how to achieve this goal. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) is one such organization that wants to protect Americans and it aims to do so in a way that is contrary to the beliefs. The main goal is to protect people from the government by defending their privacy. Both organizations want to protect Americans but their methods are very different. One possible solution that could appease both sides would be to allow the government to continue its surveillance but make it necessary for people to be informed that they are being surveilled and given the reason as to why. The National Security Agency is a government organization that has the job of protecting America from foreign and domestic threats through the use of surveillance and information gathering (NSA). The NSA believes in protecting the Fourth Amendment, which protects Americans from unreasonable searches but it also believes in preventing possible threats before they can cause harm to Americans. This protection happens through constant surveillance of Rios 2 millions of people all over the world which also means that Americans are being watched as well. This surveillance takes the form of monitoring phone calls and emails for key words that could uncover potential terrorists. The NSA believes that this surveillance the of the American people while being minimally intrusive in private live (Petcu 126). In order to prevent the surveillance from violating rights the NSA makes sure to delete all collected information that is deemed not to be a potential threat. While this still may lead to abuse of the system the NSA believes that the positive aspects of the surveillance outweigh the negative. The Electronic Frontier Foundation also wishes to protect the American people but it is trying to do so by stopping government surveillance. The organization is working towards this goal by bringing lawsuits against the government for its surveillance and promoting technologies that subvert government information gathering. From the perspective, the government is the biggest threat to privacy for the American people so they are using any resources possible in order to protect from government surveillance. The reason they feel this way is because information was leaked on the surveillance practices of the government in 2013 by an ex CIA agent by the name of Edward Snowden. It was found out that people were having their information recorded of whether they suspected of any (Robis 205). While the EFF acknowledges the possibility terrorist attacks they feel that autonomy, anonymous speech, and the right to free are more important (EFF). In the larger discussion of freedom vs security, the EEF believes that freedom is something that should be defended at all costs. The National Security Agency and the Electronic Frontier Foundation both believe in protecting the American people from threats even though their methods differ greatly. While Rios 3 their beliefs seem nearly incompatible there are still ways for them to meet in the middle and compromise in a way that can satisfy both parties. One method of compromise that would be mutually beneficial would be if it was required for the NSA to get a warrant before they could surveil American citizens. For a warrant to be issued the NSA would have to go to a judge and list their reason for requesting one which would add another layer of oversight for the surveillance process. This would improve their image in the eyes of the American people and it would not infringe on their surveillance of people from foreign countries. This would also further the cause of the EFF by restricting the powers of the government to gather private information on their citizens. Another part of the compromise that could be reasonable would be a requirement that would make it so the NSA has to inform Americans who are being investigated in depth. This would allow people to not worry if the government is secretly watching their every action. Some people in the government might say that this compromise could help criminals and terrorists, but many citizens believe that the protection of their rights is more important. This transparency and accountability are in order for legitimate threats to be identified while simultaneously protecting the rights of Americans (Shamsi 9). With security being such an important issue in these times it is only reasonable that various groups of people would feel strongly about the topic. While the NSA and the EFF are very different organizations, they still act towards the goal of protecting Americans from possible threats. While their methods can seem contradictory there is enough that they share that can lead to a compromise. While the compromise of the government being able to surveil people only if they are notified may seem like too much of a violation of rights to the EFF and not enough protection for the NSA, it is still an important middle ground that both sides can settle Rios 4 on. If a stable compromise can be reached then both sides can work together to protect the rights that this country was built on. Rios 5 Works Cited Petcu, Radu Government Surveillance, Neoliberal Citizenship, and Social  Review of Contemporary Philosophy 14.(2015): 126-131. Humanities Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Electronic Frontier Foundation. https://www.eff.org/issues/privacy. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Robis, Leah Angela. When Does Public Interest Justify Government Interference and  Asia-Pacific Journal On Human Rights & The Law 15.1/2 (2014): 203- 218. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Shamsi, Hina and Alex, Abdo. Privacy and Surveillance  Human Rights 38.1 (2011): 6-9. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. What We  National Security Agency. https://www.nsa.gov/what-we-do/. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.