Jorge Villarreal Instructor Carr Composition I 5 February 2017 Annotated Bibliography Technology has grown exponentially and has come to play a significant role in our lives. Mobile phones and computers are accessible to everyone and each day huge amounts of data are produced by these devices. Moreover, traditional computing infrastructure is becoming more expensive and harder to manage and traditional computing is not suitable for accessing data anywhere at any time. Cloud computing arises as a solution that offers on demand computing power, storage and application as a service. Cloud computing works with the concept of virtualization technology. Virtualization enable the consolidation of multiple applications on a small number of physical servers, therefore, it makes possible large cost savings due to the higher resource utilization and lower system management costs. However, most of data storages and services are in public clouds and as a consequence, attacks and security violations are imminent. Security in cloud computing is a crucial concern in these days. Valuable information of people and companies is at risk, and the rapid development of technologies have made possible the existence of new security issues and threats. Therefore, the research question is focused on how can cloud computing security be enhanced? By having relevant information about the different security issues and respective solutions, it is possible for users to take action and contribute to enhance the cloud environment. Many of the modern threats occur due to misuse of services by users. For this reason, users must be aware of the security concerns. Abazari, F., Analoui, M., & Takabi, H. (2016). Effect of anti-malware software on infectious nodes in cloud environment. Computers & Security, 58, 139-148. This author proposed a mathematical model to study the effects of anti-malware software on the spread of malware in a cloud infrastructure. Cloud computing is an environment that offers resources based on virtualized data centers. Virtual machines are located in these data centers and therefore, are under security risks such as malware. The proposed approach considers variable population of virtual machines with migration capabilities in the cloud. For this case study, virtual machines were infected with malware in order to analyze migration patterns and behavior on cloud environments. Then, based on the analysis, authors provide a well-defined mathematical model to address the behavior of the malware. This article is relevant to understand important factors in transmission dynamics of malware in cloud computing which is a frequently security issue. By analyzing this experimental results, users could be aware of their actions in cloud environment in order to prevent malware propagation. Moreover, cloud providers could get a better comprehension of how many virtual machines should be protected by anti-malware and also, based on this information, new solutions could arise in order to enhance the security models and control the propagation of malware in cloud computing environments. Aldossary, S., & Allen, W. (2016). Data security, privacy, availability and integrity in Cloud computing: Issues and current solutions. International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 7(4), 485-498. The authors in this paper present issues related to data stored in cloud storage. The data stored in the Cloud needs to be confidential, preserving integrity and available. By outsourcing, users lose their physical control over data when it is stored in a remote server and they delegate their control to an untrusted cloud provider or party. Despite powerful and reliable server compared to client processing power and reliability, there are many threats facing the cloud not only from an outsider but also from an insider which can utilize cloud vulnerabilities to do harm. These threats may jeopardize data confidentiality, data integrity, and data availability. Some untrusted providers could hide data breaches to save their reputations or free some space by deleting the les used or accessed data. The authors focus on main issues as the following: data loss, data breaches, malicious insiders, insecure interfaces and account or Service hijacking, data location and denial of Service. Each one of these issues are explained in different sections in the paper. Moreover, authors mention some techniques that protect data seen by the cloud service provider while it is shared among many users. By analyzing this paper, it is possible to form an opinion about the state of data security in cloud environment. Chapters in this paper could be included in any research paper because by discovering the issues that affect confidentiality, integrity and availability of data, it is possible to find a solution for them. Those solutions will lead to more secure cloud storage, which will also lead to more acceptance from the people and the trust on the cloud will increase. Danilatou, V., & Ioannidis, S. (2010). Security and privacy architectures for biomedical cloud computing. Proceedings of the 10 th IEEE International Conference on Information Technology and Applications in Biomedicine, 1-4. Biomedical research often relies on having access to vast amounts of sensitive information. Patient records, and biomedical data in general are converted into digital form and placed in databases and other repositories in order to facilitate the access. A wide range of data relating to a person may appear in such repositories. For instance, medications, conditions and even DNA sequences are stored. For this reason, there are strong regulatory requirements concerning the storage, access and use to such data. Hence, authors propose an architecture solution that combines access control mechanisms with privacy preserving cryptographic protocols to enable secure sharing and computations on clouds holding sensitive data such as the mentioned before. The two main participants in the proposed architecture are the biomedical data owners that hold their data in network accessible repositories or clouds, and the data consumers that seek access to the data. The two-tier architecture solution provided in this paper represents a significant advance in security because the authors combined the power decentralized managements and access control, with the ability to perform privacy-preserving set operations on data. This solution could be used for new approaches because cryptographic credentials are used to permit untrusting parties to perform specific operations without revealing the entire dataset but only the result of the operation, and this is really important in biomedical research, and biomedicine in general. Li, J., Zhao, G., Chen, X., Xie, D., Rong, C., Li, W., Tang, L., & Tang, Y. (2010). Fine- grained data access control systems with user accountability in cloud computing. 2010 IEEE Second International Conference on Cloud Computing Technology and Science, 89-96. In this paper, authors address the secure fine-grained access control problem in Cloud Computing. Data access control has been evolving rapidly and various techniques have been developed to effectively implement fine-grained access control, which allows flexibility in specifying differential access rights of individual users. Authors expose two critical security aspects that have to be addressed, which are efficient user revocation and user accountability. Firstly, they identify the need for fine-grained access control in cloud computing. Secondly, propose a construction of an attributed based encryption scheme to implement fine-grained access control in cloud computing, and finally, they achieve user accountability by inserting user specific information in attribute private keys. The main idea is enable user accountability in order to prevent illegal authorization. This paper is relevant for exploring new solutions relating user accessibility to the cloud environment. The authors perform analysis to demonstrate the efficiency and practical use of the scheme proposed. Fine-grained access control represent a different perspective in order to enhance security on the cloud. Therefore, despite of the limitations this method has, authors are able to provide a well-constructed solution of which cloud users must be aware of, in order to avoid misuse of cloud resources and improve data confidentiality. Singh, S., Jeong, Y., & Park, J. (2016). A survey on cloud computing security: Issues, threats, and solutions. Journal of Network & Computer Applications, 75, 200-222. This article attempted to show various security challenges, attacks and vulnerabilities that hamper the utilization of cloud computing. The authors, provide information about the different cloud services models used in recent years. Details of cloud architecture and its components are explained to explain readers the security issues and challenges that arise due to different characteristics of the cloud. The article is divided into sections that represent a category of cloud computing environment. Significant issues such as embedded security, trust and conviction, cloud data storage and clustering computing, among others, are described in sections and each section is divided into some topics that group security issues common in some property. For instance, the embedded security section describes different areas of security issues that include virtual machine isolation, programmability and electronic access. The chapters in this article are well defined and they represent a valuable source to get a better comprehension about cloud computing security issues. Another convenience is that the information provided is recent, which is a significant fact in this era of constant evolution where new issues arise frequently. In addition, the authors provide a 3-tier security architecture solution for better security enhancement that could be used as a fundamental basis for further security solutions. Wang, C., & Yan, H. (2010). Study of cloud computing security based on private face recognition. 2010 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Software Engineering, 1-5. In this paper, authors focus on how to solve the security issues of cloud computing based on private face recognition. Calculation of face recognition and matching is under encrypted conditions, user sends a double encrypted face image to cloud, and cloud operates face recognition and matching under the encrypted conditions. The result is encrypted again before encrypted transmission to user. In this way, cloud does not know real face data and therefore, this ensure no leakage of user privacy data. The method proposed, is divided into three parts: user, cloud initialization and private matching identification part of cloud. User part uses a series of face preprocessing method to do with original images. Cloud initialization part uses the processed original images, and cloud private matching identification part has projection, distance calculation and minimum distance to achieve a face matching. This paper is relevant to the study of security issues of cloud computing because it provides a creative method based on face recognition that has never been applied before. The encryption methods used in this investigation could be used for new approaches related to security enhancement and cloud confidentiality. This solution proves to be credible, efficient, low-complex and supports further study of cloud computing security. .