Sai Kaung Kham Cett Instructor Carr ENC1101.016 1/29/2017 Children and video games As the time passes, technology is starting to change more of how human being lives in this century. Video games is making such a huge impact on the children nowadays that parents are getting worried of their children getting addicted to gaming. Almost everyone had came across these addicted gamers who probably spend most of their time in their rooms playing games. Even though some games may have educational contents, most of the games being played have negative themes such as killing, usage of foul language, drug uses and so on. Some do believe that these kind of video games are bringing negative influences on the children and that the video games are actually making them more violent. When video games were first invented, they started out as normal puzzle solving game but from that time, there were many video games controversies. There were also cases where they believed that mass murders were due to excessive playing of violent games. Even though video games are a way of entertainments for the children, it can also affect them in negative ways but the question is video games having negative or positive impacts on the children in the 21st ALSHAIJI, OHOUD ABDULLATIF1. Video Games Promote Saudi English Vocabulary  Education 136.2 (2015): 123-132. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017 (Video Games Promotes Saudi English Vocabulary Retention) This article is concentrated on the young kids who were being taught English by playing video games.The whole research was based on the educational video games such as language teaching games and etc. It is also mentioned that videogames are not just helping children learn new things but also help them to get ready for the tech life of the 21st century and that these video games also improve children in ways such as decision making, creativity and so on. The article also mentioned how parents may think that video games could only make their game addicting but even worsen them in a way but it also mentioned how parents do not know how some games can have good impact on their children. This article was particularly biased because it only went on to talk about the educational video games, supporting that videogames are just like the catalyst for children to help them learn faster and to enjoy too. The article has some really good points and also have evidence to back up their claims but it was only focused on the good side of the video games. I also support with the article that there are a lot of educational videogames out there which can help with learning. For this reason the article believes that videogames are recommend for the children to not just learn something new but also help them get used to the 21st century tech. Maja, Hrvoje Strnak, and Andrea Debeljuh. Online Video Games And Young  International Journal Of Research In Education And Science 2.1 (2016): 94-103. ERIC. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. (Online Video Games and Young People) In this article, the research was shown by statistics with tables of on the survey of every questions they made to students. The research general purpose is to prove that young people are getting addicted to these online video games that they are starting to play online games even during classes. They also concluded the points that because of the addiction to online video games, some students play all night causing them to miss classes or students having lack of focus during lectures. Some students would even spend money on purchasing equipments in games which would probably be from their pocket money. The article also included the fact that some of the students would choose gaming over any sort of physical activities outside. The article was basically making a research on the bad side of game which we can clearly see from the survey questions. Even though the article was focused on the side of the disadvantages of gaming on young people, the statistics were a great support for their claims. The article also concluded by saying that whoever gets in touch with the students should be educated so that they will be able to monitor or prevent the online video games addiction. As I play video games myself, I do think that videogames are not just a hobby or entertainments anymore since they are so many electronic sports tournament out there and the gamers are actually getting paid to play games which is becoming like a sport so I do believe that they should not even be seen as addicted gamers but someone pursuing his or her dream. Bavelier, Daphne, and C. Shawn Green. The Brain-Boosting Power Of Video  Scientific American 315.1 (2016): 26-31. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. (The Brain-Boosting Power Of Video Games) In this article, the main focus is on how video games can benefit the gamers by actually improving the power of their mind. It is stated that play video games could improve your mental skills such as focusing, faster processing of information and flexibility to switch from one task to another. The article also included how concerns on the addiction of gaming and aggression fostering could be fixed by designing non-violent video games. The article also mentioned how different types of video games can hone different mental skill of a gamer like how you have to make a decision under pressure when playing face paced shooting games and how gamers could improve their reaction times on playing such games. The article pointed out that even violent games could have good impacts by mentioning all the mental skills that a gamer could hone from different types of games. The writer is likely to state that it matter what kind of games you play, always something you could improve yourself by playing the game and that you just have to know what to learn from it. I support with this idea completely since i had come across some gamers who actually play lots of video games but are also able to make better decisions from time to time. Porter, Guy, et al. Recognizing Problem Video Game  Australian & New Zealand Journal Of Psychiatry 44.2 (2010): 120-128. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. (Recognizing Problem Video Game Use) The article mainly focused on the addiction of playing video games and how that can cause mental health issues on the player. In this article, a survey was also conducted which concluded with the point that 8% of their participants are having big issues with playing video games. That the 8% was playing games more than planned, played games even though they want to and even while knowing they should not. It is also stated that these gamers are most likely to socialise online in their games rather than to socialise outside and may also consume excessive amount of caffeine to keep with themselves. In this article although it state anything about the good benefits of video game, it mainly went on to the problematic side of addicted gamers. So the article is actually mutal on if the children should be allowed to play games or not. It just focused a few percentage of gamers who are having really big issues with game addiction or so. So even though every games may teach you something in some ways. Excessive use for just entertainment could create mental, social and physical health issues. Effects Of Violent And Non-violent Computer Video Games On Explicit And Implicit  Journal Of Software (1796217X) 5.9 (2010): 1014-1021. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. (Effects Of Violent And Non-Violent Computer Video Games On Explicit And Implicit Aggression) The article started by mentioning how large of an impact video games are becoming in this 21st century and how it has become one of the most used entertainment during this century. Then it went on to focus on the research made to study on the aggression result of video games. The article included on how gamers can rage and show aggressive behaviours while playing a competitive situations like when you loses a game after tried so much. Not just that but the article also stated that violent video games could cause an increase of aggressive behaviour. According to this article, we can assume that games are competition after all so like any other competition. You want to lose and if you do lose, you would rage and get mad at your opponents. So these kinds of aggressive behaviour mainly happens on the online gaming where players play against each other. We can also assume that games with violent contents can create violent behaviours such as aggressive thoughts when you face something or physical arousal. So if we are to conclude from this article, it is that violent games and competitive online games should be monitored and put under control while children are playing. Ferguson, Christopher. The Good, The Bad And The Ugly: A Meta-Analytic Review Of Positive And Negative Effects Of Violent Video  Psychiatric Quarterly 78.4 (2007): 309-316. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 (The Good, The Bad And The Ugly: A Meta-Analytic Review Of Positive And Negative Effects Of Violent Video Games) This article started off by stating how serious the matter of videogames with violent contents are becoming a big issue and that most researches are just being made on the negative effects of violent games but not of the positive effects. The article conducted a research on how violent video games affects the gamers. The research concluded that the connection between violent video games and aggressive behaviour is overstated and that there were no strong relationships between them. It also stated that these violent games may prove valuable as learning tools, in areas such as visuospatial skills. So this article stood its ground on how the negative connection between violent video games and aggressive behaviour is overstated. And that violent video games actually help hone the gamers in different skill sets making them even better. It also proved by its research that there were no evidence of the strong connection between violent video games and aggressive behaviour. I also do believe that there is none and that the change of behavior truly depends on yourself.