Exalien 1 Erica Exalien ENC 1101 Prof. Carr February 1, 2017 Intermediate Draft Inclusion in the Classroom Over the past few decades, the global understanding of mental and physical disabilities has furthered immensely. Even the language people use when speaking about people with disabilities has changed. For example, we use people first language instead of defining a person by their disability. In this day and age, many people understand that having a disability does not make one incapable. This has brought us to inclusion. Realizing that students in school are capable of learning the same information as students in regular class has prompted schools all over the United States in intertwine the students with disabilities with regular students in the classrooms. This gives the students with disabilities a chance to really gain the knowledge they should have the right to learn. This also serves as a fairness and equality statement. Including students with disabilities is something that should continue to spread across the classrooms in America. It gives students with (Individualized Learning Plan) of all sorts to really grow as a student in the academic aspect as well as the social aspect which is extremely important as well. Inclusion does not just affect the students with disabilities either, it also helps the teachers to push for and to learn new and different ways of teaching and relying information to students. It also helps the regular students to be more open minded and knowledgeable about how to Exalien 2 interact with students with disabilities. Students with disabilities should be allowed the same chances and opportunities as regular students in general education classes. There was a piece written by Nicole P. Washington of Capella University called School Attitude Towards Inclusion of Disabled Students in the General Education Setting. There she touches many topics and issues surrounding inclusion of students with disabilities. The researcher used an electronic questionnaire to conduct the study of finding the effects and attitudes of inclusion from all aspects of the classroom. In this article, Washington talks about how inclusion can bring success to various parts of the classroom. This includes both students with and without disabilities as well as teachers. The major part about this is the attitudes of administrators and how that can really effect the success of the classes that practicing inclusion programs. It is pretty self-explanatory. If there is a positive and productive attitude and vibe from the instructor, then the outcome and of the material learned and understood by students will be greater with a higher success rate. This is stated on page three of the article. Not only this, but the social aspect Attitude Towards Inclusion of Disabled Students in the General Education Setting for both students with disabilities and students without will be better. This quantitative research really digs deep into the classroom and examines how things play out. The article also talks about how the inclusion helps instructors with their teaching methods. This particular article touches and ties in with various statements and parts of my argument. It is very much so relatable. One major key point that the article touches on is the interaction between students with and without disabilities. I know that students that do have either mental or physical disabilities struggle heavily when it comes to making friends. Especially when they able to interact with anyone else besides each other. This limits their social skills dramatically. This is stated on page four of the article. It is sad to see because the Exalien 3 students genuinely want to go out and make friends majority of the time. Walking into a disabilities classroom and seeing the students faces just glow with excitement to see their actual friends come in to see them and spend time with them will give one the greatest joy in the world. But the reason the happiness is simply because it a normal thing for them to have friends come and visit them and actually want to speak and socialize with them. I am aware of this because when I was in high school, I was involved in a group called PIT Crew, Peer Inclusion Team Crew. This group consisted of general education students that visited the students with disabilities, worked with them, and really just gave them a chance. We even went into regular classrooms and assisted students with This experience was such an eye opener for me. Before joining this group, I never had any issues or fears of students with disabilities or have ever looked down on them, but I sure on how to speak to them or how exactly to interact with them but with this group, I was able to realize that they are too people. to treat them the same way I would treat my other friends because they genuinely do want friends just like the rest of everyone else. In an article written by Michal Shani and Orly Hebel called Educating Towards Inclusive Education: Assessing a Teacher Training Program for Working with Pupils with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND) Enrolled in General Education Skills, a study was conducted. This study was about assisting educators at learning how to teach a wide range of students including those with disabilities. The article has a lot of background information including information about the attitudes of the teachers, the many pros of inclusive education, and the training process itself. In the study, 25 teachers who had only been in the field for about a year or two were taken and trained to teach an inclusive classroom and the educators took notes about how students reacted and they were also observed. Data was also collected through Exalien 4 interviews. Many of the educators explained that it helps when families are involved with the process as well as when there are more hands on activities such as workshops. These methods go for both students with and without disabilities. In the end, those educators who experienced special training felt better because they genuinely felt that they were able to help more students even more because they had better tools and knowledge and it was reflected in the abilities to learn and they could see it in the work that the students were producing. Inclusive education is taking the right step forward into a brighter future for the youth. Although this is true for students it is also true for the educators as well. This will help teachers get the extra training they need to really learn how to work with a large variety of students as well as just pick up new teaching techniques and skills. There is an issue though. Many educators have yet to actually receive the proper training to do so. In an article written by Michal Shani, it was identified that after the educators received special training, they began to become more creative and learn things that could help both spectrums of an inclusive classroom. You can find this information on pages eight and nine. This ties into my argument because I do feel that educators who are trained to teach inclusive classrooms are better equipped because it just broadens the horizon on the teaching skills and techniques. It also opens up an opportunity for more creativity. This will benefit both students and teachers in the long run. Also, it even helps to strengthen areas in which the teachers feel they are weaker in. for example, on page eight of the article, one of the teaching participants stated that before the workshop she had to take for the training process she was terrified by math. But after the workshop she had a better grasp on how to teach mathematics in a different way which helped her to even understand certain concepts better. Exalien 5 Training educators and teachers is vital to working in inclusive classrooms. But there are other ways that will and can assist when it comes to reaching the students and relaying the knowledge. That is through the use of technology. In the article written by Mathew T. Marino, technology in inclusive classrooms is discussed. Providing the correct technology for the students will help improve the success rate and abilities to learn in the classrooms. The article discusses reasons why technology will take inclusive learning in classrooms more beneficial. It specifically talks about science and math topics. Marino includes statistics and facts from The National Science Foundation on page one. These statistics support the argument of why students with disabilities succeed more with different varieties of instruction when it comes to more complex subjects such as science and math. One page one where this is discussed, it states that students with and without disabilities passed the science exams after using the technology to learn and understand the material. The research also talks about how many general education teachers are not yet prepared to teach inclusive classes so using the technology could really help in the long run because it could assist teachers who are not yet trained to teach those classes to share information and knowledge to the students in those inclusive classes. Using technology in classrooms will definitely enhance the productivity of the classrooms as well as the material learned. Using the technology can help really narrow in on how different students learn better. Not just the students with learning disabilities, but the students without them as well. It only makes sense to bring some use of technology into classrooms anyways, because the older the students get, the more vital technology becomes in their everyday life. In and outside of the learning environment. Work places, universities, and schools all over depend more and more on the use of technology so getting students familiarized with the technology can help as well. So not only would grades and learning of knowledge be Exalien 6 improved, but the cognitive skills and knowledge of knowing how to work the technology will improve as well. This is needed because our future depends on technology and it will definitely help students with disabilities in their futures because it could make it better and easier to find jobs because they will have more experience with the basics. This benefits the classroom in several different aspects. This could really change learning patterns for students of all kinds by meeting needs for all types of learners in the classroom. There are many things that need to be taken into consideration when it comes to inclusive learning in classrooms. One of those things is costs. There was research and a study done revolving around the costs of inclusive classrooms in the preschool setting. The article is called The Costs of Preschool Inclusion. In the article many things are discussed because when it comes to the costs there are many factors that play a part. Especially with this particular study because it involves preschool aged children and those classrooms run differently than secondary school. instead of going by grade level it is by age range. Not only that, but at that age, children still have plenty of developing left to do so it can make things just a bit more difficult. But the study was based solely on research. Information and data was collected from three different instruments deriving from the Center for Special Education Finance (CSEF). Multiple different programs were taken into account and the finances were reviewed and observed which then produced the results determining the costs of inclusion of students with disabilities in the general education classrooms at the preschool level. Many different things were taken into account such as salaries, equipment, and even transportation. The results of this study came to show that in the long run, it is actually cheaper to have inclusive classes. It is found to be that having students separated into different classrooms requires more space, more teachers, more materials and equipment, and extra services. To have Exalien 7 the inclusive classrooms would benefit the schools itself and the children as well because they will be exposed to students with disabilities early on and be more knowledgeable and open when it comes to the disabilities. Also, instead of having to pay more teachers, the inclusive route would make it so that there are less teachers needed. When it comes to building space, classrooms would be able to be cut down because instead of having children in different rooms they would all be together. There would also be less programs needed in the schools which would help cut back on the costs. Not only this, but less equipment would be needed. The article even suggests that if parents and families would like extra programs or instructions for their children that they should have to pay for it. Although I do not completely agree with this statement, it would help with the costs. This information can be found on page fifty-four of the scholarly article. One thing here in America that we are known for is the fact that our country is a melting Although I do find this to be very true, I also feel that there is an immense amount of ignorance towards each other when it comes to backgrounds, cultures, and differences. In an article written by Kevin Miller and Milagros Sessions, called Infusing Tolerance, Diversity, and Social Personal Curriculum into Inclusive Social Studies Classes Using Family Portraits and Contextual Teaching and Learning, this issue is brought up and discussed when it comes to the topic of inclusive classes. The article talks about how there should be more diversity within classrooms and it also talks about how there should be a higher tolerance for diverse education in classrooms here in the United States. It also touches on how yes, there needs to be more racial diversity and tolerance but definitely more tolerance when it comes to inclusion because it is something that is taken too lightly. The diversity also pushes students to work together and Exalien 8 mingle more with each other promoting the diversity even more. This can all be found on pages three and four the scholarly article. Being a minority comes with lots of pros but of course, also many cons. Everyday there is a struggle or a fight that comes with the color of my skin and/or the texture of my hair. But in this day and age, many people are very aware of this because as a unit, we stand up for what is right and for equality. This can be compared to inclusion in classrooms. Students with disabilities should be given the same opportunities and treated equally. Diversity will decrease ignorance and increase knowledge and why not start in the classroom? Students exhibit signs of disrespect without the inclusion. They cannot be the only ones to blame though when they have little knowledge on how to really even interact with the students with disabilities. So instead of students assuming and being misled, they will know better. If inclusion starts in the classroom, students will learn to have more respect and grow up to know better in the future. A bright future starts with a bright and well-taught youth so inclusive classrooms would be a wonderful place to begin brightening up our future. The teaching and learning approach used in this study helped to identify this. Inclusive classrooms go further than just the school setting. Families are important as well when it comes to this. Making sure that families of both general students and students with disabilities are informed on going on in the classroom and why those things are taking place. In the article titled Educating Families about Inclusive Education: A Month-by-Month Guide for teachers of Inclusive Classes, it discusses how to reach out to families and parents to inform them on what is taking place in the inclusive classrooms. The article talks about methods such as sending home newsletters, having open-houses where the instructors present the programs and what exactly is going on and how it is being conducted, and recruiting volunteers Exalien 9 in order to give parents and families a more hands on approach. The article also suggests conducting conferences so that parents knows their progress as well has having small parties and also things such as small plays, displaying work, and engaging in the community. One major aspect that is mentioned in the article on the fourth page is serving as a resource center. So this means including books and magazines and other resources that promote and talk about inclusive classrooms and the goals for those specific classrooms. Also material that talks about different disabilities so that families and parents are knowledgeable about what some students may be experiencing. Involving parents and families is extremely important when it comes to dealing with inclusive classrooms because they are part of what drives the students and teachers. Without the support of the families, learning, especially in this environment can be extremely difficult because it would serve as a distraction and negative implication to the classroom setting. If the families are also informed and on board with the inclusive learning style, they will too become more knowledgeable. Especially the parents of those who do not have disabilities. Also, one must keep in mind that a main concern is their child or their children, therefore, understanding the environment of the classroom is vital. Parents of the students with disabilities also worry about the treatment of their children and have worries of possible bullying by other students or maybe even neglect by the teacher when it comes to their student learning and understanding. By communicating and interacting with the parents it will reassure them that their children are in an environment that will benefit themselves in the long run. This opens up an opportunity for even the families to learn more about the abilities that their child with a disability may have, which they were not aware of before. This also gives the parents and families of those Exalien 10 without disabilities to experience growth of knowledge in the specific area of physical and/or mental disabilities. Works Cited Washington, Nicole. School Attitudes toward the Inclusion of Disabled Students in the General Education  Pro Quest. Pro Quest Dissertations Publishing, 2010. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Michal Shani, and Orly Hebel. Educating towards Inclusive Education: Assessing a Teacher- Training Program for Working with Pupils with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND) Exalien 11 Enrolled in General Education  USF Libraries. International Journal of Special Education, 1 Oct. 2015. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Marino, Matthew T. Defining a Technology Research Agenda for Elementary and Secondary Students with Learning and Other HighIncidence Disabilities in Inclusive Science  USF Libraries. Journal of Special Education Technology, 01 Jan. 2010. Web. 2 Feb. 2017 Odem, Samuel, Marcl Hanson, Joan Lieber, Juies Marquart, Susan Sandall, Ruth Wolery, Eva Horn, Paula Beckham, and Llene Schwartz. The Costs of Preschool USF Libraries. Topics in Early Childhood Special Education, 1 Mar. 2001. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. In, An Article Published. Infusing Tolerance, Diversity, and Social Personal Curriculum into Inclusive Social Studies Classes Using Family Portraits and Contextual Teaching and  TEACHING Exceptional Children Plus (2005): n. pag. ERIC.ed. Council for Exceptional Children, 3 Jan. 2005. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. Strivers, Jan, LaTonya Francis-Cropper, and Mirium Straus. Educating Families About Inclusive Education A Month-by-Month Guide for Teachers of Inclusive  SAGE Journals. Intervention in School and Clinic, 2008. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.