Research Paper Rough draft. Intermediate draft By: Lowell Fahs *Note: This document and the information within represents a rough draft. This covers the broad strokes ideas that will be explored more deeply in the final draft. The era of the Dreadnought-style Battleship spans roughly fifty years, nearly half of the twentieth century. These monsters ruled the seas with impunity and rendered all previous heavy warships obsolete with their combination of: speed, armor, and most significantly main armament. Battleships fought in both of the world wars on either side, and in some cases even were modernized for action in the Cold War. In this paper we we will find out whose warships were the deadliest, covered will also be the development and growth of battleships from the HMS the first of her kind and what the political implications vessels of her type had. Then the death of the breed with the sinking of the worlds most powerful warship of the type; heralding the end of the battleships reign over the seas. Also covered will be the importance of Naval Aviation and new weapons as a factor in the demise of the battleship. Early years- WW1 The Dreadnought style warship can trace its origins back to the ironclad vessels of the American Civil War, a far cry from even the herself. the end of the nineteenth and beginning of the twentieth century saw the rapid adoption of iron and eventually steel as the primary building materials for the Navies of the world. This development coupled with improvements in naval artillery made the emergence of such beasts inevitable. In the beginning of the twentieth century the Dreadnought/Battleshhip was a type of vessel that had never been seen before, while the empires of the day were now officially committed to the concept of a Navy having to consist of big gunned steel clad warships, due the developments at the end of the 19th century, also the successes of the IJN in the Russo-Jappanese conflict in 1904; which was marked by several large sea engagements by early battlecruisers and other heavy caliber vessels. Even so, the world had yet to see vessels on the level of the British HMS when she launched in 1906. The instant her hull touched the sea the world was forever changed. Her guns and armor were far superior to any warship of the day. Other nations quickly took note and started producing designes, and eventually even vessels of their own. What can only be described as one of the greatest arms races in history ensued with each country trying to out class their rivals in ship design and capability. This meant that even Dreadnought was technically obsolete by the onset of the first World War in 1914 (Wells Brothers, 2001). By the time WW1 began the empires of the world specifically England and the German Empire were keen on testing their naval investments out. Thus in 1916 the one of the greatest sea battles occurred at Jutland resulting ultimately with a German victory much to the surprise, and shock of the royal Navy, who went into the fray convinced of their sure victory only to be taught a bitter lesson about naval warfare by the scrappy german High seas fleet whose superior training and tactics won the day even while being outnumbered and out-gunned (Brooks, 2005). The Battle of Jutland while being the only real demonstration of capital ship combat during the war on a grand scale, it still cemented the dominance and importance of heavy big gunned battleships to the world. Inter-War (Treaty) years. The Battleship while a proven design was hindered in the interwar years by several strict naval treaties restricting the specifications of all new warships to maintain the balance of power. This meant that most new Battleships and Battle-cruisers were severely restricted under the Washington Naval Treaty, which imposed tonnage limits on Navies around the world. While the limitations were in place countries had to get creative to still remain competitive, or they would downright ignore the treaty in some cases. Either way the inter war years still spawned some of the most diverse classes and subclasses of warships to comply with restrictions. The buildup towards World War II saw many countries discard the limitations and continue to build steel monsters like the German which was heralded as the most advanced and most deadly vessel of her time (Brown, D.K., 2003) WWII-present. At the beginning of WWII the battleship as a class was more powerful than it had ever been before however recent developments in Naval aviation and carrier technology had begun to make the concept of big gunned steel behemoths look outdated. The beginning of the end was the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1942 that clearly showed how far air power had come in the short time it has existed. With the losses at pearl the airplane had clearly shown that it was the new top dog in the battlespace. Even though the Battleship had begun to take the backseat to the aircraft carrier, the second World War still saw the rise and fall of the most powerful battleships ever put to sea. In what could be seen as the battleships last defiant gesture to the tides of history back in the battleships favor manifested itself with the Japanese battleship and her sister ship Musashi each the largest warships ever to have sailed. These ships though powerful were not enough to challenge the momentum of Naval Aviation and each was subsequently lost to air attack at sea. With the end of the so to ended the reign of these steel beasts the worlds navies were getting leaner and meaner and the need for big gunned ships diminished in favor of smaller vessels with cruise missiles. While the Battleship as a class remained until the 1990s they never again regained their prominence and were relegated eventually to museum duty like the Missouri , serving to remind the world of a time when success in battle and national pride were tied to the caliber of guns your newest warship sported. It is clear that while the Japanese did lose the war they did end up producing the greatest heavy gunned warship of all time with the These ships whose guns are now silent were the nuclear arsenals of their day the cutting edge of warfare at sea. Scources/Bibliography Brooks, John (2005). Gunnery at the Battle of Jutland: The Question of Fire Control . London: Routledge, Frank Cass The This source primarily deals with the concepts of gun control in the dreadnought era (1910-1918). The focus is to provide an accurate and detailed report on the hits and misses, as well as provide in depth analysis of the strategies used and how they affected the accuracy of the guns on either side of the battle. This also talks about the doctrines used in magazine handling and powder transfer methods, and how they affected the outcome. Brown, D. K. (2003). Warrior to Dreadnought: Warship Development Book Sales. ISBN 978-1-84067-529-0 . David K. Brown was a well respected British Naval Architect who was a member of the Royal Corps of naval Constructors. The book in question details the developmental trends that brought warship design on the path to the Dreadnought era. This focuses on the development and rise of larger and larger warships as well as the adaptation of new materials and methods to make such vessels possible. The book describes the brief use of iron before steel became the choice material for battleplate construction. This contributes a wealth of information on the fundamentals of how the Battleship came to be. Kennedy, Paul M. (1983). The Rise and Fall of British Naval Mastery. London. ISBN 0-333-35094-4 . This text is concerned with the balance of power in terms of which nations controled the seas. This book specifically profiles the British Royal Navy and how it went from being the most dominant force on the worlds oceans to being out gunned by lesser upstart empires like the U.S. with her fleet, Germany with its seas Flee t. and Marina . This book takes into account the changes in treaties and the shifts in balance towards the U.S. being the predominant naval power. Greger, (1993). der Welt (in German). Stuttgart, Stuttgart: Motorbuch Verlag. p. 260. The book chronicles the battleships of the world both those that were planed and those that actually put to sea. This book is a wealth of information of all the ship types and their specific individual information. While it is cursory information on each ship to accomodate the large number of ships in the registry, this text still provides information suitable for my purposes in this paper. Burr, Lawrence (2006). Battlecruisers . New Vanguard No. 126. Oxford: Osprey Publishing. Lawrence Burr was one of the worlds preeminent authorities on the battle of Jutland as well as the study of the Royal navy in the WW1 era. He has written several books on the different types of ships in the royal Navy focuses on the British solution to the problem of speed for a big gunned ship. The idea was to create a ship that was fast and capable of throwing huge punches The battlecruisers were the solution and they were great ships of the Royal Navy at the time and prior to the battle of Jutland in 1916 the reputation would have remained strong had it not been for the humiliation of the british battle cruiser fleet at the hands of well trained German opponents. The book also talks about how the lack of substantial armor caused the battlecruisers to be vulnerable to heavy fire. http://na.wargaming.net/