Gedeon Zema Nancy Carr ENC 1101 - 013 05 February 2017 Fossil fuels vs Renewable energy in modern days (power plants) Back in the days things were much simpler, if you were cold you could use the sun to warm you up and at night or during unfavorable weather you could start a fire by burning wood. If you needed to travel you could use wind boats or a horse and a carriage. These tools were great but could not be controlled. The sun or the amount of wind at sea were concepts that humans had little to no control over. The need for efficiency and controllable ways to provide services were needed. More like steam 1 Steam engine was the solution and to heat up the water to produce steam, humans used fossil fuels (coal & petroleum). their energy efficiency, immediate availability and inexpensive cost contributed towards opting for them. Every time fossil fuels were burned its gas residues was produced. When the industrialization revolution started, fossil fuels being the main source of generating steam power it meant the clouds were filled with grey smoke coming from burning coal. This process continued until the late 90s when people came to realise that this residues know as carbon dioxide (CO2) was negatively impacting the environment and we were running out of fossil fuels. The use of fossil fuels yields carbon dioxide which is a greenhouse gas. CO2 is responsible for 80% of air pollution around the world. It is the main culprit of global warming. There are alternatives to this source of energy referred to as renewable energy. As the name suggest it is recyclable and have little impact on the environment. According to Gillis (2017) from the New York Times, Earth reached its highest temperature on record in 2016, trouncing a record set only a year earlier, which beat one set in 2014 (li. 2- 4). The reason for this is the high emission CO2 in the air. More than 80% of the energy of the world is generated through fossil fuels which means the path we are heading will result in disasters if we do not change anything about. This brings us to wonder and ask ourselves it time to abandon fossil fuels and embrace renewable REFERENCES 1 See technology and society chapter 5 on the history of of energy Morello, J. A. (2008). The History Of Energy. In J. Riley (Ed.), Technology & Society (3rd Ed.), (pp. 31-32) Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Gillis, J. (2017). Earth Sets a Temperature Record for the Third Straight Year. The New York Times, Retrieved from www.nyti.ms/2k1fUZf ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY Will We Ever Stop Using Fossil Fuels? Covert, T., Greenstone, M., & Knittel, C. R. (2016). Will We Ever Stop Using Fossil Journal Of Economic Perspectives, 30(1), 117-138. doi:10.1257/jep.30.1.117 The authors mainly focus in forces that could result in the reduced consumption of fossil fuels. the author argues that there are market forces that could define the future consumption of fossil fuels. they introduce the reader to 2 theories: supply -which says because of the annual rise in the consumption of fossil fuels, the cost related with its extraction might rise as well making it more expansive than cleaner energy sources (renewable). and demand -the need to switch to carbon-free alternatives of fossil fuels as they become more cost- competitive. It becomes more apparent in the article that statistically the 2 theories do not significantly influence a reduction in the consumption of fossil fuels. Technology advances over the years has crushed the influence the supply theory had and made it more easier to explore new fossil fuels reserves. While ideally it will be formidable to use renewable alternatives to fossil fuels, it is highly implausible to suggest that it will play a higher role in reducing the consumption of fossil fuels. The authors come to a conclusion that only aggressive policies and regulations choices can limit the use of fossil fuels. The author ends the article by showing a probable future of the world if we do not cut back on the consumption of fossil fuels. The authors seem knowledgeable on the subject. He offers a realistic approach to the problem of fossil fuels. He want the reader to believe hypothetical common arguments that because of the environmental advantage and depletion of resources we might abandon fossil fuels. He based his article around facts, current datas and graphs to strengthens the point that he is really trying to convey to stop hoping negatives arguments will make us stop using fossil fuels. by providing a view on the future of the world, he is suggesting a call to action by the leaders of the world. Furthermore, the authors set up the article to be biased against renewable by failing to discuss in length its environmental benefits and acknowledge its potential The author provides valid guidelines in answering my research question. The transfer from one source to another is a complex process which will not only be based on environmental merits of one while neglecting the economic benefits of the other. My position on the subject is subtly shaken and i begin to wonder the need for a switch. The rate of extinction of Fossil fuels is not rapidly growing as suggested by many. Thus, the reason demanding its immediate substitution is not fully justified provided there are effective ways to limit its negative impact. Renewable Energy: A Road Less Travelled Holmes, J. (2004). Renewable energy: the road less traveled. Church & Society, 94(4), 39-47. From the first paragraph, Holmes states the need to switch from greenhouse sources of energy to renewables energy. The author accuses the U.S federal government of putting policies in place that fails to deal with the economical, political, environmental challenges presented by fossil fuels in she which she expands on. She believe that it is imminent that we make the switch and stop wasting our resources and time on subsidizing fossil fuels. Renewables are much softer on the planet and can be cost-competitive to fossil fuels as technology improves. The author discusses in brief a couples of renewable energy sources (wind, solar, biomass, etc.). She suggest that we -people, businesses, institutions- should strive to become climate- neutral and list steps to take towards using renewable energy sources personally and regionally. She also provides the benefits of renewables. The intent is to educate the christian community on renewable energy. She does not hold strong beliefs in the legislative branch of this country on energy policies. By connecting the subject to God, she is tapping into beliefs system that God would want us to switch to renewable sources. She is unbothered by the monetary costs included but the moral satisfaction one get by doing something she sees as pure, right and just. She provides examples & guidelines on how to switch to self powered communities using renewable sources. It indicates that the author herself or her community are already practicing what she wants the audience to do. This reassures and generates confidence in the reader to switch to renewables where previously there were doubts. This provides an example of the magnitude and different stakeholders participating in the discourse of fossil and renewables. A deontological view on the debate that a switch to renewable goes in accord with nature and religion which many people amongst us share as well. My personal values concord with hers which influences my position on it cost at first but you reap the rewards later in forms of government rewards, no electricity bills and you get to help others in your community. It also gives renewable over fossil fuels, you are more independent of the power company. You can set up your own power plant in your home. Renewable Energy and the City: Urban Life in an Age of Fossil Fuel Depletion and Climate Change Droege, P. (2002). Renewable Energy and the City: Urban Life in an Age of Fossil Fuel Depletion and Climate Change. Bulletin Of Science, Technology & Society, 22(2), 87-99. In this article Peter, Droege discusses the dependency of urban cities on fossil fuels as a major cause of depletion of fossil fuels resources and global warming. The author views current practices -like green and appliances recycling- as ineffective towards reducing the emission of greenhouse gases. He suggest that the only remedy for GHG effect is by exploring methods of accounting for GHG emission and implementing renewable energy systems enhanced urban communities and infrastructures that will respect the regarded safe annual carbon emission limit per person. The author is aware of the misconception on the subject that many communities have and he is concerned about the mechanisms of denials used by communities to avoid dealing with the pressing issue at hand. The article is well researched and organised. It is written to appeal to current and future urban organisations, states and cities. It summarizes the impact of fossil fuels on our big cities and the need on renewable sources. In this article -published in 2002- Droege makes projections on the lifespan of fossil fuels which contradicts with current projections. This finding makes me question the idea of fuels are as we always find ways to get more. I will use the article as a background to relatively show that our current urban setting was traditionally conceived for fossil systems and catering for renewables will require an enormous initial investment which will spark a debate on its feasibility. Solar Renewable Energy WEATHERHEAD, E. C., & CLACK, C. M. (2017). SOLAR RENEWABLE ENERGY. Bulletin Of The American Meteorological Society, 98(1), 19-22. Elizabeth Weatherhead clarifies that Solar renewable energy are greatly advertised as being a better option than the environmentally unfriendly fossil fuels but they are not as easy to control. She argues that it is a complex process to get solar equipments operating as efficiently as they do. They depend not only on the strength of the beam but also other components (angle of beam, wind, radiation, emplacement). She adds that this difficulty will cause a difference in efficiency between customers. Lastly she affirms that if the process is executed perfectly and done on a plant capacity it can provide up to 80% of the world energy. The author wants to educate the reader on solar energy and show that a process being cleaner necessary mean it is easier or viable option. She is experienced on the matter as she admit being a meteorologist. She makes use of data to support her claims that increase her credibility. The article aim to be taken as general knowledge and the colloquial tone employed suggest the audience being everyone that care about nature. Weatherhead & Clack explore a form of renewable energy that is considered as the future of energy and identifies how unreliable and costly renewable energy are. This connects to my research question by providing that all energy sources have flaws and only the level of crisis will indicate which energy source is more viable now.