Jakub Wojcik ENC 1101 Annotated Bibliography INTRODUCTION: The topic of this annotated bibliography will be the history of the legality of plagiarism in music from various viewpoints, and how past controversies led to the current laws on intellectual property. Throughout the bibliography, I will look in depth at different subtopics regarding melodic plagiarism including copyright law (what determines legitimacy), an ethical standpoint (if it is wrong to draw inspiration from someone previous success), and the business side of all this (how a lawsuit affects the publicity, credibility, and revenue of an artist). Though this may all seem very broad, as the bibliography moves along you will find that all of these various aspects ultimately coincide with one another like an intricate, unified, melody. SOURCE ONE: Demers, J. T. (2006). Steal this music: how intellectual property law affects musical creativity. Athens: University of Georgia Press. Steal This  by Joanna Teresa Demers is an important first addition to this bibliography because it does a great job of summarizing how IP (intellectual property) laws have come into place over the years. The author also goes into great detail about how each particular law has affected the artists that played roles in these lawsuits. It appears that Demers expresses negative connotation about the vast amount of laws being put in place. Throughout the book, she emphasizes that all this regulation on the creative process will eventually lead to a limitation of creativity and an increase in unoriginal production. Despite her bias, the book is informative and wonderfully written, while still giving the reader solid facts for them to interpret in any way they please Steal This  is a phenomenal source for research on the topic because of the vast, somewhat general overlook on the subject of plagiarism in music. It is important to first understand the basis of this ongoing controversy. This includes being able to identify what IP is, in what ways IP is stolen, to what extent it is considered stealing and so on. Demers presents the information clearly in this well researched and well written book. SOURCE TWO: Ball, P. (2016). Musicians Are Wired to Steal Each Work. The Atlantic. Retrieved from http://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2016/09/music-plagiarism/499985/ Phillip Ball writes a great article for The Atlantic that further informs the reader on the history of melodic plagiarism and the outcomes these lawsuits had on the artists and their careers. It can be clearly seen that artists suing other artists and filing lawsuits has become a business in and of itself and the amount of money that is being made and lost by these people is irrefutable. By way of looking back at prominent cases, Ball makes it clear that there is the possibility that the original creators are more concerned with earning a paycheck than maintaining the integrity of the musical culture. He also goes into how similarities in music are an extremely common occurrence and how in reality, popular music is fairly limited in its originality and chord progressions. This source aids in expressing the business side of IP theft and retaliation, and how this correlates to the success or failure of an artist in the public eye. The author also contributes information relating to the process of creating. He states there are possibilities of unconscious , meaning that original artists are constantly surrounded by an environment of melodies which they draw influence from. This makes it difficult to determine whether a plagiarized piece was truly copied, or simply heavily inspired by an original. This article by Phillip Ball is fairly short, but the information to be gathered from it is immense. SOURCE THREE: United States Copyright Office,. (2015). Copyright and the Music Marketplace. Washington, DC. In order to determine what is right and wrong with copyright laws regarding music, you first have to be well informed and up to date on current laws and the effects they have on the musical industry as a whole as well as the individual artist. The government article set out by the United States Copyright Office Copyright and the Music  lays forward in great detail the current legal framework of this subject and what role the government plays in the licensing process. It also explains which parties retain different rights and what those rights entail (to what extent the parties can work within their boundaries and so on ). The significance of this addition is in the need for a solid understanding of the recent status of licensing regulations as well as learning why these regulations were put there in the first place and what they mean for the environment of original creators wishing to innovate. Do these policies help incubate creativity or are they detrimental to the imagination due to the limitation placed on others to inspire? In this article the facts and statistics are presented for the reader to learn and take an educated stance on the matter. SOURCE FOUR: Levy, S. (2000). The noisy war over Napster. Newsweek, 135(23), 46-53. difficult to mention copyright law in music without bringing up the origin of the file sharing company Napster. This event greatly changed the way music was shared and distributed around the country and eventually around the world. The effect of this was a rapidly growing pool of music that ultimately led more people to the musical culture, which in turn inspired many people to create original pieces. Napster is the perfect example of a revolutionary idea that many people could not agree with, possibly due to financial reasons