Tulloch 1 Katie Tulloch Ms. Gottlieb ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Two Sides to Every Story: Animal Testing Over the course of a day, one may not realize how many products are actually used for their everyday routine. Whether it is cosmetic, haircare, self-care, or household products, it is possible that the idea of how these products came to the market, was not a common concern. Products have to be tested somewhere and somehow. However, it is a decision to choose how their product will be approved by the FDA. A commonly disputed topic today is animal testing. Animals are a widely used method for testing the safety of products, but with new technology and scientific advancements, there are now more available options. A company that chooses to test on animals would be Estee Lauder, yet only when necessary. On the contrary, an organization that is for animal rights and safety would be, for the Ethical Treatment of or commonly known as PETA. Although Estee Lauder and PETA are two organizations whose ideas on animal testing differ completely, there is room for a probable compromise by following what some companies do and test on humans as well. By way of example, Estee Lauder is a cosmetic company used by many across the globe that does in fact use animal testing when it is deemed necessary. According to their website, Lauder Companies does not test on animals and we never ask others to do so on our behalf. If a regulatory body demands it for its safety or regulatory assessment, an exception can be (Estee Lauder 1). In other words, the company does test on animals if the law requires them to do so. They are not entirely for animal testing, however, they are not completely against it as well. The use of animals for their products is solely for the safety of humans who purchase their merchandise. Estee Lauder is working to stop the use of animal testing within the Tulloch 2 company altogether. In fact, they work with a few organizations that promote other ways of testing rather than animals alone. One of these organizations is called Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal This organization has a mission of, knowledge and resources to accelerate the development, validation and acceptance of alternative approaches to animal use in regulatory testing. The overall aim is the replacement, reduction and refinement (3Rs) of animal use in regulatory (European Commission 1). Working with an organization like this shows the people who are concerned about animal testing that Estee Lauder is willing to change their course of action and stay away from animal testing. In contrast, an organization such as for the Ethical Treatment of or PETA is completely against animal testing and strives to protect the safety and rights of all animals who are treated poorly. Their beliefs are centered around the idea that animals are capable of suffering just as humans are. Nonetheless, their main focus revolves around: major areas in which the largest number of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest period of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (PETA 1). In order to educate humans and spread their beliefs, PETA works through public education, cruelty investigations, and participates in cruelty protests. In each event they partake in, they provide information that the human race is blinded to. Essentially, PETA exposes the truth to humans about what companies and organizations are actually doing to animals that is often covered up and ignored. It does not mean that people agree with the fact that animal testing takes place today, they simply choose to be a bystander instead. Ever since PETA was founded in 1980, the organization has reached over one hundred milestone events at which point animals were saved from cruelty and testing situations. One of these Tulloch 3 milestones took place in 1997 and during this milestone, campaign, NASA pulls out of joint U.S., French, and Russian experiment in which monkeys wearing straitjackets were to have electrodes implanted in their bodies and be launched into (PETA 2). Digging deeper and trying to find the perspective of NASA on this milestone, it was said that, withdrew from the international Bion space biomedical research program after a rhesus monkey died during biopsy surgery following two weeks in orbit in a Russian space (Aerospace Daily 1). This milestone alone was a significant event for PETA and proved that they are persistent and are here to make a difference. This event was one of many that PETA helped fight for the rights of animals. However, what made this milestone more significant than others, was the fact that a government organization was caught in the act and then proceeded to prioritize rights and safety. After all its efforts, it is clear that this organization stands by their mission statement and will continue to fight for rights and protect animals to the best of their ability. With all things considered, it is evident that these two organizations are not on the same page with their views and beliefs of using animals for testing the safety of products. On a daily basis, there is a new product being made or discovered. Although there are plenty of companies that do use animals, there are companies that choose to stay away from animal testing as well. For example, Lush, Bath and Body Works, Mrs. Meyers, and 365 Everyday Value are companies that chose to use alternative methods. These companies are proof that animals do not necessarily have to be used on products. Companies that do use animals, such as Clorox or Estee Lauder, state they are not using their preferred way of testing. In fact, they try hard to stay away from the use of animals until the government regulations say otherwise about the safety of their product. Tulloch 4 Considering that, there is in fact a probable compromise for these two opposing organizations. A possible compromise is testing products in ways that non-animal using companies do, which is using humans. They are successful and have products that people love and use often, and for that reason companies that do use animals can be just as successful as they were when if alternative methods are chosen. According to European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing, a team from Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft science institute have created a way to mass-produce artificial skin (complete with blood vessels) that can be used for grafts, plastic surgery, or even cosmetics and, swatches of artificial skin can take the place of animals in medical and cosmetic (NEAVS 2). This alternate testing method allows companies to test their product and see how a skin and blood will be compatible, if they are at all. This method is considered to be more reliable since the product is tested on human flesh compared to animals. There have been past records that show how animals do not always mimic something that would be safe to humans. According to NEAVS, Animals have shown that such as Aspirin or Penicillin are toxic to (NEAVS 1). However, those products are completely safe for human use and are used often. Following this further, some say that this alternative method is expensive and time consuming. Since team found a way to mass produce the skin grafts, the cost is now considerably lower than it was previously. If the cost is now lower, this alternative route would be lower in expenses overall. If companies have to keep using animals over and over for the same product, then more money is continuously being spent. If human skin was used, then the issue of having to repeat the experiment would slowly decrease due to the fact that the results would be more reliable Tulloch 5 compared to the use animals. On the whole, this is not the only way to take animals out of the equation, but it is an option. In conclusion, the ultimate goal is to make sure animals are not the solution for testing products but also allow companies to test their products safety as the FDA forces them to. Animals have been used for as long as people can remember, but studies have shown that animals are not the most reliable source when comparing to humans. With technology expanding and new research discoveries being made, alternative methods are now available to companies that need to test their products. Tulloch 6 Works Cited Alternatives to Animal  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Animal  The Lauder Companies Inc. Estee Lauder, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <https://www.elcompanies.com/our-commitments/viewpoints/animal-testing>. European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing - Growth European  Growth. European Commission, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. George. Mass Produced Artificial Skin to Replace Animal  Sentient Developments. N.p., 01 Nov. 2009. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.sentientdevelopments.com/2009/11/mass-produced-artificial-skin-to.html>. NASA Pulls out of Bion Project in Wake of Monkey  AWIN Content from Aviation Week. Aerospace Daily, 23 Apr. 1997. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://aviationweek.com/awin/nasa-pulls-out-bion-project-wake-monkey-death>.  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/aboutpeta/milestones/>.