Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Homelessness in America As of 2016, approximately 564,708 people are currently living in the U.S homeless (2016 state of homelessness). This number continues to increase as each day passes, as homelessness had become a true epidemic in the United States. A person is considered to be homeless if they are currently living in their car or on the streets or in a local abandoned building (2016 state of homelessness). Interesting enough, out of the entire population, veterans are more prone to becoming homeless than the general public as their rate of homelessness is eight percent (2016 state of homelessness). There are multiple organizations that those who are facing the possibility of becoming homeless or already are can turn to for assistance. One of the better known ones is known as the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty. It was founded in 1989 by Maria Foscarinis (Who we are, NLCHP). This organization advocates for the rights of the homeless and those facing the possibility of becoming homeless and living in poverty. Through the various photos displayed on their website, this organization really knows how to trigger a reaction of compassion out of any viewer. These compelling images also provide the audience with clear evidence of an apparent dilemma that is prevalent throughout America. Figure 1 is an image that was displayed in the the right to housing tab on the NLCHP website. The viewer can clearly see a protest being displayed advocating for housing to become a basic human right for those who are homeless. With the insertion of this photo, the NLCHP organization helps push its agenda through the heavy presence of logos and Kairos. The utilization of logos, (Moxley, 192) or logic and evidence, has a heavy presence Student 2 throughout this photo, as the text in the photo of the protestors signs clearly explains what the protestors thoughts are and evidence of it. With the protest in progress, helps establish their credibility as actual citizens witnessing what is occurring and demanding change. This is a photo where there is not much left for interpretation, as it is very apparent what is occurring and what the people would like to achieve out of the situation. Clearly there is an issue here and there are ideas for how it can be fixed, if people are willing to listen and act upon these ideas. This leads into the utilization of Kairos in the photo as well. Whenever a protest is being held, it is normally because something needs to be changed and it needs to be changed fast. The fact that these people are holding a protest over the right for housing for homeless people shows that it is an issue that is close to the heart of many different people which also is a perfect display of pathos as well. This idea allows the audience to feel a sense of urgency and alertness when viewing the photo. The photo also appeals to the emotions (Moxley, 190) as in the photo, there is great diversity and the issue really brings people together, no matter their background. A sense of unity is apparent about this subject which really amplifies the importance of it to whoever may be viewing the photo on the website. A second photo that is of great significance is located under a tab called homeless for visible in figure 2. This website advocates for the rights of those facing the possibility of homelessness as well. With this significant picture, the organization continues to draw attention to their cause through triggering reactions from the audience through various components involved. In this photo, the appeal to emotions, pathos, is in abundance (Moxley, 190). By using a young boy in the photo, it makes the photo much more compelling and also drives sympathy out of the viewer. The boy also is living in what looks to be like temporary accommodations which are in a very deteriorated and battered state. This additionally allows the Student 3 viewer to feel pity for the child and really understand the situation occurring for many children living in America. By being placed in the middle with light shining down on the boy, it places emphasis (Royce, 334) on the little boy as well. Through the organization including this photograph, it is a bit hard to deny that there is a dilemma as there is clear evidence, or logos, of the child being in detrimental living circumstances. The battered and damaged blinds and additionally the fact that the young child is wearing no pants can allow for a viewer to see that there is a clear issue here and that there must be a call to action. This also leads into an appeal to time sensitivity (Moxley,196), as in living situations like this, can turn for the worst if something is not done soon enough. This child and his family is clearly at risk for becoming homeless if something is not altered quickly and this is what really gives the reader a sense of urgency about the issue of the rights of those facing homelessness. It allows for them to see the reality of the situation and the severity of the issue. Children are the future of our nation, and they too are experiencing the effects of homelessness and poverty in our country. The National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty is one of the few law centers in America that focuses on ending and preventing homelessness and poverty in the United States. One of its main focuses is educating the public and making sure that it is aware of the situation at hand. It does this through advocacy, education, impact litigation, and advocacy training and (nlchp.org). The main goal of this organization is to hopefully one-day end homelessness in this country that is filled with opportunity (nlchp.org). This website additionally plays an essential role in reaching an audience through providing information about the cause and as well compelling images that can have great effect on those viewing them. The two photographs chosen both utilized appeals to emotion and logic to trigger reactions of compassion and pity from those who are witnessing the media. Student 4 Kairos was additionally utilized in order to bring a sense of urgency to the photo which would then cause the viewer to understand the time sensitivity of the situation. It is very clear what this organization is advocating for though these photo, as poverty and homelessness is a dilemma that many are faced with every day. Just because they are not financially in the best living circumstances mean that they do not deserve the same basic rights that any other citizen of the United States would receive. (Word Count: 1,118) Student 5 Works Cited Royce, Katherine is a rhetorical Rhetoric Really Matters. University of South Florida, 2014. Accessed January 22, 2017 Moxley, Joseph for developing Rhetoric Really Matters. University of South Florida, 2014. Accessed 22 January 2017. National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty - Home Page. National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty, https://www.nlchp.org/Home%20Page Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. The State of Homelessness in America  National Alliance to End Homelessness. National Alliance to End Homelessness, n.d. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1: https://www.nlchp.org/images/Human%20Right%20to%20Housing.jpg Student 7 Figure 1: https://www.nlchp.org/images/1%20Darius.jpg