Shephard 1 Victoria Shephard Professor Davis ENC 1102 11 February 2017 Is the Legalization of Recreational Marijuana Possible? Marijuana is a naturally growing plant that contains over 500 chemicals, including the psychoactive chemical delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, better known as THC. This drug has a multitude of names, including weed, herb, pot, grass, bud, ganja, Mary Jane, and a multitude of other slang (NIDA). It can be consumed by smoking it or putting it in food. The debate as to whether or not Marijuana should be legal for recreational use has become very publicized and heated. There are two very defined sides to the argument in the United states. One side believes that marijuana is bad for society and will have nothing but negative effects for the whole country if legalized, while the other side believes that legalizing Marijuana would solve a large sum of our problems. There are valid arguments on both sides of the argument that should be taken into account when making decisions about this topic. I believe that the recreational use of marijuana should be legalized with certain restrictions, so that everyone in the country can make their own decision whether or not to use marijuana recreationally. If marijuana is legal for everyone, then so many good uses for the plant could be discovered and made available to the country and even the world. My first stake holder is the Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana, or CALM, an organization that avidly discourages the legalization of marijuana in California. They say that other states that legalized it have had an increase of traffic fatalities, homelessness, and teen usage (CALM website). They also believe that the brain is affected greatly by the use of Shephard 2 marijuana, no matter what the age. belief is that it is simply not safe for marijuana to be used, and the legalization of it will only make it worse for everyone. The Association of Private Correctional and Treatment Organizations is also a stakeholder that really does not want marijuana to be legalized. It is proven that all private prisons make their money off of having prisoners, and if there are not enough prisoners, the prisons will impose a to insure they keep their money income up (salon.com). If marijuana was to be legal, everybody in their prison that was there for that reason would have to be released. All of the people that they could have arrested for marijuana possession would also go free. Because of that, they would lose a great deal of income and that is something that no business wants to happen. Some people on the other hand, believe that the legalization of marijuana will do nothing but good for our country. They also believe that there are very little pressing negatives to using marijuana. If anything, they believe that many of our countries problems will be solved with the legalization of marijuana such as a decrease in crime, less people in prison that need to be paid for, and more sick people getting the help that they need with the use of medical marijuana (NORML). Police would have more time to spend on bigger crimes, like stealing and murder, than on non-violent drug arrests for marijuana. Big Tobacco is a stakeholder that would benefit greatly from having marijuana legalized. With the legalization, they would be able to commercialize the production of the plant and make money off of it like they currently do with tobacco. With the commercialization of tobacco, the government would also be able to tax all of the sales of marijuana, and that would bring more income to our country as a whole. Hospitals would also benefit because they could spend less money on pharmaceutical drugs that have the same effects as medical marijuana. Shephard 3 Both sides of the argument want what is best for the country as well as what is best for their personal interests. They both want to have financial security and want to make use that everyone is as safe and happy as possible. Violence related to drugs is a big concern to both the APCTO and Big Tobacco. If there is a way to bring down the amount of violence in the United States with a compromise, that would make the compromise easier for both parties to agree to it. Both sides of the arguments also want to make use that they can make money off of marijuana. Right now, Big Tobacco is making no money off of the plant, and they can make it into a lucrative business if it were legal. On the other hand, private prisons are benefitting off of the plant being illegal and they want it to stay that way. Another similarity between the two stakeholders is that they profit off of things that are culturally considered wrong. Crime and addictive substances are considered to be inherently bad, but they both profit off of people doing those things anyway. Marijuana is also considered to be bad in our current culture. But because private prisons profit off of the being illegal and Big tobacco profit off of those things being legal, it makes sense that they would be opposing forces. The only way for our country to stop the fight over the legalization of recreational marijuana is to make a compromise that the two stakeholders would both be able to agree to. One compromise would be to decriminalize the possession of marijuana for everyone over the age of twenty-five for the entire country. This compromise would appease the APCTO and private prisons everywhere because they would still be able to incarcerate everybody under twenty-five that is in possession of marijuana. It would also appease Big Tobacco because that way they could sell marijuana and make money off of it on a large scale. This deal is also good for society because research shows that Marijuana negatively affects the developing brain, and the brain continues to develop until the age of twenty-five (CALM). Alcohol is a drug that affects the Shephard 4 brain no matter how old the consumer is, and it is legal at the age of twenty-one. Everyone under that age is not allowed to be in possession of alcohol, and anyone under the age of twenty-five should not be able to have marijuana with them. In fact, we should give marijuana similar rules as alcohol, such as the age limit and making it illegal to drive under the influence. This way, we can keep the people who would be most affected by the use of marijuana safe and give everyone else the freedom to choose. We could also let each state decide whether or not they want marijuana to be legal, that way some private prisons would still be able to incarcerate people of all ages based of their possession. A compromise that would also greatly benefit both stakeholders would be to only allow big companies and no individual sellers to grow and sell the plant. That way, Big Tobacco would keep most of the profit and private prisons would be able to take in all of those who would chose to continue and sell marijuana individually. Shephard 5 Works Cited: Legalizing Marijuana Appropriate Involvement of  QuantumMark. N.p., 27 Aug. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Big Money Fights to Block Marijuana  Represent.Us. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Taramlachapelle, and Https://www.facebook.com/rani.molla. Pot of  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 20 Apr. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. What is  What is marijuana? National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). NIDA, Oct. 2002. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. 6 shocking revelations about how private prisons make  Salon. AlterNet, 23 Sept. 2013. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.