John Vargas Carr ENC 1101 1/29/17 WWI: Precipice of Change World War 1 was the first modern war fought on a large scale, and it set the stage for wars to come. In the war we did not only see a change in mindsets on how to fight these wars, but we also saw a change in who we fought for. A common phrase among troops in the beginning of the war was by the idea that this would be a quick war where all sides had equal chances at emerging victorious. These optimists quickly realized however that war was no longer a sport, warfare had evolved into a much more dehumanizing affair. Battles used to be fought in an afternoon and recognize Sundays and holidays as times of peace and unity, but now they would last unending without any clear victories or progress. The devastation in this war was so disheartening for many people that it came to be known as Great and was thought to be the war to end all wars. However in hindsight this war may have led to more conflicts then it ended whether World War 2 or modern conflicts in the Middle East and Africa. In this paper we will be delving into the question: How did World War 1 become a nearly global conflict, how did technologies and strategies change throughout the war, and how did it lead to future conflicts? Isdale, W. (2015). Are There Moral Reasons to Remember the First World War?. Think: Philosophy For Everyone, 14(41), 89. doi:10.1017/S1477175615000226 This article focuses on the human side of war when it comes to the general public, the soldiers, and the governing powers. The author evaluates how the views of people changed during the conflict and how warfare was changed forever. He makes a clear evaluation of tribal nature and our tendency to be nationalistic and how it can cloud our judgements. The author William Isdale brings a philosophical perspective to the topic of warfare and provides clear insight into the minds of the people of the time. As is the nature of philosophy, Isdale dissects pre-determined ideals in order to understand their origins and question them with a deeper understanding. References Foley, R. (2016). Verdun: the killing field. History Today, (9), 30. This article is focused on the battle of Verdun and why it is seen as such a memorable battle from the war. It will focus on the cost of life in the battle, what led to it, and its effects down the line. The battle itself took place in the trenches of Verdun which is only a 12 mile stretch of trenches with seemingly no significance prior to the battle. Foley delves deep into this battle and analyzes every aspect of the battle from life of the soldiers to the cost of the fighting with clear statistics and both first person accounts of the events and a modern historian viewpoint. The article also provides illustrations that help the reader visualize and better understand the content that Foley provides. References Keene, J. D. (2016). Remembering the American Historiography on World War I. Historian, 78(3), 439-468. doi:10.1111/hisn.12245 This article discusses how the First World War became to be known as forgotten and how it is seen by the American public and pop culture. The article writes about famous authors from this generation such as Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald, and discusses how their experiences in the war and the fallout from it affected their differing viewpoints and perspectives on topics such as life and the American dream. The article later talks about how the war led to a false financial security and would eventually lead to the great depression over a decade later. This article will be very useful in describing how the war changed the mindsets of people which may have changed views on future conflicts and how the economic hardships the war caused may be helpful in explaining the origins of the Second World War. References Juniper, D. (2004). The First World War and Radio Development. History Today, 54(5), 32-38. This article is focused on how radios first gained widespread use during the First World War and how improvements were made throughout the wars duration. It also discusses how the radio changed the way wars were fought and the change it had on communication in society and how that would later effect both politics and news. This article will be useful in addressing the technological aspect that is posed in my research question on how warfare is a prime motive in technological advancement. The article talks about both uses of radios before, during, and after the conflict. It also discuss their many uses in the conflict. References RAMILLER, N. C. (2010). Understanding New Technologies in the Great War. Confluence: The Journal Of Graduate Liberal Studies, 16(1), 22-35. This journal focuses on the change in technology and its effect on warfare from previous wars. The technologies discussed in this article are heavy artillery, barbed wired, entrenchments and more specifically machine guns. The article talks in depth on the destructive firepower the machine gun posed and its juxtaposition to previous weapons in raw killing power. This article will be a good mixture in understanding how the First World War was different from previous wars and how technology affected the conflict and how it advanced as a result. References Wesseling, H. (2005). Imperialism & the roots of the Great War. Daedalus, 134(2), 100-107. This article focuses on how imperialism led to opposing sides brushing up on one another and how that led to major widespread conflicts. It also discusses the logistics of warfare on a global scale and how it was handled with a massive toll on troops to boot. This article will address the question in regard to how the war became so widespread and it will also begin to answer the question of how the Great War differed from previous wars and the change in fighting styles.