McKeighan 1 Kevin McKeighan Madeline Gottlieb ENC1102 12 February 2017 The Impact of Immigration Policy on American Soil When it comes to immigration in the United States, people tend to look at it from two different points of view, especially with the recent change in presidency. Immigration becomes an issue when one in power brings light upon the issue, otherwise the United States tends to produce much revenue. The United States takes the immigrants, gives them work and a place to live so they can live where they work. These immigrants do work that many Americans find tedious and physically demanding, yet they do not mind the work because they hope to one day live the Oppositionally, people do not think that immigrants deserve to be housed and given jobs because they take jobs away from the unemployed citizens of the United States. Two stakeholders that constantly debate over this topic are the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition (EWIC) and the Federal Government. This leads to the issue of whether or not further regulation on immigration in the United States is of paramount priority for the citizens of this country. If so, it must be done in a demeanor that reflects the values and morals of this countries foundation. Illegal immigrant workers comprise the majority of agricultural jobs in this country, the state and local governments benefit greatly from it but the federal government resents it. The field of agriculture is predominantly Hispanic-American immigrant workers, who, unfortunately make a living off minimum wage. This demonstrates that when the government cracks down on immigration, certain employers, businesses and towns will suffer. The Essential Workers Immigration Coalition has goals set to manage these issues and do it in a productive McKeighan 2 way. This organization supports any immigration reformation that works to bring in guest workers from alien nations to support demand for labor. Other reformations that interests the EWIC includes an open employment database that is easily accessible and/or any option that would benefit the ten million undocumented immigrants living in this country. Illegal immigrants dominate the field of agriculture so much so that a study was done by Steven Zahniser about the impacts of two different scenarios regarding immigration policies. The first scenario was named the H2-A program and it tries to group together legal immigrant workers in order to perform the jobs of illegal immigrants in hopes of leaving the illegal people without pay (Zahniser 2017). The problem with this program is that there is no possible way to have as many legal immigrant laborers as there are illegal workers. From the perspective of these illegal workers, as long as they are not wreaking havoc on society or breaking the law in a way that endangers the public, why should they be exiled when they are providing needed services for our country. The other stakeholder that holds a prominent side in this debate is the Federal Government. For such a long time, the Federal Government has put blame on state and local governments for the increasing illegal immigrant population (Jorgensen 1997). It is a known fact that state and local governments profit off the illegal labor chores and because of this, they have been reluctant to change the policies. After much political debate the Federal Government conceded and granted states consisting of immense immigration rates with grants in order to support the growing populations (Jorgensen 1997). This was a reasonable compromise for the time being, until the population got out of hand. The United States is still noticing growing rates of illegal immigration and because of this, the Federal Government is striving to reach mutuality. McKeighan 3 Common ground can and will only be reached as long as these two stakeholders can work together and understand each side of the issue within the situation. The perspective is; workers are providing much needed service for the agriculture industry and as long as they are productive they should not be exiled. The Federal perspective would be that there are too many illegal immigrants in this nation and it is time to start giving jobs back to hard working citizens of America. A form of common ground would consist of a place in the economy for most of the illegal immigrants who currently produce revenue. Thus, sending all the illegal immigrants who are not productive or have criminal records out of the United States in a mass scale deportation. Officials from the EWIC released the statement saying, want to be clear that we believe it is imperative to create a guest worker program that responds to the future needs of the economy and avoids the mistakes made by previous reforms, which led to millions of undocumented workers entering the U.S. (EWIC 2015). This could open job opportunities and living space for citizens of this country or people legally residing in the United States. Perhaps the answer would be to propose an international cooperation project that could relocate a number of illegal immigrant workers from the United States to another country. This would lessen the burden on the US population growth and help with agricultural needs of other countries. A project like this would require government funding and international cooperation, but would peak both the interests of the Federal Government and the EWIC. The immigration status of this country has been extremely lenient for a while which has allowed for state and local governments to build entire communities around economies inhabited by illegal immigrants. Though this may be profitable and beneficial for many Americans, it is still taking jobs away from American citizens. Just because illegal immigrants are willing to work in this country for low wages does not mean that is the right thing to do. With the recent McKeighan 4 election, there has been much light shed on the issue of immigration and now the Federal Government is working towards a solution. A possible solution would be one that sustains the needed labor for American workers in the field of agriculture and also relocates the productive illegal members of these societies to a place where they can continue work for the steady growth of the economy. McKeighan 5 Works Cited EWIC Statement Regarding Guest Worker  EWIC - Essential Worker Immigration Coalition. N.p., 25 Mar. 2015. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Freiman, Christopher. Liberalism Or Immigration Restrictions, But Not  Journal Of Ethics & Social Philosophy 10.2 (2016): 1-22. Humanities Source. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Hirota, Hidetaka. The Moment Of Transition: State Officials, The Federal Government, And The Formation Of American Immigration  Journal Of American History 99.4 (2013): 1092-1108. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Jorgensen, Jay T. The Practical Power Of State And Local Governments To Enforce Federal Immigration  Brigham Young University Law Review 1997.4 (1997): 899. Business Source Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Standing -- Federal Courts -- D.C. Circuit Demonstrates Redundancy Between The Competitor Standing Test And The Zone Of Interests  Harvard Law Review 128.6 (2015): 1850-1859. Academic Search Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Zahniser, Steven, et al. Immigration Policy And Its Possible Effects On U.S. Agriculture And The Market For Hired Farm Labor: A Simulation  American Journal Of Agricultural Economics 94.2 (2012): 477-482. Business Source Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.