Hamza Bouarfa Professor Sarah Roth ENC 1101 2/4/17 Harmful Emissions and the Salvation of Planet Earth The Earth is one big life form that can also be harmed. Many people like to think of it in comparison to a human body as humans are definitely fragile. The body has an immune system that serves to protect it and eliminate threats to its host. The Earth does not have such a protector, and we symbolize very dangerous invaders. Instead of saving our home planet, we only add to its pain and pull the time of its demise ever closer. This is definitely the case, but not all people want to live as threats to planet Earth. They come up with ideas and processes that save the Earth, as we bask in its abundance. As mentioned by Marshall McLuhan in An operating Manual for Spaceship Earth; are no passengers on Spaceship Earth. We are all The main idea is that we try to be as environmentally friendly as possible, and there are some people and ideas that definitely take the initiative. The Fresh Quotes, an organization raising environmental awareness, said: For 200 years been conquering nature. Now beating it to  The bottom line is that we have to do something to save our home. There are definitely some ideas out there, but what about our modern 21st century ideas. How have ideas and prototypes evolved to better battle harmful emission? Musk, Elon. The Mission of  Tesla - 19 Nov. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This blog describes the intention of Elon Musk, the founder and CEO of Tesla Motors. The initial idea introduced is that of sustainable energy, which has almost no negative effect on planet Earth. It goes on to describe the never ending search for green energy and the importance of solving the issue as quickly as possible. He then transitions to compare the usage of fossil fuel vehicles and all electric cars, like Tesla. The risks are compared and the first thing described is the issue of gasoline fires in fossil fuel cars. He denies the fact that all electric cars are more dangerous when it comes to fires, and supports it by solid facts, such as that gasoline engines contain ten times more combustion energy than the battery packs. The appeal of a safe and green car is then brought up. The vehicle is one of the safest on the streets, supported further by proven statistics. After that, he furthers the initial intention of sustainable energy by using a vow to never cease to improve an idea that could save the Earth. Credibility: Elon Musk is very well known in the 21st century. He has come up with many companies and ideas for the sole purpose of benefiting mankind. Tesla is only one of those. He produced Space-X which explores the idea of life on other planets in case the Earth becomes uninhabitable. He is quite the activist, seeking to improve the way of life. UCS. Better  Union of Concerned Scientists - 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article focuses on the idea of biofuels and how they are extremely beneficial to the Planet Earth. First, biofuels are introduced as energy sources procured from biomass, which are plants and animals. A certain type of biofuel is introduced and emphasized on. Cellulosic biofuels are compared to fossil fuels, yielding 90% fewer emissions. The idea of biofuels is one attainable in the near future as scientists expect to be producing four times as much biofuel as we produce fossil fuels currently. The idea that corn based fuels consume as much as 50% of our supply annually is stated, and the solution also introduced. Biofuels, which need not be food based, will not only reduce emissions by a vast margin, but will also increase food supply. Credibility: The UCS is a group of scientists from different backgrounds that all feel the need to address the issue of emissions. They spend their time doing research in order to negate the effects that mankind produces in terms of CO2. Schuiling, Roelof D., and Poppe L De Boer. Six commercially viable ways to remove CO2 from the atmosphere and/or reduce CO2  Environmental Sciences Europe 25.1 (2013): 35. Web. This is an academic journal from the USF Library. The focus of the entry is describing six ways that commercial entities can reduce their carbon dioxide footprint. The six alternatives are also ideas that are very easy to approach and efficiently reduce CO2 emissions. The first describes a switch to plants that produce the element nickel, instead of mining. The second refers to switching from fossil fuels to fuels based on diatoms, which not only are much more beneficial, but also retain a good amount of carbon dioxide. The third step is very vital, as it is the second greatest emission factor. That is, to quench forest fires using serpentine powder which is much more effective than water. The fourth, fifth, and six all refer to the use of olivine, a mineral which forms rocks while absorbing CO2. Credibility: The authors of this scholarly source are affiliated very strongly with many different departments of earth and science. They have many pieces referring to the anatomy of materials and their relativity to the environment. Galvin, Ray. Thermal upgrades of existing homes in Germany: The building code, subsidies, and economic  Energy and Buildings 42.6 (2010): 834-44. Web. This is another academic journal from the USF Library. This one addresses the idea of thermal upgrades in homes. One of the most efficient ways to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from humans is to increase the efficiency of the thermal identity in homes. More specifically in this article, Germany is brought up and praised. They have very strict guidelines when it comes to either new buildings or the renovation of older buildings. They have very high efficiencies that make use of less heat in order to produce the same effect that previously required more manmade heat. Credibility: The author of this article has done vast research into the subject of environmental research. He is part of a school of environmental research and continues to contribute to this day.