Khlebnikov 1 Oleg Khlebnikov Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 11 February 2016 Gender Roles in Video Games Video games have a huge impact on our lives. However, it is a place where gender stereotypes and sexism make a controversy. There are a lot of people affected by this dispute. However, feminists and game developers are once that mostly important. Feminists raise awareness about the trend of gender issues and women stereotyping in games, they do not want to see games featuring violence against girls and women (Sarkeesian 1). On the other side, designers, developers and marketers, people who actually create video games and advertise them to the market, use sexualization to sell as much copies as possible, since it actually works (Gaider 1). There is a major controversy about gender roles in video games that must be explored. Feminist Frequency disappointed in the bounded ways women are represented. They raise awareness and take stances against degradation of women in video games. Meanwhile, Rockstar North employs a varying image of women in their games, using a recurring theme of gender stereotyping for products to sell to the market. A compromise must be established between the two. rights organization Feminist Frequency was created in 2009 by critic and video game lover Anita Sarkeesian 1). With a borrowed camera, in the dorm, she started making videos with one goal: make from a feminist easier subject for anyone to Feminist Frequency is helping Khlebnikov 2 women, real and 1). First videos were not complicated and much analyzed, but the idea of Feminist Frequency was already visible in them, belief that media has the power to change the 1). After couple years, rights group Feminist Frequency started video series vs Women in Video Its goal is to get rid of sexism in video games, which will create richer, healthier and more complex gaming experience for people of all genders. They strongly advocate for the just treatment of all people online and believe that media is an essential tool for eradicating injustice. According to the executive director of Feminist Frequency, are to explore the tropes, stereotypes and patterns that are most often associated with female characters in mass media. Not all tropes are problematic, of course, so we focus specifically on deconstructing recurring patterns that tend to reinforce or amplify preexisting regressive notions or attitudes about women and roles in our larger (Sarkeesian 2). The organization does not want to see games featuring violence against girls and women. In order to raise awareness about the trend of gender issues and women stereotyping in games, and to show what role people can or should play in working towards an end to sexism, Anita Sarkeesian created a project on KickStarter called vs. Women in Video video project will explore, analyze and deconstruct some of the most common tropes and stereotypes of female characters in video (Petit 1). It worked, about 7,000 people supported and pledged around $160,000 to help bring this project to life, as well as a lot of attention from different sources, online magazines and other feminist groups (Petit 1). Feminist Frequency still works and shows that gender problem in video games is very serious. Designers, developers and marketers are people who create video games and advertise them to the market. Their goal is to sell as much copies as they can, and it is not a secret that Khlebnikov 3 sexualisation sells. For social media it is common to use sexualization as a hook for a male audience. Video games are not an exception. Even more, video games are known to use women in advertisements. For example, an ad for the game (2002) include almost nude female character, covered only by seashells. However, she does not even play a part in the game. According to David Gaider, of all gamers are (8). Therefore game companies use recurring theme of gender stereotyping for their games to attract main audience - males. Rockstar video game Theft Auto (2013) shows that sexualisation could be very attractive. Cover of the game is an example of the ways that women in GTA V are portrayed in overly sexualized ways. Female characters in the game are dressed in revealing clothing, and player has the option of hiring a woman prostitute. However, appearing of a female characters in a sexually objectifying way sells, and according to Samit Sarkar, Theft Auto 5 sold through 11.21 million units to end users during the first 24 hours of sale and generated revenue of $815 million going on to reach $1 billion after just 3 days on It is not surprising, that one of the best-selling video games of all time caused controversies about images of women that developers used. However, Rockstar North achieved their main goal, to sell as many copies of the product as possible. Statistics show, that the cost of making games is increasing, and the number of units that a AAA-game needs to sell just to break even is getting into the millions (Gaider 9). If game company takes unproven risks, their game fails, and it does not matter what their good intentions are. Gaming now is very big industry, alike as cinema or music industries. Cindy Mehallow mentions in her article Teaching Sustainable Values through Serious , that million gamers globally and 22 million hours spent globally on Khlebnikov 4 gaming - each (4). All of this shows, that it is very hard to achieve success under such a big pressure, so game developers, including Rockstar North, would do anything to be successful. Even though two stakeholders seems to have absolutely different opinions on how gender roles should be showed in video games, a compromise must be established between two. dynamics of who is gaming has steadily changed in the last five years, as women increasingly flock to video (Gittleson 4). Rapidly growing amount of women players is the opportunity to find a common ground between feminists and game developers. Female characters used on advertisements or in video games are usually so unrealistic, and designers make them look unproportional. However it is not the only way to show the sexuality. Developers can rethink what it means to be a sexy woman. In real world, people find women sexy for being intelligent, competent and tough. In the article is Dana Dovey states, and again men report that is one of the top qualities they look for in a woman. From a this makes sense; smarter women would be better able to look after a children and more likely to pass along these smart genes to (1). However, visual design is also important, but designers can observe the proportions of real women and strive to create female characters who represent a more normative look that would resonate with the majority of women. According to Ian Miles Cheong, ESRB has very strict restrictions on the promotion of Mature-rated games, making them more difficult to promote and (3). That is another opportunity for the game developers. If they make women look more real, ESRB will not mark the game as for since restrictions have been lifted. Therefore, realistic look and rich inner world of a character could be a solution for the both sides. Khlebnikov 5 There is a major controversy around gender stereotypes and sexism in video games. Stakeholders such as Feminist Frequency and Rockstar North have different views on using women appearance in the games. Feminist Frequency aims to examine sexist patterns associated with female representations in games, and to explain how these patterns reinforce harmful attitudes toward women in our culture. Rockstar North uses oversexualized images of women in order to make a lot of money by entertaining main male audience. However, there is almost always a compromise that could be found between stakeholders. For game developers, such as Rockstar North, going to the extreme opposite of what have been suggested by players is completely wrong. There is no way for any game to be all things to all people. However, simple rethinking of what makes a woman attractive can put an end to the controversies how video games promote degradation of women. Khlebnikov 6 Works Cited Carolyn, Petit. Tropes vs. Women in Video  . Feminist Frequency, 17 May 2012. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Dovey, Dana. Intelligence Is Sexy, But Only In Theory: Male Ego Too Intimidated By Smart Women To Date Them, Says  Daily . N.p., 22 Oct. 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Gaider, David. Sex in Video  Vault . BioWare EA, 3 Mar. 2013. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Gittleson, Kim. Why Does Sexism Persist in the Video Games  News . BBC, 13 June 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Grand Theft Auto 5. Rockstar North. 2013. Video game. Grand Theft Auto  The Free Encyclopedia . Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Mehallow, Cindy. Teaching Sustainable Values through Serious  Pundit People Planet Profit . N.p., 09 Nov. 2010. Web. 31 Oct. 2016. Neverwinter Nights. BioWare. 2002. Video game. Sarkar, Samit. Grand Theft Auto 5 Tops 65 Million Copies  . Polygon, 18 May 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Khlebnikov 7 Sarkeesian, Anita. 5 Ways Men Can Help End  Frequency . Feminist Frequency, 2 Dec. 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.