James Kaserman Jewell ENC 1101 01/29/2017 The Economic Effects of Socialized Healthcare on America The debate surrounding the distribution of healthcare has recently come to the spotlight because of its importance as a political issue. a complex issue that affects everyone and has many solutions that are used. It brings up the debate of whether the United States could gain large economic benefits from implementing a form of socialized healthcare for its citizens. Healthcare systems differ widely among first-world countries, so the benefits and costs of each system can be analyzed and compared to others. This offers a healthy environment to explore socialized healthcare as a possibility and a possibility as a law that can peacefully be implemented into every modern civilization. It opens the doors of possibility and explores the practice being implemented into the most powerful economy in the world, It explores the topic of the economic effects of socialized healthcare into economy. Adele Shartzer, Sharon K. Long and Nathaniel Anderson Access To Care and Affordability Have Improved Following Affordable Care Act Implementation; Problems Remain Health Affairs 35, no. 1 (2016): 161-168 Doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2015.0755 originally published online December 16, 2015. The first article I explored was one discussing the triumphs and failures of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) that was enacted under the Obama administration. It is a peer-reviewed source that explains the declines in the uninsured population of low-income level adults. It offers many dates of how the law affected the groups of people it was supposed to offer healthcare insurance to. It also displays many graphs that help to illustrate the numbers that were affected when the law was enacted. It is an incredibly helpful article because it outlined the failures of the Obamacare act (ACA). Most of the failures came about because it was a truncated law that was passed forcefully with numerous amounts of concessions. It supports the idea that healthcare is an issue that cannot be thought of partially. It requires a full overhaul of a system to be executed successfully. It benefits my research because it offers an analysis of an attempt to implement a form of socialized healthcare into the American healthcare system. The article was written by three authors that all hold a position in the medical research field. Shartzer is a research associate in the Urban Institute, Long is a senior fellow, and Anderson is a researcher at UCLA. It explores the numbers and the social situations that many Americans are put into and it relates to the situation surrounding Planned Parenthood. Many conservatives and people in the middle of the partisan debate are probably not the first ones to support an organization that allows people to basically receive sex-related services for free, but it is an important part of the healthcare system. Without planned parenthood, the amount of pregnancies and abortions increases and it causes a strain on the healthcare economic system. It is more economically conscious to focus on preventive care instead of curative cure. A preventive system is more desirable economically and morally. Seegert, Liz. What Single-Payer Healthcare Would Mean to Doctors: Senator Bernie Sanders Has Revived Debate, But Experts Say It Remains an Unlikely Dream in The United  Medical Economics 10 (2016): 54. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. My second source describes the benefits of a healthcare system that is like Canada and own healthcare systems. It gives doctors and other practicing physicians increased freedoms over insurance contracts and overall less overhead when they see a patient. Imagine a system that allows a doctor to not worry about the cost of any procedure or medication when prescribing to a certain patient. It removes the cost from the equation and allows doctors and physicians the ability to worry about the profession that they spent countless years and dollars on, instead of the administrative side of healthcare. This source ties into my research question because it explores the freedom that it grants doctors that are in the system. When doctors have to worry about the cost of the level of care they are providing, then it benefits both parties. This is because both parties feel the best they can at an emotional level. The doctors can feel like they offered the patient the greatest level of care they could receive and the patient has the best level of care provided. However, it will be important to carefully analyze the information in this article because the author hold any medical positions in the research area, but she does establish and draws from credible sources. Pozanti, M. Suheyl, and Paul Bruder. The Turkish Healthcare System: Can The United States Learn From The Ottoman  Hospital Topics 73.2 (1995): 28. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 The article explains about the costs associated with healthcare on a national level and it uses Turkey as an example. It ensures that the readers understand that turkey is considered a gateway between the and the The two directions described include the western culture and the eastern, Asian cultures. Turkey is described as a hotbed of international thinking and it proves by implementing a healthcare system that provides answers at a cost-effective level. It focuses on preventative healthcare as opposed to immediate healthcare needs and the article shows that the country saves money because of the mentality switch. It relates to my research question because it explains on a level that preventative care is the most economical and cost-effective type of care that a hospital or healthcare system could provide. It also offers a look into healthcare systems around the world because of the culture and geopolitical nature that relates to turkey being the gateway between the and the This allows it to enter the conversation of healthcare as a global power. Half of the article was written by a professor at Bahsecehir University which is located in Turkey, so it brings in an accurate record of history and Bruder is a business litigation attorney. have to find deeper information to find how Bruder has connections to a paper discussing health care insurance in Turkey. Eldo E., Frezza. The Six Stages Of The Healthcare Economy-Is Socialized Medicine At The Door? Historical  Journal Of Social Sciences, Vol 1, Iss 4, Pp 197-198 (2005) 4 (2005): 197. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 This article describes the six stages of healthcare that happen naturally overtime. It is an important piece of information because a lot of it is based on recent history because health insurance was not a huge topic over a century ago and it until a professor at the University of Texas raised the question of whether patients would be able to afford the level of care that was being currently being offered to them. It explores the economic stages of healthcare and a bit of the history of healthcare insurance as a whole. It relates to the research topic because it directly relates to the topic of money in the healthcare system and offers hindsight and foresight that can be analyzed. In addition, it offers a brief history of health insurance from the point of view of a general surgeon at the Texas Tech University Health Science Center. It encompasses a huge fraction of the United States of economy and it continues to grow at obscene rates as healthcare insurance companies raise rates and the government continues to resist change.