Mark Sanchez ENC 1101-013 Topic: Prisoners of War Research Question: How have prisoners of World War II been affected mentally? Prisoners of war, or POWs, have always been apart of war. Even the Revolutionary War which started in 1775 had prisoners of war. However, the POWs that should be discussed are the ones from World War II because some of them are still alive, and the Second World War probably affected POWs the most mentally. World War II was the biggest and most deadliest war in history. More than thirty countries were involved. More than fifty million soldiers and civilians were killed, and hundreds of thousands of soldiers, airmen, and sailors were imprisoned. Allied prisoners were severely mistreated or killed by Germany and Japan. They were forced to do slave labor, tortured, suffered from starvation and diseases, and for small infractions of discipline, were killed. The impact of these conditions, along with everything else that was happening at the time, affected their mindsets tremendously. They witnessed seeing their own brothers in arms die, or maybe they got beat to the point where they even stand up, and after going through all this, surviving prisoners of World War II still have to deal with the mental pain for perhaps the rest of their lives. APA Rintamaki, L. S., Weaver, F. M., Elbaum, P. L., Klama, E. N., & Miskevics, S. A. (2009). Persistence of Traumatic Memories in World War II Prisoners of War. Journal Of The American Geriatrics Society, 57(12), 2257-2262. - This article covers the long-term effects of POWs who were captured during the Second World War. One hundred and fifty-seven prisoners of war were used for this study and they come from the Hines Veterans Affairs Hospital in Orlando, Florida; and the World War II veterans periodical These Participants took a survey and basically described their experiences from being a POW, and the effects it took on their well-being. Many of them reported having lots of nightmares and flashbacks of their POW experiences. 16.6% of them were analyzed with PTSD, or post-traumatic stress disorder. There were three times as many POWs from the pacific who had PTSD than there were POWs from Europe. The conclusion states memories and clinical levels of PTSD persist for WWII POWs as long as 65 years after their According to the article, these prisoners of World War II seem to have been affected severely when it comes to their long-term mental health. having persistent nightmares and flashbacks, particularly those from the pacific because their PTSD rates are three times those of European POWs. Most of them started as a soldier and got captured when they were in their 20s or 30s, and according to the conclusion, traumatic memories and PTSD persist for as long as sixty five years after been captured. World War II ended more than sixty five years ago so for all the POWs that are still alive, they may not have traumatic memories or PTSD anymore, but for more than half their life span, had to deal with all the horrors over and over again from being a prisoner of war through nightmares and flashbacks. APA C., Cook, J. M., Thompson, R., Riley, K., & Neria, Y. (2006). Verbal and physical aggression in World War II former prisoners of war: Role of posttraumatic stress disorder and depression. Journal Of Traumatic Stress, 19(6), 859-866. doi:10.1002/jts.20157 - This article covers the relationship between PTSD, depression, and intimate partner relationship aggression among former POWs from the Second World War. More than half of the participants reported verbal aggression in their marriages, and twelve percent reported physical aggression. These forms of aggression are said to have been caused by PTSD symptoms, or the severity of captivity trauma. Depression was noted to be a moderator between PTSD and the two forms of aggression. Another effect from PTSD and trauma other than aggression was emotional detachment and decreased expressiveness. On the first page of the article, it says or violent behavior in individuals with PTSD is one of the common sources of marital difficulties, as well as a frequent reason for seeking psychiatric This article has shown that the PTSD that these POWs have gotten from their experiences is causing problems in their relationship such as verbal or physical aggression, as well as emotional detachment and decreased expressiveness. Mentally, being a prisoner of war has affected their ability to be a good husband or partner. The PTSD from war makes the POWs get mad at their wives or girlfriends, and also show barely any signs of emotion. Aggressive behavior is only one of the issues that prisoners of war have to deal with when it comes to their PTSD, but trying to fix it. They seek psychiatric help in hope of being cured. APA Moore, B. (2015). Enforced Diaspora: The Fate of Italian Prisoners of War during the Second World War. War In History, 22(2), 174-190. doi:10.1177/0968344514521789 - This article analyzes how over 1 million Italian servicemen were taken prisoner and scattered about over four continents. By the end of World War II in Europe during 1945, these Italian prisoners had already been dispersed across Europe, North America, South Africa, India, asiatic Russia, and Australia. They were captured in North Africa, Abyssinia, and the Italian mainland by Americans, the British, and the Soviet Union. These prisoners were mostly tortured, forced to work an insane amount, or killed for misbehavior. Mentally, it must have been really tough for these Italian prisoners. They were taken from either their own homeland or some other country, and then brought to somewhere completely new just to be tortured or forced to do a ton of labor. They probably know the language that their captors spoke, so it must have been difficult to follow their instructions and if they were caught not following orders or misbehaving, they were killed. Because they were all split up into different continents, some of these prisoners were probably split apart from their friends or family, which also must have made it mentally more difficult. APA Cook, J. M., Riggs, D. S., Thompson, R., Coyne, J. C., & Sheikh, J. I. (2004). Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and Current Relationship Functioning Among World War II Ex-Prisoners of War. Journal Of Family Psychology, 18(1), 36-45. doi:10.1037/0893-3200.18.1.36 - This article uncovers the association between posttraumatic stress disorder, or PTSD, and the quality of intimate relationships that former prisoners of World War II have. These former prisoners of war were no less likely of being in an intimate relationship compared to non-POWs. Marital functioning was only expected for people without traumatic exposure, and thirty percent of those with PTSD reported relationship problems compared with only eleven percent of those without PTSD. These former POWs with PTSD had more trouble communicating and being intimate with their partners compared to non-POWs who have PTSD. These POWs from the Second World War have any problems getting into a relationship after the war, but mentally, their traumatic experiences which gave some of them PTSD has made being in a relationship more difficult for them. They struggle to have healthy communication with their partner regularly. They also struggle to be intimate with their partner, or be closely acquainted with them. APA The Railway Men: Prisoner Journeys through the Traumascapes of World War II. (2014). Journal of War & Culture Studies, 7(3), 206-222. - This article explains how the incarceration that the prisoners of the Second World War end with those who experienced it. It says that their wounding memories were passed down through families and communities. They were recycled through narratives, memorials, and life stories. It also explains how historians have tried to record the living testimony of both the POWs and their families. Prisoners have already been dealing with problems mentally, but now there might be evidence that their are being passed down to their loved ones. They might have told the horrific stories that experienced as a prisoner of war to their families and now they might have PTSD as well, or maybe people of this generation are reading about the life stories that POWs have experienced and it been too intense for them. APA Spark, S. (2014). Dishonourable Men? The Australian Army, Prisoners of War and Anglo-German POW Repatriations in the Second World War. Australian Historical Studies, 45(2), 242-265. doi:10.1080/1031461X.2014.911760 - This article is about Australian prisoners of World War II. It uncovers the effects Anglo-German POW repatriations on Australian POW policy.