Ferreira 1 Joey Ferreira Professor Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102: English Composition II 12 February 2017 Capital Punishment: Is It Moral? The death penalty has been a form of punishment for severe crimes for hundreds of years. The original purpose of this practice was to remove criminals from society who have committed capital crimes. However, there are two very opposing sides when debating whether or not if the death penalty is a moral and effective form of punishment. One side of the argument views capital punishment as a fair consequence for criminals who have committed capital crimes. An organization involved in this side of the argument is a bioscience company called Tocris. The opposing side against the death penalty sees capital punishment as inhumane and even a violation of human rights. One of the organizations that advocate against the death penalty is the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). Both sides of this topic have stakeholders who possess very strong and compelling reasonings behind their beliefs that either justify or refute the killing of severe criminals. However, this controversial subject requires a plan that will leave both the NAACP and Tocris content with the outcome. This plan will involve a changing in the process of convicting capital criminals so that the cost will be decreased and the rate of convicting guilty criminals will be more precise. Capital punishment is the highest form of punishment we have in our country. There are 31 states in the United States that support the death penalty With and Without the Death Each of these states share the same opinion on how criminals that commit capital crimes should be punished. The most popular method of execution a method called lethal Ferreira 2 injection. In the state of Florida, a chemical called midazolam hydrochloride is used to carry out executions. The corporation that produces this chemical is called Tocris which is a biological science facility that produces chemicals. On the website, it describes the midazolam hydrochloride as a which means it is a chemical that sedates or knocks out the individual that it is used on. Tocris is the sole provider of midazolam hydrochloride used by Florida which entails it has obtained monetary funding from the state of Florida. The process of lethal injection is made up of 3 steps: sedation, paralysis, and cardiac arrest Injection: The With the job of sedation, chemical midazolam hydrochloride, renders the patient completely unconscious and unaware of what is happening and is intended to make the process of lethal injection fast and painless for the individual. The process of lethal injection is considered to be than other forms of execution because it allows the person who is being put to death, to feel nothing at all during the process (Bedau, 399). The reasons why Tocris supplies Florida with this chemical is not only motivated by money, but the motive to bring certain criminals to justice. Some of the crimes that are punishable by execution in Florida include: murder, treason, terrorism, aggravated rape, and armed kidnapping Punishable by The severity of these crimes help Tocris justify their involvement with capital punishment. Those who oppose the death penalty view it as an indecent gesture towards human life or a faulty system that does not work properly. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) feels very strongly against this form of punishment. The NAACP sees the issue of innocent people being sentenced to death. The website states that there have been 156 people who were put to death from the year 1973-2016 who have later been found to be innocent. This organization also sees a problem with race and the death penalty. It Ferreira 3 was said that out of the 63 people on death row in a year, 37 of them were non-white individuals. This statistic is exposing a flaw in the system of capital punishment that points towards racial intolerance Death Penalty Fact This flaw is also shown through a process known as which allows convicted criminals to plead guilty for a chance to avoid death row. Plea bargaining in itself is unfair because it seems like a jump to the conclusion; the system is not trying to find true justice, but more of a quicker end to a case. On top of this, there is evidence of possible racial inequity in these bargaining attempts. The NAACP stated that 48% of white defendants were successful in pleading guilty and avoiding the death penalty and only 25% of black defendants were successful in the same process Death Penalty Fact The NAACP sees this as a racial flaw in the capital system and an unacceptable component that makes the balance of justice lean unevenly. The NAACP also describes an issue with the draining of resources that is involved with capital cases. One may think that it may cost more to sentence someone to life in prison when in fact, sentencing someone to death is much more expensive. The cost of capital punishment is around $1.26 million dollars while life in prison costs $740,000 Facts About the Death The money that pays for all of this comes from the taxpayers and the NAACP sees this is an unfair cost to a group of people who have no say on whether or not the death penalty should even be practiced. The two polarized sides of this argument are in dire need of a solution that will result in an agreeable system while still allowing justice to prevail. Something that Tocris and the NAACP have in common is the desire for criminals who have committed capital offenses to be sentenced to a punishment that is equal to the severity of their crime. These stakeholders also share the common knowledge of the cost of the death penalty. What is needed in this situation is Ferreira 4 an alteration of the capital punishment system that ensures that the accused is in fact guilty, and that also greatly diminishes the time and resources that are involved in capital cases. This is not a proposition to completely remove the death penalty from society, this is a proposition to fine- tune the process of conviction so that the price of the process is decreased and the chance of executing the innocent is non-existent. In order to keep Tocris happy with this situation, the state should purchase a yearly supply of midazolam hydrochloride. By purchasing this chemical in bulk, the company should not see a decrease in their income from the state. This bulk purchase of the chemical made by the state will not be a problem with the overall large price of the capital punishment system. The main reason for the large price involved with the death penalty is the cost of multiple trials involved with individual capital cases. The price of each capital case is around $1.26 million dollars ( Facts About the Death For example, in 2000, there was a fund in Illinois that spent over $60 million dollars in eight years on just 20 death row cases on Capital Restricting the amount of midazolam hydrochloride that the state can purchase will cause the state to have a limited supply of the chemical needed for execution. Therefore, the judicial system will have to practice more reluctance toward using the death penalty, decreasing the amount of capital cases and people on death row. This compromise will still result in serious convicted criminals getting the punishment they Capital punishment is the highest form of punishment that our country has to offer. This form of punishment is reserved only for those who have committed extreme and severe capital crimes. With the severity of the death penalty, there are two separate sides to the subject that either supports its purpose, or denies it as an effective system. The supporting side of capital punishment involves Tocris, which is the company that supplies midazolam hydrochloride to Ferreira 5 states that need it for executions. The side that is opposed to the death penalty involves the NAACP. The proposed compromise is one that tweaks the system involved with capital punishment so that the state can only obtain a certain amount of the execution chemical per year which will cause the length of each case to be shortened and the total number of death sentences will be decreased. Works Cited About the Death  About the Death Penalty National Coalition to. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ncadp.org/pages/about>. Bedau, Hugo Adam. The Death penalty in America. New York: Oxford U Press, 1982. Print. Ferreira 6 Costs of the Death  Costs of the Death Penalty Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/costs-death- penalty>. Crimes Punishable by  Crimes Punishable by Death. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.antideathpenalty.org/crimes.html>. Marcus, Paul, Capital Punishment in the United States, and  (2007). Faculty Publications. Paper 61. http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/facpubs/61 Midazolam Hydrochloride Supplier CAS 59467-96-8 Tocris Bioscience Ro 21- 3981/001  Tocris Bioscience. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. <https://www.tocris.com/dispprod.php?ItemId=5336#.WJzvMrYrKDU>. NAACP Death Penalty Fact  NAACP. N.p., 18 Jan. 2017. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Rob Warden, Reflections on Capital Punishment, 4 Nw. J. L. & Soc. 329 (2009). http://scholarlycommons.law.northwestern.edu/njlsp/vol4/iss2/2 States With and Without the Death  States With and Without the Death Penalty Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/states-and-without-death-penalty>. Works Cited Continued Injection: The YouTube, n.d. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SPTuhooggN4 Ferreira 7