Ginga Once an ancient practice now rarely heard. The movement of body from one side to the other, the creativity with your feets, an art itself.Performed to the accompaniment of call-and- response choral singing and percussive instrumental music.Ginga, commonly known as now as capoeira, is more than just an ancient brazilian martial art. The history of an afro- brazilian martial art explores ginga as a field of confrontation where different that divide brazilian society are played out. Although the slaves outnumbered the colonists but they were still could not take any step towards rebellion, mostly due to lack of weapons and knowledge about the new land they were in, that is when ginga was born. Ginga, capoeira as known today, was a hope to escape from this deprivation.Being born as a source of survival it soon evolved to a weapon for freedom.The rule of colonists on the native and slaves were getting worse day by day and eventually a lot of small wars took place between the slaves and the colonists, while the colonist fought with their heavy weapons, ginga was the only weapon the slaves had.Although the slaves did fight back but they were no match for the colonists.Soon more colonists began to come and places in Brazil like Rio and Sao Paulo became a port for trade and export. Strict rules were put upon Ginga, Capoeira, anyone practicing it were arrested. Eventually Ginga started to fade away. After nearly 136 years from the day of independence, Ginga was spotted in the eye but in a different form. It was in the form of a sport, they called it, The Ginga Style. It was 1958 Fifa world cup. Back then Brazil did not win a single world cup yet. In the entire squad of Brazil soccer team there was one colored skin young player who had a different way of playing, mostly everyone laughed at his style of play but they did not expect what result it brought. The movement of body to one side to another and mostly keeping the ball in the air, he called it, the ginga style. It was an implement of ginga in soccer. No one had never thought such a thing could be done. Back then Sweden was the best soccer team in the world, their team consisted of mostly all the best players in europe, they called it, dream team Europe. At the age of only 16, Pele helped brazil to win their First ever Fifa world cup and that too against a team like Sweden with a staggering score of 5-2 victory over Sweden.The entire world was stunned seeing this unique style of soccer. Pele literally revolutionized the game of soccer, proved that limits can be broken. This is what made soccer special. Ginga is now alive in the name of capoeira, world wide. Ginga now can be seen in the form of playing, dancing and even martial arts. The biggest place to see Ginga in dancing is in the carnival of Rio, said to be the biggest celebration in the world after new eve. With the influence of samba a lot of dancers dance in the street in the style of ginga. Not only soccer, in competitions like UFC a lot of brazilian fighters with ginga background implify ginga to the sport. Now it might not be for survival but a lot of people still practice ginga as a martial art, known in the name of capoeira. The name might have been changed but the spirit is still alive and now all over the world.