Main ! 1 Thomas Main Seth Spencer ENC 1102 5 February 2017 The Negative Consequences Of Water Pollution Water Pollution is becoming a great threat when it comes to endangering our environment and the wildlife that surrounds it, and over the course of time many companies have ignored this as an issue and the result of there actions have become catastrophic. For those that might not know, water pollution is when large bodies of water such as lakes, rivers, and oceans have pollutants discharged into them either directly or indirectly without the attempt to remove them. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is an agency with the mission to protect environmental and human health. But although the EPA is out there, there are still companies that pollute our waters without any consequences. U.S. Steel is among one of these companies that do so, this company has fought the many states that have wanted them to regulate their pollution because it is effectively their business. If the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Steel could come up with a compromise to reduce or safely contain U.S. Steel pollutants then it would allow for a healthier environment and cleaner/healthier water. The Environmentalist Protection Agency (EPA) is opposed to the pollution created by U.S. Steel because they are continuing to discharge a multitude of chemicals such as mercury, oil, grease, lead, etc. The U.S. Steel company is dumping all of these chemicals in the great lakes and due to their actions they are causing great environmental harm. In one Article I read it stated, permit also sets five-year goals for the mill to comply with federal standards that call for the reduction of the amount of mercury, cyanide, ammonia, zinc, copper and Main ! 2 EPA Fight U.S. Water para. 1).Its been a decade later and the U.S. still mill at Lake Michigan has still failed to come to compliance with the Clean water act in the Great Lakes quality water initiative. From the EPA side it is a very difficult process because they cannot shut down the steel mills because it would be too costly in the end, but its also hard to propose and establish rules with the U.S. Steel company because they are a business and if they make all these changes with their mills it would drive up the cost and reduce the profits coming in. For any business that settle well especially with U.S. Steel chief executive John Surma. In the end though Its the Environmentalist Protection Agency to find a solution for the issue at hand because it is their responsibility on behalf of the federal government to promote and retain human and environmental health. If the EPA take action the the Great lakes could face a huge downward impact that affects the whole environment around it Pols, EPA Fight U.S. Water para.3). The Pigeon River is an example of how water pollution has shown negative externalities. The pigeon river ranges from North Carolina into eastern Tennessee, and over the course of time the river has been polluted greatly by the operations of a pulp and paper mill by Evergreen packaging. The pollutants discharged from plant traveled forty miles downstream and made the water quality of the water at dangerous levels, and impaired a lot of the species around and in the river. Overtime though the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) took action and began to work with the company to begin a 300 million dollar modernization of the mills, when the project was finished the Pigeon River water quality improved greatly. But although the mills reduced water use and modernization of the mill helped, the pollutants still have taken a great Main ! 3 toll on the river and the environment around it Negative Externalities On Property Values Resulting-From Water Impairment: The Case Of The Pigeon River para. 5). U.S. Steal Mill is one of the largest steel companies in the whole U.S. and therefor they have a lot of power when it comes to laws that regulate the amount of pollutants they release into open bodies of water. Even when the the still mill gets heavily fined from time to time they still continue to pollute the waters because it is most beneficial and profitable to their mills. pollution is effectively your business, you tend to argue against limitations on pollution across your working area, especially state-mandated limits on individual ( 7 companies). If the Environmentalist Protection Agency wants to reach any compromise with U.S. Steel, then they are gonna have to come in from business aspect and understand why the U.S. Steel mills pollute the waters. U.S. Steel pollutes because it is apart of their manufacturing system, and with the EPA trying to change stuff with the mills they are ruing the process and trying cut in through the business profits. The EPA has to realize that they stop all the pollutants that the steel mills discharge in the water because U.S. Steel is a big part of our economy and we ruin that. But the EPA can find some balance between U.S. Steel that helps not destroy the business but also promotes a healthier environment. In order for there to be a healthier environment and healthier/cleaner water the Environmentalist Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Steel need to come to a compromise. It would be best if the EPA took the same approach as they did with pulp and paper mill company in Pigeon River. But instead of making it a 300 million dollar project like they did in Pigeon river I think they should find a way to help fund the project to make the U.S Steel mills more safe for the natural bodies of water. For the compromise to work the EPA going to have to invest Main ! 4 a lot of time to make this happen and they will also have to let the company still discharge some chemical waste into the Great Lakes because using water is a big part of their business and the U.S. Steel company would have to dump a chunk of money into the project. It is only right if U.S. Steel helps fund some of this project to promote a cleaner and safer mill because they are the source of where the discharged pollutants that are having negative impacts on the Great Lakes. And this all falls und the Pay which shows a variety of ways of how polluters can pay for the pollutants they discharged in great bodies of water. Pollution: An Introduction to Causes, Effects, para. 3) So if the Environmental Protection Agency will still allow U.S Steel to discharge some pollutants and invest time in the modernization and cleanup of U.S Steel, and if U.S Steel will dump a huge chunk of money into the project then the future of U.S Steel mills will begin to show a positive impact on the Great Lakes and the environment. The compromise will also benefit in the long run by giving U.S. Steel no problems with environmentalist nor the EPA hopefully. And over the years to come a healthier environment and cleaner/healthier water will come from this compromise just like it did when the EPA worked with the mills at Pigeon River. Main ! 5 Work Cited 7 Companies Polluting the World Without  7 Companies Polluting The World Without Consequences Care2 Causes. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Ernst, Amanda. Pols, EPA Fight U.S. Water  Law360. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Main ! 6 Cho, Seong-Hoon, Roland K. Roberts, and Seung Gyu Kim. Analysis: Negative Externalities On Property Values Resulting From Water Impairment: The Case Of The Pigeon River  Ecological Economics 70.(2011): 2390-2399. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Woodford, Chris. Water Pollution: An Introduction to Causes, Effects,  Explain That Stuff. N.p., 05 June 2016. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. U.S. Steel Fights New Environmental Standards for MN  Minnesota Public Radio News. N.p., 11 Feb. 2015. Web. 07 Feb. 2017.