Thant Zaw Oo Instructor Nancy Carr ENC 1101 016 29 January 2017 Renewable Energy replacing fossil fuels Renewable Energy sources are energy sources that can be spontaneously recharged daily such as tides, sunlight, waves, geothermal heat and wind. These energy sources are present over immense geographical areas and are then processed through certain equipment to generate electricity. Although the world will never run out of renewable energy sources but it is economically competitive to fossil fuels and the emission of renewable energy sources are inconsistent; solar energy is absent at nighttime. Likewise, the source mostly used to generate electricity, fossil fuels, is being rapidly depleted followed by an expectation for this source to be in shortage which results in an electricity crisis if no other alternatives are invented. Furthermore, the process of producing electricity with the use of fossil fuels emits large amount of greenhouse gases from power plants which have a huge impact on the climate change. Therefore, the development of using renewable energy is being heavily researched by universities and scientists. It also enforced various government and organizations to invest extensively on facilities and agendas assigned with designing, constructing and innovating solar panels, steam and wind turbines. They have devised attainable solutions to maximize energy and area efficiency to ensure the output produced is reliable for the upcoming decades. Why are people opposing to fuel combustion? Will fossil fuels be superseded by sustainable solutions? Will renewable power sources be as efficient as the fuel sources that are being depleted? (235 words) The initial breakthrough to espouse a more sophisticated approach to renewable energy sources is to get to know how various technology assist the difficulties they encounter. Generally, hydroelectric dams have contributed the most renewable electricity, providing approximately 16% of electricity worldwide. (2012). Although wind power is more common nowadays, solar energy is hypothetically more appealing as the sun produces immeasurable amount of energy throughout daytime, when people require the most electricity. It is also readily allocated, which solar panels can be fixed on overhead streetlights and even on a rucksack while wind power is mainly a consolidated energy source, involving clusters of turbines to generate substantial amount of electricity. Furthermore, both solar and wind energy proffer additional advantages over fossil fuels. Wind and sunlight are pristine, emitting neither the contaminants that yield hazards nor the greenhouse gases that affects climate change. They are also constantly available, supplying indigenous energy even in locations with no domestic fossil fuels. This article is relevant to my research as it states that renewable energy sources are being applied to generate electricity and how they can tackle problems for area without coal and fuel. It also states that wind and solar power are junior technologies with much innovation left to be done to lower down costs. The struggle of creating and setting up solar panels and wind turbines have just begun. (227 words) Ball, J. (2012). Tough Love for Renewable Energy: Making Wind and Solar Power Foreign Affairs, (3), 123,124 Smart grid technology is the solution for a productive use of delivered energy sources. As the climate change transforms into a critical matter that the entire planet is dealing, the uncontrollable rise of fossil fuel prices and the decrease in cost of renewable energy power setups, the favorable moments for renewable energy procedures to generate electricity is rising. But to obtain large scale utilization and to be marketable, the government and the researching team must come up with a potent energy optimizing blueprint. This will then ensure the next electricity generation is going to counter climate change and raise energy security. Moreover, renewable energy technologies (RETs) - biomass, wind, hydroelectric and solar have been triumphantly established over the years. The total proportion of all sustainable energy sources for electricity output contributes about 19%, with a high preponderance (83%) of it attained from just hydroelectric power. Just a while ago, the theory of smart grid has been auspiciously operated to electric power structures. Its key objective is to elevate functional consumer cooperation and to engage the decision-making processes. According to the author, Smart grid is the electricity networks that cleverly incorporate generators and customers to conveniently transfer electricity which have adequate capacity and sustainable and stable coverage zones through automated controls, perpetual surveillance and advanced dispersing system. This is a major admonishment for renewable energy sources replacing environmentally damaging fossil fuels. (229 words) Phuangpornpitak, N., & Tia, S. (2013). Opportunities and Challenges of Integrating Renewable Energy in Smart Grid System. Procedia , (10th Eco-Energy and Materials Science and Engineering Symposium), 282-290. doi:10.1016/j.egypro.2013.06.756 As countries develop, the demand for electricity increases. The International Energy Agency envisioned that developing countries must have the double amount of grid -based electrical power production by the time of of 2020, requiring more than 1 million MW in a decade to power ongoing economic growth. To begin, the utilization of renewable energy is hypothetically suitable to be applied in lighting, telecommunications, irrigation, heating, industrials, cooking and other cultural appliances. Until not long ago, the 87 residences of the petite Chilean island of Tac had no electric power. However, they did have a plenty amount of wind, breeze that gusts over the Gulf of Ancud with massive impact. The government then begun to provide electricity for the district outside of their electricity grid, wind turbines were established at Tac. It was at that moment, the citizens received television, telephones, refrigeration and electric lights. Shortly, a few emporiums are opened for business, carpenters were also using electronic apparatuses for woodwork. Ian Baring-Gould, a senior mechanical engineer in the National Renewable energy Laboratory (NREL) said that every person on the island loves it. He also explained how the system uses a combo of wind and diesel so that the diesel can be stored as a backup supply when wind power dwindles. So many sectors in developing countries are still facing the deficiency of substantial energy programs, this is the right time to create and execute plans that rely on renewable energy instead of nonrenewable energy sources since the beginning. I believe the use of renewable sources to generate electricity can brighten the faces of people who lives in places without fuel. With the advantage of having plenty amount of fertile land in developing countries, more projects and programs will be promoted. Someday, a future of pure and healthy energy is possible. (301 words) Clay, R. (2002). Renewable Energy: Empowering the Developing World. Health Perspectives, (1), A30-A33. Retrieved from Minimizing the fossil fuel usage from the global energy system by utilizing renewable sources, is a difficult task for humanity. Several schemes performed by the Royal Swedish Academy of Energy Committee since 2005 have particularly addressed Renewable energy consequently. These proposals reflects on energy from moving water, solar, bioenergy and wind power. The Energy Committee plans have accumulated intelligence on from varied sources, both within and outside of the scholastic world. The article claimed that the total amount of renewable energy supplied to the global primary energy supply was 12%(140,000TWh) and of 18%(20,000TWh) to the global electricity output in the year 2007. It is projected to reach 35%(170,000) of an estimated global primary energy supply and an approximate 50%(45,000KWh) to the global electricity production by the year 2050. It also announced that hydropower is currently the most essential material for electrical power production because it provides reliable grid durability. The predicted hydropower shares towards the global electricity production and the total energy supply is likely to be around 20 and 6 percent by the year 2050. Depending on our present data, renewable energy sources are foreseen to yield up to 35% of the global energy supply and almost half of the electricity production by 2050. However, the current tendency is not sustainable with aspect to both global warming and energy security. The portion of fossil fuels in the global energy supply is forecasted to decrease to 53% from a present 80% by the year 2050. The tendency can only be improved with the help of passionate inventive endeavor in experiments and evolution by research institutions. The international collaboration and the investment in energy research are the critical factors for a better global energy system. This article is relevant to my research as it provides solid statistics and predictions for the upcoming power productions categorized in various energy sources respectively. It also suggest people to come up with better concepts and findings in order to achieve the targeted goal. The world will then only be shaped into a new imperishable and stabilized structure. (351 words) Destouni, Georgia, and Harry Frank. , vol. 39, 2010, pp. Retrieved from www.jstor.org/stable/40801586