Ciabaton 1 George Ciabaton English Composition 2 Professor de Carion 29 January 2017 Juveniles in Adult Prisons In 2005 and 2012 the Supreme Court made vital rulings that aimed at establishing a difference between the sentencing of adults and youth that was in part due to adolescent brain research that shows how adolescents do not have as developed judgmental abilities when compared to adults. (Rovener, Paragraph 4). Still, there are many youths who will end up getting long sentences in adult prisons which thereby prevents them from freely living their young adult lives. The many stakeholders who are involved with the issue of youth being incarcerated in adult prisons include the juvenile prisoners, lawmakers in the federal and state level governments, the judges, the correctional staff of prisons, youth and human rights groups, scientists who study brain disparities between youth and adults, adult prisoners who were arrested as juveniles, and the families of the juvenile prisoners. Two of the most influential stakeholders are The Coalition For Juvenile Justice and the Republican Party. This U.S. political party and supportive juvenile organization have many conflicting views on criminal justice reform in general, but both support decreasing the amount of youth criminal activity in the United States. Therefore, both stakeholders could agree that increasing the funding of mentoring and rehabilitation programs for at-risk youth across the United States would most likely result in a decrease of juveniles being sentenced into adult prisons. Ciabaton 2 The Coalition For Juvenile Justice (CJJ) is a very influential stakeholder concerning this issue seeing that it supported a broad and active coalition across all 56 U.S. states, territories, and the District of Columbia, as the nonprofit association of Governor-appointed SAG members operating under the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (Mission). This coalition a nation where fewer children are at risk of delinquency; and if they are at risk or involved with the justice system, they and their families receive every possible opportunity to live safe, healthy, and fulfilling (Mission). The article written by Barry Krisberg titled Do You Eat an Elephant? Reducing Mass Incarceration in California One Small Bite at a gave examples of relatively recently implemented reforms that have played a factor in the success in reducing its large inmate population. These reforms led to the many drug offenders and nonviolent offenders from its overburdened state (Krisberg). The idea of attempting to reduce inmate populations through the use of lighter sentences strongly correlates with the goal of keeping out of adult courts, jails, and (Core Principles). Seeing that the Republican Party currently controls the majority of national governmental legislation, they would most likely need to be satisfied with a juvenile justice reform before it could be implemented by the U.S. government. The article Views On explained how Republicans tend to be in favor of stricter policies concerning punishments for crimes such as the use of the death penalty and opposing parole for dangerous or repeat felons. If these stricter policies were transferred to the juvenile criminal justice system, it would most likely involve longer imprisonment of juveniles in adult jails. An article written by Jonathan Caudill and Chad Trulson titled hazards of premature release: Recidivism outcomes of blended-sentenced juvenile homicide gave results of a decade- long study on 221 Ciabaton 3 juvenile homicide offenders in Texas. The results from this study showed that the more time the offenders spent incarcerated, the less likely they were to engage in recidivism (get arrested again after being released) (Caudill and Trulson). This study supports a Republican perspective on criminal justice seeing that the longer sentencing of juveniles in prisons resulted in less criminal activity committed by previous offenders. While the CJJ is in favor of the highest standards of care when youth are charged with wrongdoing and enter the justice (Mission), the Republican party wants stricter policies concerning juvenile incarceration. The establishment of better mentoring and rehabilitation programs for at-risk youth throughout the U.S. can play an effective role in obtaining a goal held by both stakeholders to decrease the amount of crime committed by youth in the United States. However, this would require the willingness of the Republican-majority government to increase funding towards these types of programs. Plus, both the CJJ and Republican Party would need to ignore their conflicting views on juvenile sentencing and focus primarily on prevention and treatment of juveniles through rehabilitation and mentoring programs. The use of mentorship and rehabilitation programs in the youth criminal justice system has proved effective in the past. An article written by Michael Weinrath titled A Missing Piece to Manage Juvenile Intensive Supervision Programs and Youth argues that mentorship needs to be used more often to effectively guide high-risk youth in certain communities to get on the right path. It includes a study done in Canadian communities that showed that street mentors had a more positive effect on at-risk youth when compared to intensive supervision probation workers (Weinrath). Perhaps this example, which demonstrated how mentorship programs had a good impact on youth with criminal records in Canada, could Ciabaton 4 encourage the U.S. to implement more mentorship programs for at-risk youth. These programs could give youth a positive role model who have overcome similar situations associated with criminal activity. The article Substance Misuse Programs and Offender by Sharon Casey and Andrew Day provided numerous studies which provided evidence substance misuse treatment can have positive effects on reducing Substance misuse treatment is an essential form of rehabilitation seeing that drug abuse can be related to criminal activity in a variety of different ways. For at-risk and drug-abusing youth in particular, the establishment of effective drug-abuse rehabilitation programs would most likely make a positive difference in reducing youth criminal activities which often times correlate with substance abuse. For example, an adolescent addicted to heroin may commit a crime in order to get money to pay for heroin. The issue of juveniles being incarcerated in adult prisons could be improved upon if the government made the decision to increase the funding for mentoring and rehabilitation programs for at-risk youth. This increased funding would likely lead to an improvement in quality of these programs which can effectively decrease criminal activity of at-risk youth. If government representatives from the Republican Party and leaders from CJJ got together to discuss whether or not it would be worth it to increase funding for at-risk youth mentoring and rehabilitation programs, perhaps both stakeholders would be able to envision the benefits that would be associated with this decision. The government could earn the extra money used to establish these programs by eventually having the opportunity to decrease funds associated with housing inmates seeing that these programs could likely result in a decrease of criminal activity causing a decrease in the U.S. prison population. If the establishment of the mentorship and rehabilitation programs proved successful for at-risk youth in the U.S., perhaps it would convince other Ciabaton 5 countries around the world to improve upon their programs that aim at reducing youth crime rates. Works Cited Berry, Krisberg Do You Eat an Elephant? Reducing Mass Incarceration in California One Small Bite at a Annals of the American Academy of Political & Social Science, Vol. 664 Issue 1, March 2016, pages 136-154. Casey, Sharon and Day, Andrew. Substance Misuse Programs and Offender Psychiatry, Psychology and Law, Vol. 21, Issue 3 (2014), pp. 360-369 Caudill, Jonathan and Trulson, Chad. hazards of premature release: Recidivism outcomes of blended-sentenced juvenile homicide Journal of Criminal Justice, Volume 46, September 2016, Pages Rovner, Joshua. Life Without Parole: An sentencingproject.org, July 2016, Accessed 1/29/17. Web. Weinrath, Michael et al. A Missing Piece to Manage Juvenile Intensive Supervision Programs and Youth Canadian Journal of Criminology & Criminal Justice Vol. 58, Issue 3, July 2016, Pgs. 291-321. Coalition For Juvenile Justice, juvjustice.org/about-us/core principles, Accessed 2/14/17 Coalition For Juvenile Justice, juvjustice.org/about-us/mission, Accessed 2/14/17 Views On republicanviews.org, August 2015, Accessed 1/22/17. Ciabaton 6