Santos 1 Ryan Santos Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.12 2/5/2017 Annotated bibliography With these sources, I will be able to answer my question on immigration. These sources explain the financial exploitations of immigrants coming into the United States. These references help with how much income illegal immigrants bring into the united states and how these truly affects jobs in the united states of America, also they show the way America would be dispersed racially and ethnically in our jobs, homes, and financial status. Throughout this essay references will help me explain everything I have sated and help me analyze the research question and explain in detail how immigration will affect the united states. Clark, Ximena, et al. U.S. Immigration, The Review of Economics and Statistics, vol. 89, no. 2, 2007, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/40043066. In this article, they explain variations in immigration through the years 1971-1998. It will explain different variations of where people come from and immigrate to the united states, and will show the differences in income, education, and racial ethnicity of people coming into the united states. Also, they used different quotas on people coming and saying in the united states using and overstaying the visa granted to the by there countries. They use the rise and fall in percentages from different countries for example Santos 2 the rise of Asian immigrants from countries in Asia and the decline of Hispanic-Latino immigrants to the United States. This article will help me explain how immigration affected the united states in the early 1970s through the late 1990s and help me get a better understanding of the topic researching. It will help me analyze my question on how immigration affects the united states of America. Through the historical context of this essay it will help me elaborate on the key differences in racial population coming into the united states. Also I will go in detail in how It will affect the united states in immigration through education and financial wise in comparison to the population of citizen of the united states. Bedard, Ana T. Us versus Them? U.S. Immigration and the Common  Journal of the Society of Christian Ethics 2008: 117. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. In this article it shows undocumented immigration through the common good and post directions of the united states in favor of immigration to the common good. many of these acquisitions are based on protecting immigrant rights through legalization or naturalization many of these are based upon religious catholic beliefs but also consider with liberal agenda. Such as people have the right to migrate to where ever they want and refugees and people seeking asylum should be given and placed in protection from war filled countries, and human rights and dignity should be protected. I will use this as a pro side in my argument for immigration to the united states. The analyzation of this article it showed my upside to immigration and diversity in the united states.in addition it will help me have more pros to add to my argument such as people Santos 3 have the right to migrate to where they want , borders are just man made , refugees have the right to find and seek shelter in the united states. This will also help me in the scope of how immigration will affect the united states of America. Rytina, Nancy The Facts on Immigration  Center for American Progress. CAP.immigration team, 23 Oct. 2014 . Web. 29 Jan. 2017 In this article, it discussed in detail the impacts of jobs in America due to immigration to the united states, in addition, it gives information on how immigration is beneficial to the economy of the united states. Also, its explained how immigrants come from diverse backgrounds and education. Also, it should poverty rates of immigrants coming into the united states, and it states that only one in immigrants live in poverty. Also, it showed that in the studies they have taken that immigrants from different countries that use Medicaid and welfare use it at approximately the same rate as natural born citizens. After analyzing this article, I concluded that I could add this to the pro side of my argument such as that immigration is actually good for the United states economy and brings in educated people. In addition, I could use it in the fact that immigrants use government resources at practically same amount natural born Americans use it such as welfare and Medicaid. Also, I can expand on how ille gal immigrants can be beneficial to our society today in the long run making our labor force more diverse Santos 4 http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/28/politics/donald-trump-executive-order-immigration- reaction/mm immigration ban sends  CNN. Cable News Network, 27 Jan. 2017 . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article talks about Donald ban on Muslims coming into the united states of America. President Donald move to ban two hundred eighteen million people from the united states and to not allow entry to any refugee took the world in shock. The executive order ban several citizens from seven Muslim countries from coming into the united states for the next three months or ninety days and suspends the intake of all refugees for the next one hundred twenty days Many people were imidiatly affected by as their families where stuck at a airport awaiting to get home or stuck in a different country trying to get home with no way how to get back home due to the ban. President trump said that it was going to be a smooth ban and it was going to be handled very strictly but it was seen that many airports where caught struggling due to the new rules and directives After analyzing this article I can use this to show how in today that the immigration laws are getting stricter and unjust also how it is not fair banning innocent people from coming into the united states