Mohammad Fattah Seth Spencer ENC1102-019 12 February 2017 On the Issue of Water Management Water is a resource that composes sixty percent of the adult human body and just over seventy percent of the surface. Even though water is a valuable resource necessary to the continuation of life on Earth, it suffers from extreme levels of pollution. This is due to the rise of industrialization and the necessity to allocate waste outside of inhabited areas. This issue is a serious problem in Florida because of the coastlines that generate massive revenue from tourism and the issue of toxic algae blooms arising from water pollution (Cuevas Paragraph 7). The Environmental Protection Agency and point source pollution companies are jointly responsible for the continued protection and restoration of clean water in Florida. Before a compromise can be reached it is necessary for the background of each group to be established. The state of Florida is constantly referred to as the sunshine state, a place for vacationers to come and unwind from the weary days and tiresome hours, a place where many Americans go after retiring to spend the last of their lives relaxing. The Environmental Protection Agency is a national agency responsible for the continued protection of human health and the environment (Our Mission Paragraph 1). The South Florida Water Management District is responsible for the Fattah 2 analysis, testing and monitoring of water and fish for pollutants in the Everglades under the EPA. In monitoring the water and its inhabitants, the SFWMD helps to sustain the everglades and other areas of water in Florida leading to increase in tourism. Increased tourism resulting from the beauty of coastlines and beaches often leads to the creation of new jobs. In conjunction to this the growth of tourism and beautification of coastlines and oceans results in an increase in tourism and revenue resulting from said tourism. However, the growth of coastline based production is not all positive. While tourism is a major source of revenue for Florida, the uncontrolled expansion and development of coastline based companies destroys the environment and results in the endangerment of species and pollution of the oceans and coastlines. Although uncontrolled regulation of water dumping and pollution could be detrimental to the sustained industrial development and progress, a controlled growth and development of such regulations allows for successful development of the coastline, protection for marine ecosystems and a growth in tourism to the state of Florida without disrupting the modern industrial lifestyle. Water pollution is a major issue in regards to the state of Florida and to the EPA because they result in major loss of usable water, tourism and marine life. Between 1995 and 1999, it is estimated that algal reduced restaurant and lodging revenues in the localized study area by $2.8 million and $3.7 million per month, respectively, which represents a 29% to 35% decline in average monthly revenues for each sector during months of red tide (Larkin 849). To put this into perspective the same journal found that tropical storm was found to reduce monthly restaurant revenues by $0.5 million, and each inch of rainfall reduced revenues an additional (Larkin 849). Such significant loss of revenue has a massive impact on the economy of Florida as it decreases tourism and interferes with the continued existence of coastline based companies and the marine life of the oceans around Florida. Although the EPA Fattah 3 appears to get the short end of the stick in this debate, it is still important to look at the other side of the argument in the form of point source pollution companies. Although dumping is a major issue today it has been a thing since the industrial revolution and the rise of industrialization as the dominant means of production in the United States. Although it is common knowledge that such dumping is harmful to the environment and results in damage to marine ecosystems and the beaches and coastlines of Florida, it is important to note that most daily functions would be impossible if this dumping was forbidden or extremely restricted. Due to the rise of industrialization, more and more waste has been produced by humanity and said waste must be disposed of in one way or another. According to Duke University, the United States of America produces around Two-hundred twenty million tons of waste each year of which around fifty five percent is thrown into landfills (How Much do we Waste Daily Paragraph 2). Some of this waste ends up dumped into the ocean due to a lack of space to put it in on land resulting in the contamination of water and increases in the pollution of water. As time has gone on humanity has kept producing more and more waste from around one- hundred fifty tons in 1990 to one-hundred eighty tons in 2008. It is important to note that many regulations are currently in place to regulate how much can be disposed into the ocean and how waste must be disposed of overall due to regulations set in place by the EPA (40 C.P.R. 273.1- 273.81). These regulations range from how employees must be trained to the rejection of excessive sized universal waste as well as the precautions that must be undertaken to properly dispose of such waste. Now that a basis of understanding has been established between the backgrounds of the two stake holders it is important to formulate a compromise that both stakeholders can agree upon and work together to achieve. Fattah 4 For this compromise to succeed there are three necessary conditions that must be met to ensure the continued prosperity of both stakeholders as well as the marine environment which both stakeholders have grown aptly concerned with for the continued survival of humanity. The first condition is that further restrictions must be imposed upon point source pollution companies that use oceans and coastlines as a dumping ground for waste to ensure that it can continue to be used for dumping but to also ensure that the marine ecosystem is not destroyed or damaged beyond repair so that coastline based companies can continue to exist. The second condition that must be established is that the EPA must limit the extent of restrictions placed on point source pollution to allow for the continued sustainability of the modern industrial society. The last condition of this compromise is that the EPA must pay a loyalty or tax of a certain amount to companies that require oceans and coastlines for the disposal of waste to compensate the latter for lost income due to the restrictions placed on it for the protection of the environment. This compromise is suitable for both parties as it allows point source pollution companies to reduce their dumping without suffering significant economic loss due to the loyalty they are paid while it allows EPA protect and improve the environment for its continued use. In looking at attempts to preserve the water of the everglades, similar actions have been demonstrated to have beneficial effects as water treatment, preservation and storage have helped to aid with the issue of water pollution (Haman 14). Based on these results, the proposed compromise would be a reasonable solution to water pollution issue. In conclusion, The Environmental Protection Agency and point source pollution companies must work together towards finding a solution to continued water pollution issue. Water pollution is of vital importance to residence of Florida and to all people across the world as water is a necessity for continued survival. If no clean water is available, it Fattah 5 will have severely negative impacts upon humanity as a whole. Although this compromise might not be the greatest possible way of reducing water pollution, it is one of the most reasonable compromises possible that benefits both stakeholders without negatively impacting a single side. It is imperative that a fair solution be found to restore Florida waters in order to guaranteed the protection of the waters for future generations as well as to protect humanity from the dangers that arise from polluted water. Fattah 6 Works Cited 40 C.P.R. 273.1-273.81 Center for Sustainability &  How much do we waste daily? Center for Sustainability & Commerce at the Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions. Duke University, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cuevas, Mayra. Toxic algae bloom blankets Florida beaches, prompts state of  CNN. Cable News Network, 1 July 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Duke University. Duke University. N. d. center.sustainability.duke.edu/resources/green-facts- consumers/how-much-do-we-waste-daily. Accessed 10 Feb. 2017. Fleshler, David. algae problem stems from decades of Lake Okeechobee  Phys.org - News and Articles on Science and Technology. N.p., 11 July 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Haman, Dorota Z., and Mark Svendsen. Managing The Florida Everglades: Changing Values, Changing  Irrigation & Drainage Systems 20.2/3 (2006): 283-302. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Larkin, S.L., and C.M. Adams. Harmful Algal Blooms and Coastal Business: Economic Consequences in  Society & Natural Resources 9 (2007): AGRIS. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. United States Environmental Protection Agency. Environmental Protection Agency. 26 Jan. 2017. www.epa.gov. Accessed 10 Feb 2017.