1 Boccalon Paula Boccalon Ms. Gottlieb ENC 1102.014 29 January 2017 Infectious Diseases Research Infectious diseases research is a controversial issue that has risen throughout the years. While many advocate for doctors to find a solution for these infections, many profess the need for this research to be stopped. Some organizations, such as ASTMH (American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene), aim to have a world free of tropical diseases. On the other hand, religious groups like Christian Science do not believe in medicine or medical research as it impedes what God has planned for them. Although both groups have drastically different ideas concerning infectious diseases research, the decision to advocate for research is ultimately up to those in each organization. One of the stakeholders that is presented here is the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. This organization has strategically placed offices throughout the world where tropical diseases are in abundance, as a way of: the worldwide burden of tropical infectious diseases and improving global (ASTMH). Their vision is to create a world free of infectious diseases by accounting and documenting all fatalities that have occurred as a cause of these illnesses. A case that was reported in the article was; fatal severe acute respiratory syndrome case reported during the (Global Health Degrees). While what they did was important, making people aware of the symptoms in order to get not a cure should have found a way to combat the disease. Ultimately, these deaths could have been prevented if a cure had been found before the outbreak happened. Something that many fail to take into account is that because of this loss of lives, there are things that a domino effect, jobs are lost and the economy decreases in that area. As the 2 Boccalon 800 lives were lost in the 2002 outbreak, there was a to $50 billion ... economic (Global Health Degrees). The organization proceeds to inform the public that, if another outbreak were to occur in the future, this could result is more fatalities or completely whipping out a population. The article further points out another catastrophe to the unwillingness of the global community to gather and create a cure to stop the Ebola pandemic, of lives unnecessarily (Global Health Degrees). One can witness the impact that this tragedy has brought. While it is a risk that many are willing to take, in order to stop the lives being lost, it is not something that can be achieved by a small group of doctors. This organization has realized that in order to make great achievements, it has to be a holistic contribution from every doctor and member in communities worldwide. Now, they have created samples and plans for future research as a way of stopping this pandemic. The second stakeholder pertains to those involved in the Christian Science religion. In this religion, they practice the belief that; gift of the grace of God given unto by the effectual working of His (Christian Science VI). In other words, they believe that God has done things for a reason and the greater good, therefore going and adapting these actions in a sin against the will of God. When those that are part of this religion are asked about medical research, or more specifically infectious diseases research, they claim that medicine is a work of heal but make things worst (Christian Science). Mary Baker Eddy, one of the founders of Christian Science in the 19th century, demonstrated the way that healing occurs such that: following the teachings and understanding the spiritual laws he practiced, [the are committed to spiritual healing that includes both physical cures of disease and dysfunction as well as the reformation and restoration of (Eddy 11). It is further explained that those who wholeheartedly follow the teachings and are devoted to their beliefs will 3 Boccalon live a life full of prosperity and well-being. In the end, those that pertain to this religion are against medical research as it is viewed as not only goes against what God has done but takes them off the path that they have been placed in. (Christian Science) One can see that both stakeholders stand at completely different sides of the spectrum regarding infectious diseases research, yet due to autonomy the decision to advocate for research is ultimately up to those in each organization. A compromise that could be made between the two Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene and Christian is to allow doctors to complete research for infectious diseases and have those that do get infected make the decision to get the treatment or not. Having the cure for diseases, like Ebola, syphilis, Cysticercosis, and Dengue Fever, will help reduce death rates and allow for doctors to control these that they become pandemics. Ultimately, this will stop it from affecting a densely populated area. However as each person is born with their own individual set of rights, a doctor cannot enforce a cure upon them. This leads to a thing known as medical autonomy. This is defined as, right of competent adults to make informed decisions about their own medical (BMA). In other words, the choice to receive the treatment being offered for the sicknesses is up to the person that is infected, or in the case where it is a minor that is diseased, it is up to the parent or guardian. Those that are part of the Christian Science religion when placed in a situation where they are infected by any disease, they are given the option to either receive treatment or follow what they have been taught by their beliefs. While many believe that medicine is a work of man against the will of God (Christian Science), within the religious groups each and every man has a decision to make that will completely depend on what they can choose to continue with their disease that can lead to death, or get treated and continue their path. Allowing the research to be made can further benefit both sides in the 4 Boccalon long run, as it is the person infected to make the ultimate decision to get treatment, or not, but that does not have to hinder that do want getting it. Infectious diseases research is a controversial topic that raised throughout years, having two stakeholders such as a religious group and an organization that belief in completely different things makes it difficult to find a common ground for both. While Christian Science believes that medicine goes against the will of God and ASTMH has the will to create a world free of any type of disease. Nonetheless, due to the sense of medical autonomy each and every person is free to make their own decision, therefore having the medicine available to those that need it and let them make the decision to receive it does not impede any belief or vision between the two. 5 Boccalon Works Cited: 2. Autonomy or Self Determination The  BMA. N.p., 15 Nov. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Michael G. Head. Research Investments in Global Health: A Systematic Analysis of UK Infectious Disease Research Funding and Global Health Metrics, 1997  E. Bio Medicine 3.C (2016):180-190. Web. Olesen, Ole F. Increasing European Support for Neglected Infectious Disease  Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal (2017). Web. P. H. R. Interpretation. Practice of Medicine. Christian University of Pennsylvania Law Review and American Law Register, vol. 65, no. 3, 1917, pp. 297. Science and Health - Chapter VI Science, Theology,  Christian Science. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Undergraduate Global Health Degrees: The Time Is  The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. N.p., 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.