Lopez 1 Manami Lopez Lorie Jewell ENC1101.021 5 February 2017 When the Bill of Rights was added to the Constitution, the Anti-Federalists were concerned that the large majority of criminals would be subjected to harsh punishment for the crimes they committed. The Eighth Amendment to the Constitution silenced those fears, promising that no criminals would be subjected to or unusual For the last 200 years, Americans have grappled with whether the death penalty in any fashion is a violation of Eighth Amendment rights. Through lethal injection, the electric chair, or through the firing squad, Americans have had to ask themselves if the death penalty violates those rights given to the people through the Eighth Amendment. The Federal Government has given the states complete authority on how states view the death penalty, creating some regional differences around the country. Some states, including Florida, have eliminated the electric chair and have leaned more towards lethal injection; some states, like Texas, favor the firing squad, and some have outlawed the practice completely. The death penalty has sparked a national debate on the practice and whether or not it should continue to be practiced in the United States. Groups such as the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP) work endlessly to prove that the death penalty is an inappropriate way to handle capital crimes. But the ultimate question is, the death penalty violate the Constitutional right of citizens not to be Lopez 2 Sithole, Kundai. NGO-IGO Relations: Amnesty International, Council Of Europe, And Abolition Of The Death  Global Governance 22.1 (2016): 79-97. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. This article, Sithole talks about Amnesty (AI) contribution to the abolition of death penalty. They were considering the need for regional intervention to prevent European states from exposing individuals to the death penalty (Sithole 79). The subject of the death penalty has been debated in the Council of Europe since the 1949, but the change did not occur until 1958. There was a regional treaty to secure a peacetime abolition of the death penalty by the International Nongovernmental Organization (INGO) (Sithole 80). Through the Al- Saadoon and Mufdhi v. United Kingdom. The Strasbourg Court declared that the individual possess the right not to be subjected to the death penalty (Sithole 80). The author have concluded that the perception as to the right to expose the individuals to the death penalty, which led to the Committee of Ministers adopted second abolition protocol to secure an end to judicial executions in all circumstances (Sithole 92) Kundai Sithole was a research associate in the Department of politics and International Studies at the University of Cambridge. Her research focus is on legitimacy and Strasbourg human rights regime. She was previously Anglo-German Research Fellow in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the University of Oxford. Bufacchi, Vittorio, and Laura Fairrie. Execution As  Peace Review 13.4 (2001): 511-517. Academic Search Premier. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. In this article, the authors, Bufacchi and Fairrie discusses all the methods of execution that was used in the past and how they were used. For instance, lethal injection became popular Lopez 3 because it was perceived as a medical procedure (Bufacchi and Fairrie 515). Which was more humane than hanging or electroshock. They also discussed the use of guillotine and how people thought it was more humane then existing methods of execution, since it was quick and painless to prisoners (Bufacchi and Fairrie 511). The authors say that the reason for death penalty is the rejection of torture has precipitated efforts to find a humane execution method. They also mentions that the history of the death penalty in the United States is similar to elusive or illusory search for a humane method of killing people (Bufacchi and Fairrie 516). The authors conclude that the death penalty is considered a capital punishment, no matter which method is used, it is a legitimized form of torture (Bufacchi and Fairrie 516). Laura Fairrie is a current-affiars documentary producer and director living and working in London (Bufacchi and Fairrie 517). Whereas, Vittorio Bufacchi teaches philosophy at University College, Cork, Ireland. He received his PhD at the London School of Economics. He also wrote six books in political philosophy and Italian politics, whoaw work has been translated in Chinese, Spanish and Italian (Bufacchi and Fairrie 517). Blocher, Joseph. The Death Penalty And The Fifth  Northwestern University Law Review 111.1 (2016): 275-293. Academic Search Premier. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. At the beginning of the article, the author mentions about some developments that gave new hope for citizens who was seeking a constitutional abolition of the death penalty (Blocher 275). However, this argument has been going on for years due to Furman v. Georgia, because the death penalty must be constitutional under the Fifth Amendment (Blocher 275). The author mentions Justice argument that the death penalty is approved by the constitution under the Fifth Amendment (Blocher 277). Which may have lead to the rise of arguments about the Lopez 4 death penalty. Blocher properly discusses why the Fifth Amendment is flawed, because that amendment contains prohibitions on the use of capital punishment, not a grant of governmental power (Blocher 283). The author concludes the article by discussing that the death penalty may be abolished; however, it will not be effective using the Fifth Amendment (Blocher 293). The author, Joseph Blocher is a professor at Duke Law School, his interest include federal and state constitutional law, the First and Second Amendments, capital punishment, and property. His articles have been published or are forthcoming in the Yale Law Journal, Stanford Law Review, New York University Law Review, Duke Law Journal and other journals. Simon, Douglas L. Making Sense Of Cruel And Unusual Punishment: A New Approach To Reconciling Military And Civilian Eighth Amendment  Military Law Review 184. (2005): 66-128. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 2 Feb. 2017. In this article, the author, Simon discusses how the Eighth Amendment that provides, nail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishment was created due to act amongst those who were accused and guilty of committing crimes (Simon 66). In addition, the author goes more in detail about the Eighth Amendment and how it has developed throughout the years. Simon mentions that the Eighth Amendment law is an extension of the death penalty debate and the death proper role in a civilized society (Simon 67). He provides examples of when the cruel and unusual punishment under the Eight Amendment such as, Woodson v. North Carolina, Coker v. Georgia, Enmund v. Florida, and Tison v. Arizona which challenged the state laws that authorized the death penalty (Simon 79-81). Lopez 5 Douglas L. Simon was in the U.S. Army, he was presently assigned as Chief of Claims, Office of the Staff Judge Advocate, 34 th Infantry Division (Simon 66). He has recently received his Ph.D in Sociology at South Dakota State University. He is a professor at the department of Political Science, Southwest Minnesota State University, he teaches Business Law both graduate and undergraduate, American government, constitutional law, public policy, and public administration.