Strange 1 Mikaela Strange Seth Spencer ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Medical Marijuana and Disease Marijuana has always been a touchy topic because of the negative connotation related to its side effects. As researchers find out more about the consequences of smoking nicotine and Tabaco related products, more people have begun to question the effects that marijuana has on the body. Although it does not contain nicotine or Tabaco, the hallucinogenic properties associated with the drug have been the topic of many medical discussions. On one hand the tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) has been known to help reduce the tremors associated with disease because of its sedative properties, however in contrast some people believe that the negative effects that the drug has on the brain and lungs are far greater than the benefits of using medical marijuana on patients. Organizations such as Citizens against Legalizing Marijuana and Americans for Safe Access have long been against each other due to their opposing views on the usage of marijuana both recreationally and medically. Citizens against Legalizing Marijuana strive to prevent the legalization of marijuana both recreationally and medically in the United States, while Americans for Safe Access wants to create safe and legal ways people can obtain marijuana for the purposes of therapy, medicine, and research. Despite the differences between Citizens against Marijuana and Americans for Safe Access, both organizations want to create a safe environment for the public in regards to marijuana and both advocate for further research on marijuana and its effects. One way both organizations can come to a possible agreement would be to legalize Marijuana for the sole purpose of research on its effects or Strange 2 create an unbiased organization that would research the effects marijuana has on the body and contain its use for times when research is able to back up the validity of its use. Citizens against Legalizing Marijuana works with multiple organizations such as the Drug Enforcement Agency, Food and Drug Administration, and the National Institute on Drug Abuse, in order to research marijuana and prevent the legalization of its usage both medically and recreationally. Many of these organizations have one thing in common with their conclusion as to why marijuana should not be legalized for the purpose of both medicine and recreational use, and that is that they agree that there is not enough evidence that outweighs the negative effects of marijuana. Citizens against Legalizing Marijuana explains that affirm the 2006 FDA finding and vast scientific evidence that marijuana causes and confirm that decades of study the FDA continues to reaffirm that there is no medical benefit provided by the use of smoked Is With The lack of information about marijuana and its medical benefits could also be due to the numerous amounts and forms in which marijuana can be found. Dr. Julius Metts, MD wrote an article in the Journal of Family Practice stating that comprises more than 60 pharmacologically active cannabinoids, which makes it difficult to (The Family Journal 179). This means that marijuana comes in over 60 different forms thus making it difficult to research the full effects of their usage. The article then goes on to describe the various forms in which marijuana can be consumed. Baked in with food, brewed as a tea, taken as a pill, or smoked are all ways one can consume alcohol and each one manipulates the herb in some way causing difficulty understanding which method is best to use or how each method manipulates the cannabis. In contrast, Americans for Safe Access is dedicated to providing safe and legal ways for patients and people to obtain marijuana for the purposes of therapy, medicine and research. Americans for Safe Access works with organizations such as the Center for Study of Cannabis and Social Policy and the Strange 3 American Herbal Pharmacopoeia both of which are dedicated to the research and safety of marijuana use. Americans for Safe Access also engages in their own research of the consequences and effects of using marijuana as medicine. Ken Mackie of the Department of Anesthesiology and Physiology at the University of Washington wrote an article on using cannabis for therapeutic purposes. The article explained that the cannabinoid receptors within marijuana can help with reducing anxiety and bringing back appetite. These receptors are able to reduce anxiety because of the tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) within the marijuana that produces creates euphoria. According to research done by the National Foundation, THC and cannabinoid receptors are also believed to be neuroprotective. This means that researchers have found that cannabinoid receptors have the ability to save neurons from being damaged by the effects of disease. While this evidence is alarming and can be seen as a medical breakthrough by many pro- marijuana organizations, because of the difficulty obtaining and researching marijuana not only because it is illegal in majority of the United States but also because of the various forms it comes in, many anti- marijuana groups discount the research because there is not a large amount of it going on. This is why the two groups still disagree on the usage of marijuana and have opposing views on its benefits in the medical field. Although there is research on the advantages of using medical marijuana to treat disease, Americans for Safe access still states that has a number of physiological effects, such as rapid heart rate and dilation of the blood vessels, that in limited cases could be (Americans for Safe Access). Many anti-marijuana organizations use this to back up their argument as to why marijuana should be illegal. Both organizations also engage in research based on their own ideals which leads to opposing views. Research is the main component of all the organizations involving the use of marijuana whether opposing or advocating for it. One way both Citizens against Legalizing Marijuana and Americans for Strange 4 Safe Access find common ground is through the research of the effects of using marijuana in the medical field and by promoting public safety towards the use of marijuana. By legalizing the use of marijuana for the sole purpose of researching its effects, both organizations may be able to find a compromise with its use. The National Institute on Drug Abuse states that there have been in marijuana policies across states legalizing marijuana for medical and/or recreational (National Institute on Drug Abuse). These changes show that it is possible to legalize marijuana for the purpose of researching the drug since becoming more socially acceptable to legalize marijuana for recreational purposes. Both organizations would need the approval of not only the federal government but also large organizations such as the Drug Enforcement Agency and the Food and Drug Administration. Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana has already worked closely with the Drug Enforcement Agency and the Food and Drug Administration which would allow their organization to gain further access to legal marijuana research and possibly even create a compromise with the organizations in order to aid in the legalization of marijuana research for groups like Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana and Americans for Safe Access. Despite the difficulties that both groups will have successfully legalizing marijuana for the purpose of research, both groups need to start by working together. In order to get acts, bills, and laws passed, both anti marijuana and pro marijuana groups will have to work together collectively in order to spread awareness of marijuana and public health. States that are apprehensive about fully legalizing marijuana for the purpose of medical and recreational usage can legalize it for the purpose of research instead in order to confirm or deny their suspicions. The Food and Drug Administration has already been able to conduct research on marijuana, however research has been limited due to not only the stigma behind marijuana but also the fact that it is illegal. The best method for researching marijuana for the purpose of medicine, especially disease, would be to have an unbiased organization conduct the research. The National Strange 5 Foundation has conducted research on the use of marijuana in reducing tremors in patients, however it is difficult since the drug is still illegal to obtain. This is why the legalization of marijuana for the purpose of research would be beneficial to not only those who oppose its use but those who advocate for its use in medicine and therapy. Annotated Bibliography Believe in  National Parkinson Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cannabinoid Receptor as Therapeutic  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cannabis  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Https://www.facebook.com/NIDANIH. Letter From the  Letter From the Director National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Metts, Julius. Medical Marijuana: A Treatment worth  The Journal of Family Practice. N.p., Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017  CALM USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.