Sources:-- Patterson, F., Lerman, C., Kaufmann, V. G., Neuner, G. A., & Audrain-McGovern, J. (2004). CIgarette Smoking Practices Among American College Students: Review and Future Directions. Journal Of American College Health, 52(5), 203-210. Jamal, Ahmed; King, Brian A.; Neff, Linda J.; Whitmill, Jennifer; Babb, Stephen D.; Graffunder, Corinne M.. In: Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. Nov 11, 2016, Vol. 65 Issue 44, p 1205, 7 p.; U.S. Government Printing Office Language: English, Database: Academic OneFile U. J. (2003). Smoking behavior and initiation of smoking among adolescent--a threat to public health. Indian Journal Of Medical Sciences, (10), Wen, C., Tsai, S., Cheng, T., Hsu, C., Chen, T., & Lin, H. (2005). Role of parents and peers in influencing the smoking status of high school students in Taiwan. Tobacco Control, 14, I10-I15. Weinberger, A. H., Franco, C. A., Hoff, R. A., Pilver, C., Steinberg, M. A., Rugle, L., & ... Potenza, M. N. (2015). Cigarette smoking, problem-gambling severity, and health behaviors in high-school students. Addictive Behaviors Reports, 140-48. Yoo, W., Yang, J., & Cho, E. (2016). Full length article: How social media influence college smoking attitudes and intentions. Computers In Human Behavior, 64173-182. References:- USF Library and JSTOR Topic:- Health of a college student. Student:- Sankalp Shah Instructor:- Nancy Carr Class:- ENC 1101 (16) Date:- 18th Jan 2017 This annotated bibliography is written in the motivate to spread the consequences of smoking on a college student. Some basic questions that come in mind are:- How tobacco affects your body? Does it only affect the ones who smoke or also the ones who are around them while they smoke? A college student has to be healthy all the time. All the time in my research come across aspects that the students are not aware of. Questions also arises when you study this topic in depth that Why do students start smoking? Is it because of stress or something else? How does one get addicted to smoking? Students have a big impact over their mental status at this point of their age. Any minor problem can result in getting the student involved in such hazardous activity. And just as the source elaborate on the topic we also come to know that the students peer group plays a vital role in helping the student through the tough times. According Depression,life satisfaction and coping style are the main reasons for students to start smoking. According to researches and survey conducted by National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) we can conclude that the smokers are increasing day by day. In my research I also came across a figure which said 61% of college students are practising smoking and from which 19% are established smokers in the year 2003. This figures were increased than the ones in the survey done a year back. Not only that, there have been several deaths because of passive smoking.i read a phrase which said smallest coffins are the This heart-breaking figures of addictive smokers is a failure for the whole society. I understand how easily does the society blame the parents of the smokers. The chapter of deaths does not end here. In a survey done by World Health Organisation (WHO) estimated deaths caused by tobacco around the world was 3 million per year in year 2003. And also the assumed that the number would jump to 10- 20 million in the next decade. Mostly all articles which I referred as my resource gave me one common aspect. All the articles stated that peer groups and parents are the main influence on students smoking. The adolescent age is the stimulating age in life. Same as to which students cannot handle pressure situations in that time being. And so that is the time most of them start such unhealthy activity. Sometimes it is bad economic conditions of their home. Sometimes it is domestic unstableness of a family. All these are known to lead a student towards the wrong path. And thus, family influences them to initiate such hazardous practices. After all that problems and chaos in the house peer group comes in action. Just look cool, change their lifestyle they come into this. According to a research in a high school of Taiwan says that parental influences is the major reasons for students to smoke. And it also says that the children of the parents who smoke are most likely to smoke. It also included the ratio of boys who smoke and girls who smoke. The survey they conducted clarified easily that number of girls who smoke are far lesser than the boys. Another devastating figures came out was in an article published in 2015, it stated that more than 5 million deaths of adults across the globe, and 480,000 deaths of adults in the U.S. every year are attributable to smoking and the survey was conducted by WHO in 2012. More than half of U.S. high-school students have tried smoking, and 15.8% report current cigarette smoking, and rates of smoking increase through adolescence. The majority of adult smokers report consuming their first cigarette prior to age 18. This brings in the biggest challenge to the society. The states that the students who smoke are found out to score low in the academics. A survey conducted also claims that almost 15% of student smoke heavily. Being precise to the point a student smokes almost 23 cigarettes a day!! Not only grades are affected, their behaviour towards handle hard situation has a great impact. They get short tempered and become aggressive easily. Aspects like gambling also led to smoking. As students easily get tempted for money, they find easy ways to earn and gambling is one of them. There is another major aspect that influences smoking amongst students and that is social media. The article claims that the students attending college of age group 18-24 are the highest consumers of tobacco in the States. Around 2.5% of college going students in USA smoke on daily basis. Social media is the source of widespread for such things amongst the peers. It influences in a different way as compared to others. The students trying to keep up with the trend, copy and try to adapt to the way of living of some celebrities. And being unknown to the consequences they start smoking. And gradually get addicted to it. Bring to the concern of the society it should be clarified that it is the most dangerous habit a student can nurture. Entry-1:- The article was written in 2004 in Of American College by Patterson ,F., Lerman,C., Kaufmann,V.G, Neuner,G.A, and Audrain-McGovern,J. It talks about all the aspects of the topic. The article is the perfect blend of the reasons,consequences and the solutions thPatterat wsone have to know. It also talks about the critical health problems that students have to face because of smoking. It also talks about the reasons for which students start smoking. It also shows the struggle that students face while trying to quitting the addiction towards smoking. It also has some figures included in it on the basis of surveys done by different people,groups and NGOs. It also gives a very useful information which would help in future researches. Entry-2:- Jamal, Ahmed; King, Brian A.; Neff, Linda J.; Whitmill, Jennifer; Babb, Stephen D.; Graffunder, Corinne M.. In: Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. Nov 11, 2016, Vol. 65 Issue 44, p1205, 7 p.; U.S. Government Printing Office Language: English, Database: Academic OneFile. This article is written by the authors mentioned above. It talks about the increase in number of students that start to smoke. We can also find detailed surveys and ways that the students can prevent smoking. It also gives light to the aspect of the effects of the peer and family on students which is mainly the reason for them to start smoking. Once you go through the article come to know some cases of students that had to face hard times with their body because of smoking in a very early age. Sad to say but some have also faced death because of this. This article can open eyes and is very effective. Entry-3:- The article written by in 2003 has the most devastating figures which could shake you. The article throws light to the darkest part of smoking and its causes. It also shows concern for the health. The author has his own solutions to all the problems which is directly banning all the tobacco products. He also brought in the point of the readers that advertisement done by celebrities to promote tobacco is also a major reason students starting to smoke.The author also advises that there should be special training for the teachers and parents about the consequences and the causes of smoking at an early age. The article also includes the figures of adolescent smoking of different countries comparing them with each other. Entry-4:- Wen, C., Tsai, S., Cheng, T., Hsu, C., Chen, T., & Lin, H. (2005). Role of parents and peers in influencing the smoking status of high school students in Taiwan. Tobacco Control, 14, I10-I15. The writers of this article conducted a survey in a high school of Taiwan. They specified clear figures of the students who smoke and those who do not. Moreover they also went in the depth of the topic bringing out the major reasons because of which the students get into smoking. They also came out breaking the thinking that peers are the main reason because of which students initiate such activities. Not stopping there they brought evidence on each topic they wrote about. And that helped the people to believe what was wrong and what is. They provide the readers a detailed paper work for their topic which easily brought clarification in the mind. Breaking out on a strongly believed point in the past with a successful result was the part i liked the most. Overall this article gives the reader an idea about how caution they need to be in raising up their children and not letting them go to this wrong path. Entry:-5 Weinberger, A. H., Franco, C. A., Hoff, R. A., Pilver, C., Steinberg, M. A., Rugle, L., & ... Potenza, M. N. (2015). Cigarette smoking, problem- gambling severity, and health behaviors in high-school students. Addictive Behaviors Reports, 140-48. Weinberger et. al discuss the major results caused by smoking. The authors clearly state all the numbers that are hard to accept. The article claims the major reasons connected to smoking by a adolescent. The most arises is gambling. The authors also clearly specify with the help of survey that not only smoking but gambling also is the major reason for students to get diverted to things they should never be doing. Authors state that the students who smoke have major behavioural changes. The article is a pure source of perfect figures and major reasons and outcomes of smoking amongst adolescents. The surveys and specifications mentioned in the article should be brought in front of the society. The article argues for whom to blame for all these heart throbbing figures. Although the authors claims smoking as the worst thing in a life. Entry:-6 Yoo, W., Yang, J., & Cho, E. (2016). Full length article: How social media influence college smoking attitudes and intentions. Computers In Human Behavior, 64173-182. The authors of the article give light to the most unknown aspect which leads a student towards smoking, and that is social media. Yoo,W. Et. al claims that the social media is the most influencing aspect which leads a student to a wrong path. Authors also state that social media is the most underrated aspect on this topic. The widespread of such thing amongst students through social media is discussed briefly. The authors argues upon the ban on advertising tobacco. Moreover, the authors feel that the celebrities doing the advertising of tobacco are one of the main reasons adolescent start smoking. A overview of how the whole social media affects the students and the widespread of all this thing things is being noted and conveyed to the readers.