!1 Emily Blank Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 5 February 2017 Dying With Dignity Everyday, thousands of people nationwide are stuck in an endless cycle of pain and suffering, and the one thing they want is not legal in their state of residence. The topic of physicians assisted suicide, better known as Death With Dignity, has been very controversial ever since a law in Oregon was passed legalizing it. The Death With Dignity act legalizes the euthanasia of terminally ill patients who would prefer to die on their own terms in a peaceful and painless way rather than succumb to their illnesses. Although Oregon was the first state to pass a law legalizing physician assisted suicide, many other states have followed suit in the past few years including Washington, Colorado, Montana, California, and Vermont. Surveys have been conducted to get a broad idea of how the general public views this matter, and the results were not as expected. According to one study, most people believe the Death With Dignity act should be legal for a multitude of illnesses, but not many people said they would actually vote to legalize it (Westfeld 165). This study also showed that people who watched a close friend or family member die a slow and difficult death were more likely to favor physicians assisted suicide and the biggest opposers of the act were those who disagreed for religious or moral reasons. All this information leads to the question of whether or not the Death With Dignity act should be legalized in all states. !2 Westefeld, John S., Alissa Doobay, Jennifer Hill, Clare Humphreys, Riddhi Sandil, and Benjamin Tallman. The Oregon Death with Dignity Act: The Right to Live or the Right to  Journal of Loss and Trauma 14.3 (2009): 161-69. Web. This article shows how government agencies including the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) strongly oppose the Death With Dignity act stating that physician assisted suicide no legitimate medical (Shwarz 11). Even with the government so strongly opposing this act, another study shows that of the one thousand people surveyed, two-thirds agreed that physicians should have the right to prescribe a patient a lethal dose of a medication if the said patient meets the requirements set in place. A study performed by the New England Journal of Medicine explains that the majority of people who choose assisted suicide do so not because they are having financial problems, health insurance problems, unimaginable pain, or a lack of education but because they would like to have some control over the way they go. Although the act has the popular vote, the government still attempts to ensure that physician assisted suicide will not become legal in any more states by preventing laws from being passed. The main concern most civilians have with the government interfering with the Death With Dignity act is that they have little to no experience in the medical field yet the government gets to dictate what can and cannot be done when it comes to the professionals patients. Shwarz, Judity Kennedy. The War on Assisted  The American Journal of Nursing 102.3 (2002): 11. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 !3 This article goes into further depth on the Death With Dignity act. Even though the act was legalized in the first state in 1997 Supreme Court found no constitutional to (Gostin 249) although they did give the states the freedom to decide if they would allow physician assisted suicide. There is a heated debate in the medical community about whether or not Death With Dignity breaks a physicians oath to no Studies have shown that doctors who work with the terminally ill and dying tend to favor the Death With Dignity act more than those who do not work with these kind of patients. It has also been reported that in states where physician assisted suicide is not legal, physicians have used substitute approaches in order to quicken their patients upcoming death (Roberts 250). In order to receive the lethal dosage, patient must meet a certain criteria. These said patients must be an adult, two physicians must declare that death is unavoidable, and a mental health professional must clear the patient. These factors are what prevent the abuse of physicians assisted suicide. A study shows that of the 1327 people who have been prescribe a lethal dosage of medicine since the act has been legalized, only 67% actually went through with taking it. People who are prescribed the medication are constantly reminded that they have the opportunity to change their minds at any time and that they should never feel pressured to take the medication (Gostin 250). Gostin Lawrence O, and Roberts Anna E. Physician-Assisted Dying: A Turning  JAMA 315.3 (2016): 249-50. Web. 1 Jan. 2017. This article shows a different side of the Death with Dignity act. When someone is requesting to die by the aid of a physician, in most cases they are older and do not have much family or close friends left. This article focuses on Brittany Maynard, a 29 year old with an incurable illness who decided to take advantage of the DWDA. At the time she decided to end !4 her life, she was one of only seven people under the age of 34 who utilized the legality of physicians assisted suicide. A study shows that 56% of people receiving the lethal dose are either divorced, widowed, or never married meaning there is an inadequacy of a good familial base (Kotva 28). Meanwhile this was not the case for Maynard, considering she had very close relationships with her husband, mother, stepfather, and also had many close friends. Another study was conducted on the opinions of 35 physicians on how they felt about patients who sought out physicians assisted suicide (Kotva 29) What physicians universally decided is that most patients who use the Death With Dignity Act do not do so to end unbearable pain, but most people would like to have a say in how they die. This is the main similarity between Brittany Maynard and most other people who choose the DWDA. Kotva, Joseph J., Jr. Dying in Oregon: A Critical Look at with  The Christian Century 133.8 (2016): 28-32. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. This article focuses mainly on different statistics of people who decide to utilize the Death With Dignity act compared to people who chose not to use it but died from similar diseases. From November 1997-December 2001 it is stated that the average age of someone who decides to take the lethal does is 69. 97% of the population were white/non-Hispanic. Around 48% of people who used the DWDA were male while 52% were female. 44% of people who used physician assisted suicide were married, 24% were widowed, 25% were divorced, and 7% were never married. This study also shows that 11% of DWDA patients had less than high school education, 46% were high school graduates or had some college education, and 43% of the patients were college graduates. Meanwhile, the study also showed that of those who chose not to use the Death With Dignity act, again 97% were white/non-hispanic. 49% of those who died !5 naturally were male while 51% were female. The martial status of those who decided not to take a lethal dose of medication is 50% were married, 32% were widowed, 14% were divorced, and 4% were never married. Also, 26% of the population had less than a high school degree, 61% were high school graduates or had some college, and 13% were college graduates. Wineberg, Howard, and Werth L. James. PHYSICIAN-ASSISTED SUICIDE IN OREGON: WHAT ARE THE KEY  Death Studies 27.6 (n.d.): 501-03. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.