Maxwell 1 Maxwell Uhl Professor: Karen Hanson ENC1102.013S17 29 January 2017 To Do: Scores of people have heard of and form opinions about Genetically Modified Organisms in food products and their safety, their usefulness, and benefits. Yet, there remain facts about that matter which one should consider heeding. Two organizations have differing thoughts about the actions that nations and companies should take on the subject of GMO foods. One, the JUST Label It project, thinks it is prudent to simply mandate an in depth GMO labeling project for food products with GMO ingredients. They consider consumer concern about the subject to be a viable reason to promote mandating GMO food labeling. The World Health organization (the W.H.O) believes that GMO foods are inherently neutral and need to be studied on a case by case basis to determine their safety, benefits, and drawbacks rationally before making decisions on what actions to take. Since the goals of each are not mutually exclusive, one might suppose possible that they can perform both of their tasks as they do now and even help each other to do them. The WHO can mandate GMO labels for GMO foods they test and the Just Label It project can advocate for the benefits of the products that the WHO test and approve of. Considering the vagueness of the words depth GMO it would prudent to discuss their ideas on the topic. The Just Label It project says this, on their right-to-know webpage our reasons for wanting to know in our food may vary, what unifies us is the belief that our (Right To Know Center) They go on to say that show that more than 90% of Americans support mandatory labeling of genetically modified (Just Maxwell 2 Now, since they cite public opinion as their reason for supporting the cause of labeling it should be considered who they are speaking to in order to make change. In an open letter to food company leaders aptly titled Dear Food Company Leaders, the chairman of Just Label It, Gary Hirshberg calls for said companies to follow certain state legislature in putting labels on all of the foods in which are used, even in the smallest way. (Dear Another GMO related organization is the Non-GMO Project, which states Non-GMO Project is a nonprofit organization committed to preserving and building sources of non-GMO products, educating consumers and providing verified non-GMO (Mission) This group, much like the Just Label It project, reports the same high average of public support for GMO labeling and has a similar initiative and provides a further example for the argument that the public wants to know what they are eating. Whether GMO foods are particularly good or bad for consuming is another matter entirely that is not fully addressed scientifically by the Just Label It Project who merely stakes their claim of the to With all the public opinion being cited, it is time for more objective matters to come into play. The WHO does not site public opinion when they consider what to do about GMO foods. On the webpage about the WHO position on the matter, they state GM (genetically modified) foods should be assessed before being allowed on the market. FAO/WHO Codex guidelines exist for risk analysis of GM (Food, Genetically modified) They do not believe all GMO foods should be labeled, but support that they should be rigorously tested for safety and then only after scientifically proven to be safe for consumption, allowed onto the market. GMO foods, to them, are not inherently risky but like anything we put in our mouths or grow in our soil, worth a hard looking at before making a decision. With their position on being so clearly neutral, we have to go to another source for a matter of action in advocacy. Maxwell 3 A pro GMO action group that frequently cites science as their go to source of inspiration and direction is the Genetic Literacy Project. They are of the opinion that research can improve food security, the environment and public health. Yet dramatic innovation can also lead to unintended health and environmental consequences and present ethical With this statement they site that GMO foods have a great potential benefit and that some GMO foods have had a positive track record. They admit a net neutral to the idea of GMO and consider it worth study and a good hard look, but do not just site public interest. In fact, one of their principle ideas on the subject, directly under the header of their website is not This seems to well sum up the ideals of the two stake holders, the Just Label It project and the WHO, while simultaneously addressing the deeper problem of the fact that GMO food can have a great benefit to humanity, as a tool of resource security. With the facts about public opinion being clear, the facts about the potential food security being evident, and the fact that there are rigorous tests in place for GMO foods already, it is possible for the stakeholders to act on all these facts. An important point is that, whether a food item has GMO ingredients or not, it is tested for safety before it is ever put to market. The cited fact that a large portion of citizens believe they have a right to know if they are eating GMO foods seems to matter to one stakeholder, the Just Label It project, but not necessarily the other, the WHO. While the Just Label It project wants there to be labeling on all GMO foods, the WHO care less if it is labelled or not, so long as it passes the already rigorous guidelines for food safety that it and world governments approve of. Therefore, these two have seemingly little to disagree about and are merely going about public safety in different ways. A compromise would likely include some of the same things already being done by the two groups. Advocacy for health, potential benefit, and human safety in regards to GMO foods, and also a concern for public Maxwell 4 knowledge of what goes into general food seem equally noble. If the WHO would support a mandatory labeling initiative for companies whose products they test for safety and the Just Label it project supported the efforts in furthering scientific tests of the products they want labeling for, both seem to gain from each presence in each affairs. A sort of scratch my back, I scratch collaboration between the two would involve the WHO adopting a position of mandatory labeling for products that they test and approve of, telling the companies whose product they test and confirm as safe to label it as GMO and as safety tested by the World Health Organization. Since the Just Label It project appears to be for the health, they can advocate for individual, scientifically proven health benefits of specific which the WHO test and approve of, and not necessarily all GMO products. It may be hard to get every company to agree with this sort of labeling. If both stakeholders want to benefit the public health, they will have to agree to engage in discourse based on scientific facts, not personal ideology. If a GMO is proven to be bad both stakeholders will not advocate and not approve, but if it truthfully proves safe and even helpful to the public then they would and should report the truth publically and unabashedly, supporting each affairs on the issue of GMO. To make a long story short, a 2014 video on YouTube showed an interview between a horticultural scientist and an organic food supporter, who was for mandatory GMO labeling, both agreed that the right to choose is important and that safety is both of their number one priorities. In the case of a stakeholder supporting the rights of a concerned majority of the public, and a global institution based on nothing but what can be proven factually for the sake of public health, one can only surmise that when the two come together for the sake of both of their interests that the interests they share would benefit. If back is scratched, it only follows that everyone is satisfied. The WHO would support mandatory labeling to placate the Maxwell 5 reported need for it that the Just Label it project cares so deeply about and the Just Label Project would support any GMO that the WHO can prove is safe and beneficial to the public which they both care for. Maxwell 6 Works Cited Food, Genetically  WHO. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.  The NonGMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Mission, Financial Transparency,  Genetic Literacy Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Right to  Just Label It. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Scientist vs. Organic Advocate Debate GMO  YouTube. Breakingtheset, 18 Sept. 2014. Web. 10 Feb. 2017.