Behn 1 Dominic Behn Mr. Spencer ENC. 1102 12 February 2017 Life or Death? It is a matter of life or death; it is a matter of revenge or forgiveness; it is a matter of what is right and what is wrong; it is the death penalty. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP) is a large organization working to abolish the death penalty nationwide and eventually worldwide. While, on the other hand, the families of the victims in almost every death penalty case are for the defendant being sentenced to death. Over time, these two stakeholders can compromise a campaign adjustment to gather all of the remaining families of the victims involved in death penalty cases at a personal level, and with sacrifices, work together to unite as one coexisting organization and abolish the death penalty for good. The first stakeholder, the NCADP, holds a very strong position on how they feel about the death penalty; they want it abolished. Directly on their website they explain their position which states that, National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty is the oldest organization dedicated exclusively to the abolition of the death penalty. It leads a national movement against the death penalty fueled by a broad-based national constituency and more than 100 Affiliate They stated that through strategic planning, campaign development, and training services they will be able to abolish the death penalty state by state until it is gone for good They have had speakers for their organization speak against the death penalty in large cases or controversial Behn 2 meetings regarding the death penalty for years. The NCADP spoke out to those voting on the abolition of the death penalty in California in 2012. They stated ways that communities would be safer if the death penalty was repealed They have made a large impact on the abolition of the death penalty, and will continue to do so at the pace they are currently at. A common question that reporters ask the families of the victims in these death penalty cases is, you want the defendant to be Eighty-five percent of survivors in death penalty cases would say yes to that question Many reporters wonder how the families of the victims or co-victims feel towards the death sentence of the defendant. Out of six-hundred-seventy-nine analyzed executions, only fifteen percent of co- (families/friends of the victim) did not want to, and did not attend the executions Therefore, only fifteen percent of co-victims did not want the defendant to be sentenced to death. That is a large percentage of co-victims who were in favor of the execution of the offender. Out of the percentage of those who went to the executions, about one-third of them were in favor of it due to frustration, one-third for justice, and the majority of the last third for revenge All of the recorded information regarding the co-victims in death penalty cases have shown that most of them are in favor of the execution of the offender in the case. There is no existing organization for these families, therefore the only people they have to fight these cases with are their lawyers. So the elephant in the room between these two companies is; where is the adjusting room? If these two stakeholders are to make a compromise they first have to look at the adjustment room in their opinions. The NCADP is a very developed and powerful organization, but there is an obvious statement in their plan to abolish the death penalty that will help to make a compromise work between the two stakeholders. as mentioned above in the section on the NCADP website is that obvious statement Behn 3 . They are always adjusting their campaign model and developing new ways to hasten their goal to abolish the death penalty. Meaning that the two stakeholders can work in a new campaign model to assist each desires over time. The families of the victims have their own adjustment room that the NCADP will be willing to work with to make this compromise possible. As an example in 2012, James Spell killed his ex-wife and his mother in law, which would automatically be considered for the death sentence under Georgia laws. Although the jury believed Spell should have been sentenced to death, the neighbors and families of the victims said that they were okay with the death penalty not being invoked (Terry Dickson Par. 7). Spell got off with life in prison and no parole. Of course not all co-victims are like this, but over time and with good intentions there is definitely room for compromise with the NCADP. It is very possible, as just shown. The campaign itself is a combination of the two stakeholders with a slight but understandable bias towards the NCADP. The NCADP will form a new campaign with an additional integration of the families of the victims in all death penalty cases as a large portion of their campaign model. After compromising with the first few families, the NCADP will work with the families to study and find all of the death penalty cases at the present time and begin implementing their new campaign. This campaign will not only have all the original convincing facts and research conducted by the NCADP for their first campaign, but it will also include the real personal experiences of these families involved in the cases. With these families, they will be able to relate on a personal level with all the remaining co-victims that are for the death penalty, and be able to show them the benefits of not going through with the executions. These remaining co-victims will be hard to compromise with, but this compromise even be given a second look if the NCADP does not agree to change their entire campaign model. With a personal relation to these families experiences as well as all of the research done by the NCADP, and the fact that this entire new campaign would be built around these families, there is enough benefit for both stakeholders to result in Behn 4 the defendant to be sentenced to life in prison; no parole, if necessary. After gathering all the remaining supporters of the death sentence, it will be very hard for the remaining supporting states to continue implementing it. Through hard work and sacrifice on both halves of the spectrum, these two stakeholders will be able to come together to make this compromise reality. This will not be a simple task nor will it be a quick compromise. The death penalty is so controversial that only nineteen states have abolished it completely since it has been reinstated in 1976 (Free). Meaning that in the past forty years, thirty-eight percent of the United States has abolished the death penalty. Using those statistics, it would take around one-hundred-five more years to abolish it in the United states for good. That is not factoring in how powerful this new campaign will be and the state of the death penalty in world. Based off of that, the abolition of the death penalty will be in a much shorter time span than one-hundred-five years. Taking all of that in to account, this campaign would be able to realistically abolish the death penalty in fifty years from the moment they start implementing it. This type of compromise can be looked at essentially as a business merger. In this theoretical merger NCADP is the more powerful company, but referencing the NCADP; it is not always their way or they highway, they need to look at everything the other company is benefiting them (King). Business mergers are a realistic and common tactic in world for growing industries, and be (Smith). This compromise will be able to be a huge success over the next 50 years if both stakeholders are open to making sacrifices and dedicating themselves to abolishing the death penalty together. Behn 5 Works Cited Abolish the Death  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ncadp.org/>. I Forgive You, but You Must Die: Murder Victim Family Members, the Death Penalty, and Restorative Justice. Ed. Leo G. Barrile. Taylor & Francis Online, 26 Sept. 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.tandfonline.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/full/10.1080/15564886.2014.92502 2?scroll=top&needAccess=true>. Dickson, Terry. Killer gets life, twice; no parole; Family and neighbors of the victims say OK with no death penalty being  Florida Times-Union, 28 Jan. 2012. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/?verb=sr&csi=155 140&sr=HEADLINE(Killer gets life%2C twice)%2BAND%2BDATE%2BIS%2B2012>. Eaton, Judy, and Tony Christensen. Closure and its myths: families, the death penalty, and the closure  International Review of Victimology, 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://journals.sagepub.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/pdf/10.1177/0269758014537148>. Behn 6 Free, Marvin D. Historical Timeline - Death Penalty -  Procon.org, 13 Aug. 2013. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://deathpenalty.procon.org/view.timeline.php?timelineID=000025>. National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. Making Communities Safer By Abolishing The Death Penalty: Live Internet Video Teleconference To Explore Views of Law Enforcement  Making Communities Safer By Abolishing The Death Penalty: Live Internet Video Teleconference To. PR Newswire, 22 Oct. 2012. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/making-communities-safer-by- abolishing-the-death-penalty-live-internet-video-teleconference-to-explore-views-of-law- enforcement-professionals-175258451.html>. Smith, Kate. Coming together: getting the cultural integration right following a merger or acquisition can be crucial for  Review, May 2016, p. 63+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE %7CA453289403&it=r&asid=4dcb0142733cbdb50829c83172de4b88. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017.