Palacios 1 Daniel Palacios Professor Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 Sec. 075 29 January 2016 Illegal Immigration America started off as a nation built by immigrants and is known for its pledge for acceptance and freedom. Having that in mind should America continue to uphold its promise to accept people from all walks of life including those who have found the need to flee their country illegally? In an attempt to answer this question two rather polar groups have formed. Pro- immigration groups such as the National Immigration Forum and Voice which are advocacy groups whose aim is to help immigrants and make them feel welcomed upon their arrival to the United States. On the other end of the spectrum are the anti-immigration groups such as the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) and Americans for Immigration Control whose intent is to ban all illegal immigration into the United States. Americans for Immigration Control is an anti-illegal immigration group with more than a quarter of a million members and was founded in 1983 with only one goal in mind, millions of illegal aliens who sneak across border from Mexico every (Americans for Immigration Control). AIC wants to strictly enforce all the immigration laws in place by rejecting all amnesties, deporting all illegal immigrants already in the United States and demanding the government to use all of our troops and equipment to secure our borders and prevent terrorists, drug smugglers and illegal immigrants from coming in. In addition to securing our borders, Americans for Immigration Control also want the federal government to reduce legal immigration to more than 250,000 self-supporting immigrants per and end all public assistance to Palacios 2 aliens except: emergency healthcare, federal bilingual education programs, bilingual balloting and finally cut the foreign aid and deployment of U.S troops to fund immigration enforcement. Americans for Immigration Control believe that there is a problem with uncontrollable immigration in the United States and states that it is our duty to protect the United States and its citizens first (Americans for Immigration Control). The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) was established in 1979 by John Tanton who believes that the American people are losing resources and power to immigrants. He also states that America should continue to remain a majority white population. Interestingly enough, When President Donald Trump took office recently, he appointed Julie Kirchner who was formerly executive director, as chief of staff at U.S Customs and Border Protection (Pigott). On the other hand, the National Immigration Forum is an advocacy group founded in 1982 based in Washington D.C. It focuses on the rights and values of immigrants in the United States. It is one of the most important immigration policy organizations and has been very involved in every major legislative event and policy debate involving immigration since it started (National Immigration Forum). Ali Noorani has been the Executive Director of the organization since 2008. He is of Pakistani descent and a graduate of the University of California. He is a crucial part of this organization that not only helps new immigrants feel welcome, treats them fairly and respects the rights of all, but also spreads knowledge and awareness on immigration policy and the importance of immigrants in the United States by speaking regularly at immigration conferences and colleges all over the United States. They are in charge of a project called where they recognize there is an immigration problem, but the immigration laws are outdated and with rapidly changing demographics the laws are not going to help. They have a five-point agenda that not only creates a new immigration system but also includes the positive impact immigration Palacios 3 is going to bring to the United States in the next forty years (National Immigration Forum). Voice is another pro-immigration group which aides illegal immigrants because they believe that they would us forward as a country, helping immigrants, workers, business, communities, and families Voice). While these two organizations have a clear disagreement on immigration reforms, there are common goals shared between the two. Both organizations have a common interest in having a better America in one way or another. Americans for Immigration Control wants to deport all immigrants so that the U.S can flourish again while the National Immigration Forum wants to help and support all immigrants so they can get jobs and help the economy. While there have been efforts by the two stakeholders to change immigration laws, these two organizations would not exist if the conflict had already been solved. By having a less strict and shorter process to obtain residency and later citizenship the conflict would be solved. With this compromise, the two organizations would be satisfied since there would be significantly less immigrants coming into the United States illegally while the newcomers would feel welcome and would help the U.S population in one way or another. Currently, the process to become a legal alien in the United States is both extensive and expensive. For instance, there is a waiting period of about ten years in order to obtain a visa number, after the number becomes available, it is a very expensive and long process to legally be able to move to the United States. By changing the process to be a more simple, direct and affordable process, there would be a significant decrease in illegal immigration. To do this, each state should have their own immigration office instead of it being a federal office. This way, states with lower immigration numbers would not have to invest money from their budget into the process while states like Florida, California and Texas each would have a certain number of visas available a year. Having Palacios 4 immigration offices by state, states with low immigration numbers would have more people coming in and immigration would not be as concentrated in the U.S border with Mexico or in Florida. It would cut the application process wait time and it would create jobs in those states with heavy immigration numbers. The federal government can also reinforce the border patrol units since the immigration process is easier, less people would have to come illegally. Another reason why immigration is so popular in the Unites States is because of the better opportunities young students have by going to good universities. By having special four to six year visas for students who want to come in for academic opportunities would also help. This would prepare students to have high-paying jobs in their country of origin and would decrease the number of immigrants taking the high-paying jobs in the United States. This compromise would benefit both stakeholders because infusion of human capital by high-skilled immigrants has boosted the capacity for innovation, entrepreneurship, and technological which greatly benefits the United States and allows for both groups to have what they believe in (Edsall). To conclude, there are two clear stakeholders in this issue, organizations such as the National Immigration Forum and Voice who are pro-immigration advocacy group who try and make illegal immigrants feel welcomed in the United States. The other stakeholders in this issue are anti-immigration groups who essentially want to end immigration altogether, these organizations are the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) and Americans for Immigration Control. The common ground which can settle this discord would be to change the system and not have a federal immigration office but rather state offices with a set number of visas for petitioners. Palacios 5 Works Cited About - . Voice. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. This is the official website of a pro-immigration organization. Their mission is to aid immigrants by enacting as their voice in this country and changing the policies so that immigrants are guaranteed full labor, civil and political rights. This website includes all the reforms they support and how they will help make America a better country. Americans For Immigration . Immigrationcontrol.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. This is the official website of one of the stakeholders that is for the deportation of illegal immigrants and believe that all the illegal immigrants should leave the country. This website has the mission statement and goals of this organization as well as reasons why illegal immigrants are hurting the United States and why they should be forcibly removed and deported. Edsall, Thomas. What Does Immigration Actually Cost . Nytimes.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Thomas b. Edsall is the professor of Public Affairs Journalism at Columbia University. He attended Brown University and received his B.A from Boston University in 1966. He has written 5 books including Chain Reaction and Building Red America. This article is important for my paper because it provides both pro and anti-immigration standpoints and it speaks about the changes that would be made with Trumps administration. National Immigration Forum Practical Solutions For Immigrants And . Immigrationforum.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. This is a forum that advocates for the value of immigrants and immigration in America. It is based in Washington D.C. This is the official website of the organization which includes Palacios 6 the mission statement and goals of the organization. The Forum focuses on four main priorities: immigration reform and workforce needs, integration and citizenship, borders and interior enforcement, and state and local immigration developments Piggott, Stephen. Former Executive Director Of Anti-Immigrant Hate Group FAIR Joins Trump . Southern Poverty Law Center. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Stephen Piggott is a Senior Research Analyst with the Southern Poverty Law Center. He received his B.A in political science with minors in Islamic and Irish Studies from DePaul University. He is an expert on various forms of right-wing extremism like the organized anti-immigrant and anti-Muslimism movements. This is important for my paper because with the new administration appointing her as Chief of Staff at U.S Customs and Border Protection it is going to be more difficult to make more changes favoring a compromise. This will cause a more direct relationship between the White House and Border Patrol and will likely cause more radical changes.