Casaes 1 Leonardo Casaes Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102.014 February 12, 2017 An Alternative to Stem Cell Research With the ability to grow brand new cells that can potentially benefit the lives of millions, and many doctors claiming it to be the forefront of medical technology, the growth of the stem cell research field seems inevitable. The National Stem Cell Foundation wants to accelerate research, but it faces a large opposition. Eagle deep-rooted religious beliefs lead it against stem cell research and anything that compromises a right to life. An alternative to human embryonic stem cells can be found in animal embryos and should be considered to allow research to continue to its full potential, while respecting the moral values of those against it. A stem cell is a cell that has the potential to turn into differentiated cell types, and has the capability to repair or replace other cells within the body. Human embryonic stem cells have the largest potential, as they can turn into any cell in the human body, but must be obtained from a blastocyst at early stages of development, (Wpadmin). The National Stem Cell Foundation is an organization working to progress the field of stem cells to create scientific breakthroughs for people in need, (National Stem Cell Foundation). The rewards of stem cell research can be traced back to 1968 when the first bone marrow transplant involving two twins proved a success, (Murragan). Since then, stem cell research has led to decades of successful bone marrow Casaes 2 transplants and could possibly have a beneficial effect in the treatment of Diabetes, spinal injuries and Heart disease, if more federal funding is provided. (University of Michigan). It could even lead to finding new effective treatments to cancer through informing scientists on the cellular mechanics, (University of Michigan). Scientists are not the only ones supporting stems significant place in the future, global stem cells market size expected to reach USD 170.15 billion by 2020, according to a report by Grand View Research, (Market Research Reports & Consulting). With a massive surge of money expected to flood this area of research be very difficult to prevent the field from growing. Stem cell research also has a large public support with a study taken in 2014 by Wpadmin, showing, of Americans support embryonic stem cell and of Americans support federal funding of human embryonic research to treat chronic The National Stem Cell Foundation supports stem cell research because of the benefits seen through various experiments, yet there is still an opposition. Eagle Forums is just one of the many faces of heavy resistance that opposes stem cell research. While they may not represent all the opposition, they represent the faction that have a belief system based on a religious foundation and are a part of the pro-life movement. The Eagle Forum is a group originally founded by Phyllis Schlafly, they are a pro-family and according to Bibby, they urged, Bush to veto any legislation that allows for expanded federal taxpayer funding for stem cell research that destroys human (Bibby). They believe human embryos deserve full protection under the law and disagree with the National Stem Cell Foundations stance on what counts as human life, arguing that, starts at (National Stem Cell Foundation). But, Eagle Forum does encourage adult stem cell research claiming, cells derived from cord blood and pluripotent stem cells, are flourishing, Casaes 3 currently having treated over 70 diseases and syndromes on human this claim has been refuted by the University of Michigan Stem Cell research on Cell stating, claim that adult stem cells have been used to cure more than 70 diseases has been widely Eagle Forum and other conservative groups stance on when the human life begins is one that has remained stagnant and looks to remain intact for years to come as the, to idea can be traced backed as far as 1967 when the Right to Life League was founded, (Right to Life League of Southern California). But why does it matter so much that organizations like Eagle Forum are against stem cell research? Their strong political influence allows them to be a threat. Lipka and Gramlich claim 37% of Americans believe abortions should be illegal and 44% believe it is morally wrong. Additionally, evidence indicates that a large majority of Republicans think abortion should be illegal, while most Democrats believe in legal abortion, (Gramlich). This large partisan divide on abortion forces politicians on either side to pick a stance to please the party majority. With the Eagle Forums ideology on fetal rights aligning with many conservative voters, pro-life organizations have a tight grip around Republican politicians. Politicians that can directly impact federal funding towards human embryonic stem cell research. A direct example of this is Eagle Forums support towards executive order preventing federal funding for human embryonic stem cell research. (Bibby). As long as The National Stem Cell Association uses federal funds for human embryonic stem cells, Eagle forum will do everything in its power- including political power- to curtail research. With both sides positions firmly against one another, and considering each sides respective power, an alternative is imperative. The amendment of the NIH (National Institutes of Health) guidelines for Human Stem Cell Research to include embryonic animal stem research could be the solution, Next Steps on Research Using Animal Embryos Containing Human Casaes 4 ). NIH guidelines currently introducing human pluripotent cells into nonhuman primate blastocysts and the breeding of animals into which human pluripotent cells may have contributed to the germ Amending the guidelines allows for promising research with embryotic stem cells. This idea new and stems from previous experiments where animal models had human cells. For example, laboratory mice are routinely injected with human tumor cells to help with a treatment for cancer, (NIH). NIH is hoping to use animal stem cells for disease modeling, drug testing and even organ transplants, (NIH). This could replace human embryonic stem cell research completely as no longer needed. Not only does it alleviate the need for human embryos but it removes the religious opposition because it no longer interferes with a fetus right to life. If the National Stem Cell Association accepts this substitute and the NIH approve it, Eagle Forum gets to protect fetus rights and stem cell research can receive enhanced federal funding previously blocked by conservative voters. This expanded funding benefits research and treatments for people in need of it. While animal stem cell research opens some ethical questions, and will gain resistance from animal rights organizations like PETA (People for Ethical Treatments of Animals), it could offer more freedom than human testing. Since both parties are divided on animal testing, with percentages within 40-50% for and against it, individuals face less political opposition, (Funk). Thus, allowing stem cell research more efficiency. no disputing the importance of stem cell research in the future of the medical community but the religious values of a large faction in the U.S. population continue to remain firm. Animal stem cell research could be the balance needed for both worlds to co-exist and prosper. This alternative may be the key to saving millions of lives and shaping the future for the better. Casaes 5 Works Cited Bibby, Suzanne. Eagle Forum Urges President to Veto Embryonic Stem Cell  Eagle Forum Urges President to Veto Embryonic Stem Cell Bill. Eagle Forums, 12 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Funk, Cary, and Lee Rainie. Chapter 7: Opinion About the Use of Animals in  Pew Research Center: Internet, Science & Tech. N.p., 01 July 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.pewinternet.org/2015/07/01/chapter-7-opinion-about-the-use-of-animals-in- research/>. Lipka, Michael, and John Gramlich. 5 Facts about  Pew Research Center. N.p., 26 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/01/26/5- facts-about-abortion/>.  National Stem Cell Foundation. N.p.. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Murragan, Ian. History of Stem Cell  History of Stem Cell Research. N.p., 6 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Next Steps on Research Using Animal Embryos Containing Human  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 4 Aug. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://osp.od.nih.gov/under-the-poliscope/2016/08/next-steps-research-using-animal- embryos-containing-human-cells>. Http://rtllsc.org. The Right to Life League of Southern California, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://rtllsc.org/life/About%20Us/index.php>. Stem Cells Market Size To Reach $170.1 Billion By  Market Research Reports & Consulting. N.p., Sept. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Stem Cell  University of Michigan Stem Cell Research Frequently Asked Questions. University of Michigan, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.stemcellresearch.umich.edu/overview/faq.html#section2>. Wpadmin. 14 Noteworthy Embryonic Stem Cell Research Facts and  HRFnd. Healthsearchfunding, 12 Dec. 2014. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.