Alyse Dixon Roth ENC 1101-003 5 February 2017 Willis, S.M., MS, War on Drugs. Press Encyclopedia of Health, January, 2015 and Graff, Gilda. racial caste in America via mass The Journal of Psychohistory, Vol 43(2), Fal 2015. pp. 120-133. My topic is about how the war on drugs affects the Black community. I believe that the two sources that I have chosen can best represent my research. The first source is from an Encyclopedia of Health . This article is quite insightful when it comes to the war on drugs. This article explains the origins and its original purpose,  The mission of the War on Drugs is to reduce the production, distribution, and usage of all illegal drugs. Domestically, this mission has been consistent. Manufacturers, dealers, and users remain targets of arrest and It is also about the criticisms that this operation faced and continues to face to this day. There is also statistics on how this operation has effected minority groups to whites, ... whites accounted for seventy-six percent of current drug users but made up only ten percent of those serving time for a drug-related offense. African Americans, on the other hand, represented 13.5 percent of drug users and Hispanic Americans less than 9 percent, yet black and Hispanic Americans made up more than 90 percent of all persons jailed for a drug related  The second source is from a journal on Psychohistory. This article is basically about the fact that the War on Drugs was being used as a new breed of racism. After the Civil War and the Reconstruction. There was Jim Crow laws. I think the racism went from being more blatant and out in the open to being much subtler and secret. This article also says that the modern version of convict leasing is mass incarceration. This article states how drastically announcement about the War on Drugs changed policies. There was a huge growth in prison/jail populations. Also, poor African-Americans were intentionally targeted. In this project, I will ask, how does the war on drugs effect the Black community? De Rugy, Veronique. How The War On Drugs Fails Black . Business Daily, 10612890, 14 July 2016. This article is about how the war on drugs has failed the Black community. In the beginning it gives evidence of the fact that many more whites than blacks believe that America has done enough for equal rights for black people. It also talks about some more of the negative effects. Things like fathers going to prison and kids growing up in single parent homes. Some working Alyse Dixon Roth ENC 1101-003 5 February 2017 class blacks turned to drugs as a source of income because it is easy to get into. Also, America has spent billions on this operation, but there been much to show for it. This source is relevant to my research because it helps explain my research question. As I addressed earlier, the war on drugs does more harm than good. There are many young black men that turn to drugs as a source of income, instead of getting legal jobs,  As such, the war on drugs creates incentives for young black men to seek employment in the drug business rather than seek lower-paying legal employment. This incentive structure unfortunately starts a vicious circle of incarceration followed by a failure to build the job skills for legal employment that serve as a foundation for a productive existence in middle and later . This is a direct result of keeping many drugs like marijuana illegal. That is because selling illegal drugs makes them much more profitable than if it were to be legal. Illegal drugs make for higher profit, which in turn gives you a bigger risk. Cooper, Hannah LF. War On Drugs Policing And Police  Substance Use & Misuse 50.8/9 (2015): 1188-1194. Academic Search Premier. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. The war on drugs policing has failed to reduce domestic street-level drugs activity: the cost of drugs remains low and drugs remain widely available. Policing and racism have been mutually constitutive in the United States. Erosions to the 4th Amendment to the Constitution and to the Posse Comitatus Act set the foundations for two war on drugs policing strategies: stop and frisk and Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) teams. These strategies have created specific conditions conducive to police brutality targeting Black communities. War on Drugs policing strategies appear to increase police brutality targeting Black communities, even as they make little progress in reducing street-level drug activity. I chose this source because it talks about how policing also has to do with this. Things like Stop and  were created to help combat drugs and other illegal activity on the streets. Though it became a huge issue because the police would target mainly Blacks and Latinos,  Stop and frisks proliferated in the United States during the War on Drugs, particularly in impoverished predominately Black and Latino . Another thing was that when these frisks were conducted, a lot of them were don to innocent people. This again, sends many innocent people to Alyse Dixon Roth ENC 1101-003 5 February 2017 jail for a very long time for something they might not have committed,  Stop and frisks can be highly geographically concentrated: in a single 8-block area of a predominately Black and Latino neighborhood (home to just 14,000 people), the police conducted 52,000 stop and frisks over a four- year period; 94% of people stopped had committed no .