Ringley 1 Cory Ringley Mrs. Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 1/31/17 The Changing Landscape of Weddings in the United States From the inclusion of same-sex marriages to the shows on HGTV catered directly to weddings, marriage has been in the news often. Despite marriage being a controversial topic for so long it was only in 2013 when the first state allowed same sex marriage. It was not until 2015 that the US Supreme Court ruled that state level bans on same sex marriage were unconstitutional. Popular T.V. shows including Say Yes to the Dress, Bridezillas, and Four Weddings have helped shift the culture change around marriage. How those in America look at weddings today cannot be compared to how they did 10 or even 20 years ago. We are going to look at what led up to this being such a hotly debated topic through religion, economics and divorce. Individually each of these aspects paint a part of the picture of what todays couples are up against when they look to get married. Ringley 2 Francis-Tan, Andrew, and Hugo M. Mialon. diamond is and other fairytales: the relationship between wedding expenses and marriage  Economic Inquiry 53.4 (2015): 1919-1931. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. This article discusses the divorce rate and length of marriage of weddings that cost more than 20,000 USD versus those that cost less than 20,000 USD. The article touches on how the wedding industry has begun to commodify love through the ages, spiking up the costs of weddings and subsequently changing viewpoint on what a wedding should look like. This study collected data from adults all across the United States via This article was published in the peer reviewed academic journal Economic Inquiry. The author Andrew Francis-Tan is an associate professor at Emory College of Arts and Sciences. Andrew got his PhD in economics at the University of Chicago in 2006 and his BA from northwestern in 2000. Grime, Paul J., and Kevin Hildebrand. Is it time for Wedding Silliness to  Concordia Theologican Quarterly 80.1-2 (2016): 137-40. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. The premise of this article is that weddings are becoming more secular. That the understanding of will in marriage is being left out of most altar ceremonies. The silliness that the authors refer to in their title has to do with the circumstances surrounding the question is Which this article says is the union of a man and a woman. One can likely infer that this comes partly from the allowing of same-sex marriages in America, but more pointedly at how knowledge of God has not been a wedding staple in the recent past. This article is written for pastors, in the hope that they urge the young men and women they are re Ringley 3 responsible for marrying to have their ceremony in the church and to make the ceremony about the union of man and woman with God. This article was published in the peer reviewed academic journal Concordia Theologican Quarterly. Dr. Paul J. Grime is the dean of Spiritual Formation and dean of the Chapel at Concordia Theologican Seminary in Fort Wayne, Indiana. He teaches in the Pastoral Ministry and Missions department. The Knot, Inc. The Knot Unveils 2010 Real Weddings Survey  Business Wire (English) Feb. 0003: Regional Business News. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. This article shows the average wedding budget breakdown in major cities all across the United States. Additionally we can see the 20 most expensive wedding areas, with Manhattan being in first at $70,730. The article compares what brides have said in 2010 to what brides reported saying in 2009. So we see key differences in how many brides are citing the economy as a limiting factor on wedding budget. As well as that there has been an increase in destination weddings from 2008 to 2010. The National Average spending for weddings in 2010 excluding honeymoons was $26,984. These key statistics will be useful in determining how much of an increase we are seeing each year in wedding costs. This study captured responses from nearly 19,000 United States brides married between January 1 and December 31, 2010. The Knot is a website media company and the top media company in America devoted to weddings. They have a website that caters to brides and grooms as well as their guests, where you can find out any information about current trends in the wedding business. They are also well known for being innovative in social media, books, Ringley 4 magazines, and their very own mobile app. The Knot is the largest source for wedding news and inspiration. Zmuda, Natalie. FOR RICHER OR POORER: WEDDING SPENDING NOW; Average reception costs down, but bridal websites, TV shows seeing  Advertising Age 80.10 (2009): Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Ms. article shows us how the recession that America faced in the early 2000s affected wedding spending. From the information given to us here we see that while spending decrease for weddings during the recession the money was paid out much differently than it had before. Money spent for food at the reception went down 53% from 2006 to 2008. Most vendors such as photographer and videographer to wedding cake saw their profits from weddings decrease significantly in these two years. While the owners of venues and ceremony locations so their profits close to double from 2006 to 2008. Bridal magazines revenue steadily declined over these two years as well. Websites catering to Brides such as TheKnot.com and WeddingChannel.com both saw a 43% increase in unique monthly visitors. Bridal programming channels also saw a significant increase in viewership. With Bridezillas and Platinum Brides both reaching roughly 20% increase in viewship. This article is published in the journal Advertising Age by Natalie Zmuda who was the editor of the retail and non-alcoholic beverages sections of Advertising Age. Natalie joined Advertising Age in 2008 following five years covering the retail and fashion industries for Conde Nast Publications. Natalie worked her way up through Advertising Age over the course of 9 years to be Managing Editor of advertising age and then left Advertising age to become the Managing Editor of Think with Google.