Goodwin 1 Ciara Goodwin Maria Theodosiou January 29, 2017 Intermediate Draft P1 Endangered Animals in Zoos In 2016, a poll was conducted to see statistics of animals in zoos, and it was found that there are nearly 1,200 endangered animal species living in zoos around the world (Statistic Brain). These animals are not only beautiful and rare, they are on the brink of extension. Many believe that these animals should be locked away in zoos, and others prefer that they be left alone in their natural habitat. One organization that supports endangered animals in zoos is the Association of Zoos and Aquariums, also known as AZA. They specialize in the conservation of endangered animals. The organization that strongly believes animals should be left in the wild is PETA, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. They are the largest supporters of rights. Despite these two organizations having several differences on animal conservation, if they both work together, they could compromise their conflict very easily. If the Association of Zoos and Aquariums and PETA came together to help these animals, they could save more endangered species. Endangered animals should only be locked away in zoos for rescue, rehabilitation, and release purposes. They should not be left in the wild to die, nor in a zoo to die. Both AZA and PETA care for animals, and this compromise could help release around 1,000 endangered animals from zoos across the world. The People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is the largest organization in the world, with over five million members and supporters. They focus their attention on four areas of involvement, the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment industry (PETA.org). This paper will specifically focus on efforts for Goodwin 2 animal rights in the entertainment industry, that being animals in zoos. PETA believes that some zoo owners want exotic or popular animals in their zoos to draw in crowds, rather than saving animals that are threatened or endangered to local wildlife (PETA.org). According to Keulartz, type of captivity or manipulation of a sentient animal is morally unacceptable, irrespective of the possibly beneficial consequences for the protection of rare or endangered (339). Many zoos do not live up to the expectation of conservation missions, and tend to have animals confined for our entertainment, not for the preservation (340). Zoos claim to be using endangered animals as an educational factor for visitors, when in reality, people spend only a few minutes observing the animals, and skipping over the educational information (PETA.org). The Association of Zoos and Aquariums, AZA, is committed to being a global leader in promoting species conservation and animal welfare. They plan on helping endangered species from becoming extinct from there SAFE program: Saving Animals From Extinction. AZA states that they will for the public the value of accredited zoos and aquariums and provide more opportunities for people to participate in wildlife (AZA.org). Their main strategic goal is to advance conservation and care of species and their habitats. The AZA plans to conserve these animals in zoos by the sustainability of species populations in zoos and aquariums; advance high standards of animal care, health, and welfare; foster and coordinate outcome-based conservation by connecting zoos and aquariums to the wild; and save vulnerable species from (AZA.org). Author T. Milstein, believes that continuing to keep captive animals in zoos is necessary because they help the zoos by offering practical and valuable information that can help with certain conservation efforts, which could be difficult to near impossible to find in the wild (29). Some zoos have centered their focus on preserving species through captive breeding, and have also included programs aimed to protect the captive Goodwin 3 natural habitats, and to educate the public about dangers facing wild animals and their environments, and to undertake scientific research aimed at conservation (29). Despite the many differences that these two organizations have, there are common goals that both organizations share. Both stakeholders, PETA, and AZA, have a love and passion for animals, specifically endangered species. The two help save animals lives, they just go about it differently. Although the AZA believes endangered animals should live in zoos where they can be monitored and studied, PETA wishes for all animals of any kind to be released into the wild and not used for show. They both go about saving animals lives differently but their primary focus is on the conservation of endangered species, and the goal that neither animals that are kept in zoos or that are in the wild become extinct. For the sake of endangered animals everywhere, it would be the most beneficial if PETA and the AZA came together and made a compromise for the conservation of endangered species. If a compromise were to arise, the best solution to helping endangered animals, would be to have a rescue, rehabilitation, and release program. After the have been released, the zoos will then tag them and monitor them as they live freely in the wild. Endangered animals should be able to live comfortably in the wild, and this method ensures that the animals regain strength from any earlier injuries or health related issues. Per P. Singer, who was recently asked whether zoos should exist for the sake of species preservation, he answered with think if a species is likely to become extinct in the wild and you can capture the animals humanely and recreate the physical and behavioral conditions, then could release them or their progeny in the wild, then that function of zoos is (Singer). This compromise benefits both stakeholders because the AZA will still be able to aid in the conservation of animals while properly treating them in zoos before returning them to the wild. This will also satisfy PETA because it will Goodwin 4 guarantee that endangered animals are treated for any health-related problems, then released back into the wild. All in all, PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) and the AZA (the Association of Zoos and Aquariums) have many differences when it comes to the conservation of endangered animals. PETA strictly believes that animals are and should not be used for entertainment purposes and the organizations continues to fight and be one of the world largest supporters of rights. While the Association of Zoos and Aquariums on the other hand believes that the best way for us to ensure that endangered animals are safe from extinction is to have them held and conserved in zoos. Both stakeholders have many conflicts when it comes to the conservation of animals, but they can come together in a compromise for the endangered species and help them by a rescue, rehabilitation, and release program. These animals will be able to roam healthy in the wild, while local zoo officials track the species to ensure that they are still thriving in their natural environment. Goodwin 5 Work Cited Association of Zoos and Aquariums. Saving Animals From  AZA SAFE. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This organization, Association of Zoos and Aquariums, AZA, focuses on saving animals from extinction by places them in the most accredited zoos and or aquariums. According to the official AZA website, the zoos and aquariums this organization supports has over one thousand endangered and or threatened species. This source is credible and will help support certain claims in this paper because under the AZA SAFE, members of the team convening scientists and stakeholders that identify the threats, develop action plans, raise new resources and engage the public. This organization focuses on conservation of animals in zoos, which supports one stakeholder in this paper. Keulartz, Jozef. for Conservation? Zoos at a Journal of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics, 28:2 (2015) pg335-351. This article will be a good addition to this paper because it has a good amount of information that backups stakeholders that support animals that do not live in captivity. It pays special attention to what would have to be done in zoos for endangered animals to live there. The author of this article is a very credible source because he is an emeritus professor Environmental Philosophy at the Radboud University Nijmegen, in the Netherlands. He also has published extensively in different areas of science and technology studies, animal ethics, environmental ethics, and nature policy. Goodwin 6 Milstein, Tema. (2009) Tells Me All Happening at the Discourse, Power, and Conservationism, Environmental Communication, 3:1, 25-48 This journal article supports this paper, because if helps justify why the Association of Zoos and Aquariums helps conserve animals in zoos. It goes into detail about the conservation of animals and how zoos help these endangered animals, which is everything that the AZA stands for. It also mentioned several quotes from the organizations website. This article is a credible source because the author is an Assistant Professor in University of New Department of Communication and Journalism and she writes about geography and environmental studies. She is also involved in studies and water resources programs. PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals). Zoos: Pitiful  PETA. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This organization, PETA, also known as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, is a big sponsor of animals and animal rights. They are one of the biggest supporters of protection in the world. PETA works well with this paper because it is a stakeholder that shows and stands up for animals in zoos. They believe that animals are not for entertainment and that zoos cannot afford to properly take care of these endangered animals in captivity. This is a credible source because it has five million supporters and members who stand up for rights, and they believe that endangered species will only be saved by preserving their habitats. Goodwin 7 Singer, P. (1979). for humans only: The Place of Nonhumans in Environmental In K. E. Goodpaster & K. M. Sayre (Eds.), Ethics and problems of the 21st century (pp. 206). Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press. The University of Notre Dame Press is a scholarly publisher of distinguished books in a number of academic disciplines; in poetry and fiction; and in areas of interest to general readers. This source will work well in this paper because the author of for humans only: The Place of Nonhumans in Environmental makes claims that work as a compromise for both of my stakeholders. He believes in the rescue, rehabilitation, and release of endangered animals. Peter Singer is a credible author because he is a professor of Bioethics in the University Center for Human Values at Princeton University. Statistic Brain. Zoo  Statistic Brain, 05 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.