H o w a r d 1 Savanna Howard Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 12 February 2017 What to Do with Zoos Animals have been displayed in zoos and people have been there to learn and interact with them for thousands of years. Animal rights activists believe that the detainment of wild animals is morally unjust. Adversely there are zoo employees and public viewers who take much pride and joy in these animals. A potential compromise would be stricter animal captivity restrictions. These would include where the animals come from, how they are caught or transported to the zoos and how they are cared for. Animals are not the only ones involved with zoo. There are many individuals who are employed by zoo corporations, and many families and children who use the zoo as a fun place of education. If zoos were to close because of animal rights, many people would lose their much loved jobs. It would also create more unemployed people with specific degrees, leaving them short. The American Association of Zookeepers is invested in the worldly love of zoos and their animals. The mission is to provide a: of continuing education for the animal care professional and to support zoo and aquarium personnel in their roles as animal care givers, scientific and much more (AAZK). These steps are to keep employees at their best for the care of all animals. This is to also maintain the safety of the zookeepers and spectators. It is a great environment for all when workers enjoy what they do and feel good about the outcomes. Also if zoos were to close, kids would not be able to learn about these wild and majestic creatures up close in a safe environment. The AAZK also strives to, zoos and H o w a r d 2 aquariums as cultural establishments dedicated to the enrichment of human and natural and child education (AAZK). Kids have very short attention spans but need to learn so much information as they grow up. Zoos are a great way to get them actively learning while also having a good time. These active learning opportunities may be, by, amongst other things, the provision of animal demonstrations, volunteer or animal handler talks, touch tables, direct contact by visitors with animals, and multimedia factual for children in the surrounding community (Neil 177). This is beneficial to many generations at one time while creating lasting memories for families. Animal activists believe that millions of animals have greater rights than they are currently receiving. The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) are pushing transformational change in the U.S. and around the world by; large-scale cruelties such as puppy mills, animal fighting, factory farming, seal slaughter, horse cruelty, captive hunts and the wildlife (HSUS). There are so many ways animals can be abused and sometimes without our knowledge. Many argue that zoos are the greatest perpetrators. It is harmful to the animals to be living in small enclosures without friends and mates. Recently field-workers have specifically documented, excursions of up to 40 miles a day, with home ranges covering hundreds of miles, even the most spacious zoo facilities appear woefully inadequate by (Maple 64). This is just one comparison of the vast differences of their natural habitats and zoo confinement. Scientists have concluded that, factors usually outweigh spatial (Maple 64). If this is true the great loss of freedom of the land even the most unfair and harmful consequence to these captive animals. The missed opportunities to make friends meet a mate and have family around can hurt an animal the most. Many other interventions can also affect psychological wellbeing in the zoo, including; furniture, H o w a r d 3 verticality, and variable feeding schedules, interactive technology, and social (Maple 65). They cannot hunt for their own food and are intern fed food packed with enhancers to make animals calmer and easier to show. There will, be debate over the optimal standards for elephants and other non-human (Maple 64). This is what drives groups like the HSUS to do more. One past problem with animal rights and animal welfare groups however is their unwillingness to utilize scientific findings. Therefore, is not surprising that some animal welfare organizations have formed partnerships with institutes and universities to produce data- based, refereed (Maple 63). This can allow them to get more people behind them and make a greater impact. Both stakeholders in the world wide issue of animals in zoos, have strong points and are right to believe in a change for a better future. One possible compromise would be to enforce greater restrictions of which animals can be exhibited in zoos. More disabled animals can be taken care of in zoos as they cannot live in the wild. mankind has been exposed to serious temptations such as degradation and endangerment of natural habitats. This ultimately has a very negative effect on human society as well. The destruction of these animals natural habitats, unnecessary hunting, and uncontrolled use of insecticides, are only of the causes leading to mass injuries, sickness and dying of wildlife and, consequently, to impoverishment of biological (Serbia). They are experimenting with zoos in Serbia and the treatment of disabled animals. They will have many locations seeking out injured wildlife. These impaired animals will be transported to the Palic Zoo to be treated and cared for. These injuries are occurring in great numbers because of a lack of safe habitats and food abundance. The American Association of Zookeepers support, need for the preservation of our natural resources and the species that depend on those (AAZK). The habitats of animals around the world H o w a r d 4 are being destroyed by humans and we need to do something to help them. Many zoos however, becoming increasingly concerned with the conservation and wellbeing of animal groups as well as (Shepherdson 168). Keeping endangered animals in zoos for safe reproduction to increase population is also a great compromise. Research has shown that and eminently practical changes to the way zoo animals are kept can have highly beneficial effects on their behavior and (Shepherdson 167). Endangered species are a huge risk all over the world and of the putative aims of captive breeding is to preserve in captivity population of animals as representatives of their wild ancestors, for posterity, research and (Shepherdson 168). We all as one community and one world can come together to help right our wrongs for the animals. In conclusion showing animals in crates at zoos allows for more jobs and educational resources for the community. This may come at the expense of animal rights recognized by the Humane Society of the Unites States. A compromise that is in favor of both sides would be greater restrictions for zoos. Animals who simply are not able to live in the wild can be taken care of while students can gain even more knowledge. Endangered species could also be bred in a safe environment and later released into the world. Despite the fact that zoos provide jobs and enhanced educational opportunities, zoos are also a cause for concern of animal rights, the animals also need to be taken into consideration. H o w a r d 5 Works Cited About  American Association of Zoo Keepers. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Jan. 2017. <https://www.aazk.org/about-us/>. About  The Humane Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Ballantyne, Roy, et al. Conservation learning in wildlife tourism settings: Lessons from research in zoos and  Environmental Education Research 13.3 (2007): 367-383. = Symposium Nature Conservation in Serbia, 1, (Serbia), [1-3 Oct and Organization Of Care For Sick, Injured, Abandoned And Confiscated Wild Animals /  (Serbia) / Protection Of Nature 1-2 (2008): 237. AGRIS. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Maple, Terry L. Toward a science of welfare for animals in the  Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science 10.1 (2007): 63-70. Shepherdson, D. The role of environmental enrichment in the captive breeding and reintroduction of endangered  Creative Conservation. Springer Netherlands, 1994. 167-177.