Emily Schonder Seth Spenser ENC1102.019S17 12 February 2017 A Laissez-Faire Stance on Animal Rehabilitation Solution Are acts of terrorism justified if for the well-being of animals? How about keeping them in cages many times smaller than their natural habitat range? Both the Animal Liberation Front (ALF), and Sea World Parks (SWP) see each other in this hateful light, but if we take a step back we realize both of these organizations have well-being at the heart of their causes. ALF fights to free animals from research facilities and other places that prevent animals from being left to their own devices in the wild. SWP has a rehabilitation division that cares for injured wildlife and more often than not releases them back to the wild. ALF believes there should be no human-animal interaction since humans are the main reason animals are hurt so they too thrilled when SWP takes wildlife in and cages them for rehabilitation. also not feasible for SWP to stop caring for these animals who would likely die if not treated. It may be possible for ALF donates the funds it would use towards terrorism to SWP so they can have state-of-the-art technologies to rehabilitate these animals thus expediting the process and making human-animal interactions minimal. SWP has had their fair share of negative publicity, most notably the movie Blackfish. It follows the story of a captive Orca named Tilikum, who had killed a few trainers in his lifetime because of his but this movie, and self-proclaimed documentary, has been combated by a website called Sea World Cares. Their website contains a plethora of viable Schonder 2 information negating the premise of Blackfish, not only that but their rehabilitation and animal care page is on the same site. The Sea World Cares webpage informs readers that SWP takes care of about 85000 animals within their park on top of rescuing, rehabilitating and releasing thousands more. They have one of only 19 Zoo Nutritionists in the world full time on staff. They also have a building at Busch Gardens (one of sea parks) called the Animal care center where visitors can watch the 4 doctors on staff perform surgeries, which widely opens them up to scrutiny, fully exposing the process in which they care for these animals. They are members of the Association of Zoos and Aquariums as well as the Alliance of Marine Mammal Parks & Aquariums. Which is impressive because less than 10% of Animal exhibitors are AZA certified. Our Passion for Animals and the World-Class Care They  Para.6-7) SWP are not only members of these prestigious institutions, they are also regulated by a multitude of federal laws and bylaws such as the Animal Welfare Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the Marine Mammal Protection Act. Their mission statement, simply put, is as follows Inspire, Act. We inspire people to protect animals and the wild wonders of our world. Committed to the safety of our guests and employees and the health and wellbeing of our (2017 Ambassador Handbook, 4) The Explore relates to the exploring the guests do and the freedom they have to choose what the learn. The Inspire is the learning aspect, learning about these animals will inspire a change within the guests and open their eyes to the wonders of nature. The Act is acting upon that inspiration through the rescue and rehabilitation of wildlife and the care of the animals in their parks. Schonder 3 ALF only agrees with 1/3 of SWP mission statement. They want people to be in awe of and respect animals but to not interfere with their lives unless the humans are liberating the animals from research facilities or any place that causes them harm. mission statement, taken from their official website is as follows ALF Mission Statement: To effectively allocate resources (time and money) to end the  status of nonhuman animals. The Objective of the Mission: To abolish institutionalized animal exploitation because it assumes that animals are (Berlin, Para. 1 & 2) which seems to be stated rather well in terms. ALF also has its own plethora of negative press. Acts of terror, such as firebombing in Huntingdon, PA of a vivisection car. But ALF reject the negative press as SWP does. In fact, they embrace it and take pride in it by placing it on their website. The only difference is they think of it as negative press, they think of it as animal liberation and revenge but label it as rescue. For example, when talking about activism in the US they state example for North America is the University of Oregon, Breeding Facility which saw 264 animals (12 hamsters, 28 cats, 24 rabbits, 100 rats and pigeons) rescued October 26, 1986. $120,000 worth of damage was inflicted on the (Lab Liberation. Para. 11) boasting in the amount of monetary damage they did to the facility. They even have a page on their website trying to discredit SWP by calling them industry of , Para. 15) This cite contains links that either exist anymore or are not credible. For example, one of the links leads to a blog page aimed towards saving Japanese dolphins with no mention of Sea World or any of their parks on the blog page. They do consent on the hypocrisy page that SWP does save a few marine mammals but they say its nominal in value compared to the revenue made by the industry. Schonder 4 The most credible part of website is its official Press page (North American Animal Liberation Press Office, 1-5). This is when the terror personally kicked in. They have a portion of their page titled to ALF. It includes subsets called Agents, Infiltrators, and Snitches that contains names and pictures of federal agents and a couple of their license plates along with civilians that they believe in one way or another oppose ALF. Pictures 1-12) The purpose of this section, although not directly stated but amply implied, is to insinuate and promote violence towards these people. One of these stakeholders radically attempts to care for the wellbeing of animals while the other strictly follows all the rules. Therefore, finding a compromise that would please both parties involved seemed to be a nearly insurmountable task. One possible solution, in order to protect both humans and animals, would be that ALF should donate what funds they would use terrorizing SWP to SWP rehabilitation centers in order to get state-of-the-art equipment to expedite the rehabilitation of these injured animals thus minimizing the human-animal interactions. In order to assure their money is in fact going towards the expedited healing of these animals ALF would have a supervisor of rehabilitations at each of parks. This would both ensure funds are properly being used and allocated to the correct areas of the parks and also keep an eye on the rehabilitations themselves to avoid any unnecessary human- animal interactions. Getting state-of-the-art equipment could really benefit the animals with post-surgical pain and recovery time. For example, the carbon dioxide laser scalpel. Being a relatively new invention they are few and far between and therefore very expensive. But the benefits to using them are immense. On a very basic level of explanation, what the laser scalpel does is fire an extremely concentrated, focused beam of carbon dioxide at the skin which causes the Schonder 5 cells to vibrate at a such a frequency that they separate. This minimalizes blood loss and causes much less trauma to the surgical site as compared to traditional scalpels. In a primary study, it has been proven that dioxide laser incisions are reported to be less painful, less bloody, and less prone to seroma formation and to heal better than scalpel or electrosurgical (Pearlman, 1) Throughout this study Dr. Pearlman compares three different methods of surgical incisions; electrosurgery, carbon dioxide laser, and traditional scalpel. He makes no conclusion as to which method is better, he only presents his findings. Although, one may say the laser scalpel is best for what is needed for wildlife rehabilitation so if SWP were able to get their hands on this sort of technology through generous funding, the animals would be much better off for it. From name calling such as and to negative propaganda released about each other, you think these two organizations would have such similar core beliefs. If a compromise reached between these two stakeholders it puts many human lives at risk, as well as the animals being treated. In order to better achieve their main goal of animal welfare these companies should work together. Primarily to give injured wildlife better care with faster recovery to get them back to their habitat as soon as possible. Secondarily bringing about peace between these two opposing forces in the animal world. Schonder 6 Works Cited 2017 Ambassador Handbook. 2017. SeaWorld Parks Employee Handbook. Tampa. N.p. Handbook.  North American Animal Liberation Press Office. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://animalliberationpressoffice.org/NAALPO/agents/>. Berlin, Ann. news and information about the  Animal Liberation Front. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Animal Liberation Front. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan 2017. <http://animalliberationfront.com/ALFront/lab.htm> North American Animal Liberation Press Office. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://animalliberationpressoffice.org/NAALPO/>. Our Passion for Animals and the World-Class Care They  Care. SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <https://seaworldcares.com/en/care/>.  Animal Liberation Front. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://www.animalliberationfront.com/Practical/Entertainment/SeaWorldsHypocrisy.ht m>.