Sadhman Farhan Nancy Carr ENC1101.016S17 5 February 2017 Effects of acid rain and greenhouse gases on the environment Acid rain and greenhouse effect has become one of the major issues in world. It has been discovered that the main cause of acid rain is due to manmade air pollution. The consequences of these are drastic and it affects the whole environment, leading to instability for future generations. The major sectors of concern due to acid rain include but are not limited to the atmosphere, external structures such as buildings, aquatic life as well as plant growth and development. The first explanation of acid rain was back in 1852 when Robert Angus Smith showed the relationship between acid rain and atmospheric pollution in Manchester, England. However, it was officially founded in 1853 and scientists started researching on it after the late 1960s. Harold Harvey was among the first to research a Global warming is contributing to an increase in temperature. It is inevitable to worry about this global issue as it is causing major concerns such as ozone depletion as well as the reduction in the growth of plants that can affect the production of food vastly. In order to take steps, we need to know and understand better, that is how acid rain and greenhouse gas effect has contributed to environmental problems and what can we do to prevent it? Demirbas, A. (2006). Hazardous emissions, global climate change and environmental precautions. Energy sources. Part B, Economics, planning and policy, 1(1), 75-84. Ayhan Demirbas describes the various types of gases that are responsible for air pollution and also outlines the formation of acid rain and its effects on the environment. The journal provides various graphical evaluations and tables of the experiments which show the different gases emitted from coal powered fire stations that are considered the major sources of air pollution. One other gas that is indicated was CFC which is considered to be the major pollutant gas behind ozone depletion. Another major gas discussed in this article was carbon dioxide and many of its effects on the atmosphere were shown. The article also included a paragraph that mentioned about smog which is known to be produced from burning of fuel. The author also discussed Kyoto protocol, its mechanism and what it achieves, Kyoto protocol is an international agreement to reduce emissions. journal on the effects of global warming and acid rain on the environment is of use for this research paper as it adds insight on the harmful effects of greenhouse gases on the environment. The author includes a variety of statistical information in the form of experimental tables, graphs and other infographics to help the reader analyze the importance of the situation. Ayhan Demirbas is also a credible source as he has published numerous papers on this topic from the Department of Chemical Engineering at Selcuk University in Turkey. T. N., & S. (2008). 21st energy: Hydrogen energy system. Conversion & Management , (7), 1820-1831. doi:10.1016/j.enconman. 2007.08.015 In this journal, outlines how the world has developed using fossil fuels as their main source of energy for a rise in living standards. It also describes how the demand for fossil fuels kept on rising due to increase in world population and the industrialization of developing countries and with it there was a decrease in fossil fuels. A graph of estimates of distribution of the fossil fuels was also included. The effects of environmental damage was discussed elaborately, one of the main causes of it being excessive use of fossil fuels. These effects were demonstrated in a chart which covered all the areas that were affected by fossil fuel depletion. The author also discussed an alternative source of energy other than fossil fuels which was more environment friendly, hydrogen gas. Finally, the journal compared the three sources of energy among which fossil fuels was the most dangerous, coal was moderately harmful and hydrogen was the safest source of energy. and work was highly relevant for my research as it highlights ways of finding a better replacement of energy source which is both safe for the environment and is also a renewable source. The journal also outlined the cons of using fossil fuels which provides valuable information for my research topic. Vaziroglu is a credible source as he has conducted research in a clean energy research institute at the University of Miami in Coral Gables, Florida. Sahin did his work at Gazi Universities in Ankara, Turkey. Wallack, J. S., & Ramanathan, V. (2009). The other climate changers: why black carbon and ozone also matter. Affairs , (5), 105-113. This journal outlines how dangerous global warming is to the environment and to our future. It states that carbon dioxide is not the only gas that causes global warming but black carbon and ozone precursors also play a major role, the formation of these pollutants are discussed elaborately. While governments all over the world are trying to reduce the emission of carbon dioxide, they are not focusing on other, more rewarding mitigation of pollutants such as black carbon. Reducing these pollutants is much easier and will definitely provide a faster result in the improvement of the atmosphere while the other pollutants can be dealt with separately. This journal is extremely helpful for my research since it discusses which pollutants contribute to global warming and the depletion of the ozone layer. My research deals with finding out reduction of pollutants as much as possible and bringing stability to the environment. This source is credible as it was published by the council of Foreign Affairs, a governmental organization from India. A., Artola, A., Font, X., Gea, T., Barrena, R., Gabriel, D., & ... Mondini, C. (2015). Greenhouse gas emissions from organic waste composting. Environmental Chemistry Letters , (3), 223. doi:10.1007/s10311-015-0507-5 This article outlines how treatment of organic waste products can produce greenhouse gases, the biological treatment of such products produces odor that causes discomfort to the public. Such smells are produced due to the emission of volatile compound. The two types of treatments mentioned in the article are composting plants and anaerobic digestions. The gases produced are tested as they contain ammonia which can contribute to acid rain. The two sources of carbon dioxide mentioned are biogenic and non-biogenic. Other gases that are discussed include methane and nitrous oxide which could, in the long run, lead to global warming. Several other composting materials and their long term effects are discussed such as manures, agricultural crop residues and so forth. The article also provides statistical tables to prove the emission of greenhouse gases from such composting materials. Finally, et al. also discusses how reduction of greenhouse gases could be accomplished. This article is very useful for my research since it discusses how organic wastes can also cause greenhouse effect and what possible solutions in reducing such pollution could be. More details on such sources of greenhouse emissions are necessary to be known in order to prevent global warming and air contamination. This article provides a very detailed discussion of such procedures.Antonio Sanchez is from Spain and is in the department of chemical engineering along with Claudio Mondini from Italy. Their work is well known and they are credible writers for this source