Roger Pan ENC 1102 Seth Spencer 12 February 2017 High Demand The constant evolution of increased trade of goods and the ratio of consumer needs has risen over the past few decades. As certain nations and their respective populations continue to expand in wealthier lifestyle, their citizens will start to demand a greater number of products to meet their ever-growing needs. The high increase of consumer products has led to a higher demand of outsourcing. As companies demand more products to please customers, companies are trying to find cheaper ways to produce the goods their customers desire. With this ever- increasing revenue stream, Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSH Act) was meant to provide safer grounds to safe guard the ever-increasing thin line of correct work ethics toward workers. This act unfortunately implemented by third world countries that are eager to accept business openings on their soil. World famous brand Nike has been known to exploit this great value. The opportunity for multi-million dollar industries to improve an economy while lowering production costs and simultaneously increasing profits seems like a solid steal. However, increased acknowledgement from workers and the public on unethical work treatment has led to many years of constant battles relating to cheaper labor and greater profits. This resulted with views that have widened between corporate industries such as Nike and worker right activist groups such as Jobs with Justice with high demand to find a compromise that would satisfy both groups. Pan 2 The first stakeholder in this current situation are the corporate industries such as Nike. Other well-known industries that also produce shirts, shoes, pants, and even handbags include brands such as Ralph Lauren, Michael Kors, and even to basic cotton wear brand Hanes. The company that became Nike began life in 1964 as an importer and distributor of Japanese track shoes made by Onitsuka Company, Ltd., of Kobe, Japan (The Nike Controversy). Nike worked with Onitsuka to produce the shoes they wanted with return relatively higher income compared to the United States. Nike production facilities later moved out of Japan and into China and Taiwan for lower production costs. According to The Nike Controversy published from Stanford University, if Nike were to import their facilities to the United States, the costs of an average $70 pair of Nike shoes would escalate to approximately $100 a pair. Companies not just Nike all want to keep production costs low, customer sales high, and high marginal returns. Labor is relatively cheap in developing countries and laws are at a minimum when it comes to work treatment. According to Wall Street Journal Inside Struggle to Balance Cost and Worker Safety in Bangladesh, workers were known to be harassed when production was slow. Workers for these major companies are treated as equivalent to numbers on a sales report. Workers seem to be treated low when the numbers in sales were low. Producers such as these retailers provide the best in quality to their customers with the intent to satisfy and lure in more customers to purchase the products that they offer. Although workers are given the basic rights, many of these can be improved to please the hard-working employees. In relation, industries are similar to individual consumers. The need to have more and pay less always strikes attention like the discounted aisle in a shopping center. Product demand continues to rise as first world countries demand more products to spend the extra income they possess. Developing countries such as China for example are zooming for this supply Pan 3 opportunity as well. With all these major factors in mind, companies such as Nike are interested in keeping costs low and profits high as possible while demand increases. Companies think they are doing good for the consumers by keeping all aspects of the production cost low, which therefore equals low cheap prices. Those that are interested in lower production costs have outsourced their companies to countries such as China, India, Mexico, Pakistan, Indonesia, and Thailand. Countries such as these are in the process of developing their economy, wages and capital. Workers in these industries are poorly paid and not treated humanely due to lack of proper work laws and lack of government involvement to reinforce those laws imposed by other nations. Laws such as the OSH Act is an example. All of this to satisfy increasing consumer demands. However, Nike is striving to improve worker relationships, especially in the presence of global media outrage. The other stakeholder in this scenario are the worker right activist groups such as Jobs with Justice which was founded during 1987. We are winning campaigns that strengthen the movement for rights, economic justice, and our democracy was stated on Jobs with Justice history page. These activists include the workers and consumers alike that agree that unfair the production of products should be noticed by everyone. The organization has over 100,000 members that stand for fair treatment for all workers and their respectful families. Customers only care about cheap and good for the money in his/her wallet. This in turn causes the industries to find cheaper alternatives to producing the products and it get any cheaper than outsourcing and using workers from other countries as cheaper labor compared to the minimum wages needed in countries such as the United States. The thoughts of Jobs with Justice and other worker groups are simple. To improve the way employees in these industries are treated for the market they are expected to Pan 4 produce in. It is sad to think that an high-end clothing line in stores such as or originated from some factory in China or Pakistan while workers are paid very low wage and in dangerous harsh working environments. All of this to only to make the pockets of consumers and corporations happy. Corporate industries such as Nike and worker right organizations such as Jobs with Justice all want to make the general population happy in their own unique way. Increasing production to satisfy consumer needs and to increase satisfied workers. Solutions are similar and comprises can be made by both Nike and the Jobs with Justice organization to deescalate tension between them by finding a workable common ground. One compromise would be when workers increase product production, they will receive better pay and incentives. Workers will feel motivated to reach expectations and this will increase production for Nike and many other corporate industries. The use of incentives and worker care packages will make employees feel wanted and willing to meet high demands. Several companies state happy customers are what they achieve for in their business, however happy employees are the main reason for happy customers. Without happy employees, production be as efficient or good quality to satisfy consumer desires. However, with happy employees, production would be better which could possibly result in less workers because those workers would be more motivated to perform the tasks at hand. Happy equal higher sales due to happy employee. Additionally, if those conditions are met, those employees have the potential to be customers well. This compromise works well for both ends of the business scale. Pan 5 Work Cited Wilsey, Matt, and Scott Lithtig. The Nike  Stanford.edu. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Banjo, Shelly. Inside Struggle to Balance Cost and Worker Safety in  Wall Street Journal. N.p., 21 Apr. 2014. Web. 9 Feb. 2017 Israel, Josh. 6 Groups That Are Reinventing Organized  Think Progress. N.p., 27 June 2014. Web. 10 Feb. 2017 History of  Jobs With Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.