Lee Ann Gibson Professor Roth 5in text 2 com 1 sub ENC 1101 1/25/17 Giant Pandas There are many endangered species in the world one of the most well know endangered species is the giant panda. There are many different factors that can lead to an animal being put on to the endangered species list. What conservation efforts can and are being done to get the giant panda off the endangered species list? Giant panda conservation effects started as early as the 1960s, when the first four giant panda reserves are established and hunting pandas became illegal. There are now 67 nature reserves aiming to help giant pandas. The giant panda officially became an endangered species in the U.S. on January 23 rd , 1984, which meant it was illegal to import giant pandas for profit. Giant pandas were first introduced to the American public in 1936 when Ruth Harkness brought an infant giant panda back to the United States. The Chinese Government was first alerted to a declining giant panda population in the 1970s when they did a census and found out that there were only 2,400 giant pandas in the wild. I would like to know what is being done in giant panda conservation. Guan, Tian-Pei, et al. Role Of New Nature Reserve In Assisting Endangered Species Conservation - Case Study Of Giant Pandas In The Northern Qionglai Mountains,  Plos ONE 8 (2016): Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. This article is about nature reserves, especially the ones for giant pandas in China. The article talks about many different things relevant to nature reserves and there what there use for. For example, using them to save endangered animals like the giant panda. There also the part about the conflicted in interest between conservation and local economic development, when it comes to natures reserves. Also, the sustainability of the habitats in these nature reserves. The whole Northern Qionglai area was studied the two nature reserve being in that area were the Wolong and Caopo. The study was conducted over 12 years. This research article is relevant to my research question because it studies the natures reserves and the giant panda population inside and around the nature reserves. The research article also brings the interesting point of management of the area between and around the two nature reserves. The area in between the nature reserves is important because giant pandas can also live there or the giant pandas just go though there to get to the other nature reserve. This shows that giant panda do not just stay in one area they can migrate to other area, which would make having multiple nature reserves in one area a good thing. Ma, Kai, et al. Giant Panda Reintroduction: Factors Affecting Public Support. Biodiversity And Conservation 14 (2016): 2987. Academic OneFile. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. This report is about the reintroduction of captive born giant pandas in to the wild. The report is also about the publics support on the idea of releasing captive born giant pandas in to the wild. There were 1100 interviews conducted at Huaying city, Sichuan, china. This area was chosen because it was near were the captive born giant pandas would be released in to the wild. There was a whole a lot of factors taken in to account for each interview. For example, the liking of wildlife or how familiar they are with giant pandas and there level of concern for wildlife conservation. This report is relevant to my research question because it is about the reintroduction of captive born giant pandas in to the wild. The report also discusses the public opinion on the reintroduction of captive born giant pandas in to the wild and why it is good to have public support when trying to reintroduce a species to the wild. This report shows the opinion of a group of people from Huaying city, Sichuan, China on giant panda conservation. The opinion of the people is a good thing to know because it the people who can help the giant pandas. Kong, Lingqiao, et al. Habitat Conservation Redlines For The Giant Pandas In  Biological Conservation (2016): ScienceDirect. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. This article is about giant panda habitats and new methods that could be used for giant panda conservation instead of just protecting the whole area, since making the whole area which giant pandas live would be nearly impossible. The idea of species conservation redline was proposed in the China. One of the proposed redline areas covers 9358 km2, this area would be able to protect 80% of the giant panda population in the mountain regions. Current nature reserves cover 60% of the redline area. The management of these redline in and outside of the reserve and how to limit human development in these areas is also discussed in this article. This article is relevant to my research because it discusses new ideas for giant panda conservation and how conservation redline would work. The article also discusses the difficulty of trying to protect the giant pandas and not affect local economic development. The article studied six mountain regions which giant pandas live in. Some mountain regions have more giant pandas than others. This gives information on how giant pandas are distributed among different area that they live in. Conservational redline help monitor area in and outside nature reserves and help make sure that human active affect the giant panda habitat too much. Hull, Vanessa, et al. Habitat Use And Selection By Giant  Plos ONE 9 (2016): Academic OneFile. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. This research article is about how where a giant panda choice to spend their time can help conservation efforts. This article looks at giant panda habitat on an individual level using GPS collars. The GPS collars track where the giant pandas go throughout the day so a better sense of what giant pandas do and where they go in their habitat can be achieved. The area the article studies is the Wolong Nature Reserve in Sichuan, China. This nature reserve is home to about 10% of the wild giant panda population. The nature reserve contains ample forest stretching across mountains and steep slopes. This research article is relevant to my research because it looks at the giant pandas on an individual prospective. This provides an interesting prospective since most studies just look at the giant panda species as a whole. It also gives an insight at what giant pandas go during their day or if they stay in one place and how long they stay in certain areas. Five giant pandas were monitored for varying amounts of time, all but one of the giant pandas were female. This is useful because it shows that different giant pandas go different places in the nature reserves.