Morgan Harrison 1 THE DEATH PENALTY IN THE STATE OF FLORIDA It has been an ongoing debate whether or not the death penalty should be a legal way to sentence a defendant. The government of the state of Florida has had the death penalty as a legal sentence since 1979 (deathpenaltyinfo.org). Florida has several reasons for being in support of the death penalty. The death penalty brings justice to those who have committed awful crimes for the victims and their families. It has also been seen as a possible deterrent from committing crimes to the citizens of Florida. This would then make Florida a safer place to live and work. In order for one to be sentenced to death, at least 10 of 12 members of the jury have to decide the defendant should receive such a sentence. If this does not happen, the defendant will be sentenced to life in prison without parole (leg.state.fl.us). Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty are in favor of the eventual abolition of the death penalty. They believe that doing so would protect the humanity of those who are negatively impacted by this sentence (FADP). These two organizations do not agree on the death penalty but they do have some common grounds and it is that both want to reach the point of justice. Justice for the defendants, justice for the victims, and justice for both families. The state of Florida could save around $51 million each year if the death penalty was abolished. Although, there are extreme cases that the state might see the death sentence as necessary, for example, serial killers and terrorists. Complete abolition of the death penalty would not be a good compromise because it would not deter people from committing the awful crimes but, a near abolition might be a good compromise. On average, there are have been about 4 executions each year in Florida since 1979 (dc.state.fl.us), each execution costing around $24 million (deathpenaltyinfo.org). If the state sentenced defendants to the death penalty less often, they would save about $51 million each Morgan Harrison 2 year, give or take a few million whether there is an extreme sentence and execution that year. Studies show that the level of education an individual obtains has a huge impact on the likelihood of that individual being incarcerated in their lifetime (Lochner 4). With the approximately $50 million that is saved by the state, I recommend it be spent towards the public schooling system in Florida. This is investing in the future of the state. Improving the elementary, middle, and high schools in Florida would potentially encourage students to want to stay in school and get higher levels of education, even after high school. The state of Florida has had a total of 91 executions of the death penalty since 1979 (dc.state.fl.us). The constitutionality of this sentence has come into question several times but each time, it is brought back into practice. Florida has several reasons for being in favor of the death sentence. It takes unsafe people off the streets and out of the jails that are seen as the most deserving. This makes prisons safer, homes safer, and ultimately, the community of the entire state of Florida and neighboring states safer. The sentence of the death penalty brings justice, and also possibly revenge, for the victims and their families. Also, if these prisoners were kept in prison for a life sentence without parole, they would start filling up all of the high security cells in the prisons and eventually, the state would run out of cells to house these people. Another reason the state has for wanting to keep the death penalty as a legal sentence is that it is scary. It is a deterrent for people to stay away from committing such crimes. It may work, it may not work but the idea is that it will work in more cases than not. Governor Rick Scott stated, foremost concern is always for the victims and their loved ones. I hope this legislation will allow families of these horrific crimes to get the closure they (miamiherald). Morgan Harrison 3 The Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty is a nonprofit organization that was founded in Florida in 1999 that is not in favor of the death penalty. This group is also non- partisan, which means they do not identify with one political party or another. Their main goal is to abolish the death penalty in the state of Florida. They also are interested in educating people in the state of Florida on the death penalty so eventually the death penalty will no longer exist. One of their biggest driving factors against the death penalty is that there have been 26 exonerations of death row prisoners in the state of Florida due to wrongful conviction (FADP). This might imply that if there are already 26 people found with a wrongful sentence, there is a flaw in the justice system that lead to these sentences. Mark Elliot, Executive Director since 2006. Elliot ended his career in medical technology in order to join the movement to abolish the death penalty in Florida. Medical Technology is mainly focused on making healthcare products less invasive, diagnose earlier and also reduces the costs of such things. Medical technology also has to do with social and ethical issues so that the doctors can learn from the technology results rather than subjective patient records, which is information from the point of view. This shows that even before his career with the FADP, he was working in an area that had a lot to do with ethics. Though the two stakeholders are not in agreement on the main issue of the death penalty, there are some common trends between their motives. Like the Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty, the state of Florida wants to reach the point of justice for the victims and their families. Both groups want to do the right thing, which is why the constitutionality of the death penalty has come into question several times in the Florida Supreme Court. Since there is common ground between the two, there is a compromise that could happen. Morgan Harrison 4 The proposed compromise for the Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty and the government of the state of Florida is to make the death penalty a sentence that is only used when in dire need such as terrorists or serial killers. Currently, a 10-2 jury vote is needed to recommend the death sentence to the judge. Making it to where the vote had to be unanimous would make the death penalty harder to sentence. Also, Florida is one of the few states that the judge can override the jury vote (deathpenaltyinfo.org). This could be seen as a positive because if the jury finds that the defendant should be sentenced to death and the judge disagrees, the judge can decide against it. By making the death penalty a more difficult punishment to sentence, the state would save about $51 million in money each year. I would recommend investing this money in the public schooling system of Florida. This is because research shows that the level of education that an individual has, has a huge impact on the chances of that person being incarcerated during their lifetime (Lochner 4). I believe that investing the money into the school system could have an impact in the levels of people dropping out of high school. If the public schools were improved, students may have a more positive outlook towards school and be encouraged to graduate and go onto college. This would ideally lead to the drop in crime and incarceration rates in Florida. In order to change the statutes relating to a unanimous jury vote, one would need to speak to a state representative about the feasibility of changing the law, since it is a state government level issue. Before doing this, it would be a good idea to get 100,000 signatures on a petition in favor of changing statute 921.141 section 2C, which states that the jury vote must be at least a 10-2 for the sentence to be recommended to the judge, to a unanimous jury vote(leg.state.fl.us). If the judge decides it is a bill he wants to support, a bill must be written by a bill writer in the Morgan Harrison 5 capital. Once this happens, the bill would need to pass the vote in subcommittees that this statute affects. If it passes these votes, the bill would then go to a vote in the legislature then to votes in the House of Representatives and the Senate, respectively. If either of the parties decides to amend the bill, that can happen in this step. If the Senate decides to amend it, the bill would then go back to the House to be voted on a second time. If it passed in both places, it would arrive on Governor Rick desk and he would have to either sign it or veto it. If he decides to sign it, it will then replace the simple majority vote with a unanimous vote in the case of the death sentence. To change the $51 million from the death penalty trials and executions, the Appropriations Committee would decide on a budget that does changes the spending of this money. From this compromise, the Florida government gains several things. For one, it would not have to spend so much tax money on trials and executions of the death penalty. The proposed compromise would lower crime rates in Florida in the future. This would create a safer environment and encourage more people to move to, or keep living in, Florida. Having better schools in the state of Florida would create higher level thinkers that would go on to college and universities. This would have a great impact on the employment opportunities in the state. These people would be more likely to move back to Florida after college and create job opportunities for the people that did not go through as much schooling. This would strengthen the economy in Florida. Although, the people that would be in prison for life without parole rather than being executed would take up a lot of space in prisons. This would cost the state about $18,064 per year per prisoner to house the inmates in prisons (dc.state.fl.us). The state might also have to build a separate prison or more prison cells to house these inmates. Morgan Harrison 6 From the compromise, the Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty gain the satisfaction that the death penalty is ultimately affecting less and less people. This is very close to their goal of abolishing the death penalty. Though, it would not completely satisfy them because it would still be happening to very few people. One of the main goals of the FADP is to educate Floridians on the death penalty. This would be achieved because it would be in the media that there have been changes to the death penalty so many people would find their own opinions and views on the death penalty since a light would be shined on it. Making the death penalty a sentence that is difficult to receive will benefit both sides. The Florida government will spend less money on trials, prisons and executions and more money on the education system in the state of Florida. This would ultimately lead to lower crime rates and will therefore make Florida a better place to live in. Morgan Harrison 7 Works Cited Effect of Education on Crime: Evidence from Prison Inmates, Arrests, and Self-Reports The Effect of Education on Crime: Evidence from Prison Inmates, Arrests, and Self- Reports This source is a research paper on how schooling effects crime rates. It used the changes to the compulsory attendance laws in each state to determine the level of achievement that a student may reach. Throughout their research, Berkley found that schooling does reduce the chances of incarceration significantly for an individual. Their findings agreed with FBI data that focused on the amount of education and which crimes were likely to occur in the individual. This relates to my paper 1 because this supports my compromise for both sides. It supports the statement that education levels significantly impact incarceration levels. This would make my compromise to give the $51 million that the state of Florida is saving by not executing the death penalty to public schools in the state of Florida. Elliott, Mark. for Alternatives to the Death Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty, 20 Jan. 2017, www.fadp.org/. This source is the website of an organization of Floridians that is against the death penalty being legal in Florida. Their goal is for people that feel that there are alternative ways to punish someone and get justice than to end their life. Their ultimate goal is to eventually abolish the death penalty as a whole. This relates to my paper 1 because the Floridians for Alternatives to the Death Penalty is one of main stakeholders. They are Morgan Harrison 8 against the death penalty in Florida. They feel it is inhumane and that there are other ways to punish than to kill someone. What they are getting from the death penalty is tha t the death penalty will be very hard to obtain. &Amp; Constitution :View Statutes : Online Statutes &Amp; Constitution :View Statutes : Online Sunshine, 25 Jan. 2017, RL=0900-0999%2F0921%2FSections%2F0921.141.html. This source is the Florida statutes website. It has all the guidelines that currently have to be met in order to sentence someone to death. It states the different crimes that qualify an individual to be receive the death sentence. This relates to my paper 1 because the state of Florida currently has the death penalty as a legal way to sentence an individual. It lays out the statutes that would need to be changed in order to make the death penalty a more difficult sentence to receive. This is the opposite thing that the FADP believes in. Corrections, Florida Department of. Department of Corrections Julie L. Jones, List - Florida Department of Corrections, www.dc.state.fl.us/oth/deathrow/execlist.html. This source is from the website of the Florida Department of Corrections. The secretary, Julie Jones wrote this portion of the website. Julie Jones was appointed by the governor in 32015. Prior to being the secretary, she was the Executive Director at the Department Morgan Harrison 9 of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles. There, she was recognized for reorganizing the Department. She has recived the following awards: Florida Wildlife Federation, Law Enforcement of the Year in 2003, and Louise Ireland Humphrey Acheivement Award for Outstanding Leadership in Managing the Fish and Wildlife Resources in 2009. This source relates to my paper because it is a list of how many people, their ages, and other various things about the death penalty in the state of Florida. Bureau, Steve BousquetHerald/Times Tallahassee. Rick Scott Signs New Florida Death Penalty Law as Legal Challenges Miamiherald, www.miamiherald.com/news/politics-government/state-politics/article64556467.html. This source is an article from the Miami Herald and it was written by Steve Bousquet. Bousquet spent 17 years working for the Miami Herald and now works for the Tampa Bay Times. During his time with the Miami Herald, he held the position of Tallahassee Chief Bureau, among others. Steve has a degree in Journalism from the University of Rhode Island and also a degree in history from Florida State University. This source relates to my paper because Rick Scott is the governor of Florida and so his opinion on the death penalty matters in the discussion at hand. High Price of Killing The High Price of Killing Killers Death Penalty Information Center, www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/node/2289. This source is an article from the Death Penalty Information Center that talks about the price of the death penalty in Florida. It does not name an author of the article but the Death Penalty Information Center includes information about the death penalty in every Morgan Harrison 10 state of the United States. This source relates to my paper because the price of the death penalty trials and executions is involved in my compromise.