Gonnella 1 Anthony Gonnella Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 11 February 2017 Should steroid users be allowed into the MLB Hall of Fame There has been a question fans, players, and coaches in the sport of baseball have had for a very long time, and that question is: should suspected or convicted steroid users be allowed into the Hall of Fame? There has been an ongoing debate if steroid using players should be let into the Hall of Fame and it is a still an unanswered question with arguments for both sides. The two main stakeholders associated with this argumentative issue are the Writers association and the groupings of retired players suspected of using steroids. The Writers association is the stakeholder that sides with the argument of not allowing steroid users into the Hall of Fame; they are the sole deciding factor on which players are let into the Hall of Fame. The groupings of retired players accused of using steroids are the stakeholder on the opposing side of the argument. They feel that they should be let into the Hall of Fame, and they demonstrate why by releasing statistics and statements to the press. These stakeholders are at odds due to the fact that these players are not being allowed into the Hall of Fame. A way to resolve this issue is to find a new way for players to be put into the Hall of Fame without any potential bias. There are several valid arguments supporting both sides of this issue, as well as, arguments that support a logical compromise. The Writers association are the only decision makers when it comes to who is allowed into the Hall of Fame. Their opinions are the only ones that matter when deciding who gets in, Gonnella 2 the fans and coaches opinions are irrelevant in these situations. There are several examples demonstrating the bias towards steroid users and why they let them into the Hall of Fame. One example of their bias is, 2013, the Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWA) admit any players into the National Baseball Hall of Fame for just the second time in 42 (Rosen 1). This was a heavy steroid user year and it showed in their voting. As stated in the quote, there were no players let in, this is unheard of in the baseball world and demonstrates how these voters are showing their bias toward steroid using players. Another example of the voters showing this bias is shown here by scholar Sheinin, the first wave of purported and admitted steroids users began appearing on the Baseball Hall of Fame ballot a decade ago, voters rejected them overwhelmingly, no matter their (Sheinin 1). Again this shows how regardless of these players abilities and statistics they posted throughout their careers, these players are not even concerned for the baseball Hall of Fame. These two examples are perfect in representing why the current system is flawed and biased. On the contrary, although this is one extreme side to this issue there is also another drastic side to this argument. The groupings of retired players accused of using steroids continue to plead innocence and simply cannot understand why they are being punished when no concrete evidence has been produced. These players arguments can be somewhat understood, because in the baseball world as soon as you are accused of steroids you are virtually outcasted regardless if there was any hard evidence or not. There are several examples of claims supporting these groupings of players and why they should be let into the Hall of Fame. First of all, there have been studies about the Gonnella 3 effects of steroids on athletes, these studies show that although steroids can increase muscle recovery and increase muscle growth, they do not directly relate to athletic performance on the field. For instance according to scholar Peterson, the top statistics from both offensive and defensive categories and the detrending theory, we can accurately detect just how much an athletes performance is enhanced for a certain period of time compared to their whole (Peterson 1). The results from this study show that the performance of athletes when on steroids versus when they are not is not a drastic difference when you look at their career as a whole. This means that steroids did not effect these players statistics drastically, and thus cannot be used as a reason for why these players are not let into the Hall of Fame. Another example that supports the retired players side is that the fans want to see these players in the Hall of Fame. It is widely seen that these players numbers speak for themselves, these are some of the best players to ever play the game that are convicted of using these drugs. This is shown in this statement, the argument came about if these players should be allowed into the Hall of Fame, it was clear to see that the fans supported their entry regardless of allegations put on (Quick 73). These statements clearly support why these players should be let into the Hall of Fame, and verify their arguments. There are possible compromises that could benefit both sides and leave each satisfied. Based on the reasons and examples above there are two strong possible compromise. The first example is for the fans to vote the players into the Hall of Fame since ultimately their opinion matters more than anyone when it comes to how popular or how successful the sport actually is. Without the fans there would be no players, no money, no professional game at all, Gonnella 4 basically it all comes down to the fans. This compromise is flawed though because the public perception of these players would play a huge role on who is voted in. Having this as the compromise would not eliminate the bias that currently exists. Therefore, the most viable compromise would be for the coaches currently in the league to vote for what players get in. These coaches work or have worked with these players day in and day out, they know the character of these players and they know if their numbers really back up what they meant to their team on the field. This would be the best option because it would eliminate bias, ensure the best players get in, while also keep the players out that truly do not deserve to be let in. Editor Zeise writes a prime example of this, Canseco is obviously a bit nutty these days, but he is exactly right in his assessment of the hypocrisy of baseball Hall of Fame voters and how broke that system (Zeise 1). This statement demonstrates how faulty the voting system actually is and shows that former players are noticing the bias within the voting system. A decision this important regarding players legacies should not be flawed, and this is exactly why a compromise needs to be proposed, and having the coaches vote players in seems to be the most logical compromise. There are two completely opposite sides to this argument, in which both have valid reasoning behind their arguments. Although both sides are at odds, there is a compromise that could work in the favor of both sides. By allowing the coaches to be the deciding factor as to who gets into the Hall of Fame, it eliminates bias, ensures the best players get in and makes sure the undeserving players do not. Although this problem seem to be resolved anytime soon, this compromise seems like the most effective and logical. Gonnella 5 Works Cited Peterson, Alexander M et al. Detrending Career Statistics in Professional Baseball:Accounting for the Steroids Era and ArXiv, 28 Feb. 2010, arxiv.org/abs/1003.0134. Quick, Brian L. et al. Two-Study Investigation Into How Television News Frames the Steroid Scandal in Major League Baseball and Fans Support for Bonds, McGwire, and Pending Induction Into the Baseball Hall of Communication Research, vol. 43, no. 1, 2 Jan. 2017, pp. doi:10.1177/0093650214558253. Rosen, Ben. Suspected Steroid Users Are Now Getting into the Baseball Hall of The Christian Science Publishing Society, 2017, General OneFile Sheinin, Dave. Key Changes That Could Finally Put PED Users into the Baseball Hall of The Washington Post, 17 Jan. 2017, Academic OneFile Zeise, Paul. Zeise: Snobby Baseball Writers Need Hall of Fame Voting Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 19 Jan. 2017, General OneFile