Anel Orynbayeva Karen Hanson ENC 1102 2/13/17 Is e-cigarette a good alternative for a regular cigarette? Smoking has always been a problem for a society and environment. It has many damaging effects on health and air. In 2003, an alternative has been invented, which is electronic cigarette. It was invented by 52 year old pharmacist, inventor and smoker Hon Lik in China, Beijing (Historical Timeline of Electronic Cigarettes). It is believed to be a healthier alternative for a regular cigarette that helps people quit smoking. One stakeholder of the issue is the World Health Organization (WHO) that believes that electronic cigarettes despite that fact that they are possibly safer than regular cigarettes, still have some chemicals inside that pollute the air and harm health. The other stakeholder is electronic cigarette company, which name is V2. They believe that electronic cigarettes are much safer for heath and less pollutant for the environment. Even though their opinions differ, compromise still can be found. If they agree on prohibiting smoking electronic cigarettes in public, both stakeholders will be satisfied. The World Health primary role is to direct and coordinate international health within the United system (About WHO). Their main areas of work are: health systems, promoting health through the life-course, noncommunicable diseases, communicable diseases, corporate services, preparedness, surveillance and response (What we do). On September 1, 2014 the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) was made by WHO in response to a request from Conference of the Parties (COP). This document was created to test Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems (ENDS), to examine the damaging effects of electronic cigarettes on health and the environment, apply some regulations. Three questions were examined during the test of ENDS. They are: 1. Health risks to users and non-users. 2. Efficacy in helping smokers to quit smoking and ultimately nicotine dependence 3. Interference with existing tobacco-control efforts and implementation of the WHO FCTC. The examination showed that ENDS aerosol is not merely as is often claimed in the marketing for these products. ENDS use poses serious threats to adolescents and fetuses. In addition, it increases exposure of non-smokers and bystanders to nicotine and a number of toxicants. (WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control). V2 is the largest retailer of electronic cigarettes and vaporizers on the Internet (About us). Electronic cigarette is a device that is often shaped like a cigarette, contains liquid that is based on nicotine, then being vaporized and inhaled, it is created to simulate the experience of smoking tobacco. They use different marketing techniques to attract people, like colorful well-designed accessories, different tastes of e-liquids and etc. to make them buy their product. They claim that electronic cigarettes cause as much harm as regular cigarettes, and that they help people quit smoking, they convince smokers (that is a big portion of society) to buy their product as a tool to quit smoking. They emphasize the most one benefit of electronic cigarette that is being able to smoke wherever you want, because it is not being burnt, in comparison with a regular cigarette, instead it is being heated and it also has a pleasant smell. WHO examined the case of ENDS and concluded that harmful effects that are damaging health and the environment are not only caused by tobacco, it is mostly caused by chemicals that are inside of electronic cigarette as well as inside of a regular cigarette. The examination showed that these chemicals may cause cancer, cardiovascular diseases for smokers as well as for non-smokers. For that reason, FCTC decided to apply some regulations that can be used as a compromise, because it prohibit electronic cigarettes, instead it applies some rules that will not harm electronic cigarettes companies on a big scale, but will reduce some harmful cause. The compromise includes prohibiting smoking electronic cigarettes in public, because it can cause harm to non-smokers, bystanders and most important children. Also it includes advertisement that should be limited. WHO suggested to ban advertisements that are on television, Internet and etc. (places accessible by many people) but should be allowed for people that are trying to quit smoking as a tool to help them with providing honest information about electronic cigarettes (harm that it is causing, that is smaller than from regular cigarettes but still harm). (FCTC) Work Cited Arnold, Carrie. Vaping And Health: What Do We Know About E-  Environmental Health Perspectives 122.9 (2014): A244-A249. Academic Search Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Benowitz, Neal L., and Andrea D. Burbank. Cardiovascular Toxicity Of Nicotine: Implications For Electronic Cigarette  Trends In Cardiovascular Medicine 26.(2016): 515-523. ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Polosa, Riccardo. Electronic Cigarette Use And Harm Reversal: Emerging Evidence In The  BMC Medicine 13.1 (2015): 1-4. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Electronic Cigarettes & Vaporizers. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Health World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017