Student last name: Li Student Haoxuan Li Instructor Ashely Tisdale Class Composition l Date 2/4/2017 Culture shock and adaptation Culture shock is a barrier that every international students need to go through. Culture shock is defined as the feeling of disorientation experienced by someone who is suddenly subjected to an unfamiliar culture, way of life, or set of attitudes. For international students, they have to adjust to a whole new world. more, they have to study hard in order to get good grades, which make it harder to go through culture shock. much harder than people imagine going through culture shock. The feeling when we go through culture shock just like we got asthma but people can only tell you to relax. Culture shock is unpredictable, it may happen as soon as international students arrive in foreign countries or it may also happen after a month has passed. Staying with home-country students is the option most international students choose, but in some ways, it slows down the process of overcoming culture shock even stopping it. Some international students do not make any local friends even after one year passed. That means some students would see escape as a solution. In other words, most of the international students do something wrong while they try to overcome the culture shock, like trying to get away from other foreign students. So the question I want to discuss is: what things will have negative effect of trying to Student last name: Li conquer culture shock and what is positive and how can one survive it? Newsome, Linda K., and Paul Cooper. International Cultural And Social Experiences In A British University: Such A Hard Life Is  Journal Of International Students 6.1 (2016): 195-215. ERIC. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. This article is base on a survey about 18 international feeling and experience of being abroad. The survey uses three stages to summarize the process of going through the culture expectations of the foreign process of overcoming culture It not only shows the feeling but also the experience of suffering the culture shock. The survey uses two questions to support its viewpoint. The first question is do international students describe their adjustment to The second question is do international students describe their social interaction with people in The surveyor gives the questions twice during six months in order to find out the change of the international students. The article uses a lot of samples to show international experience about the culture shock. Those samples and some theories combine together help people to understand culture shock and make the article credible. It has mentioned something that I also want to talk about, for example, some students have any local friends and want to start friendships with other students except home-country students. Although this survey is done by British, but the circumstance Student last name: Li is similar, international students need to adjust to a new environment and culture. Zhou, Yuefang, et al. Theoretical Models Of Culture Shock And Adaptation In International Students In Higher  Studies In Higher Education 33.1 (2008): 63-75. ERIC. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article talks about the culture shock theoretically. The first article which gives a lot of samples, along with this one can help readers to understand culture shock and the method to adjust to the new environment. In this article, the author uses three words to describe international marginalisation. It is quite different from the first article because these three are not in order, each one of them may happen fist. Separation means culture shock and assimilation means reverse culture shock and the marginalization means a balance between home-culture and host-culture. It also used bi-dimensional and to describe acculturation. Two figures are used to make the theory easy to understand. Figure 1 is describe the process of acculturation, out contain and .It is more specific than the first article and shows more details about the whole process. A model base on affective, behavioural and cognitive (ABC) was mentioned in this article, more useful and powerful. The article also talks about the both sides of effect of home-culture Student last name: Li relationships and host-culture relationships. The two figures and the models are so helpful to my article. It shows the culture shock in a visible way. Brisset, Camille, et al. Psychological And Sociocultural Adaptation Of University Students In France: The Case Of Vietnamese International  International Journal Of Intercultural Relations 34.(2010): 413-426. ScienceDirect. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. This article is based on a compare between Vietnamese international and French feeling about transiting to university, and the different processes and performance. In this article, the author uses adaptation, psychological distress, trait-anxiety, adult attachment (intimacy and anxiety), and satisfaction with social as the elements of measures. more, the distinction between psychological adaption and sociocultural adaptation has been pointed out. Psychological adaption is related to personality, life change and social support. The latter one is influenced by the distance, cultural identity, language ability and culture knowledge. It also mentions that identification and identification (HNI) have positive effect on adaptation. However, the author uses to describe some international students, which is true but hard to accept. This one is more specific and credible. There are five hypotheses about the relationship between the elements and culture shock. Four figures have been given to show the difference of path Student last name: Li of and the path of between Vietnamese international students and French students. Two tables have been given to show the result and analyses of the five hypotheses. It is interesting that gender has no influence in culture shock, which is totally different from our thought. Glass, Chris R., Edwin and Alfredo Urzua. Recreation, Intercultural Friendship, And International Adaptation To College By Region Of  International Journal Of Intercultural Relations 42.(2014): 104-117. ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. In this article, authors talk about the relationship between region and adaptation. They think international region of origin is the key predictive factor on the culture gap. It also mentions the importance of recreation participation. is a common issue that most international students have. There are three basic interpersonal, and The first two constrain are easy to understand, the third one can be construed as schedule. Lack of time, language, cultural differences, lack of friends, those are the main reasons that international students do not want to participate in leisure. That is also the reasons why international students have higher satisfaction with the academic environment than social adaptation because academic do not need too many network. There are two questions and five hypotheses about and regions of Four tables have been given to show the results. In addition, this article has a new idea that the density of same-country students will greatly influence how international students make their friendships. Student last name: Li In the end of this article, some suggestions are given to the teachers, student leaders and school administrators to help international students overcome the culture shock and have more co-nation networks.