Miller 1 Taylor Miller Lorie Jewell ENC 1101 5 February 2017 The Exposure of Syndrome Syndrome (TS) is a very common neurodevelopmental disorder. Many times it comes hand in hand with other disorders that may be more severe than itself. was first reported medically in 1825 in medical literature. But, TS was officially named in 1884 after Gilles de la Tourette. TS is a neurological disorder that is characterized by tics and certain action outbursts. Many people are not aware of the neurological disorder that many people have. Many children are diagnosed with it daily and live with it day to day. Some children will outgrow it as they get older and some will still have it as they are older. So, why should Syndrome be made more aware to the public and how it should be treated? Deirdre et al. The Impact of Tic Severity, Comorbidity and Peer Attachment on Quality of Life Outcomes and Functioning in Syndrome: Parental  SpringerLink. N.p., 06 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This source is about the severity of TS and how they deal with on a daily basis. This explains how it effects their quality on life and how the tics can effect what they do. It explains what is and the background of the disorder and the comorbidity of the disorder itself. Miller 2 This source is of help to my research question because it provides the impact of Syndrome on people based on tic severity. The information it provides will further back up the cause as to why it needs to be exposed more to the public since it has many expressional characteristics. The credibility of this source is that all of the authors are knowledgeable of the disorder and preform a study on the disorder. The article is gathered from a science business website. Ruth Wadman et al. Difficulties experienced by young people with Tourette syndrome in secondary school: a mixed methods description of self, parent and staff  BMC Psychiatry. N.p., 20 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The background of this source is that it explains the barriers one may have if they have the disorder. Explaining that it may affect how someone with may have a different learning curve than others. Along with the interaction of others and emotional stand points the individual may have in their secondary school years. This source will help my research question because it gives the insight into the secondary school experience and how the individual with syndrome learns differently and the way they interact with their peers. The credibility of this source is that it is all written by people whom have a specialty in psychology and psychiatry. The website is BMC Psychiatry which is an open access, peer-reviewed journal that considers articles on on all aspects of the prevention, diagnosis and management of psychiatric disorders all aspects of the prevention, diagnosis and management of psychiatric disorders. Miller 3 Eddy, Clare M. et al. Neuropsychological aspects of Tourette syndrome: A review.  Journal of Psychosomatic Research 67.6 (2009): 503-13. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This source is about the general facts of TS and helps evaluate the syndrome itself. It provides information on how works and how there are other confounding factors in such as the presence of comorbidity. This source also takes a look into the research of patients to try and see how the patients are impaired in ways that effect their anterior cingulate network within the frontostriatal pathway. This source is useful for my research because it analyzes patients with syndrome and examines how it affects them and the factors that plays in the syndrome itself. The article is from Sciencedirect which is a database of many academic and peer reviewed journals. The credibility for the journal is that the main author is currently working in the department of Psychology at the University of Birmingham in Birmingham, UK. She is a Senior Research Fellow at the National Centre for Mental Health. Cavanna, Andrea Eugenio. The Behavioral Spectrum of Gilles de la Tourette The Journal of Neuropsychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences 21.1 (2009): 13-23. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This source is the first initial background about TS. It provides the beginning knowledge of tourettes syndrome and where it originated and how it got its name. It explains and goes into detail of how it appears in patients and how the stages of complexity, type, frequency, and severity of the tics and symptoms. It goes into the details of more than the other sources and more about the tics and and how they work. Miller 4 This source is beneficial to my research because to goes through the parts of and the severity of the different stages and variations of The credibility of the source is that it is posted on The Journal of Neuropsychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences website. The author is a Andrea E. Cavanna is Honorary Reader in Neuropsychiatry and Consultant in Behavioural Neurology at the Department of Neuropsychiatry, Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health Foundation NHS Trust. He is also Deputy Director for the MSc in Clinical Neuropsychiatry with a PhD from the University College of London.