Aldandan 1 Ahmed Aldandan Professor: Hernandez, Bianca ENC1102 Feb 12/2017 The Unattainable Beauty What is beauty? Is it an object? A subject? Or Just a compliment that people throw? Beauty is a hard word to define, because there is still an ancient argument about its meaning, effects, and even its relation to people (Vacker 471). For women, nowadays, products that can enhance beauty are creating a sociological issue. Society do shape the meaning of norm and deviance, based on the sociologist Jon Witt. Witt also believe that women are more likely to consume products that make them feel more beautiful, and go through plastic surgery to avoid the stigma of not being beautiful (Witt 128). According to Naomi Wolf, films and magazines are creating an unwinnable competition between women, and that they are focusing less on more important aspects of their lives (Witt 274). Wolf also believe that only few women can reach the standards of beauty for supermodels. Currently, many organizations such as the National Organization for Women(NOW) and Dove view the beauty myth differently. (NOW) takes part as it is fighting for women rights while Dove aims at changing the current definition and perception of beauty to increase women confidence and self-acceptance. However, NOW do aim to change how Profitable organizations may use the narrow definition of beauty for their gains, which is a criticism that Dove beauty campaigns received. That is the major difference between stakeholders, their standard positions between profit and non-profit organizations within the context of the topic. Dove and NOW can work on a compromise to unit their goals, in order to set a more positive definition of beauty, and challenge the negative influences of the media. NOW and Dove will help each other in their campaigns, they will refer to each other as the Aldandan 2 second part of the message that they are trying to deliver. Then both stakeholders will be able to attract a larger audience toward their issue, making their chance in accomplishing their objectives higher. NOW is a feminist organization, that seeks equality, and the rights of women in general. Based on NOW website, some of their objectives are in regard to wage equality, gender discrimination, same sex marriage, reproductive rights and most importantly to the topic is health and body image (National Organization for Women). NOW believe that the media is setting standers of beauty. The problem is that women cannot follow these standards in general, and that they do harm their health trying to meet them. In addition, the media do also sexualize models and girls in movies, making them seem more as objects. Thus, girls are influenced to mimic models and celebrities. NOW is educating women to increase their resistance to the media influence. They do deliver their message through the social media and they do have an annual event dedicated to embracing the notion of self-acceptance, and rejecting the beauty image that is created by the media (NOW). Nancy Rudd conducted a research on female college students, and she aimed at knowing what might influence women in college to imitate the image of women shown in the media (Rudd 155-156). The body image is how one his body, in combination with their feelings towards their bodies. The ideal body image is culturally identified by the media, and women health disorders are heavily related to it (Rudd 153). Rudd stated that image plays a key role in many disorders that affect individual health and well-being, particularly among adolescent and young adult (Rudd 153). About half of the surveyed women in the research said that they are satisfied with body image. In addition, most of them indicated that they do care about their size, and body shape the most (Rudd 156). Moreover, some women did Aldandan 3 report that they do care a lot about losing just 10 pound, some also did state that they struggled to lose weight while some are willing to go through dangerous methods to change their body image (Rudd 156). That is an example of how the body image can be harmful, and that is a reality that both NOW and Dove are trying to change. Dove is brand selling beauty related products such as soaps and creams to both men and women. Even though Dove do actually use beauty to sell products, they also are trying to change the existing way that women use to perceive beauty through the media. That makes them in a peculiar position in this topic, because they want to redefine beauty, but it is also possible that they might lose costumers if women do find a new meaning of beauty. Nevertheless, Dove did launch some campaigns to increase women self-esteem; Dove wanted women to be satisfied with their appearance (Dove). Moreover, website does not use any super-models, or real negative representations that other brands might show. Instead, they do use more normal models that reflect a more natural lock, and they did an entire campaign doing so while including supportive statement about how a woman should be satisfied with her appearance (Dove). Another campaign that is worth of mentioning is dove self-esteem project (SEP). According to dove website, SEP goal is to not make beauty as something that might bring anxiety to the next generation of women, but as a source of confidence. Dove found that about half of the women are satisfied with their appearance, and only 2% define themselves as beautiful (Dove). Thus, Dove do actually believe that the current definition of beauty is something worth changing. Anne Loria found that increasing women self-esteem through campaigns, such as dove campaign for real beauty(CFRB) can be beneficial to women stress about beauty (4-6) However, Loria also stated that of the CFRB argue that Dove has been unsuccessful in fulfilling its intended mission, which could be consider demoralized because it is fundamentally motivated by Aldandan 4 corporate interests and profit (Loria 3). Models that Dove chose do actually represent a healthy objective for women to pursue, but others critique say that these models cannot compete with more ideal models in the media, and that they are still far from the average shape of a woman (Loria 7-8). Certain fashion experts do state that fashionable companies should care about the image that they deliver to girls and women, but most of brands and fashion experts do not hold the same belief (Laura 22-23). Regardless of Dove objective in it the discussed campaigns, the criticism towards the fact that they do get profit from sealing beauty cannot be ignored (Laura 17-18). The criticisms that Dove campaigns are receiving is handicapping them from achieving their goals, even though they did succeed in challenging the medias image of beauty (Laura 24-25). That is why Dove need to find a way to work through all the criticism that they are receiving. Dove and NOW are seeking to make the society change their current ideas about beauty. If Dove and NOW do actually corporate to make a social change, their chances of accomplishing their goals will be increased. They can work on campaigns to increase the awareness, NOW will be more trusted in showing how the media can represent beauty in a way that can harm them, while Dove will be taking care of showing the alternative way to perceive beauty. Dove will be using their existing method of increasing self-esteem; using natural models for example. In addition, NOW will also progress in a variety of their goals, because changing the definition of beauty should increase the likelihood of rejecting negative influences. According to Jurgen Williams and Marc Jegers, the achievements of any movement that is aiming at a social change are largely depended by on the organization current achievements (68). In case that Dove and NOW do agree on this compromise, they will be able to increase their total achievements in order to attract more people to join their cause. NOW do have many supporters, Aldandan 5 because it already does support many feminist related issues, while Dove is getting more people who are interested in changing the narrow definition of beauty. It is worth to keep in mind that dove is a global brand, and that enables Dove to deliver the current messages to a large number of people. Thus, their social movement will be even more open to attract people, and that can allow them to achieve more (William 78). Beauty should not be something that do cause struggle, or something that can actually make a person distressed. It should be something that a person can appreciate without receiving the notion that it follows certain rules. Even though both NOW and Dove do try to change the way that people might perceive the body image and the influences from the media. They cannot compete with global markets, and hope to change certain beliefs that are culturally identified. They need to work together to actually have a chance in increasing people awareness to the harms that the beauty myth is causing; regardless of their possible differences. People need to know about the issue and also see an alternative way to perceive beauty, a new way that can make women perceive beauty with more confidence. Dove is already a global brand that knows how to interests women in their product, that is why people may accept the image that they show of beauty, while NOW can be more trusted in increasing people awareness of the beauty myth. Aldandan 6 Works Cited Witt, Jon. SOC 2016. 4th ed. New York: McGraw,2016. Print. Vacker, Barry, and Wayne R. Key. Beauty And The Beholder: The Pursuit Of Beauty Through  Psychology & Marketing 10.6 (1993): 471. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rudd, Nancy A., and Sharron J. Lennon. Body Image And Appearance-Management Behaviors In College  Clothing & Textiles Research Journal 18.3 (2000): 152. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. PEISS, KATHY. On Beauty... and the History of  Enterprise & Society 2000: 485. JSTOR Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Loria, Anna, Changing the Face of Beauty, Changing the Rules of Marketing: The Dove Campaign for Real  (2015). Senior Honors Theses. Paper 105. Willems, Jurgen1, jurgen.willems@vub.ac.be, and Marc1, marc.jegers@vub.ca.be Jegers. Social Movement Structures In Relation To Goals And Forms Of Action: An Exploratory  Canadian Journal Of Nonprofit & Social Economy Research / Revue Canadienne De Recherche Sur Les OSBL Et Sociale 3.2 (2012): 67- 81. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Organization for Women Love Your Web. 29, January. 2017 http://now.org/now-foundation/love-your-body/ Aldandan 7 Web. 29, January. 2017 http://www.dove.com/us/en/stories/campaigns.html