SYED AZFAR SAFIN Student(FRESHMAN) ENC1101.005F16 COMPOSITION 1 10 Th September 2016 Biological beings such as humans become dependent on technological beings such as robots as the world advances An Annotated Bibliography Humans tend to get bored when doing a task repeatedly and therefore they plan on changing jobs and whatsoever. The modern era strictly believes that the art for working by hand would soon fade away. It is that superior technologists are bringing up the idea of replacing human labor to robots. This is not only a matter of downsizing unemployment of several sectors in an industry but also a decrease in the average expenditure spent on human labor in a country. DeCanio, Stephen J. Robots And Humans Complements Or  Journal Of Macroeconomics 49.(2016): 280-291. ScienceDirect. Web. 16 Sept. 2016. The eventual ascend in the robot labor may increase the possibility or descend the wages given on humans , which strictly proportionates on the economical production factor.Houthakker, a well known economical scientist made a formula for efficient production which can be used to estimate the reduction human wages when replaced by robots. The US data planner calculated that it is easy to replace humans to robot labor and can be carried out.This would decrease the human wages spent by companies when hired to the robotic labor. It is believed that relying on the technological advanced beings may not have any negative effects on expenses. It is estimated that if the elasticity between the replacement of humans to robotic labor is greater than 1.9 then it would severely cause a decline in the wages on humans.The chances of industries taking an initiative is high.Relating to my topic,humans may shift to machine labor to modernize the world in order to reduce even the slightest of cost production. Cockshott, Paul, and Karen Renaud. Issues And Opinions: Humans, Robots And  Technology In Society 45.(2016): 19-28. Science Direct. Web. 16 Sept. 2016 From an early time, robots were taken to be nothing more than science fiction and now as the world ages, what scientists has been doing based on artificial intelligence can seem nothing more than reality. Robots are having very existence in the world and are known to be advancing in various sectors in ways we could have never imagined before. Novelists would once assume the theory of robotics walking the Earth and here they are mesmerized of how a fairytale can be coming to life. Such advancement would not only mean the extinction of the human attitude but also diminish anything that lacks creativity and structure. Informatics gained access in the engineering field and they are pacing at rapid speeds inventing high intelligent sourced machines. It is that coming to that idea we can differentiate how robots are not alike humans, and what we lack that proves robots are better than us. We can come to a conclusion as to how robots pose a threat to humans and how is it that we can work out a decent way to minimize robot advancement without ruining the way of gaining knowledge in the science field;and not hampering government about giving the wrong idea of downsizing a countries economical and science advancement. According to my topic,I believe that robots may be better at doing a repeated task overtime.But, it is certain that they can never take over what the human mind creates after all they are based on programming.