Calderon 1 Sergio Calderon Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 1 January 2017 The Declawing of Cats There are many controversies regarding declawing cats, and there are groups that have different views on this issue. An organization called Paw is against removing a claws whether they are domestic cats or wild cats, and they explain why it is inhumane. There is another organization called the American Association of Feline Practitioners or (AAFP), and they do not necessarily advocate for declawing, but they believe that people should be allowed to declaw their cats if they are educated in what the procedures of declawing are, and how it will affect the cat, as well as possible alternatives before deciding what to do. This viewpoint goes against the Paw ideology, which is that declawing is inhumane and should not be allowed at all. The Paw Project and the AAFP have an admiration for the feline community, and they have similar goals, but differ in this special circumstance of declawing. Is there a proposition or solution that both parties could agree on? There is an academic journal that was published on December 15, 2015 and was written by Nadine Dolby of Purdue University, who has conducted research regarding animals in education, and in her journal, it has a quote from Friends Animal which says: is the amputation of each toe at the first joint. In humans, it would be equivalent to cutting off the tip of every finger at the first knuckle very painful, indeed. If performed on a human, this operation would be considered a (Dolby 8). It is evident that declawing is not similar to a Calderon 2 manicure, it is essentially amputating a joint of a toe, and it would be just as painful as if it had been done to a human. Knowing that this is a short procedure, is it still inhumane long term? Dr. Jennifer Conrad who is the founder of the Paw Project and has had many years of veterinary experience, lists information about declaw surgery or onychectomy on the Paw Project website, and explains onychectomy and the health problems that arouse from it. One of which she explains, cats experience extreme pain supporting their body weight when standing or walking, if the tendon attached to the retained segment of the third phalanx pulls that bit of bone under the (Conrad the Paw Dr. Conrad goes into further detail by saying, displaced bone fragment produces a painful  sensation when they stand or try to the Paw Judging by the information, cats can suffer long term due to displacements in the bone fragment that cause it to experience great pain. Dr. Conrad explains how cats deal with this situation: compensate for the pain in their tender paws, cats will attempt to shift their weight farther back on their feet, in effect walking on their The stresses caused by the abnormal posture and movement, may produce arthritis in the legs, which, in turn, may cripple the cat further and cause it more the Paw Knowing this, cats can experience more pain from declawing than just the pain in their paws. They can develop pain in their bones from their abnormal posture trying to compensate for the pain in their paws, which can be developed long term, may be many months or years before the damaging effects of declawing become (Conrad the Paw This is why Dr. Conrad and the Paw Project are against declawing because, may result in permanent lameness, arthritis, and other long-term (Conrad the Paw The long term effects it has on felines, which includes not being able to walk or stand without experiencing great Calderon 3 pain, is why the Paw Project believes that declawing is morally wrong and should not be allowed at all. The American Association of Feline Practitioners are not necessarily advocating having cats declawed, but they believe that the owners are allowed to, however not without the knowledge of how the procedure is carried out, as well as other possible alternatives to declawing cats. The American Veterinary Medical Association or AVMA support this idea by saying: of domestic cats should be considered only after attempts have been made to prevent the cat from using its claws destructively or when its clawing presents a zoonotic risk for its policy statement on declawing of domestic Essentially, the AAFP and the AVMA believe that a cat owner should be educated about their cat and about different alternatives before making any immediate decisions. Nadine Dolby adds to this by saying, practice of cat declawing is intertwined with how both veterinarians and the public are educated and socialized to make sense of non-human animals and the relationship between humans and non-human (Dolby 1). If the owners are educated about their pets, and they decide to go forward with the declawing procedure, the AAFP will not prevent them from doing so. There is information on the webpage regarding veterinary obligations saying, is the obligation to educate cat owners and provide them with alternatives to (Group Position Why would the cat owners decide to remove their claws? Nadine Dolby explains, the veterinary profession developed new preventative medicines that could be used to control fleas and mites, cats (and dogs) moved indoors, living with their human families. natural need and instinct to scratch drew them (and their claws) to furniture and couches, which became a nuisance for (Dolby 8). She then adds to this by saying, suggest that approximately 25% of cats in the United States are front declawed (a much smaller Calderon 4 number are front and back declawed) and are usually declawed to protect furniture (American Veterinary Medical Association, 2009; Patronek, (Dolby 8). This is one of the reasons why people decide to declaw their cats. Saethra Jade Fritscher and James Ha, who had conducted research in the Department of Psychology in the University of Washington, explained another reason why cat owners decide to declaw their cats by explaining that, of declawing contend that it causes behavioral problems, whereas others, including the American Veterinary Medical Association, state that because destructive scratching is a risk factor for relinquishment and euthanasia, declawing is a reasonable (Fritscher and Ha 107). Knowing this, people that have problems with their cats in regards to scratching behavior can choose between declawing and euthanasia, and declawing would be considered more reasonable according to Fritscher and Ha. The AAFP believe that people should be educated about their cats, and invest in different possible alternatives before they decide to go through with the procedure. What is the possible solution that will satisfy the Paw Project and the AAFP? Dr. Conrad and the Paw Project believe that no declawing should be allowed, and the AAFP believe that owners are allowed to declaw their cats if they have a legitimate reason for it, but after they have been educated by their veterinarian about other alternatives before deciding what to do. Both organization have an admiration for the feline community, and both of them want a solution that is best for all felines. The favorable alternative would be to trim their nails once every few months instead of having the cat go through unnecessary pain from being declawed. This will be favorable to the AAFP because it is a better alternative that owners can be educated on, and it will satisfy the Paw Project because it will prevent any suffering since the owner will only have to trim their nails as opposed to removing the joints from their paws permanently. Cat owners would not have to worry about furniture being ruined as long as they trim their claws regularly so that they Calderon 5 get too long and cause problems. With this solution, problems can be prevented before they arise. Calderon 6 Works Cited Conrad, Jennifer. ABOUT THE PAW  About The Paw Project. GoDaddy.com, LLC, 24 Feb. 2003. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Dolby, Nadine1. The Paw  Critical Education 6.23 (2015): 1-14. Education Source. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Group, MC Interactive. American Association of Feline  Declawing Position Statement American Association of Feline Practitioners. N.p., 13 Dec. 2000. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. AVMA policy statement on declawing of domestic  DVM Newsmagazine Aug. 2007: 16. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Fritscher, Saethra Jade, and James Ha. Declawing Has No Effect On Biting Behavior But Does Affect Adoption Outcomes For Domestic Cats In An Animal  Applied Animal Behaviour Science 180.(2016): 107-113. ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.