Rahman 1 Aashik Rahman Ms. Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 5 th February 2017 The Difficulties Faced by Children with Same-Sex Parents Imagine a child being born or adopted by a homosexual couple. The child would have either two fathers or two mothers. He or she would grow up in that way until the child goes to school where he or she starts seeing other children with their fathers and mothers. Thus a confusion is created. This is just the beginning of all the difficulties that are faced by children of homosexual parents. A child needs both the love of a father and a mother. The same-sex marriage was always a debate among the people and was looked at as taboo for a very long time. But after 2015, when the United States Supreme Court legalised same-sex marriage all over The United States, many homosexual couples got the chance to fulfil their long waited desire to marry and start a family. They can now fulfil their desires for a family by adopting a child. Not thinking about the difficulties the child would have growing up. Children growing up in a gay household often gets to only meet people from the LGBT community and not heterosexual couples (Dawn Stefanowicz). Children in gay families are often used as props to display the public to prove gay families are just like heterosexual families( B.N. Klein). So one question that can be asked: What difficulties do children, raised by same-sex couples, experience? Rahman 2 Goldberg, Abbie E., and Randi, Garcia. Of Relationship Dissolution In Lesbian, Gay, And Heterosexual Adoptive Journal Of Family Psychology: NCBI, vol. 29, no. 3, 2015, pp. 394-404. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26053348. This articles attempts to discuss about the negative sides of adopting a non-infant by homosexual and heterosexual parents. The author talks about how the homosexual parents often adopt non-infant kids and their struggles. Non infant kids have an idea about how a family works. They know that a family consists of a father and a mother. But when a homosexual couple adopts them, the whole perspective changes. They either get two mothers or two fathers, which is a new concept to them. So the author tells about how the homosexual couples should prepare themselves and the child for the new family environment and how that causes the family stress to be less and healthy. The author also talks about how the relationship between the same-sex couples have changed after the adoption of non-infants. Most of them had broken up their relationship due to lack of intimacy and communication. Which puts a lot of pressure on the adopted kids since they were the reason of the breakup. This causes depression and anxiety in children. This article was published in 2015. The authors, Abbie E. Goldberg and Garcia Randi, are both from the Department of Psychology of the Clark University. They have both published many articles regarding this subject. Rahman 3 Jaslow, Ryan. Kids of gay parents fare worse, study finds, but research draws fire from  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 12 June 2012. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article shows a study that finds that the children of same-sex couples may be more likely to have more social and emotional problems than the children of heterosexual couples. The study was made by Mark Regnerus, who surveyed 15,000 Americans from the age of 18 to 39, asking them questions about their upbringings. There were questions related to whether their parents were in a same-sex relationship during their upbringing. The statistics showed that sixty- nine percent of children with lesbian mothers had receiver welfare at some point compared to seventeen percent of children from biological parents. Only twenty-six percent of children from lesbian parents had full-time jobs compared to fifty percent children from heterosexual parents. About fourteen percent of kids from lesbian mothers has spent time in foster care compared to two percent of kids from biological parents. The statistics of children with gay fathers had less bad outcomes than the kids with lesbian mothers, but still more than those kids who grew up with their heterosexual parents. This article was written by Ryan Jaslow. Ryan Jaslow is a health editor. He wrote about the study which was performed by Mark Regnerus. Mark Regnerus is a associate professor of sociology at The University of Texas. Rahman 4 Brown, Lauretta. Adults Raised by Gay Couples Speak Out Against Gay in Federal  CNS News. N.p., 23 Jan. 2015. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This news article is about four adult children who grew up with same-sex parents and how they speaks out against gay marriage in Federal Court. This article is written about the situations they had to experience growing up with gay parents. The four of them argued that same-sex marriage would harm a children by depriving them a mother or father. Dawn Stefanowicz ,who had gay fathers, talks about how she surrounded by heterosexual couples, but more people from the LGBT communities and how she was exposed to overt sexual activities. B.N. Klein , who had lesbian mothers, talks about how she was forced to like people based on what they thought about gay people. She also says about how she was taught that only gay people were achievers in life and how Jews and Christians were bad. Robert Oscar Lopez, also lesbian mothers, talked about how the void of a father in his life made him want to have sexual interactions with older men who were about his fathers age. This article was written by Lauretta Brown. She based this article on the four children who were against the same-sex marriage because they grew up experiencing the bad sides of it. Rahman 5 Rosky, Clifford J. Father, Like Son: Homosexuality, Parenthood, and the Gender of Yale Journal of Law & Feminism, vol. 20, no. 2, article 3, 2008. In this article, the author talks about two important things related to gay fathers: HIV agents and child molesters. Gay fathers are more likely to contract HIV and infect their children with HIV. They are also likely to be child molesters, men who sexually abuse child especially boys. Children always love to jump in bed with their parents. However, with gay fathers as parents, the bodily fluids would leave a residue on the bed, which can contract the children with their HIV. More gay men are risked of getting HIV than lesbian women. In this article, the author also talks about how the court allow fathers with HIV to meet with their children, even if only one percent chance of the child contracting it from the parent. Gay fathers as well as lesbian mothers were accused of sexual abuse towards children. Gay men were accused of molesting boys and lesbian mothers were accused of molesting girls. But gay men were more known to be child molesters. About 22% of cases had relation with gay men being child molesters. This article was written by Clifford J. Rosky. He is a professor of Law at the University of Utah. He has written many articles regarding this subject.