Almeida 1 Felipe Ganem Cadar de Almeida Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 02/05/17 Playing with the future The world today is not the same as it used to be. When I was a kid, I used to play sports, play with toys and invite friends to come to our house to play puzzle games. But that time had been gone since the new generation of children came, discovering a new world, the technology world. Children nowadays seem to be born with an iPhone in their hands. While we, the generation Y were amazingly happy to get a ball from our parents as a Christmas present, the new generation mostly has smartphones on their minds, always wanting more and more technology, new releases, new features, and new games. In fact, games are the main cause for children sticking their eyes on smartphones for hours a day. This leads to a question. Does playing videogames while a child can cause some sort of behavior when older? Toppo, Greg. Do Video Games Inspire Violent  Scientific American. N.p., 29 May 2015. Web. 05 Feb. 2016. The article tells a story about a teenager who killed 26 people while heading to his school. From the information, they got about the history, he used to play violent games, as well as dancing games. The researchers found out that games do cause behavioral changes in people, but not necessarily the changes they think will be made. Almeida 2 Also, the article mentions many different experiments led by researchers, to find out if watching violence in the media, could cause violent behavior in real life. Each of them, took different conclusions from it, but they came up with an interesting conclusion: we practice repeatedly affects the brain. If we practice aggressive ways of thinking, feeling and reacting, then we will get better at People are very influenced by the media in a lot of different aspects, such as health, lifestyle, religion and also behaviors. From what I have learned reading this article, the biggest concern about children playing videogames nowadays, is that our brain learns what we practice. Miller, Michael Craig, MD. Violent Videogames and Young  Violent video games and young people. Harvard Medical School, 1 Oct. 2010. Web. 6 Feb. 2016. In 2008 it was reported that 97% of youth ages 12 to 17 played some type of videogame. Another analysis made, found out that more than half the videogames considered appropriate for children over 10 years old, contain violence. The American Academy of Pediatrics believe that videogames can be harmful for a youth behavior because many of those games are in first person, so the player has to control what the character of the game is going to do, and taking decisions that can be violent. Otherwise, another research led by Texas A&M International University said that in 1996, even with an increase in videogame sales, the amount of violent crimes among youth had decreased. Also, the Center for Mental Health and Media at Massachusetts General Hospital brought an interesting point of view when it comes to factors that influence people to have bad behaviors. It all depends on: personality, situation, and motivation. Talking about personality, the researchers found out that people with disagreeableness, high neuroticism and low levels of Almeida 3 conscientiousness are more likely to be influenced negatively by violent videogames. When it comes to situation, it matters where and with who the child is playing the videogame. Playing with and older sibling is better because they tend to play more mature games instead of violent. And motivation because many teenagers do not play because of the violence, it is more about competing with friends and for fun. It is still an incognita if videogames can be harmful of not, but what we can conclude about all the researches that came up with information about it until now, is that each person acts in different ways while facing different situations. Some people play videogames for fun, for competing, but how do we know if some of them are not playing because they have bad intentions on their minds? So, with that it is better for us to try to keep children out of the and manage their playing time, what kind of videogames they could play, if it is appropriate for its age, and that way we can avoid the risk of having a bad behavior in the future. APA Review Confirms Link Between Playing Violent Video Games and  Pardon Our Interruption. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. What the article says about violence and gaming, is that it is true that playing violent games is liked to increased aggression in players, but it is not a fact yet that it could cause criminal violence or violent behaviors. Also, what the research concluded was that not only that happens, but also people get a decreased prosocial behavior and empathy. Another important point is that not only one risk factor leads a person to violent behavior, and playing violent games is only one. With that, what researchers are doing today, is that they are trying to find relations with playing Almeida 4 violent videogames and external factors, such as do depression interacts with violent so they can combine all the risk factors and come up with a conclusion. This article is credible because it was written by the APA (American Psychological Association) which is the largest scientific and professional organization representing psychology in the USA. It helped me with my research because what I learned from it, is that instead of examining just one risk factor, such as playing violent games, we have to examine each person and their other personal factors that could lead to a violent behavior and so the games could be intensifying that behavior, but not creating it. The APA has a lot of researchers putting effort on this study but it clearly cannot yet say for sure if games lead kids to a violent behavior. Dotinga, Randy. Violent Video Games Influence Behavior:  Consumer HealthDay. N.p., 03 Apr. 2015. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. The article says that people who plays videogames tend to be more hyperactive and may get more aggressive depending on what kind of game they play and for how long. For example, kids who played less than one hour a day tend to be less aggressive and rated as better-behaved by their teachers. A research was made with 207 children, and what researchers found out, is that videogames if played in small doses, can be good for behavior. Kids who played for less than one hour a day, were less likely to have a violent behavior such as bullying, than people who did not play videogames. This study was published recently in the journal Psychology of Popular Media Culture and I like it for my research because it says one point that could be contradictory over all research I did till now, when it assumes that videogames cannot be only harmful sometimes but Almeida 5 also healthy if played in a certain amount of time, and if it is a controlled activity. This study was made by a group of researchers from many universities, such as Oxford, Harvard, and Iowa, and what people could conclude about it is that they need to research more, to know if videogames and behavior could be related, and that it is often difficult to differentiate good science to overstated panic, so it is really hard from the studies we have nowadays to reach a certain conclusion about the subject.