Alsaaid 1 Michal Alsaaid Ins. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 5 February 2017 Smoking Ban and Restrictions in Public Places in the US Many governments around the globe started forcing smoke-free policies. At some point, smoking was legal in public spaces and indoor buildings in the United states of America. As a matter of fact, New York City has some pretty strict regulations when it comes to smoking in public areas such as parks, and also beaches. More to mention about the City of New York is that you have to be 21 or older to smoke over there. While in other places it is even okay to walk into a bar with a cigarette. However, the American Non-smokers Rights Association, stated that a figure of 82% of the United States nation are living in smoke-free environment (Kelsey.2015). The state of California was first to adopt some prohibition laws of smoking in public back in 1998, half of states followed right after and forced a variety of banning regulations. Nevertheless, a very important historical part is the surgeon report, The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke, because it did help and indeed made a powerful add to the public opinion. Despite the fact that some people even smoke, they are still exposed to secondhand smoking at work and that could actually get the chance of them having heart diseases increased by 25 to 30 percent, and also can causes a 20 to 30 percent increase in lung cancer chances (Dusenberry.2007). There for, the government of the United States has made significant decisions to protect and reserve the right of its citizens to breath healthy. However, this leads us to the question of when, how and why did the government of the US did ban smoking in public areas? Alsaaid 2 Kelsey, Rick. Smoking bans: How they vary around the  BBC UK. N.p., 1 June 2015. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This particular article is all about educating people about other countries and how they deal with policies and regulations regarding smoking issue in a variety of bans and prohibitions. The author here has mentioned various countries some from the Asia, Europe, and also mentioned Australia which maintain a very strict system and powerful anti-smoking laws not only compared to the US, but also in a global scale. Moreover, Australia also considered one of the most expensive when it comes to selling tobacco products. A pack of 20 cigarettes is sold for over down there. However, an important historical decision made by Ireland is mentioned in this article. Back in 2004, Ireland was the first in the world to announce total ban on smoking. In contrast, the action made by Ireland led other countries to copy their tough enforcement. Despite the fact that many people relate Ireland with Scotland culturally, they also made this move together since Scotland became the first in the UK to follow by the year of 2006. This article was published back in June of 2015 via the BBC network website. It was written by the Newsbeat reporter, Rich Kelsey. The BBC reporter and winner of Sony Gold Award Best News and Current affairs 2013. Moreover, the author has written many different articles and always discusses issues and matters trending. The talented reporter is graduated from The University of Wales, Aberystwyth with BA degree in Arts, Entertainment, and Media Management. Alsaaid 3 Dusenberry, Mary Branham. Many states now ban smoking in public  The council of state governments. N.p., Aug. 2007. Web. 4 Jan. 2017. This article is generally going through some history of smoking ban in the United States. It also describes how can smoking regulations can vary from state to state and how can an action be considered as a violation in some place but not in another. However, it does not miss the fact that California was the first to start some prohibitions and it went from there back in 1998. Despite the fact that secondhand smoking is less lethal, it still can contribute in increasing the percentage of getting sick with w permanent illness such as lung cancer or some heart diseases. According to Annie Tegan, the senior program manager in Americans for Rights, social norms are changing. When people go to work they expect to breathe smokefree air. People are understanding the dangers of second-hand All what is mentioned in this article is actually encouraging these prohibition laws and explain the benefits of it to others. This article was published in The Council of State website in August 2007. It was written by the author Mary Branham Dusenberry, the managing editor for State News magazine. She is almost 60 years old and had worked as a managing editor, print and multimedia. The Council of state Governments was the company she worked in with all these positions. Alsaaid 4 World health organization. Smoke-free  World health organization. N.p., 31 May 2007. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. This article contains enormous amount of information regarding smoke-free policies and facts behind it. As a matter of fact, it does include every single study in the field of secondhand smoking dangers. However, every and each study or fact stated in the article is backed up with evidence such as the figures that indicates the provided information, name and date of research, and also corrects the myths that had been made up related to secondhand smoking. The article is basically encouraging the public to know their rights which include claiming their right on breathing a smoke-free air environment. Nevertheless, you could actually have a look at actual numbers and facts that may be kind of surprising and will get you to see eye to eye with these people, such as the fact that almost half of the children breath air polluted by tobacco smoke and the unfortunate reality that there is no safe level of exposure to second-hand tobacco smoke. In conclusion, this article explains why smoking should be banned in public places and also to aware people and educate them more about their rights to live healthy an unpolluted. This article is a special work made by the World Health Organization. A special website is online to spread the facts and gather people to participate in the World No Tobacco Day, 31 May. This can be printed out and used as a reference regarding this topic because it mentions all the main and sub facts about smoking. Alsaaid 5 Tynan, Michael. State Smoke-Free Laws for Worksites, Restaurants, and Bars --- United States, 2000--2010. Rep. 15th ed. Vol. 60. USA: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2011. Print. 472-475. This report is mainly focusing on policies and laws that prohibit to smoke in any private business or work site such as bars and indoor restaurants. However, these main places are mentioned and chosen because many people would be exposed to secondhand smoking. The facts and figures provided in this report are always support and uphold the smoking ban in public spaces. Nevertheless, it does actually prove evidence and specific dates related to the enforcement of these laws in different states around the nation. Back in the year of 2000 the number of states that actually implemented smoke-free laws was zero states, but decreased later on by 26 states by the year 2010. This report was published in a governmental website which has been made to educate others and spread caution. The author is a Public Health Analyst at Centers for disease control and prevention. He is also graduated out of the University of Louisville. However, Michael Tynan has previous experience in many fields of public policies since he worked in Oregon Health Authority and The MayaTech Corporation.