Clary 1 Dominique Clary Instructor Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 11 February 2017 Vegetarian Lifestyle vs. Non Vegetarian Lifestyle The typical America meal most likely will contain one choice of meat, a vegetable of some sort, and a starch. These are all viable options in which we choose to eat everyday of our lives, we have endless choices at our fingertips. For those who choose to refrain from eating meat, there are now alternatives for anything one can think of. PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) supports the movement to become vegetarian and even vegan. They offer viable information about the treatment of animals and the benefit of this lifestyle change. Contrary to that, there are a plethora of supporters of the non-vegetarian movement, people such as Lierre Keith, who wrote the Vegetarian Myth. In this book, Keith discusses the negative effects of taking part in this vegetarian lifestyle. As a compromise, the public must be educated on the pros and cons of eating meat or of being a vegetarian, as well as being educated on what exactly is being put into their meat. In a world where food production is rapidly changing the choice to eat meat or not is one to be considered based off of which the consumer provides better nutrients. Many may assert that a vegetarian lifestyle is not healthy for the human body because it will deprive it of vital nutrients such as protein, iron, zinc, and so forth. Or, that just eating vegetables will not provide such said nutrients. However, PETA counteracts these accusations in various ways. On official website under its article it states, year in the U.S., more than 27 billion animals are slaughtered for food. Raising animals on Clary 2 factory farms is cruel and ecologically devastating. Eating animals is bad for our health, increasing the risk of developing various diseases and illnesses, including heart attacks, strokes, cancer, diabetes, and These are all very serious that can develop over the course of time. It is a well-known fact that heart disease is the number one killer in America. In other words, meat puts the human body at a much higher risk of terrible health. If eating meat increases the risk of said disease PETA alludes to not partake in the eating of meat. Essentially, by not eating meat one gives way to a much longer and healthier life. In this part of the text, PETA touches on the major issues of meat eating in its article. It is evident that the consumption of meat not only causes harm to the human body but also the animals themselves. In terms of the effects on the animals, PETA explains how animals are neglected in various forms, they are unable to see sunlight and graze outdoors, and they are placed in small crammed spaces, and drugged to grow at a rate that is unhealthy for them. Referring back to the article titled PETA asserts that: on factory farms do not see the sun or get a breath of fresh air until they are prodded and crammed onto trucks for a nightmarish ride to the slaughterhouse, often through weather extremes and always without food or In both of these quotes taken from PETA it is evident that these animals are in no way treated with care. This does not conform to the classical farm friendly atmosphere that the meat market advertises. By continuously buying into the meat production this neglect as PETA states will continue on. This unjust treatment is something that PETA goes into extreme detail with by talking about how they are slaughtered and the actual transport of these animals. The article then goes on to explain the benefits of turning to a vegetarian lifestyle for own health. Many of the major diseases that affect most people today are things such as stroke, high blood pressure, and heart disease. These are all linked to the buildup in the arteries from the meat. Clary 3 As a result of these factors, our environment is affected deeply as well. According to website: A staggering 51 percent or more of global greenhouse-gas emissions are caused by animal agriculture, according to a report published by the [World Institute. More than half of the water used in the United States today goes to animal agriculture, and since farmed animals produce 130 times more excrement than the human population, the run-off from their waste is fouling our waterways. The issue of the effects of the meat industry on the environment is highlighted. Not only are vast amounts of water being wasted but, also the fecal matter of the animals are polluting the clean water that is left. Additional to the issue of water, forestation is being affected as well. In order for there to be proper meat production, there must be space to do so. As a result, multiple forests are being cut down to make room for these industrial farms. As well as being used to feed these animals, 70% of our agriculture goes into feeding these animals PETA puts into perspective that not only are animals negatively affected but so is the environment. With large amounts of livestock being produced it is damaging the environment drastically. In support of this according to Michael Allen Fox in his article titled and Planet he states that all of the grains used to feed the livestock could be used to feed five times as many people. It is evident that PETA has made it clear that the eating of meat has such a tremendous effect on not just the animals but on the diet of humans, and the environment. Lierre Keith introduced to the world his book the in which he speaks on his experience as a vegetarian and the negative effects of this diet. In first chapter entitled This he touches on the idea of how vegetarians feel that they are doing the environment good by not eating meat. Clary 4 truth is that agriculture is the most destructive thing humans have done to the planet, and more of the same save us. The truth is that agriculture requires the wholesale destruction of entire ecosystems. The truth is that life possible without death, that no matter what you eat, someone has to die to feed Here Keith makes asserts the argument that no matter if, one is to eat meat or not some form of life, will be harmed regardless. He then goes on to touch on the beneficial qualities that eating meat has helped with as we began to evolve as a species. Humans were able to find many more nutrients in the meat than they were actually able to in plants. This has allowed the brain to grow twice as large thus giving way to the fact that the human body was built off of nutrient rich foods (p. 140). In essence Keith is explaining how the human body was able to develop based off of these quality nutrients found in meat. He is asserting that in order for the human body to continue to develop and grow meat must be consumed to obtain these nutrients. In support of this assertion author Steven G. Kellman states in his article titled Flesh, and Foul: The Anti- Vegetarian about the pain you cause to carrots? Do you get enough protein and vitamin This statement just goes on to further justify claims about the fact that sustenance from vegetables alone cannot provide the proper amount of nutrients to the human body. He then goes on to speak about the diet that so many vegetarians use as support for their alternative lifestyle. One version of the vegetarian myth posits that we were gaining more sustenance from plants gathered by women than from meat hunted by men. This rumor actually has an author, one R.B. Lee, who concluded that hunter-gatherers got 65 percent of their calories from plants and only 35 percent from animals. This 65:35 figure has been repeated endlessly across disciplines, and it simply true (p. 146) Clary 5 Kellman like Keith explains how long ago, humans did not live off of plants as many thought they did, they hunted for meat and that was the bulk of their meal. Meat is where the majority of their nutrition derives from. Keith negates the possibility of a vegetarian proclaiming that the hunter gather diet was more so nuts, berries, and other vegetable substances. As a result of this it is evident how Keith explains that the vegetarian diet and motives are not backed by truth or valid reason. As it may be, the choice to eat meat or not is ultimately own decision. These stakeholder groups struggle to make a compromise due to the gray area in between, in which the ethical treatment of animals and the idea of which source provides better nutrients. However, as a compromise for the two, each side should educate the public on the pros and cons of being a vegetarian as well as not being a vegetarian. Additionally, the amount of harmful steroids, chemicals, and dyes used in the meat production should be dramatically reduced. According to Natural online article titled Do Steroidal Hormones Given to Livestock Affect the Humans Who Consume could be consuming hormones that are given to conventional, CAFO-raised turkeys, pigs and chickens Essentially Natural News is expanding how every day humans consume the injected steroids injected into these animals. These hormones can counterbalance with the hormones already present in the body which in turn causes a hormonal overload. This over dosage is linked to infertility and coronary heart disease. Supplementary to this the animals are put in very stressful situations with their lives and families which are then transferred to humans once they consume this meat. Do Steroidal Hormones Given to Livestock Affect the Humans Who Consume In simpler terms the stress hormones given off from the animals are taken in by those who eat it. This transference can be he very harmful to those who consume the meat. It can be compared to the carbon cycle, Clary 6 carbon is transferred through the animals. One animal takes in carbon from its meal and the atmosphere, once it is consumed by another animal the carbon is then transferred upwards. the same process here with the stress, and steroid hormones from the animals being taken in by humans. This, in turn, will eliminate the negative effects that meat has on the human body thus allowing for a healthier lifestyle. In world meat production is constantly changing, with the demand for it constantly driving upwards all because of the large population. This has led to an influx in the amount of chemicals used in the meat. In opposition to that meat is a quality source of nutrients that the human body needs every day to survive. All in all despite the claims made by each stakeholder the choice to a vegetarian or not is in the judgement of each individual. Clary 7 Works Cited Fox, Michael Allen. and Planetary Ethics and the Environment. Vol. 5, Issue 2, p. 163 174. Indiana University Press Keith, Lierre. Vegetarian Myth, edited by Lierre Keith, PM Press, 2009. ProQuest Ebook Central, https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/usf/detail.action?docID=445338. Kellman, Steven. G. Flesh, and Foul: The Anti-Vegetarian The American Scholar. Vol. 69, Issue 4, p. 85-96. United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa. 2000 Vegetarian  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. http://www.peta.org/living/food/vegetarian-101/ Wells, S.D. Do Steroids Given to Livestock Affect the Humans Who Consume Natural News,