Meyer 1 Corinn Meyer Professor Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102-14 12 February 2017 Embryonic Stem Cell Research: Modern Cure or Moral Dilemma? The use of embryonic stem cells in scientific research has been a compelling topic of debate for decades. Whether the embryo harvested for medical research is simply a bundle of undifferentiated cells, or an innocent human being has divided the public into two distinct opinions. For those in favor of the process, organizations such as the Americans For Cures who support stem cell research as a means to treat and potentially cure chronic illnesses. Conversely, foundations like Concerned Women for America view embryonic stem cell research as nothing more than destroying an innocent and precious life. Despite these differences however, there is the potential for both sides of the argument to benefit from the practice by coming to some sort of middle ground. In short, although Americans for Cures and Concerned Women for America share vastly different views on the consequences and benefits of embryonic stem cell research, compromise may be an achievable advantage for both. These compromises may include using techniques that would allow scientists to extract the stem cells needed without harming the ability for the embryo to develop into a functioning human infant. Succinctly, through compromise stem cell research may grow without disturbing the moral conscious of the public. Without compromise, scientific advancement may be stilted or even cease. The Americans for Cures organization condones embryonic stem cell research as a means to provide ailing patients with relief. These patients are then interviewed for their stories and success as a means of inspiration to those contemplating stem cell treatments. To these patients, Meyer 2 stem cell research has provided an avenue of treatment that was once thought impossible, allowing them to sustain a normal life without fear of debilitating illness. Thus, the organization relies heavily on testimonials in order to, advocate for stem cell research and therapy  ( Klein 1) as well as to create a community based on hope and the shared goal of reducing suffering. These goals, however, are disrupted by the constant debate surrounding the morals of the research, making a compromise the only manner in which to achieve them. The claims in support of stem cell research by the organization can be backed by multiple scientific articles, some which boast the research as an innovative approach to normally indecipherable conditions. One such article, titled The Future of Stem Cell Research, notes the, (Lovell-Badge 1) aspects of the practice to generate, great  (Lovell-Badge 1) in medical treatments. The author, Robin Lovell-Badge, also comments on the potential of stem cell research to develop treatments for, debilitating diseases such as diabetes, and  (1). However, the author also acknowledges the, politically  (Lovell-Badge 1) criticism and debate over the research (such as the moral repercussions of harming the embryos) as a barrier for its progress to continue, making the idea of a compromise even more tempting. On the other side of this debate, the Concerned Women for America organization readily views embryonic stem cell research as a danger to innocent life. Relying heavily on the direct translation of the gospel, the organization believes any practice of this nature to be a violation of duty to the, protection of innocent  (LaHaye 1). To this united front of women, harvesting bundles of stem cells from a defenseless human embryo is a moral and biblical predicament not worth the risk of saving those lives that have already had a chance. The need to protect that which cannot protect themselves; in this case, it is the protection of feeble embryos Meyer 3 from scientific commercialization. If a compromise were available that would allow scientific research to grow without harming the embryo, then the, sanctity of  (LaHaye 2) the organization values would be upheld. This unpopular belief of stem cell research is also backed by various scholarly articles that concern the philosophical conflict of the practice. One such article, titled The Case Against Stem Cell Research, argues that embryos are far more complex than simple cells. The author, John T. Durkin, claims that the embryo differs from other cells due to its capability of, executing a developmental  (1402) that allows it to form a human being. This means that embryos already possess the developmental qualities that a grown human has, making the harvesting of their stem cells equivalent to murder. To Durkin, embryos already have the capacity to grow and develop from the moment of conception, entitling embryos to the basic human rights afforded to those of any age; including the right to refuse research done at their expense. Despite this claim, much of the opinion regarding the embryo is morally based, and without a compromise scientific development is limited. Although the opinions of both the Americans for Cures and Concerned Women for America regarding stem cell research appear to be polar, compromise between them can be reached. This compromise would not only allow scientific research to prosper through stem cell collection, but would also placate the moral compass. With regard to achieve this, new techniques must be introduced that would allow scientists to extract the stem cells from the embryo without disrupting its ability to grow into a functioning newborn. In an article titled Rescuing Human Embryonic Stem Cell Research: The Possibility of Embryo Reconstruction After Stem Cell Derivation, author Katrien Devolder explores the various methods that would accomplish this goal. One of the first mentioned is the process of blastomere extraction, which involves, the derivation of hESCs [ the strands necessary to perform stem cell from Meyer 4 cells (blastomeres) obtained by  (Devolder 247). This method would not harm the embryo in any way, leaving it to grow naturally. Therefore, no innocent life was lost and science can continue its research. Another method proposed by article is the blastocyst transfer method, which would include extracting a small portion of cells from the inner mass of the developing embryo. This practice would also pose as an effective compromise, for the method provides the stem cells needed for research, without harming the chance of developing into a  (Devolder 247). This means that, although cells are being extracted from the embyro, the process does not inhibit their ability to grow into functioning fetuses that are born with complication. In short, there are various ways in which those who morally oppose stem cell research and those who rely on its potential to provide treatment can unite and agree. Embryonic stem cell research has provided much in terms of debate since its introduction. Organizations such as Americans for Cures regard the practice as a means to develop life-saving treatment to those in need. In contradiction to this scientific viewpoint, others such as the Concerned Women for America view stem cell research as a practice that profits on the sanctity of life, destroying an chance of survival for the progress of science. Both sides appear to be forever at odds, but there is a chance for compromise. Various techniques, including blastomeric extraction, blastocyst transfer, and others allow stem cells to be extracted without harming the embryo involved, which would provide a means for the two opposing sides to come together and agree. In this manner, scientific research may continue without moral obligations, while those who do abide by them are no longer bothered. Without compromise, organizations who feel that it is their duty to protect the innocent lives of embryos will continue to form, in turn causing the practice of embryonic stem cell research to cease growth and cannot provide the cures necessary for those who suffer. Meyer 5 Works Cited Devolder, Katrien, and Christopher M. Ward. Human Embryonic Stem Cell Research: The Possibility Of Embryo Reconstitution After Stem Cell vol. 38, no. 2-3, 2007, pp. JSTOR doi:10.1111/j.1467- 9973.2007.00477.x. Accessed 31 January 2017. Durkin, J. T. Case Against Stem Cell Science, vol. 305, no. 5689, Mar. 2004, p. 140. JSTOR doi:10.1126/science.305.5689.1402a. Accessed 31 January 2017. Klein, Robert. Americans for Cures, Americans for Cures, americansforcures.org/our-mission/. Accessed 31 January 2017. LaHaye, Beverly. Concerned Women for America, Concerned Women for America, concernedwomen.org/. Accessed 31 January 2017. Lovell-Badge, Robin. Future of Stem Cell Nature, vol. 414, 1 Nov. 2001, p. 1. Google Scholar,www.nature.com/nature/journal/v414/n6859/full/414088a0.html. Accessed 31 January 2017.