Daveyah Daniels Daniels 1 Professor Madeline Gottlieb English 1102 30 January 2017 The Ethics of Life Support Within the health care community, the controversial topic of whether life support is ethical continues to arise. Patients who are on life support have experienced brain death and it is up to the patient, or their families if they would want to continue with the life support. There are circumstances in which the health professional is responsible for determining the livelihood of their patient. To be considered lawful, the family must not have been involved and were un present throughout this process (Oberle). The issue that many uphold is whether the health professional choosing to not undergo further treatment with the patient should be examined as assisted suicide. The Texas Ethics Committee upholds the right for health professionals to form the final decision when determining if there should be a continuation of care, while the United Sates law supports patients and their families having control over the ending of care. Despite their known differences on the ethics of life support, hospice care serves as a compromise for the stakeholders. In Texas, the Ethics Committee grants the right for health professionals to decide on whether a patient will continue with life support, but neither the patient or family decides whether to end care This committee is composed of 16-20 members that have been selected by the CEO Their job in tales constructing reviews when notified on ethical or moral questions that may come up during a care These reviews provide suggestions on what is best for patient, in terms of the continuation of life support. The ethics committee is not only utilized for health professionals. The patient, or family member can also request a consultation or review. The ethics committee in Texas came about in the 1970s and in 1999 the then governor George W. Bush gave the committees the Daniels 2 power of law to make decisions on a care (Wray). The Texas Advance Directives Act grants the hospital ethics committee paper work that contains the right for them to make a final decision (Wray). An issue arises in October of 2016, when a patient by the name of David Chris Dunn, entered the Houston Methodist Hospital (Wray). His mother, Kelly, received an envelope by the medical team issuing that the hospital will end care for her son (Wray). The mother remained present for the meetings with the medical team, expressing her religious beliefs and her desire to continue life support for her son (Wray). However, the doctors had the final say and she refused to accept the envelop. Kelly had no other choice but to transfer her son to another hospital. The main concern of most patients and their families is the lack of influence that they have in the ethics committee final decisions. Through the Texas Committee, health professionals have the right to decide on whether a patient will be continuing with the life support. The United States law in regards to life support, principles hold that treatment may not be initiated without the approval of patients or their (Luce). Only under emergency circumstances does the health professional have the right to end care. These principles began with the Quinlan case that took place in New Jersey (Luce). The New Jersey supreme court declared that a patient had the ability to refuse withdrawal from treatment and if the patient is unable to exercise their right, their parents may act as a surrogate (Luce). Many supreme courts however, are reluctant to punish physicians. While physicians are aware of the United States laws, there is a sense of security in knowing the supreme court justice system will put them first. This is alarming for patients who have unwillingly been withdrawn from care by the hospital. There is a pattern within the legal system that continued treatment has been ordered when asked to resolve disputes between families that wish to continue treatment and physicians who resist (Luce). Even in these cases, the physicians are not punished. The laws concerning life support varies from state Daniels 3 to state (Luce). With that, it creates a sure confusion for patients and their rights. Friction between the patient and physician can increase the potential for legal action. This is handled with a negotiation between the parties involved in the case (Luce). The patient must be aware of their state laws on life support and proceed with caution. Ethics is what drives the United States law on life support, because the vital principles that justify the practice is whether there are briefed consents, or refusal on the matter (Luce). After much evaluation of the Texas Ethics Committee and the United States laws on life support, there is a clear compromise for both stakeholders. To better suit the patients and the physicians, hospice care is available for patients who are critically ill. focuses on caring, not With hospice care, it allows for patients to be cared for by nurses without the constant pressure to end care from a traditional hospital. If money serves as an issue for a patient, or their family there are organizations such as Big Bend Hospice that began with volunteers from the community. Also, the National Hospice and Palliative Care Organize, public and professional educational programs and materials to enhance understanding and availability of hospice and palliative With these services, it provides the patient with an easier transition from a traditional hospital setting, while also creating a more comfortable environment for the patients. Individuals may choose to reside in the comfort of their own homes during their final days while the at home nurse cares for them. With some hospice care facilities, they train volunteers who visit the hospice care patients to give them the much-needed support. This may include musical therapy, pet therapy, or even simple conversation. To be considered a hospice patient, there are a series of tests health professionals must undergo. Nurses must determine the location and frequency of the pain, in addition to the symptoms the patient experiences (Laches 25). Once this is completed, to be eligible for a transfer to a hospice care Daniels 4 facility the patient must have a note stating that the individual has 6 months or less to live. However, hospice care can exceed 6 months. The controversial argument concerning whether life support is ethical, often arises within the health care field. Patients undergoing life support, have experienced brain death and it is up to them, or their family if they wish to continue care. There are instances in which both the patient and their surrogate are unable to communicate with the health professional. Under this circumstance, it is the health professional responsibility for determining the livelihood of their patient (Oberle). The issue that remains is whether the health professional choosing to not undergo further treatment with the patient should be examined as assisted suicide. The Texas Ethics Committee upholds the right for health professionals to form the final decision when determining if there should be a continuation of care, while the United Sates law supports patients and their families having control over the ending of care. Despite the differences in the beliefs, Hospice Care provides a means for the patient to be cared for rather than doctors working towards finding a cure for the critical illness. Daniels 5 Works Cited Ethics  Ethics Committee BSA Health System in Amarillo, TX. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Hospice  National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization. N.p., 12 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Laches, Lisa A. The Relationships Among Pain, Dyspnea, Constipation and Quality of Life in Lung Cancer Patients Enrolled in a Hospice  N.p., n.d. Web. Luce, John M., and Ann Alpers. American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care  Legal Aspects of Withholding and Withdrawing Life Support from Critically Ill Patients in the United States and Providing Palliative Care to Them: American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine: Vol 162, No 6. University of Florida, 1 Dec. 2000. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Oberle, Kathleen, and Dorothy Hughes. and Perceptions of Ethical Problems in  Oberle - 2001 - Journal of Advanced Nursing - Wiley Online Library. N.p., 16 Mar. 2001. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Wray, Dianna. In Texas, a Hospital Ethics Panel - Not the Patient or Family - Decides Whether to End  Houston Press. N.p., 02 Apr. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Daniels 6