Palta 1 Rudy Palta Maria A. Theodisiou ENC 1102 - 003 21 January 2016 Genetically Modified Organisms: Solution or Threat? During the 21st century the conflict of the resourcefulness of GMOs has always been questioned. Constantly there has been issues coming to terms between the firm Monsanto, the largest producer of genetically modified organism with the Non-GMO Project. Both of these organizations share different views of GMOs and merely need to reach a compromise to resolve there problems with one another. Genetically modified organisms have the capability to help resolve major global issues such as starvation as well as the economy. It is capable of making crops resistant to pests as well as more capable of surviving natural disasters. Through manipulation of genetic material we are able to grow crops and food at a fast pace which could possibly sustain the population of the earth. Research is constantly being done on the capabilities of the GMOs and what other potential benefits they could have for society. Technology is constantly being improved in order to help society live at high standard of living while leaving resources for the long run and GMOs has a potential of doing so. As the population of the world increases at an exponential rate, GMOs are becoming more of a potential solution in order to decrease the amount of starvation throughout the world. By manipulating the genetic material of organisms, animals are capable of producing more resources needed faster or can be made to grow a larger size in order to be eaten; an example of Palta 2 this would be the salmon. Some people see this and understand it however they feel like GMOs are not the solution to many of these issues. Many environmentalists think the manipulation of organisms could be dangerous for the environment due to the manipulation of the food chain; a new organism such as an invasive species has the potential of causing extinction of other animals or resulting in overpopulation. Other people feel like there is not a enough research on the effects of GMOs and that there might be risk of potential health effects. This leads to the question: are GMOs an effective form of food/resource production? The Non-Gmos projects main concern is to inform the public of the effects of GMOs in order for everyone to know there are other alternatives besides genetically modified organisms. To give the project the rigorous scientific foundation and world-class technical support necessary for this endeavor, the organization began working with the Global ID Group, the world leaders in non-GMO testing, certification, and consulting. (Non-Gmo Project) While Monsanto is the largest producer of GMOs, their mission is to help farmers with their agriculture as well a promote a sustainable food source in order to sustain society. GMOs can have a multitude of different characteristics in order to meet a certain demand. More than 80% of all GMOs grown worldwide are engineered for herbicide tolerance. (Duke) However this modification of organisms have the capability of putting many fishermen and people out of business. Firms who use GMOs will have a much larger supply of crops compared to others who since there is less loss due to pest and natural disasters. Also if these GMOs were to migrate or be blown to another a farm, that farmer would have to pay for those GMOs; this is where the issue of abuse from Monopolies such as Monsanto come into play because they have the capability of manipulating prices with no effects from the market.(Huffingtonpost) This would cause a Palta 3 decrease in the income of farmers as well as lack of consumer diversity, since they would be forced to only buy genetically modified organisms over time. Moreover there is also a health issue that must be dealt with the use of GMOs for food production. According to the institute for responsible technology, several animal studies have indicated health risk with the consumption of genetically modified food. The FDA, or the Food and Drug Administration, had later lawsuits that were made public would provide evidence that there was corruption in the system. An FDA official known as Michael Taylor, who created the policy for GMOs was also the former attorney for Monsanto, one of the largest firm for the production of Genetically modified food (Responsible technology). Scientist believe that GM food could have many possible side effects such as potentially cause , liver problems due to possible toxins, as well as technology) Furthermore, there is an environmental effect that must be taken in mind because if GMOs are not contained properly, they have the capability of manipulating an entire ecosystem as well as cause more of a burden for a lack of resources. This was a major issue when the the first genetically modified salmon was created because if this fish were to escape into the wild it would have the capability of disrupting the food chain.(Fao) Since the salmon is now capable of eating more fish because its larger there would likely be over consumption of smaller fish would result in less food for other fish, leading to increase of death rate for marine life. This would then lead to the death of larger predators due to the lack of food therefore leading to a lower supply of food for us.. GM crops are also responsible for the emergence of herbicide resistant and which can only be killed with more toxic poisons.(Mortensen) Palta 4 Both of these stakeholders share a common ground where their main goal is to promote a food source in order to sustain society, these stakeholders merely just have different methods of doing so. The Non-GMO Project has been known for its success when promoting fundraisers, with such a large amount of volunteers this organization could have a huge impact on the community by providing its time and labor. Monsanto being known for its large production of GMOs has been trying to come to terms with the community by resolving some of the environmental issues. Monsanto is currently promoting a pesticide that do harm to bees since they have become endangered, bees are a necessary part of our ecosystem. These stakeholders could work together to promote less insecticides that may harm the bees since they help pollinate our plants resulting in the production of our food. Labeling could also be another solution since the FDA had approved of GMOs due to the corruption of a supporter of monsanto, labeling would not be an issue however this may result in possible fall of sales for genetically modified goods since people could now know if genetically modified. This would promote positive publicity for the company however since they are following their mission statement of integrity and to be trustworthy to its customers by giving them consumer diversity. Therefore the Non- Gmo Project could spread this knowledge to the world and this could have both a huge impact positively to the world and the firm. In conclusion, genetically modified organisms do have the capability of helping starving nations by making animals produce more resources need or to grow more. Less people dying means their is a much larger labour force which could promote the growth of a nation both in the case of a standard of living as well as its economy. However there are many consequences if these Palta 5 genetically modified organisms were not contained properly as well if their are no government regulations to monitor the producers of GMOs in order to assure no corruption in the market. GMOs are merely supposed to be a short term solution until more methods of food production are created in order to sustain the carrying capacity at the moment. Also with further study in the effects of GMOs, this method of food production has the capability of being an effective solution for this problem at the moment. Work Cited Palta 6  NonGMO Project . N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. The NonGmo Project site provides important information of my stakeholder such as the mission statement and goals. This site describes an organization that feels like important for the public to know of their alternatives for food. This sources speaks of the history of the organization and some of the accomplishments they achieved. This will benefit my paper by speaking of some of the compromises that could be achieved with monsanto. Also, the sources provides information on GMOs that were quite useful as well as statistics. The leaders of the organization all have credible degrees and have made huge changes to the NON -GMO community. APPDMZklsaue.  History . N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This sources provides crucial information on the facts of the Monsanto corporation. This source states the latest innovations of the firm and some of the changes they attempted to make in order to resolve moral issues. This is a credible source, the firm is ran by a large group of degreed associates in the field of biomedical engineering. Health  for Responsible Technology . N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://responsibletechnology.org/gmo-education/health-risks/>. Duke, S.O., & Powles, S.B. (2009). crops and weeds: Now and in the , 12(3&4), 346-357. Palta 7 Leader, Jessica. Wins Lawsuit Filed By U.S. Organic Farmers Worried About Seed Huffington Post . TheHuffingtonPost.com, 10 June 2013. This article speaks of the unfair monopolistic methods the monsanto corporation is using. Providing information on the effects economically of GMOs and what they can do to the society, creating the loss of jobs, and also less consumer diversity. Displays the corruption and manipulation this firm does to get an advantage over its competitors. The writer has 25 years of experience, specializing in genetically modified organisms and pesticide development. This article provides information needed in order to reach a compromise, discussing some major concerns that need to be addressed. Mortensen DA, Egan JF, Maxwell BD, Ryan MR, Smith RG. a critical juncture for sustainable weed . 2012;62(1):75-84.