Higgins 1 Madeline Higgins Professor Gottlieb 2/1/17 ENC 1102 Genetically Modified Foods All companies in the food industry have different feelings and opinions towards genetically modified organisms being used in their products; they either support or go against these GMOs. Each company has their own reasoning behind whether or not they include GMOs in their products, and there is no right or wrong side. A genetically modified organism is something that has had its DNA altered through genetic engineering to create the desired result. According to the National Library of Medicine, engineered foods have had foreign genes (genes from other plants or animals) inserted into their genetic (Lallanilla). This can result in foods that are possibly tastier and more nutritious, but it has also been found that potential risks are included in modified organisms. It is up to the individual to decide whether or not they will buy genetically modified products or boycott them and most people have very strong opinions on this controversial topic. Large companies, such as Kraft and Aldi, also have the choice to sell genetically modified products or promote non-GMO types of foods. The main job of the large businesses in this debate is to provide truthful labeling, making it obvious to the consumer if there is or is not GMOs in the products being sold. Whether or not genetically modified products are safe has been a controversial issue between many food companies, especially Kraft and Aldi, and it would be extremely effective if the labels on these products told the truth as to what is in them. Kraft is an extremely well known food company that is probably best known for their macaroni and cheese and miracle whip. This company is known for producing and selling products containing GMOs. For example, they produce Miracle Whip which according to the Higgins 2 FDA is not actually mayonnaise, but it is still loved by millions of Americans which goes to show that some people do not care what is in their food if it tastes good and this is why companies, such as Kraft, continue to sell these products Miracle Whipped GMOs). This is just one of the many products that contains GMOs, but people eat and enjoy them anyways which encourages the company to keep making and selling more. Kraft sees many benefits to selling genetically modified products, such as that they are not only safe for people to use, but also harmless to the planet and they are cost effective. They are also beneficial because they can enhance the taste of the food, which makes more of a profit in the end since more of the product will be sold. Hirshberg, who founded StonyField in 1983 stated that, lot of these companies have been fed propaganda by chemical or biotech companies the ones who essentially make these seeds. They tell them their food costs will go up. a scare (Scipioni). Kraft, like all the big companies, is all about making money, so if there is a way to save along the way and still produce great tasting products, why not do it. If the owner of Kraft is told that using GMOs in food is safe and will benefit the company in the long run, one should expect GMOs to be used in just about every product. For example, the statement has been made that, crops can improve yields for farmers, reduce draws on natural resources, and fossil fuels and provide nutritional which is why Kraft would see nothing wrong with using them in their products (Lallanilla). If they hear researchers saying that the risks to GMOs are extremely low or non-existent, these companies will see nothing wrong with selling products made directly from GMOs. To all the companies like Kraft, GMOs are a cheap and easy way to make their foods taste better and be produced faster so more can be sold. Kraft has a right to believe that using GMOs in their products is safe and the most efficient thing to do. Higgins 3 Contrarily, Aldi is known for being an all-natural business. Aldi is a discount grocery store that manages to sell products without GMOs, including produce and all kinds of chips, for very cheap. This business does not support producing and selling products that contain GMOs because they believe that these genetically modified foods are bad for human health in the long run. It has been stated that, developed nations do not consider GMOs to be so of course Aldi is worried about what the long term effects of using GMOs in their products would be especially since they already do not believe that they are beneficial or good for a human being in any way (Lallanilla). While being a natural food store, Aldi has surprisingly low prices for many of their items. Aldi is an anti-GMO company because there have been negative things said about GMOs such as, modified foods have been linked to toxic and allergic reactions, sterile and dead livestock, and damage to virtually every organ studied in lab according to the Institute for Responsible Technology (Lallanilla). If they are that harmful to animals imagine what the effects could possibly be to humans if consumed in the wrong way. Aldi is a profitable company that has been around for a while now which shows that it is possible to keep a business going and sell food products without adding GMOs. Aldi is doing what they think is best for the consumers by not producing or selling GMOs in any of their stores. To avoid selling GMOs, Aldi promotes their all-natural, GMO-free foods, and millions of people know that this is a reliable store to find trustworthy, safe products. These two companies have completely different opinions on this topic, but to benefit the consumer a fair, equal compromise is necessary. It is a knowledge and perception that creates their opinion about (Zhang 1198). They go off of what they see on the internet or hear on TV and most of the time believe what they are told. Companies need to be honest with the consumers about what is really in their products. The labeling should be truthful Higgins 4 and contain all the important information about that product, especially whether or not GMOs were used in the process of making it. One consumer, Tamara Holley, made the statement, have a right to know what we put in our bodies and companies should be held responsible for (Trotter). Most companies do not want to have to go through the process of relabeling all their products because of the major expense, but if it will put minds at ease about knowing what they are eating, it is worth it. Yes, the relabeling might cause the sales of certain products to go down when people are well aware that they contain GMOs, but it is better if people are aware of what they are purchasing. Even a representative from Kraft stated, continue to make improvement where we which shows that this could be a very reasonable compromise (Mikkelson). Also, the FDA and all of the other organizations in charge of dealing with genetically modified products need to come to a conclusion on whether or not they are actually good for a human to consume or not. A recent study reported that almost 90% of Americans want to know if their food contains GMOs (Wolf). All of the constant wondering can be hard on people and it is another reason why they get so anxious when they are not sure what food products to buy at the store. It would make this relabeling process a lot more effective because people could go into it knowing what they want to buy and being able to because the labels are truthful. A conclusion needs to be reached on whether or not they are harmful to humans in the long run and companies need to be honest in their labeling so that they can earn the customers trust by producing a good, safe product. Since there is no final verdict on whether GMOs are good or bad, most people get scared away when they see that something has been genetically modified. This is why most companies do not want to have to make it clear on their labels if they contain GMOs, but it is still unfair for consumers to have no idea what they are eating. Sometimes, people can guess depending on the Higgins 5 product whether or not they think it has GMOs in it, but the whole process would be a lot easier if the labeling was honest. Kraft and Aldi both have taken understandable sides in this conflict, but it is time they come together to make a compromise work so the problem can disappear once and for all. Higgins 6 Works Cited Kraft Miracle Whipped  GMO Inside. GMO Inside, 2012. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Lallanilla, Marc. GMOs: Facts About Genetically Modified  LiveScience. Purch, 11 Jan. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Mikkelson, David. Kraft Macaroni & Cheese Made with GMO  Snopes. Snopes, 18 Mar. 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Scipioni, Jade. Kraft, Pepsi, Coke & Others Want to Keep GMOs Their Little  Fox Business. FOXBusiness, 5 Aug. 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Trotter, Greg. GMO Labeling Debate Puts Food Industry on  Chicagotribune.com. Chicago Tribune, 25 Mar. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Wolf, Clark. Are GMO Foods On The Way  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 19 Apr. 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Zhang, Meng, and Guo-Liang Liu. The Effects Of Subjective And Objective Knowledge On Perceptions And Attitude Towards Genetically Modified Foods: Objective Knowledge As A  International Journal Of Food Science & Technology 50.5 (2015): 1198-1205. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.