Seton Novack Novack 1 Professor Madeline Gottlieb ENC1102.15 29 January 2017 The Use of Genetically modified organisms are fruits, vegetables and animals whose genetic makeup has been changed to help these organisms grow larger and last longer. These organisms may have been injected with chemicals or sprayed with pesticides that can be harmful to humans. In recent years, this topic has become a polarizing debate, with activist groups, such as The Non-GMO Project and the Organic Association taking a stand against the usage of genetically modified organisms in food. Other research, like Biofortified and the FDA, suggests that there is no harm in GMO usage. affect everyone from the environment, to farmers to the general public that consumes these foods. Since this is multidimensional issue, it is important to understand both sides of this debate and more importantly, what the Non-GMO Project, the Organic Association, Biofortified and the FDA have in common to be able to reach a viable compromise. Increased communication between the public and the scientific community along with proper labeling of products that contain would ease the tension of this debate. Governmental organizations such as the Food and Drug Administration tend to lean more toward the pro-GMO side because genetically modified organisms make the agricultural industry more efficient. Organizations such as Biofortified want to increase awareness of the benefits of using Their platform is based around educating the public and encouraging discussion about the use of Biology Fortified is an organization that provides research in favor of and promote its usage. They claim that some of the positives Novack 2 associated with using genetically modified organisms in crops is that it makes the crops more sustainable which helps sell more crops: analyses suggested that yields in organic agriculture lag significantly behind those of more conventional production Another Organic Yield goal is to educated the public about and let the public know that GMO foods are safe for consumption. A lot of the benefits associated with the use of genetically modified organisms are the positive impacts selling these foods have on the environment. Some farmers rely on using in their food financially, so to ban it all together would have a negative impact on their livelihood. Though not all farmers use the that do rely on them heavily. Johnson, an American farmer states: decision to use a GMO seed is not one that farmers make lightly. According to Pratt, her family uses GMO crops because of the clear value they bring to their family a Since GMO foods last longer and are cheaper to grow, it is more economical to buy GMO foods. Organic foods tend to be very costly and not last as long as their GMO counterparts. The FDA deems the use of genetically modified organisms safe and promotes voluntary labeling of genetically engineered food products. Some scientific research suggests that there is no major health or environmental impact of the use of first conclusion that sticks out in this study is a confirmation that insect resistant GE crops have been and continue to be positive for the (Bodnar). There has been a concern that have a negative impact on the environment but this study suggests that some can have a positive impact on the environment: first conclusion that sticks out in this study is a confirmation that insect resistant GE crops have been and continue to be positive for the (Bodnar). Other studies suggest that there is not much difference in terms of nutrition between commercial crops and organic crops (Kniss,). Most benefits associated with Novack 3 using genetically modified organisms in food have to do with efficiency, sustainability and what is most economical to the consumer and producer. Organizations such as the Non-GMO Project and the Organic Association are vehemently against the use of and would like to see the eventual halt of genetically modified organisms in food. Most people are not aware of what chemicals are being injected into their fruits and vegetables and this can be detrimental to public health if the public is not aware of what they are putting into their bodies. The goal for these organizations is to educate the public so they can make informed and healthy decisions about what they are going to eat and what they are going to feed their families. Part of the Non-GMO Projects platform is to establish a non-GMO seed supply so people can have access to non-GMO options. This organization also believes: integrity of our diverse genetic inheritance is essential to human and environmental health and ecological The use of genetically modified organisms eliminates genetic diversity among plants and animals and this genetic diversity is what keeps the environment healthy and in balance. Many of these genetically modified organisms can become resistant to herbicides and pesticides which can be harmful to humans because it would require farmers to increase their usage of the chemicals: a result, use of toxic herbicides like Roundup has increased 16 times since GMOs were Project). This is not only detrimental to the health of humans, but it can also negatively impact the environment. The Organic Association is a grassroots organization that promotes safe and healthy foods, environmental sustainability, and safe agricultural practices Consumers This organization would like to see the complete overhaul of agricultural practices in the United States and transition to organic farming that is not harmful to the environment. This organization also educates people on the Novack 4 harmful effects of GMO and would like see the complete elimination of and transition to all organic foods. No studies about the long-term effects of genetically modified organisms have been done on humans and have been linked to many diseases such as cancer and kidney and liver disease Consumers Most negative aspects of the use of genetically modified organisms deal with the health of the public and the damage it can do to the environment. Many companies who use genetically modified organisms in their food do not properly label which ingredients contain A viable compromise in the GMO debate would be to properly label the ingredients that contain so the consumers can choose for themselves whether or not they choose to eat those foods. Consumers should also have more access to non- GMO options. This would be a viable compromise because it is not eliminating the usage of but it is educating the public about what they are putting into their bodies and giving them a choice not to eat these foods. Just Label It is an organization that promotes the proper labeling of genetically modified organisms. They claim that consumers have a right to know what is in their food and have the choice whether or not they want to eat that food and give it to their families. Studies show that most Americans support mandatory GMO labeling but many companies continue to disregard proper labeling of (Just Label It). It is important for people to know what is in their food and GMO labeling would help the public make informed decisions. This would not eliminate the use of but it will inform people to make their own decisions on whether or not they choose to eat food containing genetically modified organisms. Currently, the FDA does not require companies that use genetically modified organisms to fully label which ingredients contain them (Just Label It). This compromise would benefit both sides of this debate because the use of genetically modified organisms would still be Novack 5 taking place, but with increased labeling of genetically modified organisms, it will make people think twice about what they are feeding themselves and their families. The recent debate on whether or not genetically modified organisms should be used in our food has become polarizing. Most of the American food and agricultural industry relies heavily the use of but they can have some negative effects on the health of humans and the environment. Organizations such as Biofortified and the FDA claim that are safe for the public and cause no environmental damage, while organizations such as The Non-GMO Project and the Organic Consumers Association call for a halt of using While this debate is still on going, a viable compromise that will benefit both sides would be to properly label so the public can choose for themselves. If the public is educated about they will be able to make informed decisions on their own. Novack 6 Works Cited Front  Organic Consumers Association Campaigning for Health, Justice, Sustainability, Peace, and Democracy. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.  Biology Fortified, Inc. N.p., 04 Nov. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017 It, Just Label. Just Label  Just Label It. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. MOST TRUSTED  The NonGMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. U S Food and Drug Administration Home  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017