Al Shehhi 1 Wafaa Al Shehhi Janie Gill ENC1102.077S17 February 13th 2017 Controlling immigration in the United States Every day, thousands of legal and illegal immigrants come to the United States from the different countries. Immigration is an extensive topic and everything in the life has a multiple sides, even pros and cons. Moreover, there are a lot of people against immigration especially in the United States, because the huge number of immigrants that enter U.S. daily. The American Immigration Control Foundation organization is the organization that defends the country of the immigrants. On the other hand, some people go forward with immigration and they try to do the best to let immigrants enter the country easily without facing any problems. American Friends Service Committee is the organization that tries to help immigrants. Both organizations are interests on the immigration topic. Finding compromises for this topic will make both sides satisfied. Be sure that government has a workforce enforcement program that really works. And, illegal immigrants who currently in United States must to wait for a specific period of time to become one of the persons who hold a green card. There are some issues that come from immigration, such as, illegal immigrants, drugs and terrorism. There are also some positive impacts of immigration. For example, immigrants may help the United States economy, which make the country has a good economy. Also, immigration helps some of people who do not have a safe place to live in or to complete their life without any problems like, countries who have wars. Moreover, children can get their education that their parents cannot find for them in the home country. Hence, immigration has multiple sides that affect the United States positively and Al Shehhi 2 negatively. I believe the high secure border and illegal immigrants who currently in United States must wait for a specific period of time will be a good compromise for both sides. The first organization that takes care of immigration issue from the negative side is American Immigration Control Foundation organization. American Immigration Control Foundation is founded in 1983. It has a lot of members that work in it and they agree that immigration is a bad idea. They try to do anything to stop immigrants from entering United States. Also, they focus on the specific part, which are illegal immigrants. According to the American Immigration Control Foundation website that majority of immigrants are (consciously or unconsciously) undermining our customs, our culture, our language, and our institutions. Instead of remaining in their native lands and emulating the United States, they are descending upon our shores and trying to reshape the United States into the image of the lands they (AIC). Illegal immigration is a really big problem. Most illegal immigrants bring a lot of issues with them like drugs, crimes and share bad illegal activities. Furthermore, illegal immigrants take away jobs from the citizens of the United States. Which make Americans have a less opportunity to get a job. According to the After They Closed the Gates article by Bayor, people who against illegal immigrants are agree that most of the United States money goes to the illegal Immigrants by in paying for border patrol and deportation (Bayor, 2015). The American Immigration Control Foundation mentions that those illegal immigrants increase the number of illegal activities in the United States. Also, Some children get rights from the government but legal children or American deserve it more than them. Allowing illegal immigrants to enter the United States a negative impact. Which leads to their, access to health care and social security, education and other remaining system that citizen or legal immigrant deserve it and this makes the US government is paying their mistakes. Al Shehhi 3 Secondly, the second organization is American Friends Service Committee. American Friends Service Committee is an organization that defends immigrants and they try to do as many as they can to help immigrants. According to the AFSC website, they were in the crucible of World War I by Quakers who aimed to serve both humanity and country while being faithful to their commitment, AFSC is founded in Immigration provides some people a way to improve their lives. The number of people who have a war in their countries increased in this period. These people need a place that they feel safe in with their children and they want their children have a good education, health care and so on. Moreover, immigrants are consumers. They will buy from manufacturers and dealers of others. As a result, this will greatly help in the US economy. According to the Still A Nation Of Immigrants Effects Of Constructions Of National History On Attitudes Toward Immigrants Still A Nation Of Immigrants Effects Of Constructions Of National History On Attitudes Toward Immigrants article by Bikme labor force which add to the GDP or Gross Domestic Product which is equivalent to $1.5 trillion dollars over a period of 10 (Bikmen, 2015). American Friends Service Committee provides a lot of services for immigrants. Also, they provide a donate section for immigrants who have difficulties immigrating to other places because their income or their social status. This organization has many events almost weekly about immigration to inform people more about immigration and about people who need to immigrate to the United States for better life. American Friends Service Committee support refugees in the United States and try to help them by finding the best place to live in and complete their life safely. The organization goal is helping immigrants cross the United States. Despite the both organizations have a different perspective on the immigration topic, but they have some interests. Both organizations are interests on the immigration topic. Also, both Al Shehhi 4 organizations made by American and start from the United States. I believe that both organizations will share a positive compromise to develop or improve the United States. Both organizations have a different perspective on the immigration topic. Each of them thinks from the different side. So, the first organization thinks that the immigration is a bad idea for the United States because it will drive a lot of issues such as what mentioned before. And, the other organization thinks that the immigration is a good idea for the United States for the economy and for people who immigrate to the United States for better lives. If both of these organizations try to work on their thoughts, that will make good compromises. The first compromise is sure the border is secure. And, be sure that government has a workforce enforcement program that really works. Already the government has a secure border but still there are many of Mexicans enter the United States. So, we need a high secure border. Also, because of the huge number of illegal immigrants from Mexico that enter the United States from the border, the government should make sure about the enforcement program in these special places. According to The Right U.S. Immigration Enforcement Solution article by Larson, the second compromise after border security is a illegal immigrant who is currently in the United States must to wait for ten years to become one of the persons who hold a green card, and when he or she receive that card must pay all past taxes and fees, this will help in the United States revenues (Larson, 2012). Then, each of these compromises may help both organizations to understand each other and they should know nothing is perfect and need to improve whatever if this thing is good or bad. In the end, immigration in the United States is an important topic in this day. It has a positive and negative impact in the United States. Each of the organizations should deal with this case in a rational thinking. Immigration is a good idea, if it will improve the United States. Also, Al Shehhi 5 it will be good if it will help other people to find a good condition life to complete their life as other. Also, immigration is a bad idea if the immigrants enter the United States as illegally and drive with them crimes and drugs. Both of these organizations have same interests that they care about the immigration. Secure borders and provides for the illegal immigrants the green card after period of time are a good compromises for both organizations. Thus, the compromises should be found to make both organizations satisfied. Al Shehhi 6 Works Cited American Friends Service Committee. (1947). History of AFSC. Retrieved from https://www.afsc.org . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. American Immigration Control Foundation. (1983). A Brief History of Immigration. Retrieved from http://www.immigrationcontrol.com. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bayor, Ronald H. After They Closed The Gates: Jewish Illegal Immigration To The United States,  American Jewish History 2 (2015): 197. Literature Resource Center. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bikmen, Nida. Still A Nation Of Immigrants Effects Of Constructions Of National History On Attitudes Toward  Analyses Of Social Issues & Public Policy 15.1 (2015): 282-302. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Larson, Michael J. The Right U.S. Immigration Enforcement Solution: Haste  University Of Miami Law Review 3 (2012): 807. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.