Student 1 Madeline Parker Enc 1102 Stephanie Derisi 24 January, 2016 Mission to the Red Planet As people may know NASA is the largest space company in America, that was founded in 1958. This company has over 18,000 people employed by them. Together they achieve missions and space explorations. Nowadays people might ponder what next mission is and what they have been working on currently. Well their website is always up to date with their current missions or projects that they are working on. Currently on website they explain about their mission to Mars, and how they hope to one day have a human walk Mars. Their websites includes two images that relates to their mission to Mars. These images were chosen because they also use many different rhetorical devices to attract their audience. Nasa wants to inform and provided information about their missions, so they have placed these two images to do so. website talks about a lot of their research and so do their images. They have a lot of other research missions going on now, but sending people off to the Red planet seems to be their main goal. Image one displays an astronauts foot in a white suit stepping into soil. The image also says Journey to  and a hashtag in the bottom corner saying (see image one). This appears on their front page of the website next to a couple other research missions. People could then click on this picture to read more about the mission to Mars. This symbolizes a man or woman finally conquering the planet Mars. It can Student 2 also help motivate people to start learning more about the Mars landing and consider it to actually happen one day. They use red soil in this picture to indicate the outer texture of surface. The hashtag in this picture gives it a modern day feel. Hashtags are a current trend on social media to let people look up topics that are similar. They advertise their hashtag Journey to Mars so that people can look it up and be linked to the same topic to read more about it. Image one of an astronauts foot in red soil brings a meaningful message and proposes of an enormous mission for NASA. In the image there is also a footprint left in the red dirt of the boot. This can symbolize the mark in history America will make if humans finally reach planet Mars. This image by NASA uses logos by convincing the people that see it a logic understanding of the possibility of the Mars landing. Image one, that is on page, symbolizes the mission to Mars. This is a big topic for Nasa and using this picture helps people understand that the Mars landing is happening soon . The use of kairos comes into play in this image as well because it speaks in a timeliness manner. The mission is going to happen eventually and their goal is on a time schedule to be done before the year 2030. Image one gives people an idea and hope to look forward to them being done in the next decade. website also contains another image, image two, a picture of a rocket preparing to launch from Earth into space. It shows smoke come off around the rocket like it is getting ready to launch. This shows an example of how the Space Launch System and Orion will look when it is ready to head off to their voyage. The image is titled Orion  to give a clear understanding to the audience of what it is. This image displays Nasa hard work and dedication they are putting in to achieve the goal of building the spacecraft. This picture provides a clear image of a spacecraft taking off and the rockets are producing an enormous amount of smoke to take off. In the distance behind the launching spacecraft, there is a building. Student 3 This image is displayed on their website under Journey to  to help the audience get an idea of what plan will look like. Image one of the Orion spacecraft taking off lets people know what to expect from Nasa in the next decade. This image brings hope to people by giving them visuals of the future. This image uses the skill of pathos to give the audience hope of this project by providing a realistic photo of what it is going to look like. This image looks very realistic but it is just a model of what the Orion spacecraft will look like done and ready for take off. This image was a great choice because it provides current project of what it is going to look like. Image two also advertising their project, out for the public to see. It can also give the workers motivation towards the Mars landing. This image is a great example of that because it draws people in with realistic picture of Orion. big mission to the red planet is explained all throughout their website but these two images in particular help provide information on their mission. These images are used to give help, knowledge, and an understanding to anyone that visits their website. They also draw the attention to audience by providing logical facts about the future landing on Mars. Images one and two also use many rhetorical devices through the images they chose. Both of them used the following logos, pathos, and kairos by including emotion, facts, and time. These images help draw in their audience to learn more about the mission to Mars. They also do a great job with providing them visuals of project. The two images that were described on their website advertised mission to the Mars in many ways. Now people will be educated with the possibility that Mars might soon be conquered by humans. (WC: 1022) Image 1 Student 4 Image 2 Student 5 Works Cites NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <https://www.nasa.gov/>. Journey to Mars  NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <https://www.nasa.gov/content/journey-to-mars-overview>. The Ins and Outs of First Launch of SLS and  NASA. NASA, 27 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <https://www.nasa.gov/feature/the-ins-and-outs-of-nasa-s-first- launch-of-sls-and-orion>.