Montes 1 Robert Montes Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 24 January 2017 NCAA VS CAPA Although the NCAA and the College Athletes Players Association, also known as CAPA, have opposing views on whether or not Student-Athletes should be paid, a common ground could be found that is in the best interest for NCAA and NCAA Student- Athletes. Should NCAA Student-Athletes be paid has been an on going issue for quite some time now. Currently, NCAA and universities have not been allowed to pay Student- Athletes for their sports performances because of amateurism. Also, Student-Athletes are not allowed to receive money for being in advertisements or signing autographs. NCAA has stuck strong to its view that the Student-Athletes should not be allowed to be paid or receive any type of extra benefits for their performance on a NCAA College sports team. NCAA Student-Athletes strongly believe that they should be paid for all the work they put in and also for all the money that they bring into their respective schools when they perform well on the field. Although the NCAA and CAPA have opposing views on whether or not Student-Athletes should be paid, a common ground could be found that is in the best interest for NCAA and NCAA Student-Athletes. These are the main reasons of many things that could destroy the NCAA organization as a whole if it began to allow Student- Athletes to be paid. The NCAA is one of the most well known organizations in the United States today and will be for a very long time. The organization is very committed to giving its Student-Athletes the best Montes 2 opportunities with what is given. NCAA believes that not allowing Student-Athletes to be paid is in their best interest. They want to keep Student-Athletes big issue has arose throughout the years on whether NCAA should allow Student-Athletes to be paid by either the NCAA, their respective colleges and even big corporations that would like to use NCAA Student-Athletes as advertisement for products. The main reason why Student-Athletes have not been able to be paid is due to amateurism. Amateurism is defined by the NCAA as general, amateurism requirements do not allow: Contracts with professional teams, Salary for participating in athletics and Prize money above actual and necessary The NCAA has stuck strong to its opinion that Student-Athletes should not be paid mostly in part to keep their amateurism. The biggest reason for Student-Athletes not being paid is that NCAA believes that being a student comes before being an athlete. NCAA sports would be viewed differently if Student-Athletes were being paid. It could also turn into a bidding war when schools are trying to get a top recruit, who is going to be willing to promise the young athlete the most money he can receive throughout his amateur career. This would then un-level the playing fields on recruitment for smaller Universities who do not have the funds those bigger Universities have. CAPA is a organization that is run by current and former College Athletes. CAPA has strong beliefs that NCAA Student-Athletes should be paid be either the NCAA, their respective universities and also by commercial businesses if they want to use the Student- Athletes for advertisement. It is stated clearly in their website what they wish to accomplish, will ultimately allow players to collectively bargain for comprehensive reform such as: Improving graduation rates. Establish an educational Montes 3 trust fund to help former players complete their degree and reward those who graduate on time. Consistent with evolving NCAA regulations or future legal mandates, increasing athletic scholarships and allowing players to receive compensation for commercial One of the main reasons that CAPA believes that Student-Athletes should be paid is because the NCAA makes over a billion dollars every year as a whole and is supposed to be a non-profit organization. CAPA believes that some of this money should be dispersed to Student-Athletes who help earn it. It is important to remember that CAPA is not made up of just some guys looking for a way to make profit for themselves. This organization is ran by former and current Student- Athletes that are trying to give college athletes the best experience they can get by negotiating with the NCAA. Although the NCAA and CAPA have very different views on the topic of should Student-Athletes be allowed to be paid. NCAA has stuck by the side that Student- Athletes should not be paid for quite some time now. CAPA however, a fairly new organization has been making a strong case on why Student-Athletes should be allowed payments. Neither side is going to get exactly what they want but they could meet somewhere in the middle that can make everyone happy. One of the biggest issues that CAPA expresses is not that the NCAA is not paying its Student-Athletes but how they are not allowed to receive compensation for advertisement. If Under Armour called a college athlete and told him they wanted to put him in a commercial to promote a new pair of shoes, the athlete would have to refuse due to NCAA policies. Also when the university is using a Student-Athlete to promote ticket sales or certain gear that is sold, they are not allowed to receive any type of payment either. Also, the NCAA looks as a Montes 4 Student-Athlete as a student first and athlete second, this meaning that academics come first. Another way to pay Student-Athletes while helping increase graduation rates would be to reward students that excel in the classroom with compensation. Think of how many more Student-Athletes would do better in the classroom when they have a motivation such as payments. Ramogi Huma, one of the owners of CAPA, offers a reasonable solution that can help Student-Athletes be paid. wants the so-called Olympic model -- that is, college athletes would receive money based on individual deals, such as endorsements or autograph This strategy would be the main way for Athletes to receive compensation for their competition. The NCAA would not have to shovel out any money and players would still be able to get paid. It would also motivate player to play at a higher level and also be model citizens because corporations are going to want to be represented well. The other part would be to pay Student-Athletes for excelling in the classroom because this will give a fair chance for all Student-Athletes to be paid. It is far more likely for a star football or basketball player to be picked for advertisement over lets say tennis or volleyball player. This would be the only way for all Student-Athletes to have the equal opportunity of being paid while also increasing graduation rates. Throughout the essay the topic of should NCAA athletes be paid was discussed. Both sides were thoroughly explained before finding a common ground. NCAA believes that Student-Athletes should not be paid while CAPA strongly believes that Student- Athletes should receive compensation. A common ground was found on how Student- Athletes could be paid while keeping both the NCAA and CAPA happy. Montes 5 Works Cited NCAA.  NCAA. NCAA, n.d. Web. <NCAA.org/amateurism>. Huma, Ramogi. Why doing it  Collegeathletesplayersassociation. N.p., n.d. Web. <collegeathletespa.org>. Bilas, Jay. 7 common sense reasons why college athletes should be  Complex Sports. Ed. Maurice Peebles. N.p., 03 Dec. 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Thelin, John R. Heres why we shouldnt pay college  Time. College Sports, 1 Mar. 2016. Web. Solomon, Jon. NCAA critics offer ways to pay college  CBS Sports. N.p., 04 June 2014. Web. 6 Feb. 2017.