Vieira 1 Alexandra Vieira Professor Gottlieb ENC1102.15 30 January 2017 Violent Video Game Amongst Minor Stakeholders The realm of entertainment is dependent on the advancement of technology. Violent video games, overtime, are also made more realistic with the coming of each season. When it comes to the topic of violent video game use in minors, many people have differing opinions. One group, the Parents Television Council (PTC), argues that violent video games among minors and young adults can allow a negative influence and in some cases, lead to an aggressive change in a behavior. They believe that to not have minors be exposed to violent and sexual content, even more than what they may see in the media, that there should be a ban or restriction on minors being able to purchase and play video games with mature content in them. On the contrary, the Entertainment Merchant Association (EMA), believes that minors should be allowed to purchase and play violent video games. Though both stakeholders have varying opinions on whether children should be exposed to such video games, a possible compromise can be made. The EMA supports the usage of violent video games among minors and was so, passionate about their view that they defended their stance in a lawful manner. In June 2011, the supreme court ruled in favor of the Entertainment Merchant Association (EMA). The ruling was that it would be unconstitutional for minors in the state of California to not have the right to play violent video games because it interfered with the right to exercise the first amendment. Per the supreme court ruling, the case of Brown v. Entertainment Merchant Association, the ruling stated that California ban the sale of violent video games to Violent Video Games Contribute to Youth A justice from that court case had been noted saying that the researchers, not prove that violent video games caused minors to act (Brown Vieira 2 v. Entertainment Merchant Association). This ruling would support the perspective that is it is okay for violent video games to be used amongst minors. They believe that even minors have a constitutional right to express themselves even through the playing of violent video games. The EMA are in support of children that wish to play violent video games and so, they would be okay with having children as the consumers of such products. On the contrary, the Television Council, is against minors being able to have access to such games. There initiative and core belief is to encourage lawmakers to establish laws to ban the selling and distribution of rated r for mature video games to minors. The belief that the gory and sexual content placed in violent video games is inappropriate for adolescent. Can lead them to believe that children that are exposed to such adult like content when they are still maturing will be negatively impacted. In defense of the PTC, American Psychological studies imply that when minors play violent video games it is likely for there to be an increase in aggressive thoughts and Video Games and They feel that these violent video games can alter the perception of minors by creating the misconception that the violent and inappropriate content displayed in these games will be acceptable and will; therefore, be copied or reenacted in public. The notion that because most aggressive or violent characters portrayed in video games go unpunished for their crimes and unruly behavior, children playing the games are led to assume that if there is ever a need to solve a conflict, violence would be the easier and sometimes more satisfying solution. In agreement with the ideas of the PTC it is stated that, We can now say with utmost confidence that regardless of research method -- that is experimental, correlational, or longitudinal -- you get the same  said Anderson, who is also director of Iowa Center for the Study of Violence. In support of the viewpoints; The effects are that exposure to violent video games increases the likelihood of aggressive Vieira 3 behavior in both short-term and long-term contexts. Such exposure also increases aggressive thinking and aggressive affect, and decreases prosocial (U.S. News & World Report 2010). This research was still; however, not supportive enough to help win in the supreme court case concerning the state of California. When comparing the stakeholders, there is a possibility for a common ground. Though the difference of the is that the EMA is in favor of minors being able to purchase and play violent video games and believe that playing such games is a natural right like that of freedom of speech; and that the PTC considers that there is a possibility for there being a negative influence in behavior due to the usage of violent video games. Both the PTC and EMA believe that playing violent video games are not necessarily bad but both have a varying idea of who should play these types of games. Both stakeholders are open to the selling and distribution of violent video games. They both suggest that parents take an active role in monitoring what children do in their free time. The PTC would like to see a more enforced ban on minors playing the game. The EMA just wishes to make a profit and hope that minors playing these games will gain them more of a fan base and overall more consumers for their products. A possible compromise would be if these violent video games came with desensitization clips/videos at certain intervals during the game that would require a few questions to be answered. The user would not be able to skip the video or questions because it would not let the user move on in the game. Another compromise would be if there was a censored and uncensored version of the game. The uncensored version would be double the cost or at least thirty-five percent higher in cost. This would make it less likely for a parent or child to want to purchase these violent video games because of the high expense. Parents can also seek the help of medical professionals such as psychiatrists to help get treatment for children who may be Vieira 4 negatively influenced by the content displayed in violent video games. An article on parenting suggests that; you continue to have concerns about your gaming habits or if your child is having difficulty with mood or behavior, ask your pediatrician, family physician or school counselor to help arrange a referral to a trained and qualified mental health (Video Games and Children: Playing with Violence). A medical professional would be needed if the gaming habits are becoming a concern. Both sides would benefit because the video game makers want a profit and the opposing side would like to decrease the use of violent video games among children in fear of exposing them to mature content at an early age. In some cases, parents are unaware of what the video game ratings are or they just seem to be that concerned. With this in mind an increase in the price of violent video games will more than likely allow for parents and minors to stay away from wanting to purchase these games. Vieira 5 Works Cited Brown v. Entertainment Merchant Association. United States Supreme Court. 27 June 2011. Print. Footnotes & Sources - Violent Video Games -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Scientists explore how violent video games are exemplary aggression  Video Game Research. Parent Television Council, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Study: Violent Video Game Play Makes More Aggressive  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, 3 Mar. 2010. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Violent Video Games and  PTC Violent Video Games and Minors. Parents Television Council, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Video Games and Children: Playing with  Video Games and Children: Playing with Violence. American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.