Melissa Anne Bernal Instructor Ryan ENC 1102-001 28 January 2017 Creating the Bridge between Cochlear Implants and the Deaf Community Deaf people used to be seen as disabled, like they were less than everyone else because they had less hearing. It used to be that the Deaf community could only use sign language; this was introduced by Thomas Gallaudet in the early 1800s (Through Deaf Eyes, youtube.com). Eventually Alexander Graham Bell came to America and started teaching oral speech to Deaf people. (Education: Essay, disabilitymuseum.com) These two differences became the first controversial topic in the Deaf community and it is still partially controversial to the day. But a larger topic emerged in 1982, the cochlear implant. a device that allows the brain to sounds. It does not fix the deafness, but rather reprograms the brain to learn what the sounds are from other places (often the top of the head). The issue that some Deaf people in the community have with the implant is that once you have one it who you are. The cochlear does not make you gain your hearing back, more like a super hearing aid, that works with you brain instead of your ears. With it the person is not fully hearing, nor Deaf. They are now in this in between. This is the main reason why many Deaf people are against cochlear implants. Like with any issue, there are two sides or positions to the problem. In this case the strongest and most active supporter is the Alexander Graham Bell Association, ABG. Earlier it was explained that the AGB was a strong supporter for oral communication within the Deaf community, in which case their support for cochlears are really to not surprise. The founder of the mission was and still is, Listening and Spoken Language for Individuals that are Deaf and Hard of (Who We Are, agbell.org) From the beginning Alexander Graham wanted them to be able to communicate like any other person and still live in the mainstream society. On the other hand there is a group who has shown a huge difference than AGB, that is Audism Free America. This is a group established straight from the Deaf community that has organized countless rallies against AGB. The purpose that Audism Free America has is, promote and protect the civil liberties of Deaf people and their linguistic (Audism Free America, audismfreeamreica.blogspot.com) Audism Free America wants the Deaf people to have a sense of community and support. They want Deaf people to know what their rights are and how amazing it is to be a Deaf person, not how the public views them as disabled. The AFA strongly supports the use of American Sign Language. To them Thomas Gallaudet invented this language that allowed them to reach a sense of identity, to not feel like they need to be something that they are not, but instead use this language that was introduced to continue living the lives that they choose. At the center of this are still Deaf people of all kinds. When discussing a controversial topic it is easy to get so consumed by the problem that the reason why it is trying to get fixed is lost. Both AGB and AFA think that they are doing what is best for Deaf people and the Deaf community. They do not want Deaf people to feel like they are not being heard or that they do not have anyone to help them. their priority: Taking care of Deaf people. They want to make sure that the Deaf person has the best opportunities in life to truly succeed in life, not let this or of hearing hold them back. Keeping the center of attention on Deaf people and the betterment and success of them will help create a less tense issue between AGB and AFA. Reminding AGB and AFA on the bridge that was built between oral language and ASL will hopefully allow them to keep an open mind when considering this new compromise. Neither AGB nor AFA will lose anything in this compromise. All that will happen is that they will learn to accept one another and not let this difference of views affect the Deaf community in a negative way. What the proposed solution is, that they united their views. That the people who decide to not get the CI not be punished or from the community by AGB because they opted to choose an option that they deem right for them. And for the opposite side, those who do get the implant not looked down upon and spoken badly from the AFA because they wanted to try something that will benefit their quality of life. In the end, the compromise will make sure that AGB and AFA give their evidence, their side of the story and whatever the Deaf person chooses let it be. AGB and AFA should not see it as a win if the person gets one or not. They should see it as a win always because now they have a new member to their community who is just trying to make it in the world. Like any other person. In order to make this possible, AGB and AFA have to have a place where Deaf people can listen to them and where they will both have an even playing field. The primary place where this could happen is Gallaudet University. Gallaudet University is a very historical place for the Deaf community and this will make sure that AGB and AFA will be respectful and keep their main goal in mind, help the Deaf people no matter what they choose. (Through Deaf Eyes, youtube.com) Having conferences and conventions for Deaf people to come to would be helpful because it gives them a place to come and listen to each point of view without feeling bombarded in a place that only speaks of one side. Gallaudet and other organizations would be able to help towards making this happen, this also includes parents and adults that want to come and educate themselves on what each side proposes. Conventions and Conferences like this could be held a minimum of two times a year but preferably 3 times a year, that way this gives parents and adults multiple opportunities to come and learn. In the end it is fairly simple, AGB and AFA should keep in mind the progress that has been made in the past 100 years in the Deaf community and for Deaf people, and instead of making Deaf people choose a side, they should be working on ways that continue to unite the community. The more that organizations work together to continue to benefit the community the more that Deaf people will feel like they have a place in this world, a safe place, where they can go and not feel judged and automatically have people they connect with. Works Cited Alexander Graham Bell. Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing. . Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. Alexander Graham Bell. Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing. https://www.agbell.org/Document.aspx?id=532 Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Audism Free America. Audism Free America. 2009. . Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. Audism Free America. Audism Free America. 2009. http://audismfreeamerica.blogspot.com/search?q=cochlear+implant. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. ASL IVC. (2015, April 3). Through Deaf Eyes. Retrieved from: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tJeAG8tZyf4 Disability Museum. Straight Ahead Pictures, Inc. 2001. http://www.disabilitymuseum.org/dhm/edu/essay.html?id=59 Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. The Purdue OWL Family of Sites. The Writing Lab and OWL at Purdue and Purdue U, 2008, https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/747/08/ Accessed 21 Jan. 2017.