Dyal 1 Shawn Dyal Ms. Gottlieb ENC 1102 26 January 2017 NCAA Officials vs. Basketball and Football Players In world of college athletics, athletes start at the high school level. If they are good enough to be noticed by college scouts, they have the potential to receive a scholarship to attend and play their sport at a potential well-known school. Depending on the quality of team the selected school has, the athlete who chose the school could be playing at a university known for the sport they play. The two key sports that American society pays attention to are football and basketball vs. These two sports have the overall greatest importance in collegiate sports. The problem today is that the basketball and football players want to be paid for playing and for their likeness in videogames and the revenue the generate for their school and the NCAA (Student-Athletes Vs. NCAA). National Collegiate Athletic Association, NCAA, Officials do not want to pay college athletes. The two sides have yet to come to an agreement, which will be seen in each strong opinion on whether student-athletes should be paid. The two sides, however, are arguing about the same thing, money. Money is the root of the problem, and will be the solution to the problem. College basketball and football players have felt that they should be paid. This has been an issue ever since the Ed filed a lawsuit against the NCAA. The lawsuit regarded images and likeness of college athletes, which stemmed from seeing himself represented in a videogame and was not compensated for his likeness in the videogame files suit vs. Players have had the issue of not being paid stemming from not being paid from their Dyal 2 likeness used in videogames and this caused the videogame NCAA football to be cancelled because of the lawsuits. Electronic Arts, EA, is the producer of games such as NCAA Football and NCAA Basketball which have brought great economic growth to the videogame industry. The quality of player likeness has improved with better technology that even certain moves they perform in life can be used in videogames, as seen with players like Braxton Miller and Ezekiel Elliot (A Solution for the Pay for Play Dilemma of College Athletes: A Novel Compensation Structure Tethered to Amateurism and Education). The way numbers reflect their actual team numbers, their likeness in their speed and other measurable skills are as close to the actual player. Between likeness and image, these players feel that they should be paid for what looks like and plays like them. The players also feel that they should be paid because of the revenue they generate for their respected schools and for the NCAA. Schools generate hundreds of millions of dollars from their athletes. Even schools that have a small importance on athletics, athletes are still generating millions of dollars for their school as seen from the 2015 chart from the article, The difference in how much money schools make off of college sports is jarring, and it is the biggest obstacle to paying athletes. The chart shows how even less than fifty percent of universities are making millions of dollars from their athletic programs. The highest value on the chart is $180 million that is generated in sports revenue in bigger colleges like Texas A&M University and the University of Texas The difference in how much money schools make off of college sports is jarring, and it is the biggest obstacle to paying Athletes can see that they are a great source of revenue for their school and thus should be compensated fairly. The sports that have been known to bring in the most amount of money, football and basketball, are the two groups that feel they deserve to be paid instead of the other sports. The two sports are in the most spotlight compared to other sports regardless of gender. Dyal 3 basketball gains a lot of television time especially during their tournament, March Madness. college basketball brings in revenue just from having games on almost every day of the week during their season. and college football games are on most Saturdays along with other days throughout the fall and winter and are put on a greater level of importance during bowl season. Student athletes bring in around eleven billion dollars to the college sports industry vs. Athletes know that they are the main reason for the roughly eleven billion dollars generated and know that there is enough money to be dispersed as said in the statistic. However, the only problem is that NCAA officials do not want to pay college athletes because of the level of competition they view college sports. The NCAA prides itself heavily on the idea of amateurism competition because that is how they grew to be so prominent. Amateurism is the idea that academics come before sports. Amateur sports are where athletes are playing for their personal gain instead of a monetary gain. The NCAA believes that: amateurism is crucial to preserving an academic The biggest issue NCAA have with paying college athletes is the same reason athletes want be paid. The NCAA views athletes as student-athletes who are playing an amateur sport The role of the student athlete is to first focus on school and sports is second as they are referred to, student-athletes. In terms of NCAA laws, college sports are important to the college education experience but there must be a fine line between amateurism and professionalism vs. Sports is a way for the school to enhance the college experience because of the school spirit that comes with sports, however school is more important than sports and thus sports are considered secondary. NCAA officials understand that college athletics, especially, basketball and college football, are the main sources of their revenue, but that paying student-athletes would contradict their view on Dyal 4 amateurism. Another reason that NCAA officials do not want to pay student-athletes is because many athletes at the top level, Division I, are attending school on scholarships. This has been a widely known practice that has been occurring and will continue to occur. The idea that athletes are on scholarships, many top athletes receiving full ride scholarships and still want to be paid is something the NCAA cannot fully comprehend. The problem that is faced with being focused on education first rather than sports is that athletes are faced with not getting a full education because there is a greater importance on sports. The role of education and sports is reversed in many schools: is more important for many institutions to have winning teams in the major sports, particularly football and basketball, than academic vs. As mentioned earlier, the NCAA is focused on education as the top priority with sports being secondary. The idea that many institutions morals are focused or winning in sports rather than academically opposes the NCAA which leads into further problems that arise from education not being a focal point. Athletes are no longer focused on school because their goal is to play and get paid at the professional career and they neglect their academic career. Athletes can focus on sports rather than school because they have aid from others that take tests for them or right papers for them just so they can maintain certain grades to be eligible to play Paying College The NCAA is aware of these practices from different scandals that have occurred, and the money that is used for scholarships, which includes academics as a major component, seem to be corrupted and the education that athletes are receiving is not true to what truly occurs. With a billion-dollar industry, student athletes want to be paid, money is the problem and money will be the main point for a compromise Solution for the Pay for Play Dilemma of College Athletes: A Novel Compensation Structure Tethered to Amateurism and Dyal 5 NCAA officials and college athletes, particularly football and basketball players, have been arguing over the issue of paying college athletes. Each side has viewpoints that are based on money. The solution is based off money. From this proposed solution, college athletes that are on full scholarship will be paid for their likeness, if used, and will be paid an equal pay to other athletes at their division level. The money that is paid to them will be put into an account that they, student-athletes, cannot use until they are no longer eligible to play either college basketball or football. Their eligibility is determined by either leaving for the professional level early in their college career or finishing all their time in college (Groves). Student-athletes that are not on full scholarship will be paid an equal amount to other athletes. However, instead of not being to use the money, they can use the money for school related purchases and purchases outside of school purchases must be reviewed by a small board. This board would determine if the purchase is legitimate and reasonable, this avoids any idea that student-athletes have for using the money on luxurious items instead of necessities. If EA were to bring back college sports, players would be paid an honorarium for their likeness being used. This would benefit the players because they are being paid. This benefits the NCAA because they would still be making money and with the idea of making money, more students might take the opportunity to stay in college longer and pursue careers that interest them instead of choosing an easy degree just to get through college to move on to the professional level. The NCAA would still also be making more money if EA were to start making college sports videogames again. This proposed compromise benefits both parties monetarily because student-athletes would be paid and when they receive their check pleases the NCAA (Groves). Money is issue to why college athletes are not getting paid but want to be paid. A proposed compromise was found that benefited both parties. Student-athletes thought they Dyal 6 should be getting paid because of their likeness that was used in videogames and that they generated millions of dollars for their school and the NCAA. National Collegiate Athletic Association Officials did not want to pay student-athletes because money would not make collegiate sports an amateur sport and would also take away the importance of education in college. The proposed compromise involved money being distributed at different times that were based on having a full ride scholarship or lack of one, which means student-athletes would be getting paid. The NCAA would still be making money from the players and with the possibility that EA starts producing college sports videogames, the NCAA would be increasing the amount of revenue they make. The compromise benefits both parties monetarily. (Groves). Dyal 7 Works Cited  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 24 Apr. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.org/amateurism>. Anderson, Dave. Top 10 Reasons College Athletes Should Be  Top 10 Lists ListLand.com. N.p., 22 Sept. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.listland.com/top-10- reasons-college-athletes-should-be-paid/>. Barbash, Louis. Pay or play: paying college athletes just fair to players; it could improve college  Washington Monthly 2013: 13. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gaines, Cork. The difference in how much money schools make off of college sports is jarring, and it is the biggest obstacle to paying  Business Insider. Business Insider, 14 Oct. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.businessinsider.com/ncaa-schools-college- sports-revenue-2016-10>. Groves, Roger M. A Solution For The Pay For Play Dilemma Of College Athletes: A Novel Compensation Structure Tethered To Amateurism And  Texas Review Of Entertainment & Sports Law 17.2 (2016): 101-143. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Johnson, Dennis A., and John Acquaviva. Point/Counterpoint: Paying College  The Sport Journal 1 (2012): Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Levine, Robert A. Sports vs.  The Moderate Voice. N.p., 07 May 2014. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. <http://themoderatevoice.com/sports-vs-education/>. Dyal 8 Mandel, Stewart. Why the NCAA be paying college athletes anytime  FOX Sports. N.p., 15 Nov. 2016. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. <http://www.foxsports.com/college- football/story/ncaa-ed-o-bannon-supreme-court-pay-for-play-mandel-101316>. files suit vs.  The Washington Times (Washington, DC) 2009: Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sheetz, Audrey C.1. Student-Athletes Vs.  Brooklyn Law Review 81.2 (2016): 865-894. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Wilbon, Michael. College athletes deserve to be  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 18 July 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.