Singer 1 Molly Singer Professor Davis ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Marine Mammal Rights: Finding a Compromise For decades, marine mammals have been taken out of their natural habitat and placed in artificial environments as pets, for entertainment purposes, or for educational reasons. According to PBS, throughout the belugas and dolphins were caught and transported to aquariums and zoos across America. Many of these animals died during transportation. The first oceanaria, Marine Studios, opened in 1938; this is where marine mammals were first being shown performing tricks for public entertainment. Since then, many more oceanaria spouted up, promoting live marine mammal shows, including SeaWorld, and the Miami Seaquarium. Public opinion against these types of parks began to appear in the there was a consensus that these marine mammals were not being treated properly, and were not in the type of environment that allowed them to thrive (A Whale of A Business). Since then the topic of marine mammal captivity has become divided on whether humans should be allowed to keep cetaceans or to let them thrive in their natural habitat. Two parties that are considered stakeholders on this topic are SeaWorld and Captive Protection Society (CAPS). For 50 years, SeaWorld has prided themselves on being a leading theme park and entertainment company that provides interactive educational experiences for customers to feel connected to nature. They also see themselves as an important zoological organization and a worldwide leader in animal welfare. Despite this some people believe that SeaWorld is not providing the best care for their marine animals. CAPS has been working since 1957 to help end or lessen the suffering of captive wild animals, and free Singer 2 them from circuses, zoos and aquariums. Their main goal is to stop the use of performing animals for entertainment purposes (Our History). It is clear to see that these stakeholders do not see eye-to-eye on this topic, but there is a way to make both parties happy. Although SeaWorld supports the use of captive marine animals in their shows, and CAPS thinks that they should not be used for entertainment purposes, they both share the belief that the animals are important to our world for environmental and education purposes and that they should be protected. A compromise could be found by keeping marine mammals in captivity strictly for educational purposes, and that the animals are moved to sanctuaries that closely resemble their natural habitats SeaWorld was originally planned to be an underwater restaurant in San Diego, but the idea was expanded upon by founders George Millay, Milt Shedd, Ken Norris and David DeMott until, in 1954, they created a marine zoological park that gained over 400,000 visitors in its first years. Since then SeaWorld have expanded to become three parks, with locations in San Diego, CA, San Antonio, TX, and Orlando, Fl. The goal is to provide animal encounters, educational attractions and innovative entertainment are designed to inspire guests of all ages to celebrate, connect with and care for the natural world around (History). Considering that the parks make money off the marine mammals that they possess, SeaWorld believes that they should be able to keep these animals in captivity and use them for entertainment purposes. SeaWorld began to have opposition to the way they use their animals after the release of the documentary called Blackfish which went inside aquarium parks like SeaWorld, showing how many of the marine mammals were mistreated and unhappy. The documentary discredited the facts SeaWorld was telling about their health and they were treated by the company. After realizing that the opposition would only grow and affect the Singer 3 business, SeaWorld decided to end the breeding program for its captive orcas, but this is not enough for animal rights groups and the younger generation, who still push for SeaWorld to do more. SeaWorld Entertainment Executive, Joel Manby says he never expected this change in policy to completely alleviate the situation, but stays optimistic that future changes will help SeaWorld get back on the good side (Martin). Captive Protection Society began in 1957 when Irene Heaton became aware of all the suffering animals in the entertainment industry were subject to (Our History). She founded CAPS on the mission to bring about changes in practices and attitudes involving captive animals. When CAPS first began it mostly focused on zoos and circuses using multiple campaigns to protest and to petition to not allow places like those in some cities. Since then CAPS has turned its eye towards the use of marine mammals in the entertainment industry. Its current campaign that deals with this subject is called which is launched against SEA LIFE, a brand owned by the global company, Merlin Entertainments. CAPS has launched an investigation into the company with many of its results in opposition of what SEA LIFE tries to publicly promote, which is still currently underway. CAPS believes that by shining a light on this part of the zoo industry, it will trigger interest and concern for marine mammals (Sea Lies Aquarium ). Clearly CAPS is opposed to the way animals are used in captivity, and have been campaigning against it for some time. Although it seems these stakeholders are at the opposite ends of this argument, there is a compromise that can be reached. A compromise that would benefit both parties is that the marine mammals in captivity are strictly for educational purposes, and that the animals are moved to sanctuaries that closely resemble their natural habitats. As a CNN article by Naomi A. Rose comments, is a win/win for not only the stakeholders, but for, safety and Singer 4 orca welfare dilemmas facing marine theme parks around the world, including SeaWorld in the United (Rose). For this compromise to work both stakeholders would have to give up part of what they strive for. CAPS would have to give up on completely freeing these animals from captivity though they could negotiate that the breeding of these captive animals to stop. As for SeaWorld, the company would have to spend money on either moving the animals to or creating a sanctuary, and they could possibly lose the profit they used to gain from their marine mammals. Creating a sanctuary for the marine mammals is entirely possibly as shown by Merlin Entertainments who is, the establishment of the first bottlenose dolphin sanctuary with Whale and Dolphin (Rose). Though the price each party must pay may seem hefty, the benefits of this compromise would outweigh them. CAPS will have succeeded in ending the use of animals in performances and in getting the animals into a better living situation, and SeaWorld can still make a profit by allowing visitors to the sanctuary, and furthermore, get back on the good side which is sure to help the business. Marine mammals are very important to our environment, and having them in captivity makes for a great educational source, but these animals have been subjected to too many harsh conditions. Although both stakeholders must give up something that is very important to their organizations, they both also benefit in great ways. CAPS reaps the benefit of saving the animals from performing and having the animals live healthier lives. SeaWorld gets to keep their animals while also gaining a good reputation of the public and still being able to make a profit. With the compromise proposed, these captive animals can have a better future, and it can satisfy both stakeholders. Singer 5 Works Cited A Whale of A Business. 2014. PBS. 29 January 2017. <http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/whales/man/mancron.html>. History. 2015. 29 January 2017. <https://seaworldentertainment.com/en/who-we- Martin, Hugo. Think turnaround satisfied animal-rights activists? Think again. 30 April 2016. 29 January 2017. <http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-seaworld-next-20160430-story.html>. Our History. n.d. 29 January 2017. <http://www.captiveanimals.org/about-us/our-history>. Rose, Naomi A. A win-win solution for captive orcas and marine theme parks. 28 October 2013. 8 February 2017. <http://www.cnn.com/2013/10/24/opinion/blackfish-captive-orcas-solutions/>. Sea Lies Aquarium . n.d. 29 January 2017. <http://www.captiveanimals.org/sea-lies>.