Bynon 1 Austin Bynon Hanson ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Environmental Regulations People are not compelled to follow the rules in life unless there are consequences for their actions. People do not want to take actions for their mistakes and often push issues on to the next person. This is extremely true of the issues with the environment that are happening today. The environment is an important aspect of life. We need to protect it before completely ruined. Today the environmental regulations are extremely strict which protects the environment but hurts the businesses. They spend money obeying the regulations. Environment regulations are needed to provide protection from pollution. These regulations can be very strict and can benefit the environment but hurt a specific company. It seems practical for the EPA to loosen the regulations on Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) so they can produce more and lower the price of their product. If the EPA and ADM worked together it would benefit both of these companies and the environment. They both share similar goals and care about improving the environment. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is the agency of the Federal government which was created for protecting human health and the environment by making and enforcing regulations from laws passed by Congress. The EPA believes they should enforce national environmental laws to make sure companies do not pollute into the air. Their goal is to make sure businesses do not pollute that much in order to protect the environment. People have different views on the topic of environmental regulations. If there is strict regulations it will Bynon 2 benefit for the environment. It forces the companies to produce less pollution and dispose of waste properly. There are multiple benefits of having strict regulations. These regulations betters the environment, it creates jobs for pollution clean-up and prevention, and will save the economy billions of dollars by avoiding pollutions harmful health effects. The EPA has to create these regulations before they can be enforced. According to the EPAs website, there is a long, time consuming process before creating these regulations. First, they come up with an idea for a regulation. Next, they propose a bill to Congress. If this bill gets passed, it becomes a regulation. But Congress can deny this regulation and therefore it will not be implemented. Once it is passed the EPA does the enforcing on both big businesses and the people. Regulation is Codified in the Code of Federal This is the process on how they create a regulation. This is a step by step break down on how the EPA creates their regulations so they can better the environment. a long process that takes a long time to complete. Without these regulations, companies would not try to monitor their pollution and it would be horrific for the environment. According to the EPAs website their goals are, Climate Change and Improving Air Quality, Protecting Water, Cleaning Up Communities and Advancing Sustainable Development, Ensuring the Safety of Chemicals and Preventing Pollution, and Protecting Human Health and the Environment by Enforcing Laws and Assuring Strategic They really care about the environment and want to make sure no company is hurting it. for consideration of the bill (H.R. 910) to amend the Clean Air Act to prohibit the administration of the Environmental Protection Agency from promulgating any regulation concerning taking action relating to, or taking into consideration, the emission of a greenhouse gas to address climate change, and for other (Committee on Rules 203). By proposing bills it forces stricter regulations on companies to benefit the environment. Bynon 3 Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) is a global food processing and commodities trading corporation. Their goal is similar to the EPA they want to pollute as less as possible and protect the environment but they want to do it cheaply so they can make more money. Archer Daniels Midlands environment policy from their website is, is committed to meeting its environmental obligations, while pursuing ways to continually improve its efforts in both protecting the environment and enhancing environmental (Policy Statement). There are also problems with having such strict regulations. They force companies to spend money on reducing pollution which can be very expensive but they must follow the regulations otherwise the company could get in huge trouble. People lose jobs due to these regulations because some businesses have the funds to comply with these rules so they close down. This causes people to become unemployed which is bad for the economy. These regulations also indirectly affect prices of goods. Since the businesses have to spend so much money abiding by these rules they raise the prices of their goods to compensate for the loss of money going towards the regulations. They are all about protecting the environment but it cost them so much money that it rises the prices of their goods which hurts the consumer. If the regulations so strict they would have more money to put into new machines that produce less pollution. If the EPA would compromise and loosen the regulations enforced on businesses it could have a huge benefit on a lot of people. This would benefit the economy because businesses would save money on regulations, so they could lower their prices. Businesses could also put the money they saved from these looser regulations into new machines which pollute less. This benefits both the EPA and ADM, since one is saving money and the other is still protecting the environment. ADM would still have to follow rules on pollution but the rules would not be as Bynon 4 strict as they are now. They are not asking for no regulations they are asking for less which would make their job much easier. Since 2009, the EPA has proposed multiple regulations to implement the pollution control statues enacted by Congress. Critics agree with this decision. There were critics within Congress and outside of it, that accused the EPA of using their powers to a farther extent then given to them and undermining the costs and economic impacts. Also they overestimating the benefits of proposed regulations. The House conducted strong oversight of the agency and approved multiple bills that would change the specific regulations and limit the EPAs power Regulations: Too Much, Too Little, or On This is saying their regulations are a little harsh so maybe the EPA and ADM can compromise so they can reach an agreement. The ADM must follow the EPAs regulations but they might loosen them so it can benefit both parties. The environment is something we must protect. The EPA is an agency that creates and enforces regulations to benefit the environment from pollutants. They make sure companies disposing waste illegal which would hurt the environment also that they produce a lot of pollution. Archer Daniels Midland is a food processing company that uses big trucks to transport their goods. That causes a lot of pollution so the EPA enforces strict regulations on them so they produce excessive pollution. If the EPA loosened their regulations it would benefit both them. It would make both of their jobs easier and it would save ADM money. They might use that money to buy new machines that would produce less pollution. That would benefit everyone in the situation. Overall I think they will be able to compromise with each other since they have similar goals and most importantly they want to protect the environment. Bynon 5 Works Cited A Commitment to Good  ADM: 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Environmental  Objective, Scope and Policy Statement (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. EPA Strategic  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 07 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Providing For Consideration Of The Bill (H.R. 910) To Amend The Clean Air Act To Prohibit The Administration Of The Environmental Protection Agency From Promulgating Any Regulation Concerning Taking Action Relating To, Or Taking Into Consideration, The Emission Of A Greenhouse Gas To Address Climate Change, And For Other Purposes [Electronic : Report (To Accompany H. Res. 203). n.p.: [Washington, D.C. : U.S. G.P.O., 2011. Government Printing Office Catalog. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. The High Price of Environmental  Hoover Institution. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 12 Dec. 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Systems and  ADM: Corporate Responsibility - Systems and Policies. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.