Diaz 1 Viviana Virginia Diaz Melim Professor Robert Ryan ENC 1102-001 13 February 2017 Bridging gap between the animal testing stakeholders Animal testing can be defined as any experimental procedure realized in non-human animals in order to understand, evaluate, and observe the reaction or behavior of this organisms when they are exposed to certain stimulus. Animals have been used for experimentation from about millions of years in order to get data and information that can be used to develop drugs for humans. This method of providing data have been increasing over the years, creating controversy between animal rights activists, companies, and scientists that trust and rely in the importance of animal testing for research purposes. Animal testing is usually viewed by the general public as a binary issue, with extreme opinions on both sides dominating the conversation; however, The People of the Ethical Treatment of Animals and The Foundation for Biomedical Research share the common interest of wealth, allowing to create a platform of this discussion by taking a monetary compromise together. The People for the Ethical Treatment of animals (PETA) is a nonprofit organization that aims to establish, protect and, defend the rights of animals. They want to make people aware of all the suffering that animals go through due to human activities. They base their ideology in the slogan ARE NOT OURS, to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other People for the Ethical Treatment of This way we can observe that they reject any kind of human contact that can Diaz 2 harm the life of these organisms. They promote the idea that humans have no right to use animals for their own benefit because animals suffer and feel pain. This organization aims to educate people of how they should treat animals. Also, they make people aware of how health can be affected in negative ways due to human activities. They show pictures and videos in their webpage where animals are being mistreated by humans. This way they want to influence actions in a positive way making them more animal friendlies. PETA propose that animal testing is a waste of lives because the data obtained from this research is not accurate most of the time. To support this claim, Sonali and Dhawale explain that laboratories isolate animals from their natural habits and are exposed to procedures that make them suffer, causing discomfort, pain, and distress (Sonali and Dhawale 224). Most of the time, when the experiment is over, scientists uses euthanasia to all the animals that had survived to all the harmful procedures. This shows how life is abused and sometimes misused during these practices. Moreover, according to The Food and Drug Administration (FDA), PETA webpage states, percent of all drugs that are shown to be safe and effective in animal tests fail in human trials because they work or are This explains that substances that may work on rats can produce negative effects on human beings. This is the reason why PETA states that all the suffering that animals go through in experiments is not worth it. The Foundation for Biomedical Research (FBR) is a nonprofit organization that supports and embraces the importance of animal testing for medical purposes. They guarantee that testing with animals provides important data that had helped to increase human life span. Animal researches help scientists to understand how specific diseases acts in the body. According to Garattini and Grignaschi, animals used on experimentations such Diaz 3 as rats have similar features to humans such as organs and metabolic processes (2). They explain the importance of animal testing arguing how absorption, distribution, transportation, metabolism, and excretion play an important role when evaluating the response of an organism to a specific drug. Alive animals provide to researchers very dynamic and complex conditions that help them to understand and evaluate how a certain drug acts in the organism. Once they have this information, they can develop and evaluate treatments in animals before being used in humans. In order to provide to the audience a good understanding of the importance of biomedical research in animals, this organization relies on the slogan testing is essential. Animal research saves In their webpage they show little kids suffering of terrible diseases. This way they seek to make their audience aware and conscious of how their medical research can help to find the cure of illnesses that affect humans and animals. Furthermore, FBR aims to influence in positive ways they audience to receive more donations that will be designated to medical research purposes. We can observe that FBR and PETA are both nonprofit organizations. This means that they both rely on the funds that they can receive from other organizations, people, and any other entities. We can evidence that PETA and FBR seek to create awareness among their audience about the ideas and values that they have. In the one hand, We can evidence throughout this paper how PETA and FBR share a common outcome: improve the health of animals and protect them from pain. FBR protects them against illnesses and PETA protects them against suffering produced by human activities. In order to find a solution between the different ideas of these organizations, it is important to develop a compromise between them, respecting their values and ideologies. Diaz 4 PETA is an organization that receives thousands of dollars from their funds. In the interest of stablishing a compromise, PETA needs to destiny some of their funds to FBR in order to provide monetary help for the implementation of computer bases-modellings as an alternative to the use of animals for experimentation. FBR needs to be willing to implement the new technology for their research purposes. As well, this organization will need to invest some of their funds to install the new machinery and equipment. FRB can increase their funds and popularity among their audience because they are no longer killing and harming animals to obtain their data. Furthermore, PETA with this initiative will be helping to protect the life of many animals and will be gaining popularity because of the achievement of stopping animal suffering produced by FBR during their experimentations. We can observe how PETA can help to reduce the quantity of animals being used for experimentations. While FBR will be finding more technological and accurate methods in order to develop cure for many illnesses that affect humans and nonhumans. According to Greengard, the implementation of computer-based modelling is an alternative way to animal testing. It allows to create simulation models that allows researchers to obtain biological information needed for medical purposes. Computer models help to obtain better and more accurate data than animal experimentations (22). With this compromise this two organizations will increase their popularity. PETA will have like an achievement that was able to safe important amount of animals from suffering and FBR will show a more animal friendly image to the audience. The development of technologies and the evolution of science had allowed to increase the life spam of people and to offer them a better life quality. These technological advances can sometimes be a problem to the environment and to the species that inhabit Diaz 5 these places. In this modern world societies are being more aware of the importance of environmental and animal care. PETA and FBR are two organizations that are at odds, but they share the common goal of improving the life of animals. The compromise that will be stablished between this two companies will allow them find the best way to achieve their goals: PETA will be able to protect animals and FBR will be able to install new technologies that will allow them to obtain accurate data for biomedical purposes to find the cure to illnesses that affects animals and people. Diaz 6 Works cited Doke, Sonali K., and Shashikant C. Dhawale. Review: Alternatives To Animal Testing: A  Saudi Pharmaceutical Journal, vol. 23, 2015, pp. 223-229. Foundation for Biomedical Research, www.fbresearch.org. Accessed on 25 January 2017. Garattini, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi. Original Article: Animal Testing Is Still The Best Way To Find New Treatments For  European Journal Of Internal Medicine (2016): ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Greengard, Samuel. How computers are changing  Communications of the ACM, vol. 21, no. 5, 2014, pp. 21-23. People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals, www.peta.org. Accessed on 25 January 2017.