Ellis 1 Collin Ellis ENC1102 Ryan Robert 25 January 2017 Finding a compromise: Privacy vs Cyber The internet has shaped the development of social, economical and governmental factors of life in 21 st century. Backed by principals of global connectivity and communication, the internet has provided a plethora of advancements, ushering exponential growth to countries across the world. Spreading this type of growth to underdeveloped nations has been a mission for many organizations, one of the most merited being the Freedom Online coalition. The internet brings forth a global vulnerability as the most malice forms of its utilization stems from actions of cyber warfare in the interconnected space. The National Security Agency understands that the cyberwarfare risk does not solely stem from sophisticated nation states, but also from hackers, criminals, and terrorists. The NSA operates with a core focus on detecting or preventing attacks through the monitoring and acquisition of information. The technology behind the internet will continue to evolve, while simultaneously increasing the disparities between internet privacy and cyber security. Only through institutional collaboration, reorganization and the proposal new legislation will the balance of internet privacy and cybersecurity be maintained in this midst of this interconnected evolution. Mentioned in the founding declaration, the coalition takes notice of the repressive actions of governments and their increasing tendency to limit given freedoms. The FOC missions the application of constitutional rights guaranteed to individuals offline, when they are online. Ellis 2 Section five of the founding declaration touches on the illicit monitoring, filtering and hacking, of on- and offline bodies of network technology users. In the United States, the 4 th amendment protects it citizens from unreasonable search and seizure, but does not directly account for the financial, locational, medical and communicational types of data residing on the internet. This leaves its citizens private data susceptible to government acquisition Cyber activists, journalists, human rights defenders, and other civil society activists have been primary targets for the discussed types of enforcement Since its establishment the FOC has Launched the Digital Defenders Program, an entity that increases and better coordinates emergency support for the advocates through grants and educationally collaborative events The FOC has also founded three work groups an Internet Free and Secure, Digital Development and Openness, and Privacy and Transparency which are dedicated to drafting policies and possible legislation compromised by a stake holders representing the educational, economic, social and government sectors of the society. Currently members of both the Department of Defense and The Intelligence Community agency the NSA is positioned well counteract many measures of cyber warfare and hold the most responsibility in developing counter measures for security on the National Level. The United States can be described as the hub for worldwide data flow, inevitably making it the hub for global cyber warfare. NSA enacted project PRISM in 2007 which began a consumer surveillance on a massive level collecting data from the likes of Microsoft, Google, Facebook, AOL, and Apple (NSA.gov). The type of data they collected included email, picture, video file transfer, social networking and various forms of metadata. Even with access to the data flow in and out of the United States and its world class proficiency in the use of cryptography, the NSA was still unable to mitigate all vulnerabilities caused by the internet. Between 2014 and 2015 the United Ellis 3 States experiences thirteen federal agencies experienced data breaches (Walters). Due to the division of responsibilities on the cyber front across the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Homeland Security, the lack of efficiency and unification. This is evident when proactive missions like the mass consumer surveillance conducted by the project Prism, their efforts were unable to mitigate the possibilities of cyber-attacks. Sadly, the more our world becomes comes connected to the internet the more vulnerable its user will become. The introduction of new network technology such as the fifth-generation wireless networking architecture will bring forth a very complicated hurdle. The range of devices and the number of people connected to the internet will drastically increase and any infrastructure connected to the internet will be susceptible to the misuse of data and the exponential increase to the threat of cyber-attacks. see computing capabilities getting fused into our everyday appliances. Trillions of things like wearable devices, home appliances, parking meters or even coffee machines will not have to worry about computing power because the network can do any processing needed (Keddy). Future technology presents a call to action in all engaged stake holders and the FOC understands that collaboration extremely necessary in hopes to combat these future imbalances between privacy and security. Their established Internet Free and Secure workgroup holds cyber security at the helm its agenda. They operate with a high focus on the science behind cyber security and the research t necessary to break the boundaries of progression. The NSA have established a similar workgroup with similar goals called the Science of Security. Currently the Science of Security lacks a scientist whom can propel their findings, which inevitably creates a need for collaboration. NSA defense chief Curtis Dukes stated that he thoroughly convinced that the United States must rethink its cyber security has a nation and recommends a restructure to its cyber Ellis 4 defense like that of the defense National Cyber Security Centre (Marks). In this model, cyber defenders with the British spy agency GCHQ provide defense for the entire government provide a platform for standardized policies and defense mechanisms. The unification of United States cyber defense fronts would need to come from legislation passed by congress. Members of the NSA and FOC possess great influence in the passing of legislation and would need to propose a bill that would initiate the needed reorganization. The NSA would ultimately be inheriting the cyber defense responsibilities at the federal and state levels giving them ability to operate more efficiently and increasing the overall ability to defend itself. The combined front would face new regulations and the refinement of laws guiding privacy, the principals outlined under the founding declaration was ratified by the Secretary of State. In charge of handling foreign policy would influence the policies regulating this new cyber defense front. There is no silver bullet to remedy this internet privacy vs cyber security dilemma, and the right balance between the two will not appear overnight. The unification of Cybersecurity Defense in the United States will come with its own challenges. With the expected rollout of the firth generation of wireless technology in the year 2020 these stake holders must be proactive in their collaboration to find the right balance of legislation, research and technical solutions to achieve privacy and protection on a globally consistent manner. The more connected the world becomes the more standardized the governance of internet privacy and cyber security measures would need to be. The threat of cyber security does not only come from sophisticated nation states, but hackers, criminals and terrorist who thrive on disjointed systems. The current system in place has not proven to be a successful deterrent and if it still exists in the year 2020, Ellis 5 individuals will have much more than the government to worry about when it comes to internet privacy.