Caleb Castro Janie Gill ENC 1102 01/29/17 Climate Change Climate is the amount of precipitation, humidity, wind and temperature of an area (ecy.wa.gov). Climates are starting to change because of increasing temperature. According to NASA the global temperature of the Earth has increased by 1.4 degrees Fahrenheit since data has been collected in 1880. (nasa.gov). The hottest year on record from the time recorded from 1880 to 2015 was 2015 with a temperature anomaly of 1.62 Fahrenheit (ncdc.noaa.gov). This means that in December 2015 the temperature was 1.62 degrees higher than the average (ncdc.noaa.gov). Ocean temperatures are also rising with a temperature of 1.33 Fahrenheit above the century average (ncdc.noaa.gov). The cause of climate change is the increasing amount greenhouse gasses being put into our atmosphere. One of these greenhouse gasses is carbon dioxide (CO2), which is released through the burning of fossil fuels. There is over thirty billion tons of carbon dioxide a year being released from human activities like burning coal and the burning of fossil fuels (ncdc.noaa.gov). The gas is then stuck in our atmosphere where it traps heat from leaving, causing the planet to get hotter. This is call global warming and is associated with global rising temperatures and melting of the polar ice caps, which are melting from the increase in temperature. The goal is to convert to cleaner energy and lessen our reliance on fossil fuels. We need companies like Chevron to lower our independence on fossil fuels and to find new and better alternative energy sources. The compromise that Chevron and the NRDC can conclude to is the use of Algae that can produce oil. Chevron uses fossil fuels to produce energy and to convert into gas and sell. One of goals is to meet the growing demand for energy (chevron.com). One of the ways that they are to meet this need for energy is through fossil fuels. They are collecting fuel from the entire world and are using other energy sources like geothermal and natural gas (Chervron.com). Chevron says that they share the concerns of climate change and are working to increase energy efficiency and are creating solutions to help with climate change (chevron.com). This has been proven wrong several times with an article from Fanny Domenec explaining that they have violated the Clean Air Act and had to pay a 800,000 dollar fine (Domenec).The stake that Chevron has on the issue of climate change is that they mainly use fossil fuels to produce energy and fossil fuels when burned releases greenhouse gasses like carbon dioxide. The Natural Resources Defense Council is a non-profit environmental group with over 2.4 million members. The Natural Resources Defense Council was founded in 1970 by a group of attorneys and law students that advocated the environmental movement (nrdc.org). The purpose of the organization is to the rights of all people to clean air, clean water, and healthy (nrdc.org). According to their website, the Natural Resources Defense Council to safeguard the (nrdc.org). An example of this from the Author David Mears in his Academic Journal, Resources Defense Council v. Abraham: Preventing the Department of Energy from Defining Away High-Level Nuclear shows the NRDC facing issues of nuclear waste that could contaminate local rivers and Native American lands. To deal with climate change the Natural Resources Defense Council have initiatives for energy efficiency, clean vehicles and fuels, protecting communities. Another initiative is to transition to cleaner energy while getting rid of energy like coal, fossil fuels, and natural gas. The Natural Resources Defense Council has several programs like the Save the Bees Initiative, Health Program, and Climate and Clean Air Program. The Climate and Clean Air Program focuses on global warming, energy efficiency, renewable energy, and clean air (nrdc.org). The Stake they have in this topic is that they are trying to prevent climate change by reducing our independence on fossil fuels, using renewable and cleaner energy, and protecting environments. So it makes sense for them to have stakes in this topic because climate change is one of the issues that this Natural Resources Defense Council is trying to tackle. These two stakeholders are complete opposites of each other, what could be a common ground for these two stakeholders? The answer to this question is fuel efficiency and the use of alternate energy sources. Both of these stakeholders want to increase the amount of energy produced in a smaller amount of fuel. Another common ground is alternative energy like using algae to produce either a petroleum alternative or use the oil from the algae in with the petroleum to make the fuel more efficient (Pienkos). This can improve efficiency of the fossil fuels without Chevron having to make any big changes within the company. Chevron also says that majority of energy will be provided by fossil fuels, even as lower-carbon alternatives continue to (chevron.com). This can be done with the algae because they will not have to do a complete switch to another power source in a short period of time, but over time. It would also be good for the Natural Resources Defense Council, because the algae would be a green way to produce an alternate fuel source without all of the digging and drilling. The Natural Resources Defense Council would support this because it will lead away from our dependence of fossil fuels and might also slow down or even help reduce the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. This is good for the Natural Resources Defense Council because some of their goals involve improving air quality, using an alternate energy source, and a renewable energy source; which the algae could possibly fill all of these categories. According to the Article by Philip Pienkos called he talks about using algae to reduce the dependence of fossil fuels while also slowing down the buildup of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere (Pienkos). There are currently thirty thousand algae that are under consideration for their use to create fuels. Oil companies like Chevron are currently looking into algae as an alternate source already so it is not a new subject for them. This is why algae based oil can be the future of energy production and can cause a possible change that can end climate change and global warming. The solution to climate change between the two stakeholders the Natural Resources Defense Council and Chevron is Algae that can produce oil. The Natural Resources Defense Council is an organization dedicated to saving the environment with initiatives for clean air, saving bees, and programs for community health. Chevron is a major oil company who mainly focusses on oil and using it for energy and to fuel cars. Philip T. Pienkos author of the Journal says simple elegance of these microscopic oil factories has motivated a hundred or so start-ups to try to tackle algal bio-fuel production. Major oil companies, including Chevron, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, and Royal Dutch Shell, are studying this This shows that Chevron is already looking into the option of oil producing algae. This could also help with publicity for Chevron because they would be moving to a method that is less invasive to extract oil. This is also a good solution for the Natural Resources Defense Council because the Algae alternative is less invasive on the environment and could possibly be a cleaner and greener alternative than fossil fuels. This is also good for the Natural Resources Defense Council because it would help get rid of some of the pollution caused by fossil fuels, which is one their goals in which they want to achieve. The algae can help slow the rate of climate change and may one day be our primary fuel for our cars and for production of energy. Algae can be a good switch for chevron because they it is less invasive to collect and good for publicity for being a clean energy. This is good for the NRDC because this lowers the invasiveness of collecting fossil fuels and is a cleaner alternative than fossil fuels. Algae that produce oil can be implemented in facilities worldwide. In time the efficiency can be brought up to that equal to drilling oil. This is the most effective method because it switch Chevron to a completely new power source, while also providing a cleaner source of energy. For this to be done there should be a higher awareness for Algae producing oil and more research in the topic. Works Cited Carlowicz, Michael. Global  NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Causes of Climate  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 27 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Chevron Corporation - Human  Chevron.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Global Analysis - Annual  NAOO. NAOO, n.d. Web. <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/sotc/global/201513>.  NRDC. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.nrdc.org/>. Mears, David K. Natural Resources Defense Council V. Abraham: Preventing The Department Of Energy From Defining Away High-Level Nuclear  Journal Of Land, Resources, & Environmental Law 24.(2004): 77. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. PIENKOS, PHILIP T., ERIC JARVIS, and AL DARZINS. Green  IEEE Spectrum 47.11 (2010): 34-39. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. What Is Climate Change? Climate Change Education Climate Change Washington State Department of  What Is Climate Change? Climate Change Education Climate Change Washington State Department of Ecology. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.