Velasco 1 Christina Velasco ENC 1102 Dr. Hanson 10 February 2017 A Discussion on Gender Neutral Bathrooms The term bathroom is one that everyone knows, and a place where everyone goes. But for transgender and non-conforming people, public facilities such as these are places where they are told that they belong. The obvious solution would be to build gender neutral bathrooms, but many feel that though transgender and non-conforming people would finally feel safe, the creation of such amenities would put others at risk, due to others abusing the system with the intent to harm those using the facility. The Heartland Trans Wellness Group (HTWG) encourages the building of gender neutral bathrooms, whereas the Alliance Defending Freedom believes such facilities will detriment the emotional and physical wellbeing on victims of sexual assault. Both of these stakeholders want the safest restroom possible. By taking the needs of both parties, a single user, gender neutral bathroom would achieve their goals. The Heartland Trans Wellness Group is an organization by the trans community, for the trans (About HTWG). One of Heartland Trans Wellness main focus goals is to educate the community about the needs of trans people, especially when it comes to the restroom. This group explains that trans/non-conforming individuals are by bathroom segregation because of visible gender differences that may not correlate with cultural Velasco 2 gender and that these victims are to harassment, intimidation, legal charges, and violence on an everyday (Gender Neutral Bathrooms HTWG). Transgender and non- conforming people battle gender norms daily; they have to express and fix their gender based on where going instead of being able to base it on how they personally feel that day. Syrus Marcus Ware shared his experience in an article and stated the following: As a transsexual man who only sometimes as male, the troubles I had in using the washroom started shortly after I began [a new I entered the staff washroom the same time as another man As I locked the stall door behind me to pee, the other man in the bathroom began expressing concern about why I was using the facility For 15 min, he berated and screamed at me from outside the stall I huddled silently in the corner of the stall, fearful for my safety, as the man tried to peer inside the stall through the crack and even over the door. Eventually, he left the bathroom, but not before yelling that I was and that I was something wrong in Over the next three years, I went all the way home during the day to pee. (Bender-Baird 5) The problems that Syrus struggled with for years could have been eliminated if there was a bathroom he could feel safe in. CUNY Law School in New York agrees that facilities like these could allow and gender non-conforming people to access bathrooms without adjusting their gender (Bender-Baird, 6).Gender neutral bathrooms would create a safe environment for people like Syrus. As for the Alliance Defending Freedom, they want to create a safe restroom environment, but for women and children; and especially for those who are victims of sexual assault and Velasco 3 abuse. Alliance Defending Freedom makes is clear that they do not want to see people bullied or (Mayer); they are concerned that for someone to individuals of the opposite sex in intimate settings like bathrooms and locker rooms can trigger emotional and psychological (Gottry). Giving men who are not transgender or gender nonconforming unlimited access to facilities could lead to chaos. It could be damaging to a women to walk out of a stall and look up to see a man that resembles her abuser, washing his hands. The thought of this occurring is uncomfortable for many, and because of this, a majority of people really know how common sexual assault is. The National Institute of Justice estimates that in six women in the United States has been the victim of an attempted or completed (Hayes, Abbott, and Cook 1). With a statistic like this, it guarantees each person that someone they know is a victim. Kaeley Triller Haver, a rape survivor, explains her view on gender neutral bathrooms: While I feel a deep sense of empathy for what must be a very difficult situation for transgender people, at the beginning and end of the day, it is nothing short of negligent to instate policies that elevate the emotional comfort of a relative few over the physical safety of a large group of vulnerable people Rape Survivor Speaks Out Against Transgender Like Kaeley, many other women feel that men with the intent to harm will take advantage of the fact that any gender is welcome. As a survivor and as a woman, she feels that her safety would be jeopardized. The installment of gender neutral bathrooms better the community if another party is put at risk. Velasco 4 The Heartland Trans Wellness Group and Alliance Defending Freedom both want to enforce safety, whether it is for transgender/nonconforming people, or survivors of sexual assault. It could be beneficial if these two organizations work together. They could educate the public on how to come out as transgender, and how to tell a loved one about a sexual assault. Because these are both emotionally heavy topics, many feel ashamed and internalize it for years, or possibly their lifetime. These two groups could also educate friends and family on the best way to show support and cope. According to a study done by the National Center for Transgender Equality, 57% of transgender and gender non-conforming people experienced some kind of rejection from family (Family Matters 1). With more awareness, relatives can learn how to handle the information in a healthier and quicker way. Victims of rape go through similar experiences when it comes to telling other people about their experience; only 16%-20% report their assault (Wolitzky-Taylor 2). The National Study came out with results stating that 69% of victims were worried about being blamed by others and 71% worried about their family knowing (Wolitzky-Taylor 3). By putting these two groups together, Heartland Trans Wellness Group and Alliance Defending Freedom can encourage conversation that can change the lives of many. There was a study done in Washington DC to understand more about the lives of the transgender and nonconforming community. Out of the people questioned, percent reported that they have avoided going out in public due to a lack of safe public restroom (Herman 71). The battle of people defying gender norms is incredibly difficult and they deserve to feel safe out in public, along with every other human. The Heartland Trans Wellness Group wants to build bathrooms to accommodate those who are transgender and non-conforming, and Alliance Defending Freedom agrees, as long as there is a way to keep men with intentions to do Velasco 5 harm to a women or child, out of the facility. Not only can these two groups come together to create awareness for their causes, but they can find a design that they agree on as well. When it comes to a single stall design, advocates argue that the footprint does not impose undue hardship on building owners and developers who would otherwise be compelled to fund more elaborate architectural (Sanders, Stryker 783). With a simple, single user room design, opposed to a multiple stall facility, gender neutral bathrooms can be a safe place for transgender and nonconforming people. Along with them, women can feel safe knowing that a man be able to follow them in unsuspectingly. This solution gives both organizations what they feel is the right. The creation of gender neutral bathrooms is the first step in insuring equality and safety for all people, now and in the future. Velasco 6 Works Cited About  Heartland Trans Wellness Group, 28 Jan. 2017, http://transwellness.org/about/. Bender-Baird, Kyla. Peeing Under Surveillance: Bathrooms, Gender Policing, And Hate Gender, Place & Culture: A Journal Of Feminist Geography 23.7 (2016): 983. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Family Matters: Fast New Facts about Transgender People and SOFFAs. 01 Feb. 2011. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Gender Neutral Bathrooms  Heartland Trans Wellness Group, 28 Jan. 2017, http://transwellness.org/resources/educational-materials/gender-neutral-bathrooms/. Gottry, James. The DOJ Is Concerned with Your Civil Bathroom Rights... If You Identify As the Opposite Alliance Defending Freedom, 09 May 2016. Web. https://www.adflegal.org/detailspages/blog-details/allianceedge/2016/05/09/the-doj-is- concerned-with-your-civil-bathroom-rights-if-you-identify-as-the-opposite-sex. 28 Jan. 2017. Haver, Kaeley Triller. A Rape Survivor Speaks Out About Transgender  Web log post. The Federalist, 23 Nov. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017, http://thefederalist.com/2015/11/23/a-rape-survivor-speaks-out-about-transgender- bathrooms. Hayes, Rebecca M., Rebecca L. Abbott, and Savannah Cook. Her  Violence Against Women22.13 (2016): 1540-1555.CINAHL. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Velasco 7 Herman, Jody L. Gendered Restrooms and Minority Stress: The Public Regulation of Gender and its Impact on Transgender Journal of Public Management & Social Policy 19.1 (2013): 71. Web Mayer, Marissa. Why South Bathroom Bill Has Little to Do with Transgender People Alliance Defending Freedom, 15 Apr. 2016. Web. https://www.adflegal.org/detailspages/blog-details/allianceedge/2016/04/15/why-south- 28 Jan. 2017. Sanders, Joel, and Susan Stryker. Stalled: Gender-Neutral Public  South Atlantic Quarterly 115.4 (2016): 779-788. America: History & Life. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Wolitzky-Taylor, Kate B., et al. Is Reporting Of Rape On The Rise? A Comparison Of Women With Reported Versus Unreported Rape Experiences In The National Study-  Journal Of Interpersonal Violence 26.4 (2011): 807-832.ERIC. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.