Hodges 1 Nicholas Hodges Karen Hanson, PhD ENC 1102 12 February 2017 The Treatment of Animals Animal abuse. Some people put animals at the same level, if not higher than humans, while others think animals are on this planet simply for the needs of mankind. If you were to ask someone that ate bacon for breakfast, hamburgers for lunch, and a steak for dinner, their opinion on animals would probably be very different from their neighbor the vegetarian. Whether we eat animals or not, most people would say they are not for animal abuse. The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) is trying to stop animal cruelty in in factory farms owned by companies in the food industry. They wish to see all animals provided with proper care and kept comfortably until it is their time for slaughter. Then there is Tyson; their company depends on the captivity and slaughtering of animals to pay their company bills and ensure that the American people are fed. Tyson does not spend a lot of time and money ensuring their animals have a comfortable living space, as it is not efficient and requires a lot of money. While both these organizations are complete opposites, there is a silver lining. Both organizations want their animals to be as healthy and natural as possible. A compromise for both of these organizations would be for HSUS workers to house and feed animals until they are ready for slaughter. Hodges 2 The Humane Society of the United States is a non-profit organization that provides care for more than 100,000 animals per year through their rescue teams, sanctuaries and wildlife centers, free veterinary care for low-income pet owners, and other life-saving programs of their primary goals is to ensure animals living on factory farms are treated with proper care and are provided with a comfortable living environment up to the time of slaughter. According to an academic journal titled Consumers Seek to Curb Farm Animal Suffering, written by Amanda Tolles, Humane Society of the United States has developed a set of humane principles that are being used for National Organic Standards and it has published a Humane Consumer and Producer Guide that identifies farms which engage in more humane (Tolles 19). HSUS is highly involved in the treatment of factory farm animals and has set basic guidelines for these factory farms to follow when caring for their animals. Tolles goes on and continues to write, 1995 a nationwide public opinion poll conducted by the Opinion Research Corporation for Animal Rights International found that 93 percent of the adults surveyed believe animal pain and suffering should be reduced as much as possible, even though the animals are going to be (Tolles 19). This shows that most consumers do not like the thought of animals being treated poorly on factory farms, even though they will eventually be slaughtered. HSUS takes on a wide range of issues concerning animal rights, however; the treatment of factory farm animals is one issue they will not cease to resolve. Hodges 3 Tyson Food Company is a profit company that works in the food industry. They are one the few companies that offer chicken, beef, and pork to their consumers. According to Tyson Food co. website, main goals are to promote responsible and sustainable business, support team members and local communities, and ensure food safety in emerging markets. They sponsor more than 11,000 family owned farms and currently have around 113,000 team (Tyson Overview 2017). Tyson wishes to sell the highest quality meat on the planet; this means they do not want their animals to be fed poorly made food and undergo unnecessarily high amounts of stress, as this can lead to poor growth in their animals. According to an article written by Temple Grandin titled, Behavioral Principles of Livestock Handling, stress on animals has been demonstrated to improve productivity and prevent physiological changes that could confound research (Grandin 1). This research is particularly important to Tyson because they want their animals to be as healthy as possible up until the time for slaughter. If their animals are unhealthy, this could lead to bad meat that could cause harm to consumers and negatively affect profits. Grandin also goes on to write in another article titled, Improving Animal Welfare, 2 Edition: A Practical Approach, freedoms all animals need to have on factory farms are ,freedom from hunger, thirst and malnutrition, freedom from physical and thermal discomfort, freedom from pain, injury, and disease, freedom to express normal behavior, and freedom from fear and (Grandin 7). If factory farm animals are provided with these five freedoms, it will help limit stress and ensure they live in a healthy and natural environment. Tyson wants to remain the number one meat selling Food Company on the planet; to do this they must understand how to properly care for their factory farm animals and provide these animals with comfortable living accommodations to limit the amount of stress their Hodges 4 animals go through. By doing this, they will maximize growth levels in their animals and produce healthy, natural meat to sell to their consumers. While Tyson Food Company and the Humane Society of the United States do share a lot of common ground, they do share the same goal of keeping animals healthy of illness and diseases. These two companies should start a campaign together to ensure the proper health and care of as many animals as they can. This means these animals should be provided with proper shelter for protection from storms and other natural disasters, naturally grown food and water to ensure they are kept healthy and natural habitats that provide enough space for the animals to live comfortably with one another until the time of slaughter. According to Animal Well-Being Policy and Commitment written by President and Chief Executive Officer Donnie Smith, understand the importance of the internationally-recognized Five Freedoms for animal well-being and we urge our farmers to strive for these fundamental (Smith 2016). These five freedoms are the same freedoms mentioned previously in this paper stated by Temple Grandin. As shown on their policy agreement, Tyson strives to make all of their animals as healthy and as comfortable as possible. The Humane Society of the United States would certainly agree with their five freedoms policy and help ensure that all the animals under the care of Tyson Food Company are properly taken care of. Hodges 5 Maintaining the physical and mental health of livestock and animals kept on farms will ensure the safety of consumers who wish to eat meat raised off of these farms. If animals kept on factory farms are not properly taken care of, they can become sick with illness and diseases, making it unsafe for consumers to eat. If consumers are unaware of these animals becoming sick, it could result in the illness of customers, and even death. A proposal for these two companies would be for animal care takers from the Humane Society of the United States to oversee the care and well-being of the animals being housed on farms sponsored by Tyson Food Company. The animal care takers will ensure that all livestock and animals are being feed properly with natural food, along with clean water. They will also be responsible for keeping track of all the animals at the farm and providing the animals with afternoon walks to provide the animals with the opportunity to get exercise and a little bit of freedom every day. If any animal is unaccounted for at the end of the day, the Humane Society of the United States will have to pay money to Tyson Food Company to compromise for the lost profits. Animal safety and health is very important, especially when it is the animals that we as every day humans consume. The last thing we want is to be looking down at the steak on our plate and asking ourselves, I die if I eat Hodges 6 Work Cited Grandin, Temple. Behavioral Principles of Livestock  Behavioral Principles of Livestock Handling. American Registry of Professional Animal Scientists, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Grandin, Temple. Improving Animal Welfare, 2  Google Books. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Tyson Foods: Tyson  Tyson Foods: Tyson Overview. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. You Love Helping Animals. So Do  The Humane Society of the United States : The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Why Animal Well-Being Is  Tyson Foods: Animal Well-Being. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.