Robert Hall U34336291 1/31/2017 Perspective on the Minimum Wage Debate As a weary America struggles to recover from the recession of 2008, economic tension fuels conversation and debate among its citizens and politicians. With such a large group of people negatively impacted by this economic crash, it is still unclear on exactly how the country should go about repairing its economy while protecting its well-being. The issue of the minimum wage is a growing concern between many Americans. On one side, the claim is made that the minimum wage in the United States is insufficient to support oneself or family and therefore should be raised to an amount suitable to live on. With nearly 40 million falling below the poverty line (Gongloff), their voices are difficult to ignore. The opposition feels that raising the minimum wage would only lead to more inflation and an actual increase in unemployment, ultimately leading to economic disaster. Businesses as well as many politicians fear the economic consequences of raising the federal or state minimum wage, but for much the American working class, the economic status of the country is irrelevant compared to the need to support their children and family. Those in favor of the raise point out that, since the last federal raising of the minimum wage to 7.25/hr. over seven years ago, the cost of essential items has increased substantially while the minimum wage has remained the same. In their article on USA Today, Jack Quinn, Mike Castle, Steve LaTourette and Connie Morella find that, since 2009, cost 20% more, a gallon of gas costs 25%more, and average tuition at a community college increased 44%. But the minimum wage remains at (Castle, LaTourette, Quinn, Morella). In other words, the value of the dollar has steadily decreased in the 8 years since the last raise, so people have been getting paid Robert Hall U34336291 1/31/2017 money worth less and less each paycheck and some are finding it increasingly difficult to support themselves and their loved ones. Furthermore, proponents of the raise contest that the minimum wage in other developed countries is relatively much higher than the US. The economist conducted a study of the minimum wage of several countries and concluded the pattern across the rest of the OECD, a group of mostly rich countries, one would expect America, where GDP per person is $53,000, to pay a minimum wage around $12 an (Economist Data Team) Supporters argue that this demonstrates the stability that can be maintained even with a minimum wage increase as it has already been proven effective in other developed countries. While everyone getting a pay raise sounds good on paper, some politicians are concerned about the potential economic risks associated with raising the minimum wage, while businesses fear more personal economic struggles. The main concern of those opposing the minimum wage increase is the potential loss of jobs. In his Chicago Tribune article: argument against raising minimum Rex Huppke sites Congressional Budget Office forecast that total U.S. employment could be reduced by 500,000 (Huppke) Increasing the minimum wage does nothing to increase demand, and if employers are forced to pay their employees more they may have to lay-off other employees. Even worse, small stores with low- skill jobs may have to close if they can not conform to the substantial increase in their cost of operations. Another concern for economists is the lack of incentive for skilled labor. The argument for the minimum wage here is that it is designed for unskilled labor jobs and not to support a family with. In fact, there is a significant portion on jobs that cannot be filled due to a lack of qualified applicants despite the large portion of struggling to find work in the recovering job market. William Dunkelberg points this out in his Forbes article I Robert Hall U34336291 1/31/2017 Think We Should Raise The Minimum where he reveals that 80% of NFIB owners that are trying to hire reporting or no qualified From this point of view, there are plenty of high paying jobs available that can sustain a family. Therefore, instead of raising the minimum, the government should focus on education. While these two parties differ greatly in their opinions on the minimum wage, their overall intentions are actually very similar. Each group aims to decrease the percentage of people falling below the poverty line and produce the most stable economy. The working class makes a good argument to increase the minimum to around $10 an hour as that would match the increase of inflation. However there is a large section of this group that would have the minimum raised to $15/hr. (Reich 3). This would be a nearly doubling of the current minimum wage and could not be a viable option as the economy would not be able to handle the spike, leading to a rise in unemployment and bankruptcy among businesses. Most economists, on the other hand, disagree with raising the minimum at all. Over a $3 increase would still produce economic consequences, but there are growing consequences for those earning money that is worth less each paycheck as it stands today. Ultimately the minimum wage will be raised at some point. It is obvious to both sides of the debate that at some point, if it has not already occurred, the wage will reach a point that it will become unsustainable in relation to inflation. Before this happens, however, there is still a chance for both sides to come together to come up with a solution that can benefit the economy as a whole. I suggest that both stakeholders have chosen the wrong way to go about fighting for their point. The lobbyist fighting for higher wages are much too split on their goals, having differing ideas about what the wage should be, from $10/hr. to $15/hr., which forces opposing politicians and lawmakers to continually fight the same battle over different grounds. If both sides can Robert Hall U34336291 1/31/2017 agree on a minimum wage that changes relative to inflation, citizens will have the ability to make a sustainable wage and politicians and economist will not have to fear inflation running away from the minimum wage again, stabilizing the economy. Economic pressures will eventually force the hand of the government to decide this matter, so for the sake of the United States economic future, these stakeholders must approach this issue from a different angle, one that satisfies both of its goals. Robert Hall U34336291 1/31/2017 Works Cited Castle, Mike, Connie Morella, Jack Quinn, and Steve LaTourette. Raising the minimum wage is common sense:  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 09 Oct. 2014. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. < http://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2014/10/09/raise- minimum-wage-poverty-income-column/16969185/> Gongloff, Mark. 45 Million Americans Still Stuck Below Poverty Line:  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 16 Sept. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/09/16/poverty-household- Huppke, Rex. The argument against raising the federal minimum  Tribunedigital- chicagotribune. Chicago Tribune, 10 Mar. 2014. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. < http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2014-03-10/business/ct-biz-0310-work-advice-huppke- Pay  The Economist. The Economist Newspaper, 20 May 2015. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://www.economist.com/blogs/graphicdetail/2015/05/minimum-wages> Robert Hall U34336291 1/31/2017 Reich, Michael, Sylvia Allergretto, Ken Jacobs, and Claire Montialoux. The Effects of a $15 Minimum Wage in New York State. Issue brief. Center on Wage and Employment Dynamics, March & april 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.