Kiffner 1 Kayleigh Kiffner ENC 1102 Karen Hanson 12 February 2017 Project 1 Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) have been a topic of discussion for the past few years that people have concerns with and some find to be helpful and okay to eat. For those who familiar with genetically engineered food is a plant or meat product that has had its DNA artificially altered in a laboratory by genes from other plants, animals, viruses, or bacteria, produce foreign compounds in that (Label Gmos) Genetically Modified Organisms are seen has bad due to the unknown health risks involved with mixing genes from different species together. People are worried that they could causes health risks down the road without the proper long-term research on them. While other people think are a good thing, they are helpful for developing countries to be able to allow more products to feed the ever growing world population. Grist is an organization on all things environmental and they have a stand that matter especially for the developing world. Meanwhile the Non- GMO Project is against and thinks that everyone deserves to know when a food item is a GMO. They are pro labeling while the other one believes that it matter since are made to help us not hurt us. One thing that could be done is make a law in effect that all and any should be labeled no matter what, that way people know what they are eating and are given a choice to choose a non-GMO option if they want. Kiffner 2 To start, Grist has been around since 1999 and is source for intelligent, irreverent environmental news and (Why GMOs Matter) Their goal is to get people talking and acting upon these issues to help the environment. According to Grist, Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN estimates that we need to grow 70 percent more food by (Why GMOs Matter) Due to this dramatic increase of food the work will need to grow allow the yield to be increased through different types of They allow better photosynthesis and self-fertilizing crops (Why GMOs Matter) Not only can do that but, are just two projects among many, along with creating more drought-resistant crops, more salt-resistant crops, and crops that have higher levels of vitamins and minerals that people (Why GMOs Matter) The introduction of these GM crops could bring so much to the people who need to eat and, with these drought-resistant and other type of resistant crops farmers get a larger yield to raise the amount of food produced to keep a growing population from going into a famine like the Ireland potato famine. The impact of in developing countries is substantial compared to the use of them here in the United States. According to Grist, the decade between 1991 and 2001, cotton yields in India were flat, at around 300 kilograms per hectare (a hectare is about 2.5 acres). In 2002, Bt cotton was introduced into the country. Farmers adopted it quickly, and yields of cotton soared by two thirds in just a few years to more than 500 kilograms per (Why GMOs Matter) The article also includes a graph from the Indian Cotton Advisory Board to show how the average cotton yield has grown in the recent years. allow for pest resistant organisms, such as insect-resistant cotton. According to the USDA, engineered insect-resistant cotton has allowed for a significant reduction in the use of persistent, synthetic pesticides that may contaminate groundwater and the (Biotechnology Frequently Asked Questions) Kiffner 3 The Non-GMO Project believes that everyone deserves the right to know what is in their food. That is what their mission is based on. Non-GMO Project is a mission-driven nonprofit organization dedicated to building and protecting a non-GMO food supply. We do this through consumer education and outreach (Non-GMO Project) There is currently no labeling or bans on in the United States and Canada. (Label Gmos) If a bad thing why would there be strict restrictions and/or bans on in other countries. The people should know what they are putting into their body and can decide for themselves if they want to consume such food. are not proven safe. It is unclear whether are not it will have a negative effect on people over years of eating these genetically modified foods. substantial  concept was proposed in early 1996. The adoption of the concept of substantial equivalence allowed permission to market and sell new foods without any safety or toxicology tests they were not too different in chemical composition to foods already on the (Label Gmos) This allows to be produced and sold without any tests to make sure it is safe. All the who have just about the same chemical makeup have to be tested for any toxicology tests. In continuation, Both Grist and The Non-GMO Project want to be able to use Grist for the use of developing countries who greatly benefit from its uses. While The Non-GMO Project think can exist but with some sort of labeling in place. Know what eating. (The Non-GMO Project) Something that can be done to not necessarily get rid of since they are safe as far as research shows is we should at least be labeling all on the market. If we can label nutrition facts, we should be labeling whether its GMO or not. Foods are even starting to label that they are organic now as well, so why not list this too. 64 countries around the world require labeling of genetically modified (Just Label It) If 64 Kiffner 4 other countries are already doing it, it must be worth it. Labeling would allow farmers who want to use to still use it while still allowing consumers to either buy the GMO products or choose the regular alternative versions as well at the grocery store. Creating a law that would make it mandatory to label it such as other countries like China, Austria and others have done would allow the US to be aware of these products. may not be unsafe like these organizations believe for now without enough evidence to prove it. But that mean people want to put it into their bodies without knowing for sure this is a way to allow but have the people decide whether to buy it or not. In conclusion, both organizations, The Non-GMO Project and Grist put up a good argument on why both sides of the GMO issue could be right. The use of is still so new that hard to say whether it is safe or whether it is harmful to people to eat. are helping the developing countries who need it like India with their cotton crops, but yet most developed countries have laws that it should be labeled except for north American countries. To keep both sides of the argument at bay the best option is to allow labeling like other countries with these laws in place. Some countries have a ban on completely but use of could be useful so why not just label it and let individuals decide on whether or not they want to actually consume GM products. Let it be the choice. This way both anti-GMO and pro-GMO organizations can get what they want out of Kiffner 5 Works Cited The NonGMO Project, www.nongmoproject.org/about/. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Biotechnology Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) USDA, www.usda.gov/wps/portal/usda/usdahome?navid=AGRICULTURE&contentid=Biotechn ologyFAQs.xml. Cinici, Ayhan. The Pros and Cons of Gmos: Socio-Scientific Argumentation In Pre- Service Teacher  International Journal Of Science Education 38.11 (2016): 1841-1866. ERIC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Marris, Claire. Public views on GMOs: deconstructing the  EMBO reports 2.7 (2001): 545-548. Are We LabelGMOs, GMOs Matter Especially for the Developing Grist, 30 Jan. 2014, grist.org/food/why-gmos-do-matter-and-even-more-to-the-developing-world/#.