Gregg 1 Samantha Gregg Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102.015 27 January 2017 Common Core- the good, the bad, and the ugly Common Core, as defined by the Common Core State Standards Initiative is, set of high-quality academic standards in mathematics and English language arts/literacy (ELA). These learning goals outline what a student should know and be able to do at the end of each the Common Core is a highly controversial topic in the education realm; two polarizing arguments arise from two distinct stakeholders. The National Governors Association and the Council of Chief State School Officers, who are the two founders of the Common Core Curriculum, believe that Common Core is essential for student success. Others, such as the American Federation of Teachers and the National Education Association, two major teacher unions, believe the curriculum needs to be updated before it is considered to be highly effective for students. Their difference in opinion shows the need for change in the Common Core Curriculum so that both sides, the National Education Association and the American Federation of Teachers, and the National Governors Association and the Council of Chief State School Officers are working together to find a compromise that takes into consideration what is best for the students. Gregg 2 The American Federation of Teachers and the National Education Association hold a stance on the Common Core Curriculum that it could be helpful for preparing students for higher education, but it has many flaws that need to be addressed. Scholars argue that teachers are teaching topics in ways that are different from the way parents know how to complete a topic, so they are unable to help their own children with homework. Scholars also argue that teachers feel overwhelmed to stay on pace with standards and struggle with having to to the causing them stress inside and outside of the classroom, and drawing attention away from why they pursued teaching to begin with. Mrs. Jones, a National Teachers Hall of Fame Inductee, stated that: The freedom that teachers usually have in the classroom to create, to be eternal learners, to bring forth the joy of learning, what you want children to have. When everything is so top-down regimented going to stomp on that. I was dreading going to work, I was having a lot of wine when I came home, I was overeating, not sleeping, I kept coming home so upset, and my husband said, have to stop this or it is going to ruin our This is why I worry about our teachers. (Pullmann) Mrs. Jones proves the point that common core is bringing the joy out of teaching and learning and makes it hard for parents to teach concepts to their children. A study conducted in 2014 by US News and World Report showed that only 14% of teachers supported the use of Common Core in schools which shows that a majority of teachers do not approve of the use of Common Core (Boslaugh 1). In response, the American Federation of Teachers announced that the union would give between $20,000-$30,000 to revise the Common Core Curriculum (Edwards 1). These initiatives show that teacher unions are dedicated to seeing a change in the Gregg 3 Common Core curriculum in order for students to be more successful and for teachers to be more proficient in teaching nationwide standards that students will benefit from. The National Governors Association and the Council of Chief State School Officers believe that Common Core is a crucial aspect in improving the United education system. Per Wanda Dole, a retired University of Arkansas Professor, development and implementation of this system is necessary for the improvement of learning, cognitive skills and the acquisition of knowledge and skills that will enable graduates to enter the work place or higher education with the capacity to be (11). statement exemplifies how many people and organizations feel that Common Core is essential towards preparing students for life after graduation by teaching students a nationwide, high-quality curriculum that allows students to be competitive whether applying for a job or college. The idea that Common Core is essential to student success is also supported by the Council of Chief State School Officers who states, standards are designed to ensure that students graduating from high school are prepared to go to college or enter the workforce and that parents, teachers and students have a clear understanding of what is expected of Core State Standards The Council of Chief State School Officers asserts that students are being prepared for life after graduation because the standards lay out what is expected from each student and shows them what they need to be learning to be successful. Organizations that support Common Core believe that the standards encourage preparedness for life after graduation by equipping them with knowledge and career skills. Although the sides to the Common Core debate seem too opposite to share common ground, they do both believe in seeking out the best for students. The National Education Gregg 4 mission statement declares, mission is to advocate for education professionals and to unite our members and the nation to fulfill the promise of public education to prepare every student to succeed in a diverse and interdependent Vision, Mission, and Working towards a goal that is best for the students will lead to a compromise that all stakeholders would be willing to support and will lead to an increase of teacher retention and parent satisfaction. A compromise that would be attainable for both sides would be to change some of the curriculum. The removal of Common Core would not be helpful because its main goal is so that all students receive the same education. If the National Governors Association and the Council of Chief State School Officers could agree with the issues caused by Common Core, such as excessive testing and failure to recognize that not all students learn the same, there could be a compromise. This compromise could be that teachers are not required to teach certain subjects at specific times (teachers could teach any topic at any time as long as it is taught before the end of the school year) and a switch from excessive testing of students that leads to a to the mentality. The American Federation of Teachers agrees with this compromise because they have stated, AFT believes that, if implemented carefully and with the needed supports and resources, these new standards will help improve education for all Core State Therefore, this compromise is attainable because the mission of Common Core is kept in-tact, but it allows teachers more freedom over their own classroom which will in turn give students a higher quality education. The Common Core State Standards do provide a set of nationwide standards that provide students with an education they would be able to transfer and apply in real life scenarios, such as Gregg 5 math, that is used in college courses, but fails to provide teachers with freedom over their classroom and leads to teaching to a test. Although, many teachers are leaving the teaching profession because of this, the revision of the Common Core Standards would lead to support from teachers, unions such as the American Federation of Teachers and the National Education Association, and parents across the United States and would overall lead to a better educational experience for students. Gregg 6 Works Cited About the  Common Core State Standards Initiative About the Standards Comments. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Boslaugh, Sarah E., PhD. Common Core State Standards  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2015): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Common Core State  American Federation of Teachers. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Common Core State Standards  Common Core State Standards Initiative. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Edwards, Haley Sweetland. Teachers Union Pulls Full-Throated Support for Common  Time. Time, 11 July 2014. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Our Mission, Vision and  NEA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pullmann, Joy. Meet 5 Award-Winning Teachers Who Reject Common  The Federalist. N.p., 25 Mar. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sewall, Angela M.1. Common Core State Standards: Impact On Higher Education And  Journal Of Library Administration 54.4 (2014): 337-346. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.