Chao Ma Ma 1 Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 12 Feb 2017 GMO Labeling Law in the U.S. Nowadays, GMO issue is a big issue worldwide. There are many different kinds of stakeholders involved in this issue. Among these stakeholders, Non-GMO Project has conflict with the GMO company Monsanto. Both stakeholders have been arguing over the mandatory GMO labeling law for many years but this problem never gets solved. The Non-GMO Project is a: nonprofit organization dedicated to building and protecting a non-GMO food (Non-GMO). Non-GMO wants mandatory GMO labeling laws because they focus on human rights and high quality foods. They believed that GMOs are not safe and preserving the non-GMO food supply is necessary for future. In contrast, Monsanto is an company with more than 20,000 dedicated employees with a focus on making a balanced meal accessible to (Monsanto). GMO companies like Monsanto exported these GM seeds to African countries and help them to develop cultivation technology. Monsanto also believes that GMOs are the solution for food shortage worldwide and also has much more advantages such as maintaining environmental sustainability. For example, African countries have taken a lot of benefits from GMOs. GMOs not only solved their food shortage problem but also brought many job opportunities. Even though Non-GMO Project and Monsanto have contrasting views on the GMO labeling law, a compromise can be made by finding common ground and reaching the same solution which benefits both sides. Non-GMO Project aims to preserve sources of non-GMO products in the U.S. because of the absence of a mandatory GMO labeling law. This organization also believes that GMOs are not safe and many of countries expect the U.S. require GM products to be labelled. For instance, European countries have had strict GMO labeling laws since 1997. According to two professors of University of California Colin A. Carter and Guillaume P. first GM labeling Ma 2 requirements for food products were introduced by the European Union (EU) in 1997 (Regulation EC No 258/97) as an application of the precautionary (1). Compared with the U.S., European countries have longer history and stricter policies on GMO labeling. On the contrary, according to internationally recognized public opinion researcher Gary Langer: a 2015 ABC News survey found that 93% of Americans believe genetically modify foods should be labelled, GMOs are not required to be labelled in the U.S. and (1). The U.S. has much higher GMO adoption than European countries while these GMOs are not considered to be safe. This organization believes that the U.S. government has to take measures to control the adoption of GMOs because non-GMO supplies to the U.S. are necessary for the next generation. Non-GMO Project also gives consumers the informed choice they deserve. According to the homepage of Non-GMO Project: U.S. and Canadian governments, though, have approved GMOs based on studies conducted by the same corporations that created them and profit from their (1). Although consumers of the U.S. want to know what they are eating every day, the rights to know have been taken by those GMO food companies. In these cases, Non-GMO Project provides a verified choice for consumers of the U.S. and educates them more about GMOs. In addition, because of consumer demand, more and more non-GMO companies have joined in this organization and labeled the certification on their products. Therefore, it is urgent for Americans to ask for mandatory labeling laws. Monsanto is a sustainable agriculture company. Nowadays, they have 404 facilities across 67 countries. Monsanto believes that genetically modified technology can help many of farmers to produce more crops while save valuable natural resources such as water. According to mission statement: work collaboratively to find sustainable solution for soil health, help farmers use data to improve farming practices and conserve natural (1). Ma 3 They emphasize how their seeds can help the environment and sustainability and really important to human beings. They also hope to protect their customers. By collaborating with farmers and grocers, Monsanto believes: the next 50 years, our society will have to produce more food than it did in the past 10000 years combined in order to meet the need of nearly 2 billion more (1). This is the way to keep a healthy food supply chain as well. All of those seeds are used genetic modified engineering. They are firmly believing that GMOs are safe and environment friendly products. However, some developing countries and the countries which have a higher of population are willing to adopt GMOs as a solution for their food shortage problem. 2004, South Africa continues to be the only African country that has approved transgenic crops for commercial purposes and, at the same time, is the leader in agricultural biotechnology research and development on the (Adenle 464). Developing countries like South Africa want to take advantage of GMOs by creating more jobs, foods and technologies. However, these GMOs actually are provided by food companies. Compared with normal crops, GMOs can be planted in more areas even though these places are under serious pest problems. Farmers can apply more and more pesticides and do not need to worry about killing these crops. So the food companies can make as many crops as they want and maintain the environmental sustainability at the same time. The consumers and GMO companies also have something in common even though they are opposing stakeholders. Since they both believe that GMOs are not 100% safe, none of them can determine what foods all people should eat. A compromised solution could be separating GMO and Non-GMO by a mandatory label. According to the Van Vliet professor Peter W.B. Phillips and University of Saskatchewan researcher Grant Isaac: in the absence of industry action to positively label, governments may be pushed by consumers and various lobby Ma 4 groups to impose mandatory labeling to ensure firms are held accountable for the product- specific credence (6). The U.S. government has to take mandatory measures to make sure that GMO products are labeled. There are three reasons that explain why this solution works. First, GMOs are created through genetic engineering and cannot be controlled after people have consumed them. Nobody will know how GMOs affect body after they are consumed. And some of the effects may take years to know. Both groups believe that GMOs are potentially dangerous. Secondly, GMOs have brought a lot of benefits to human beings. GMOs have solved food shortages in many countries. The people who live in poor countries cannot live without GMOs. Most of countries also have large percentage adopting of GMO products. GMOs also created a lot of jobs, poor countries can save money rather than import expensive foods from developed countries. GMOs have steady yields and can be planted on more land. So GMOs should not be restricted. Finally, GMOs are also good for the environment. Due to high suitability, GMOs can live longer and use less water which is good for environment sustainability. Environment and sustainability are also important factors that stakeholders are considering. Because people only have one earth, saving the energy and resources are a priority for human beings to live. In conclusion, no matter how GMOs are, the best compromise for this issue is to label all foods. The government should mandatory label all foods to separate Non-GMOs and GMOs and keep both type of foods available for consumers. People who can afford the higher quality food may choose Non-GM foods and people who really care about this will use GMO foods. Ma 5 Works Cited Ademola A.Adenle. attitudes towards the risks and benefits of genetically modified crops in South Environmental Science & Policy. October 2005. Volume 8, Issue 5. Carter Colin A. and Guillaume P. Labeling of Genetically Modified Foods: Does it Really Provide Consumer Agbioforum. Langer, Gary. Skepticism of Genetically Modified ABC News. ABC News Network, 19 June 2015. Web. Monsanto. at a Monsanto n.d. Sun. 29 Jan 2017. Non-GMO Project. Non-GMO Project. Phillips Peter W.B. and Isaac Grant. labeling: threat or AgBioForum. Volume 1 Number 1. 1998.