Prophilien 1 Wodelin Prophilien Sarah Basil ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Tobacco taxation compromise. Ever since the creation of this great nation the sale of tobacco products have always been heavily taxed. Throughout history the tobacco tax always increased and in 2009 it peaked to its highest ever to $1.01 cents per cigarette pack and other products that contain tobacco peaked also. (CDC). The Federal government and the tobacco industry are always with each other because the tobacco industry contains various controversies within it. The two have nothing in common in which the federal government takes advantage of the tobacco industry by taxing their products, because the negative effects that their products have. If the Federal government and the tobacco industry work together they can compromise on a tax rate that can benefit both, in which both side can feel like they are benefiting from the deal instead of one side feeling like they lost. While the Federal government and tobacco companies like Carreras currently do not get along this is one of the first step that they can take to become closer so, their future encounters can develop more smoothly. The Federal government main objective for heavily taxing the tobacco industry is because the tobacco industry has affected our health, their products contain various chemicals that are insanely bad for human consumption. The FDA states in their website have to protect the youth of America from tobacco and nicotine (FDA). So their main objective is to protect the youth of America from these products that the tobacco companies such as Carreras are Prophilien 2 trying to sell to the youths. The CDC stated the various health effects that comes with tobacco consumption could be that it various cancers such as lung cancer, increases chance of heart disease, for pregnant woman it increases chances of pregnancy complications and lastly for increases chances of dying from (CDC). The federal government wants the citizens to help decrease those health effects, and by taxing them is the only way in their eyes of solving this problem. According to the CDC rate of smoking decrease when the tobacco products are tax This means whenever the government increases taxes on the tobacco companies the tobacco industry loses customers. The federal government has been increasing the tax on tobacco through ought history in 2009 the government increased the $1.01 cent per cigarette pack and amongst other tobacco products. (FDA). The federal government uses the money and separates it which or up to $1 billion would go to the Medi-Cal healthcare program for the poor. Anti-smoking programs would get 13%. The University of California would receive 5% for research on tobacco- caused (L.A. Times). The federal government wants to decrease the use of tobacco products to 0 the way they see they can do this is that by controlling the tobacco industry market; taxing the tobacco industry is making profits very hard to come by and eventually this would lead them to going out of business. On the other hand, the tobacco industry is tired of being taxed so heavily by the government and they are ready for a said the president of a Carreras (Marcus Steele). The tobacco industry has gotten a very bad reputation today, but about million people worldwide work for the (I.L.O.). So, if eliminating tobacco use is our eventual goal what jobs are going to replace those millions of jobs and how can the world economy function, when has been one of the biggest exports in the world since the through the early Prophilien 3 (Marcus Steele). This is one of the reasons the tobacco industry still has a hold on some part of the economy in the various nations Worldwide. That is why companies such as Carreras are still functioning. Although the tobacco industry has a bad reputation Carreras president Marcus Steele states that the government is losing money because there is an illegal business of illegal smuggling of cigarettes from overseas and that is costing the U.S. government about to 2 billion dollars in their These 2 billion dollars are nontaxable because they coming in illegally could have been used by the federal government to build more cancer research facilities, and help fund anti-tobacco companies. The tobacco companies such as Carreras feel like all though they do own their part in the health issues that the tobacco products cause, but they feel like that a carton of cigarettes should have $1.65 average of tax. (L.A. Times). They also stated that the Federal government should not be hiking up the taxes on them because they feel like the market need to adjust not every 2 years when this decision come should a tax hike be implemented. (Marcus Steele). So Carreras especially feel like they are getting the short end of the stick with the tax hikes that the Federal government are implementing and they are tired of it. While both side feel like the tobacco industry is responsible for some health issues that comes with the consumption of tobacco. The tax compromise should be that the government should have a flat tax rate where both side can benefit and they should wait a certain amount of years for them to be able to change this tax. Currently there are talks saying that the tobacco tax for this year would close to $2 per box of cigarettes and all other tobacco products increasing (L.A. Times). The proposal can work if both side would listen to each pitch of what can work best for the two sides, but the tobacco industry will still need to pay a tax because this what the compromise is for them to sell their products in the U.S. and not making it Prophilien 4 illegal. The rate needs to be not as high as New York where the tax on a box of cigarettes is $4.35 and not as low as Missouri in which its 17 cents. (L.A. Times). The tobacco company Carreras Director Marcus Steele wants to talk to the government about a compromise. So, the government needs to work with the tobacco industry and find a way to keep funding the research for cancer and the anti-tobacco industry, while not hiking up the tobacco tax rates. In west Virginia, an article states that their congress rejected a tax hike that was going to be implemented and they denied this tax. According to the article said was going to be a 45cent increase to already a 55 cent per (Metro News). So the congressman realized that this was going too far with the tax hike, and they rejected the bill to increase the tax on tobacco. They felt like that they had earned enough money from the industry. This is how the federal government should be and follow this example in which they have to implement a tax hike every time the issue comes up. To conclude, although the federal government and the tobacco industry do not get along very well, they need to for this compromise to work. As previously stated in this essay, the federal government depends too much on the tobacco company like Carreras, but the tobacco industry is not as innocent as they meant to be seen. So, the federal government uses the money that they collect from the tobacco company to support anti-tobacco companies and cancer research facilities, so that money can still be used for that purpose but the tobacco company would not charge a lot so they can make a profit. So the compromise needs everyone to work together in order to make this idea work. Prophilien 5 Work Cited 5 Health Benefits of  LiveScience. Purch, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Department of Taxation and  Cigarette and Tobacco Products Tax. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. FDA takes significant steps to protect Americans from dangers of tobacco through new  FDA takes significant steps to protect Americans from dangers of tobacco through new regulation. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Federal Tax  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 29 May 2009. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. ILO: Up in Smoke: What Future for Tobacco  DCOMM. N.p., 18 Sept. 2003. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Johnson, Shauna. House rejects tobacco tax hike bill, the only new revenues in budget  WV Metro News. N.p., 24 May 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Skelton, George. The tobacco strategy to kill a new statewide cigarette tax: Blow a lot of  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 28 Oct. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Steele, Marcus. Carreras Urges Not to Further Tax 