Nyberg 1 Charles Nyberg Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 015 12 February 2017 The Safety and Cost of Vaccinations Most children in America and other first world countries have received vaccinations since birth to treat many different diseases, viruses, and illnesses. The world has a general understanding that vaccinations are beneficial and have prevented the spread and outbreak of major diseases. However, many groups have started to form around the idea that vaccinations are quite harmful and can cause lasting effects. Parents and The World Health Organization, both of which care about health, form different sides on vaccinations. Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations (PMV) argue that companies involved with the creation and distribution of vaccinations are only doing it for their own advantage and that vaccinations can be quite harmful. The World Health Organization (WHO) plans on vaccinating as many people as possible, specifically in third world countries. This is seen as their best opportunity to protect against disease and other harmful illnesses. A compromise, however, from understanding both stakeholders can be proposed that limits the cost of vaccinations while improving the safety and research of the vaccinations. The first stakeholder in this vaccination conflict is the group Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations. Their slogan is, as their website states, and Opposing the Vaccination (Whitney). They work to inform the public about everything involved with vaccinations. The main page of the group says that, unwise and unwarranted invasion of the federal government . . . into our classrooms must not be allowed to (Whitney). This prominent group of parents just want freedom and justice for their children and themselves. Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations, like their name states, are against the Nyberg 2 government requiring vaccinations. With the government making vaccinations mandatory, are infringing on the religious rights of (ProCon.org). Many families follow a lifestyle or religion that does not involve outside medications or in this case vaccinations. These families are put at risk of going against their religion or beliefs when told they have to vaccinate their child. Some of the consequences for not having your child vaccinated includes either being denied entry into healthcare centers or even schools. lives are dependent on whether or not their children have their vaccinations completed. PMV also states that most of the groups involved with vaccinations are for-profit groups. These groups include the Center for Disease Control (CDC), or major pharmaceutical companies that create the vaccinations, and other groups including the American Academy of Pediatrics. These groups all have a significant role in vaccinations. Since all of these groups are trying to make a profit, then the time spent researching into safe vaccinations is less and the cost of the vaccinations is high. Currently, these companies are unable to be blamed for any injury caused by the vaccinations. A vaccine for Lyme disease was on the marker for four years and then was pulled off the shelf because of too many lawsuits put against it (ProCon.org). Since these companies have no consequence for a poorly constructed vaccination then less care will be placed into vaccines. Like the vaccination for Lyme disease, the company only wanted to get as much money as possible from it without caring if it had adverse effects. PMV believes that if there was more regulation and research done, then vaccinations themselves would be better (Whitney). Improved vaccinations can be achieved just by more research and time spent working on the vaccinations. The International Medical Council on Vaccination states the same belief as the PMV that vaccinations are: unacceptable risk to every member of society, regardless of In most cases, it is better to be safe than sorry, however for the pharmaceutical Nyberg 3 companies involved it is better for them to be rich. Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations wants the public to know the truth behind vaccinations and the harm they can do to the child receiving them. They also affirm how the companies are focused on money instead of safety. The second stakeholder, the World Health Organization (WHO), believes that proper health of the body is one of the fundamental rights of human beings. To this end, the WHO supports and lends aid to, government that promotes the health of This is just one of their major goals that is meant to try and expand the life of people all over the world. The World Health Organization believes that it is the responsibility of the government to ensure that their people are at the fullest possible level of health. In regards to vaccinations, the World Health Organization hopes that by 2030 the death rate can be greatly lowered. Their main goal in lowering the death rate is increasing the number of vaccinations to children. With this belief, they have proven that between the years of 2010 and 2015, more than five million lives were saved because of vaccinations (Bustreo 6). Through aim of lowering the death rates in the whole world, they believe that more vaccinations should be performed, most specifically, in third world countries. These countries have the highest death rates and most prevalent diseases and illnesses. Many groups and studies done agree with the World Health Organization. One significant group that shares the same views as WHO is the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The HHS says: a critical portion of a community is immunized against a contagious disease, most members of the community are protected against that disease because there is little opportunity for an The HHS agrees that vaccinations are for everyone and provide safety for the individual and community as a whole. They also believe that diseases and illnesses are easily preventable through vaccinations. Vaccinations are easy and quick to administer and better than providing long-term treatment and physician care. Nyberg 4 The United National Health Service (NHS) agrees with and supports the World Health Organization about the saving factor of vaccines as well. Both smallpox and polio, as stated on the NHS website, have been eradicated. However, what is included in their website is the answer to the question of why people should still receive vaccinations. The NHS states that there are many other diseases still prevalent in the world that could easily be prevented by receiving vaccinations; new vaccinations for diseases are also being made If more people had vaccinations then these other new and still common diseases, like polio and smallpox, could be eradicated as well. The WHO is just one well known group that believes vaccination is one of the best ways to improve the quality of life of the individual. The World Health Organization believes that everyone should be vaccinated and many other groups agree with this belief. The health of the individuals and communities are at the utmost importance. These two stakeholders, the World Health Organization and Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations, both want to ensure the safety and health of all humans, including their own children. In 2008, the cost to fully vaccinate a boy through eighteen was about $1105 and about $1407 for a girl (Shen, A. K., et al. S541). For families that do not have a high income, this cost over the eighteen years may be too much to spend. The World Health Organization wants everyone to become vaccinated and the Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations want the vaccinations to be safer and not mandatory mostly because of the cost. As a compromise between the two groups, the cost and the safety of the vaccinations would be addressed by having vaccinations become completely free to the public. Governments would have to increase grants to states so that on a more local level vaccinations could be administered. More research would be done as well to perfect the quality and safety of vaccinations. A free system of Nyberg 5 vaccinations has been able to work on a slightly smaller scale in Washington County, Oregon. The National College of Natural Medicine received a two-year grant of $387,000 from the county to help the uninsured patients of the area College Receive This money is nothing compared to the overall money a county needs or uses so it did not affect the budget overall. The county states that, will be family planning, vaccine immunizations, and sexually transmitted disease screening and treatments and will be offered at low or no College Receive This single county, with more money from the government, was able to increase treatment in all clinics of the Portland area in Oregon. Also seen in the article by Shen, A. K., et al., different groups involved in vaccinations agreed and would be willing to increase funds for vaccinations since it would be beneficial for everyone overall. If all groups involved with vaccinations are willing, then the switch should be easy. The argument over vaccinations has many sides, however one goal that both sides have in common is the need for safety and low cost. If vaccinations were free and better researched, then the health and safety of everyone would be best protected. This accomplishes both objectives while also providing the best for the people who would actually receive the vaccinations. The debate on vaccinations may never be solved. Groups like the Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations have strong ideas against vaccinations being mandatory and their lack of safety. Others, like the World Health Organization, believe vaccinations are one of the best ways to improve the health of a person and a community. Both sides have strong evidence and opinions, however a compromise is necessary to accomplish all goals and benefit the people. One compromise that would benefit all stakeholders would be to limit the cost of the vaccinations and spend more time researching and increasing the safety of vaccinations. Nyberg 6 Works Cited International Medical Council on Vaccination, www.vaccinationcouncil.org/about/. Bustreo, Flavia. Vision and Mission in Immunization and  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Vaccination Saves Lives - NHS Choices, Department of Health, www.nhs.uk/Conditions/vaccinations/Pages/vaccination-saves-lives.aspx. College of Natural Medicine Beaverton Clinic Receives Natural Medicine Journal, www.naturalmedicinejournal.com/community-news/national-college-natural- medicine-beaverton-clinic-receives-grant. ProCon.org. Vaccines  ProCon.org. 31 Jan. 2017, vaccines.procon.org/ Shen, A. K., et al. of Vaccine Manufacturers on Financing Pediatric and Adolescent Vaccines in the United Pediatrics, vol. 124, no. Supplement, 2009, doi:10.1542/peds.2009-1542n.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, www.vaccines.gov/basics/protection/index.html. Whitney, AL. Parents Against Mandatory  Parents Against Mandatory Vaccines. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.