Pemberton 1 Daniel Pemberton Professor Sarah Basil ENC1102.106S17 29 January 2017 How Bad Is Climate Change? The National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or NASA, and the Heartland Institute are two separate entities who have opposing views on topic of climate change. NASA is a government agency responsible for the space program in the United States. Overseeing and carrying out national projects such as the famous moon landing in 1969, or the extensive satellite research done on the earth, NASA is a strong supporter of the idea that climate change exists and that policy should be put into place to combat it (Mohn). The Heartland Institute, on the other hand, refers to itself as national nonprofit research and education (Teddy). The Institute often takes the stance of government and more including being against smoking bans and policy that tries to curb the effect of climate change (Glans). The Economist described the Heartland Institute as most prominent think-tank promoting skepticism about man-made climate when referring to the allegations that the Institute had attempted to give anti-climate change teaching materials to primary schools in 2012 While these two entities have no notable similarities, there is potentially one area where they could find common ground: alternative forms of energy. There are definite economically sound attributes to forms of alternative energy that both sides could agree would be universally beneficial. Pemberton 2 NASA has utilized their resources to support their belief that climate change has occurred and directly related to human interference. With the modern invention of satellites orbiting the earth, scientists have been able to get an even clearer picture of the planet, collecting not only information of the chemical makeup of our atmosphere, but also an actual image of what it looks like. This allows researchers to compare and contrast if and how global warming has an effect on the planet (NASA). Global warming itself is defined by Merriam-Webster as increase in the atmospheric and oceanic temperatures widely predicted to occur due to an increase in the greenhouse effect resulting especially from NASA proposes that the effects on the environment are not only measureable, but can be seen and felt: sea level and global temperature rises, warming oceans, shrinking ice sheets, declining Arctic sea ice, glacial retreat, ocean acidification and extreme weather events are all palpable pieces of evidence to climate change, according to NASA (NASA). What makes claims more powerful, however, is not the empirical evidence in itself, but the unity of the scientists who have together reached a consensus on these issues. One of the more prominent supporters of climate change, Dr. John Cook, wrote a peer reviewed research paper on the consensus among the scientific community, claiming that of climate scientists agreed that global warming does in fact exist, and is a major threat to humanity (Cook 1). In his paper, Dr. Cook identifies the process in which he attained his information regarding the views of climate scientists around the nation, referencing other surveys done before his and how he interpreted the consensus data. At the end of his surveying, Dr. Cook reported that despite the various forms and techniques used to get his information, he still ended up with a consistent view that most scientists agreed that the effects of greenhouse gases and other man-made influence had indeed changed the climate (Cook 5). He provided his Pemberton 3 statistics and data in table format to provide further evidence of the intricacy and accuracy of his findings. With the backing of a large percentage of the scientific community, NASA and other organizations and individuals continue to profess the impact of man-made climate change. However, not every organization agrees with this prognosis. The climate change page on The Heartland page tells a completely different story. As stated, the Institute rejects the idea of man-made climate change and as such, goes on the offensive against other entities or companies that support it, including Google. In an article opposing claim to be or environmentally friendly, the Institute claimed that companies like Google simply follow the trend of calling themselves green to pander to public opinion. The Institute rebuked Google for claiming that it could achieve 100% renewable energy function by this year, insinuating that not only did the giant tech company try to appease the public, but also was lying; according to the article, it was unlikely that a company the size of Google could possibly go completely green. This is an example of the stance that the Institute takes to open supporters of climate change. Although not a federal entity like NASA, the Institute is also run and maintained by educated men and women, from people like Tim Benson, a policy analyst and writer to Matthew Glans, a young publicized legislative specialist Scientists is a direct rebuttal to the consensus claims made by people like Dr. John Cook, which has been cited by the Institute. Produced by the combined efforts of Drs. Craig D. Idso, Robert M. Carter and S. Fred Singer, Scientists is a direct confrontation to the decades of implication that a large number of scientists agree that man-made climate change is real. In the introduction of the book, the trio refutes this claim, citing NASA specifically (Idso 1). They refer to NASA and other studies as alarmist, garnering up public fear for the sake of sensationalism and Pemberton 4 recognition. The research they are citing is from the NIPCC, or the Nongovernmental International Panel of Climate Change, of which the three writers are members. According to the NIPCC, the tenths of a degree of additional warming, should it occur, would not represent a climate and that any changes that did occur have not yet been proven to be potentially harmful to human beings (Idso 3). Instead of providing alternative information, the three writers set out to prove that although the findings of the larger scientific community might be valid, the response and reaction to it might be exaggerated. The Heartland Institute and the NIPCC might not support the idea of climate change, but may agree to the usage and promotion of alternative energy. One thing that both organizations, The Heartland Institute and NASA, have in common, is the public self-identity as groups of people who want the world to be a better place. While they might disagree on the impact, if any, of climate change, they undeniably both can appreciate the economic benefits of some forms of alternative energy. An efficient form of alternative energy is not only potentially economically beneficial, but is also a major way of reducing the man-made effect on the climate that NASA claims exists. On February 1 st 2016, three researchers on alternative energy published a proposal on converting methane gas to usable, renewable energy in a city in the north region of Brazil called Manaus. The researchers thought this particularly important because of this location, inside the Amazon (Martins 1). The researchers thought this idea to be particularly universally beneficial as it was friendly, socially fair and economically (Martins 2). By using a resource that is already available, this proposal would already be cost cutting. Not only is it economically healthy, but it also utilizes what would otherwise be waste. Pemberton 5 It is this kind of approach to finding a common ground that could potentially unite the efforts of the scientific community on a whole, on both sides of the argument. While governmental organizations such as NASA are already strong supporters of renewable resources, the push could be made stronger with more universally inclusive plans such as the one used in Manaus. The Institute and other climate change skeptics at the very least can appreciate an economically viable plan for energy, even if they believe that the information being given to the public by the are merely fear mongering and popularity gaining. This promotion of economically sound ideas aligns directly with The Heartland mission statement, which is to develop, promote, and empower people with free-market solutions to social and economic If both organizations advocate for more research and policy implemented in the field of renewable energy solutions, both of their goals will be satisfied. These institutions can work on innovative ways to save Americans money, and possibly protect the environment simultaneously. While NASA has amassed a wealth of knowledge about our planet to support their concerns about climate change, the Heartland Institute has set out to assure the world that things might not be as bad as they seem. Although the things they advocate might be conflicting, the two organizations do share the goal of the improvement of all people. Working together, they could help save the average person a lot of money. (1452 words) Pemberton 6 Works Cited Cook, John et al, Consensus on consensus: a synthesis of consensus estimates on human-caused global  Environmental Research Letters Vol. 11 No. 4, (13 April 2016) Glans, Matthew. Research & Commentary: E-Cigarette  Publications - Research & Commentary: E-Cigarette Bans Heartland Institute. N.p., n.d. global  Merriam-Webster.com. Merriam-Webster, 2011. Home - Heartland  Home Heartland Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. Iso, Craig D., Robert M. Carter, and S. Fred Singer. Why Scientists Disagree About Global Warming. N.p.: NIPCC, 2015. Mohn, Elizabeth. Moon  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. Martins, Maura Celi, Jandecy Cabral Leite, and Antonio Souza Silva. Proposal For The Generation Of Alternative Sustainable Energy Using Methane Gas From The  Business Management Dynamics 5.8 (2016): 1-18. Business Source Premier. NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. Orr, Isaac. Fall for Foray into Renewable Energy; a  News - Fall for Foray into Renewable Energy; a Gimmick Heartland Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. Teddy, K About  About Us Heartland Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Toxic  The Economist. The Economist Newspaper, 26 May 2012. Web. Pemberton 7 Who We  Who We Are Heartland Institute. N.p., n.d. Web