Nicholas McAleenan McAleenan 1 Professor Taylor Poston ENC 1102-029 6 February 2017 Net Neutrality In 2015, many saw what they hoped was the end of the net neutrality issue, where a company could control what or how you used the data you paid for, when the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) added Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to be regulated under Act 2 as a Common Carrier, like a telephone company, not allowing a company to control the flow of data to customers. This was a big issue, with large companies/websites such as Google and Wikipedia showing black screens instead of the normal content to show what might happen if the ISPs get what they want. While the government should be an unbiased viewer in this topic, extremely large companies that provide Internet services spend enormous amounts of money to sway politicians, and the Republicans view on net neutrality(Edwards 1) causes the FCC to be against net neutrality. However, this was all over a year ago, so why does it matter now if the legislation was passed. When Donald J. Trump became the 45th President of the United States, he named Ajit Pai as the new chairman of the FCC, which is a big deal as Mr. Pai has been quoted as vehemently against the whole idea of net neutrality(Fiegerman 1). This leaves Internet consumers and content creators scared, as the possibility that content creators may be silenced and consumers may not be able to watch what they want is scary. Companies are appeased, as they now can take more advantage of the new leadership. However, this is not optimal, as companies should not be able to govern the speeds or amount of data a consumer wishes to view if that consumer pays for access to the Internet. Many people have weighed in on this issue as the internet has become part of nearly daily lives. This paper was sent over the Internet, people create whole websites for McAleenan 2 something as small as a single type of flower, to creating an empire off of a website meant to rate girls at a single college origin story), this is how vast the Internet is. Nearly the entire country of Niue in the middle of the Pacific Ocean has Wi-Fi, or access to the internet from the government. However, the United States is still stuck with many lawmakers saying that if content creators such as Netflix can pay for the right to the or prioritized traffic, then it is just helping the private sector. However, the next Amazon or an even better YouTube may not have the money to get priority data like Netflix and therefore may fail when it might have succeeded a few years earlier. Consumers were and are worried about this issue, as the FCC now seems to be going back on its previous doing, causing fear. Consumers just want to have access to all Internet data, as all data is created equal, or should be(Free Press Net). Many may not know about this issue but if asked, both sides generally agree that censoring their information is not what they want. Many content creators online, from YouTubers to tech news websites like wired.com(Finley 1) have tried to explain the whole of net neutrality, but many are biased, as both of the groups mentioned would suffer if net neutrality was removed. While this may seem like a very one sided debate, which many believe it is, companies make the following counterpoint, if they do not just outright say they are against it. Think of the internet as a library, with many different views and publishers and topics to read and talk about. Now think as your ISP as the gatekeeper, who you pay a fee for upkeep and such. wrong if they remove books that just talk bad about them, as they did let you in, you could go to another library if you wanted to read that book in these millions. This argument is known as the view, which sounds very good if you know the following facts: 21% of consumers have access to ANY internet provider, and 61% have access to only one, which leaves only 18% of total consumers with the ability to switch from an ISP they like(Wall Street Journal McAleenan 3 video). So while the free market view is a good idea in theory, with the previous facts it makes it physically unlikely. Companies also like the regulations as they say the cost of expanding and maintaining the vast networks needed is only growing, and these regulations stifle their growth, and that they slow down data, but speed up everything for a price. This can be seen with Google Fiber, one of the fastest connections available, causing other ISPs to have a counter offer for their potential customers. In between these two, at least theoretically, is the government and the FCC to keep the companies in check while ensuring growth and competition is active. Prior to moving Internet to a Common carrier, the FCC tried looser, more progressive regulations, which did not work out well at all, causing Verizon to sue in court and win. The FCC then enforced the regulations they wanted to before, but did not want to as they thought it was too controlling, and just regulated as they do electricity and phone companies, meaning they cannot control what data you see or constrict it. If an electricity company could dim your lights, and then have you pay extra to get it back to where it was, it would be an outrage, which is what many say net neutrality is all about. Taking the ability to control how you use your data away from Internet Service Providers. However, this level of control is almost too much some say, as this regulation gives the government power if it wanted to, to control the price that companies charge consumers. The FCC said they use that power, but companies are nervous nonetheless at the thought. So how could all these different viewpoints have a solution that allows all the people who have a stake to be satisfied? Well, the answer is not as much of a compromise that many want, but it is realistic. Change nothing at all. At the moment, the government has the authority to make sure that companies do not discriminate data, while consumers can sleep easy knowing that video that McAleenan 4 comes out tomorrow will load and play fast and easy. Companies however, are left in a slightly less than perfect scenario. They still make a profit, which is a bottom line, however they be able to afford the updates by charging more, and they may not be so easy going about the power to regulate everything they do. However, in the end, if this is changed and the new leadership of the FCC abolishes this progress, we could see the scales tip from this mostly balanced situation to one possibly where companies profit and consumers hurt. This is the dilemma with change and not knowing what the future holds. As many would agree, the current compromise is not ideal, but the best solution for a wild and changing world. The Internet is still new if you compare it to say electricity or telephones, but that make it any easier to negotiate. McAleenan 5 Works Cited Edwards, Haley S. Why 2016 Republicans Oppose Net  Time. Time, 13 Mar. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Fiegerman, Seth . Pai named as new FCC CNNMoney, Cable News Network, 24 Feb. 2017, money.cnn.com/2017/01/23/technology/trump-fcc-chairman/. Finley, Klint. FCC Pick Bode Well For Net Wired. Conde Nast, 23 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Press, Free. Save the Free Press. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 http://corporate.comcast.com/openinternet/open-net-neutrality Net Net Neutrality. N.p., 02 July 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p90McT24Z6w&t=6s Net Neutrality Explained - Wall Street Journal