Bula 1 Victor Bula ENC 1102 Professor Basil January 17, 2017 Victoria Secret and the National Eating Disorder Association Victoria Secret is an American designer manufacturer who has invested in the body image of women. The National Eating Disorder Association, also known as NEDA is an organization in which the sole purpose is to spread awareness on eating disorders. Eating disorders can be described as a mental illness which surrounds itself with eating and weight issues. Eating disorders affect both men and women but predominantly women in the range of teenagers and young adults. There are three major eating disorders which plague the world such as Anorexia Nervosa, Binge Eating Disorder, and Bulimia Nervosa. Approximately 20 million women and 10 million men in the United States alone will suffer from a clinically significant eating disorder (National Eating Disorder Association Victoria Secrets main goal is to obtain more wealth and reach more success. While the main goal is to spread awareness on eating disorders and one day rid the world of it. Although these two organizations have seemingly different goals, both have the potential to help make each goals easier to reach. If both Victoria Secret and the NEDA were to collaborate on an awareness campaign, both goals will be expedited and surpass expectations. Both associations are not the same, but they both have the potential to extend their brand name and gain a higher income. Victoria Secret is the most recognized lingerie company in the United States. The company was founded by a man named Roy Raymond in the early 1970s (Schlossberg). His Bula 2 company quickly began to gain profit and popularity. The company really started to shine when Victoria Secret introduced their annual Fashion Show for lingerie in 1995 where it eventually was broadcasted successfully to viewers in 2000 (Schlossberg). The amazing increase in popularity arose Victoria Secrets models becoming part of the mainstream entertainment. They managed to increase their profits more by introducing Victoria Secret Angels which are their elite models in which earn wings to walk on the runway with to show off their hard work(Schlossberg). Looking back on Victoria Secrets success they constantly are taking a huge step forward towards advancing their name. Their next big move could be to work on a campaign with the NEDA against Eating Disorders. Again, Victoria Secrets popularity has grown exponentially due to their team of elite models to show off their merchandise. Their growth has come with a hefty price. This price includes the health of their models. Models have an unfortunately higher tendency to obtain an eating disorders since their success is so heavily based on body image the facts on eating Victoria Secret in recent years has taken a couple of hits in their success with stories of models coming out with their illnesses and people protesting ads that lead to the low self- esteem of women. For example, Victoria Secret released an ad containing the words perfect over multiple women in underwear (Culp- Ressler). This ad sparked an uproar in people saying that it lowers the self-esteem of women and can cause higher instances of eating disorders. A petition against the ad was created and gained over 27,000 signatures (Culp- Ressler). To recover from their recent losses Victoria Secret should team up with the NEDA to create a campaign to help spread awareness of eating disorders which in turn can help bring the Bula 3 name back to a company who cares about their models which will also improve their profit which is their goal. The National Eating Disorder Association is an American Non-Profit organization which specializes helping those affected and those who could be affected by these body image disorders. The organization was founded in 2001 after the Eating Disorders Awareness and Prevention (EDAP) and the American Anorexia Bulimia Association (AABA) joined together we They made one greater organization since their vison and goals were so extremely similar, it only made sense. The company due to their high success in merging has been able to provide many services that are not easily accessible for free. For example, on their website they provide an online screening to see if you might have or might be developing symptoms of an eating disorder the facts on eating They provide a helpline for those affected seeking help as well. These are merely steps in towards their vision which is world without eating (NEDA). According to the to the National Health Institute the NEDA is significantly underfunded compared to other diseases and disorders. receives $88 dollars in research funding for every affected person per year while Schizophrenia receives $81, autism receives $44, and Eating Disorders together get a significantly lower 93 cents per affected person (National Institutes of Health, 2011). The NEDA provides great services to the public with such little funding. Their possibilities are endless if they received more funding which they are in need of. Partnering up with a major company like Victoria Secret for an awareness campaign can only bring more donations and funding. Both stakeholders contain too much history except for the ad that turned into a nightmare for Victoria Secret. NEDA was a main protester of the ad because Bula 4 of its ties to eating disorders (Chrisler et al.). Both industries have many or any opposing views that contradict each other. The main source of conflict resides in how Victoria Secret makes their money off their models. Although Victoria Secret does not support eating disorders in their industry it is something that just goes unnoticed in their industry. The common ground that both these stakeholders can grasp on is that both want to get their brand names out there and essentially both want to receive more money and donations. The solution to both stakeholders includes them working together on a campaign that spreads awareness on Eating Disorders. The campaign includes the NEDA providing information on eating disorder like surprising statistics that keeps the audience shocked and interested. While Victoria Secret puts advertisements in and around its stores where not only their loyal customers but also those who shop at their stores frequently. The ad will contain the words stands up against eating This will provide to the public that Victoria Secret has recognized the problem and they are taking a stand ahead of the other industries that exploit their models. This will attract more customers while educating them about the dangers of eating disorders. People will be more inclined to give donations to the NEDA which satisfies both goals of spreading awareness and getting more funding. While Victoria Secret gains more consumers to buy their product increasing their demand and profit. Dove is a personal care brand that provides products to both men and women. Dove has had much success in their campaign that started in 2006. They have partnered with multiple small organizations to self-esteem and body Dove Self-Esteem ). The campaign featured a diverse group of models ranging in different body types. The campaign being proposed for Victoria Secret and the NEDA should include a diverse group of Bula 5 models as well so that it sends a message to those affected that there is no true body that everyone should have. This alone has brought dove much success and has caused the brand name to seem more like a friendly caring company which increased the net worth and donations to these local organizations. The academy of management posted an article stating that when companies merge all the time and have great success since they are now able to enter new markets (Glazar-Stavnicky). Doves success proves that Victoria Secret and the NEDA could have an even greater outcome. Especially since both stakeholders have a greater influence than Dove and its smaller partners. Victoria Secret and the NEDA both seek money but for different reasons. The compromise between the two is less of a compromise but more of an investment for them. As Victoria secret can provide an abundance of resources, the NEDA can provide surplus information and tactics to spread their message to their audiences. In joining together, they will both emerge a step above their competing organizations and companies. Bula 6 Works Cited About An Eating Disorder: Symptoms, Signs, Causes & Articles For Treatment  Eating Disorder Hope. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Chrisler, Joan C., et al. Brief Research Report: Suffering By Comparison: Twitter Reactions To The Secret Fashion  Body Image 10.(2013): 648- 652. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Culp-Ressler, Tara. Secret Edits Ad After Critics Complained It Was Damaging To  ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 23 Sept. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Dove Self-Esteem  Dove UK. N.p., 22 Nov. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Get The Facts On Eating  National Eating Disorders Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Glazar-Stavnicky, Monika, and Raymond M. Henry. Organizational And Systems Factors Leading To Systems Integration Success After  Academy Of Management Annual Meeting Proceedings (2016): 1. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. National Institutes of Health  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Schlossberg, Mallory. How Core Customers Have Completely  Business Insider. Business Insider, 03 Aug. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Who We  National Eating Disorders Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.