Korpela 1 Kelly Korpela Ms. Gottlieb ENC 1102-015 28 January 2016 Legal Drinking Age Dispute Throughout history, the minimum drinking age has fluctuated back and forth. In 1984 President Reagan signed the National Minimum Drinking Age Act that resulted in the United States to raise the drinking age to twenty-one years old. In recent years, there has been a debate to lower the drinking age back to eighteen. Multiple countries around the world allow eighteen year olds or younger to purchase and consume alcohol; however, America is stern at keeping the Minimum Legal Drinking Age (MLDA) at twenty-one. This highly controversial issue has multiple stakeholders for and against lowering the drinking age. One of the main stakeholders is the International Center for Alcohol Policies (ICAP) that promotes the lowering of the MLDA. On the opposite side of the argument, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) is against lowering the MLDA and advocates the MLDA to stay at twenty-one. Compromises are trying to be reached, allowing eighteen year olds to purchase alcohol; however, with restrictions and firm rules and regulations. At the age of eighteen in America, one can buy tobacco products, legally vote, get credit cards and establish credit, get selected for jury duty, join the armed forces, etc.; however, one cannot purchase alcohol. Many nonprofit organizations are in favor of lowering the Minimum Legal Drinking Age (MLDA) to eighteen years old. One organization, in particular, the International Center for Alcohol Policies (ICAP) explores the drinking age limits and focuses on the legal consumption and purchase of alcohol. ICAP draws attention to the issue and provides Korpela 2 facts and opinions from many including deputy president Marjana Martinic. Martinic states: think eighteen is viewed (by most countries) pretty much as a reasonable age the U.S. Lower its Drinking Martinic continues by stating the Puritan ethic has shaped the way alcohol is looked at and the way it is regulated in America. Likewise, Martinic finishes by explaining that drinking has been seen as a drug; however, drinking is thought to be a social activity where friends, family, co-works, and others partake in. Lowering the drinking age hurt Americans, it will do the opposite. ICAP is followed by other initiatives including the Amethyst Initiative founded by John McCardell Jr. president of Middlebury College. McCardell recruited more than 130 college presidents and chancellors to sign the initiative in hopes for a bill that would allow the states, not the federal government, to decide the MLDA. Joined by Time Magazine editor and author of Binge: Campus Life in an Age of Disconnection and Excess, Barrett Seaman, McCardell also founded the nonprofit organization Choose Responsibility (CR). goal is to spread awareness of the reckless and excessive consumption of alcohol from young adults under the age of twenty-one. Likewise, mission is to lower the drinking age to eighteen and better educate teens about alcohol usage. Choose Responsibility and the Amethysts Initiative suggests alcohol related incidences: shown no decline associated with the drinking (Jones). CR, the Amethysts Initiative, and ICAP have the same values to educate and lower the drinking age in America. Along with other initiatives from multiple organizations, ICAP has prevention and policies used to educate the public in safe ways to consume alcohol without going over the limit. Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) is a nonprofit organization that was founded in 1980 when Candy 13-year-old daughter, Cari, was killed by a drunk driver. Learning that drunk driving was rarely a prosecuted crime, Lightner took action and started an Korpela 3 organization that helps those been affected in drunk driving incidences. Likewise, organization played a key role in the 1984 National Minimum Drinking Age Act. President Ronald Reagan signed the law reducing the federal highway grants to any state who fails to raise its drinking age to twenty-one. Similar to MADD, Students Against Destructive Decisions, previously known as Students Against Drunk Driving (SADD) promotes the legal drinking age to remain at twenty-one and help educate teens on the dangers of alcohol. SADD has impacted millions of lives by empowering teens to stand against making destructive decisions including drinking and driving which is based on mission. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration each year sends out statistics resulting in the number of drunk driving incidences and a number of alcohol- related traffic fatalities in America. NHTSA have reported that between 1975-2002 the 21 Minimum Legal Drinking Age (MLDA) has saved up to 23,733 lives Safety In a CNN post regarding the drinking age, the NHTSA commented on the issue by explaining the: Minimum legal drinking age laws have proven to be a very effective and important countermeasure for reducing drunk driving when younger drivers are Likewise, research studies regarding the Effects of Minimum Drinking Age Laws: Review and Analyses of the Literature from 1960 to  found that out of 102 analyses 51% found an inverse relationship between the drinking age and crashes. The study continues by noting, the legal age was lowered, the number of crashes increased, and the legal age was raised, the number of crashes (Wagenaar). MADD was created from a drunk driving tragedy and feel it is their duty to inform and enlighten teens the harsh reality of alcohol consumption and the dangers that result in foolish decisions. MADD seeks to stop drunk driving and help those who have been affected by the dangers of drinking and driving. With the help of MADD, millions of lives have been saved through the prevention of underage drinking Korpela 4 and drinking age driving. Mothers Against Drunk Driving and the International Center for Alcohol Policies seem to be at odds with one another. Both organizations are well-known and have thousands upon thousands of supporters on either side of the argument. Likewise, both MADD and ICAP have been fighting this issue for decades to either continue having the drinking age at twenty-one or lower it to eighteen; however, both stakeholders share a common goal. This goal is to keep the death rates down and have little to no alcohol- related fatalities. MADD believes that after waiting the extra three years is proven to keep death rate numbers down and the NHSTA can back this up. Although ICAP believes that lowering the drinking age will not cause a huge gap in alcohol- related occurrences compared to adults between 21-25 instead of 18-25 years old. The argument continues when the MLDA in hundreds of countries around the world is eighteen, and it is about time America does the same. With the help of mission to educate teens on alcohol, it will allow teens to not make mindless decisions when having the opportunity to legally drink for the first time. Finding a compromise between the two stakeholders MADD and ICAP could be the proposal of educating teens with alcohol courses and giving them an alcohol permit at the age of eighteen. The idea of giving teen alcohol education courses is taken from Amethyst Initiative. Launching in 2007, McCardell: new ideas on how best to prepare young adults to make responsible decisions about alcohol to the Amethyst The initiative also addresses that twenty-one is currently not working as the MLDA for America: education that mandates abstinence as the only legal option has not resulted in significance constructive behavioral change among our to the Amethyst Instead of mandating abstinence, after completing the alcohol- related courses teens are given an alcohol permit, upon turning eighteen and passing each course. The permit can Korpela 5 regulate how frequent teens are able to purchase alcohol and at which particular facilities. The permits, similar to a learners permit, can only be used at certain times of the day and night. Bars, facilities that sell alcohol, and other companies such as gas stations or liquor stores can choose to accept the permit or not. The states would additionally have the power to revoke the permit for those who are involved in absolutely any alcohol related offense. If the teen is convicted of any charge, they will receive serious consequences and punishments that will be taken by the state and federal government. Each year the teen must complete another alcohol education course; however, at the age of twenty-one, the permit expires. Lastly, teaming up with companies such Uber and Lyft which are private driving companies that can be requested in a matter of seconds. Essentially promoting their services will potentially lower the number of drunk driving incidences. The compromise is accompanied by various rules and regulations that organizations such as MADD would likely agree with. The compromise will hopefully lower the excitement of drinking and allow teens to not become wild at the sight of alcohol. The safety of teens and young adults is the most valuable mission of all. Alcohol has taken and ruined thousands of lives in the last decade. The issue of lowering the drinking age is an extreme tricky argument. Even though there is evidence to back up the lowering of the MLDA, there is also evidence that proves the drinking age should remain at twenty-one years old. This controversial issue will take years until America makes another decision in either lowering or keeping the Minimum Legal Drinking Age at twenty-one or not. Establishing a compromise between the two main stakeholders, the International Center for Alcohol Policies (ICAP) and Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), will potentially lower the excitement of alcohol and educate the dangers of it. Discussing the dangers of alcohol in high schools and colleges around America will optimistically save lives. Essentially, high schools and colleges teach students Korpela 6 about the dangers of alcohol and the serious consequences that result of drinking and driving and other serious dangers. Korpela 7 Works Cited Alexander C. Wagenaar and Traci L. Toomey, Effects of Minimum Drinking Age Laws: Review and Analyses of the Literature from 1960 to  Journal of Studies on Alcohol, 2002 Caleb Daniloff. Video by Robin Berghaus. Drinking: 18 vs. 21 BU Today Boston  BU Today. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Initiative, Amethyst. Amethyst  Amethyst Initiative Welcome to the Amethyst Initiative. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Jones, Sandra N., and Vicki D. Lachman. Continuing the Dialogue: Reducing Minimum Legal Drinking Age Laws from 21 To  Journal of Addictions Nursing (Taylor & Francis Ltd) 22.3 (2011): 138-143. CINAHL. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (2005). Traffic Safety Facts 2004: A Compilation of Motor Vehicle Crash Data from the Fatality Analysis Reporting System and the General Estimates System. Department of Transporation: Washington, DC. Should the U.S. Lower Its Drinking  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.