Dinehart Jessica Dinehart Sarah Basil ENC 1102 29, January 2017 The Real Cost and American Lung Association On Cigarette Use Tobacco product use has been widely known to be the most popular recreational drug in use for hundreds of years, however since the more recent discovery of its harmful effects and hazardous chemicals, the importance of spreading awareness and reducing the numbers of victims that fall helpless to its use has dramatically increased over the last forty years. The Real Cost and the American Lung Association are both largely involved in the investment of reducing and eventually eradicating the usage of cigarettes, which are widely known to be infectiously addicting as well as toxic to almost every aspect of the human body. The eradication of cigarettes has always been a debate, however not much has actually been done by the government, and attempts by organizations, due to its wide range of users, find it difficult to stay veracious and also appeal to wide audiences. Tobacco comes off as a resilient drug that is merely used by choice. Both these organizations, although they differ in motivations behind such advertisements, want the same outcome, to reduce the number of smoking individuals, at least of harmful forms of nicotine, as well as second-hand smoking which evidently affects a wide range of individuals, including children. Assuming the two affiliations were to join forces and combine resources, the advertisement and message they are attempting to resonate within their viewers, would be amplified in regards to their targeted audience, which would diversify and be more widespread, affecting more than either organizations had combined. As stated by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention in their weekly article Current Dinehart Cigarette Smoking Among Adults, use remains the single largest preventable cause of death and disease in the United Not being the only reporter of the detrimental effects of tobacco, this statement alone encompasses the movement that is The Real Cost and the American Lung Association. Both organizations are non-profit, mainly funded by donations or sponsorships. However being more medically centered, the American Lung Association is more involved with the everyday health risks, wanting to help people quit smoking, or treat them for the illnesses inevitably brought on by them. The ALA understands the temptation that is nicotine and they have funds directed towards research in methods of addiction, specifically involved in reducing use or quitting entirely. Along with their initiatives on classical cigarettes, the ALA has also invested in research on new age electronic cigarettes, concluding that first-ever Surgeon report on e-cigarettes shatters the myth that e-cigarettes are harmless. Instead, it lays out in clear, indisputable terms that e-cigarette use is a risk to the health of young users that includes nicotine addiction, harm to brain development and likely increased odds of future use of other tobacco (Wimmer, 2016). Removing the alienation around cigarettes as being the only chemically harmful tobacco product, this research states that using any products containing nicotine will result in the consumption of cancerous or harmful chemicals. Also in the article the myth that water vapor emissions from the E-cigarettes is busted, claiming that Surgeon General also found that exposure to the aerosol from E-Cigarettes is not water but can contain harmful and potentially harmful chemicals, including carcinogens, and of course, (Wimmer, 2016). This provides for the necessity that is the ALA and their mission, however as evident in the Article on e-cigarettes: 2011 and 2015, the U.S. Surgeon General found e- cigarette use among high school students increased by 900 percent, with more teens now using e- cigarettes than (ALA, 2016), their words and ideals targeting the audience they want to, specifically younger individuals, who are more susceptible to peer pressure and are more susceptible to Dinehart mental and physical affects. Similarly, The Real Cost is invested more with focusing on the choice of smoking, on educating their audience in a more unorthodox way, using harsh examples and fear-inducing metaphors, making their listeners more interested in the surreal nature of their ads, and frankly, more memorable. According to Miller & Marks, verbal messages are those which contain concrete, colorful, imagery- provoking language. Research indicates that such language generates imagery Their results also showed that vivid verbal messages can influence (122). Understandably, the advertisements can come off as excessive and unnatural, but they get the message across in the most effective way. The Real Cost uses extremely abstract methods in order to appeal to younger generations who have more flexible imaginations and will accept such bizarre tactics. It would seem neglectful to mostly appeal to youthful audiences, but as understood by Wimmer in his article for the ALA, are now the most popular tobacco product among American teens, and use by high school students grew by 900 percent between 2011 to directing advertisements towards teens who are not quite mentally capable of making patient, thorough decisions, but instead react on impulsivity and peer pressure, would be a more impactful approach than to direct it towards aged smokers with less of their life to live, who have grown more of an addiction than their younger counterparts. The Real Cost has been submitting their advertisements through tv commercials, magazine ads, etc. and have in turn effected a large number of individuals already, but they lack the label that ALA has built, the emotional as well as scientific validity they encompass. They have incredible resonating capabilities through their ads, but the ALA has a significantly larger audience and emotional standpoint. They are less harsh and resonate within the empathetic parts of humanity, not the curious, disgusted parts. The Real Cost even has games on their website about knocking out rotted teeth due to tobacco consumption called (The Real Cost). And although mildly humorous and vividly Dinehart terrifying, can distract away from the serious intended messages behind the interactive ads. Understanding that the two are very similar in their goals, a compromise assimilating the two organizations would undoubtably increase the effect of both. An agreement between the two would ultimately strengthen their standing on the matter of cigarettes, specifically, targeting a wider ranged audience with both resources that are harsh and scary, but also professional and more prestigious, more relatable. Understanding that, according to the statement: for sex and race, persons who smoked their first cigarette at 14 to 16 years of age were 1.6 times more likely to become dependent than those who initiated smoking at an older age (P = (Breslau, Fenn & Peterson, 1993), it would be greatly more effective for the two organizations to join, disperse their ideas and resources and effect more younger individuals through intense, vivid, image-provoking messages such as The Real Cost provides, but also have the exemplary resources to provide help to quit those addictions through a compassionately affiliated organization that has various ways to fight addiction and illness brought on by smoking. A more effective compromise would entail the possibility of the two organizations creating a joint-advertisement. If their targeted audiences are slightly limited by the type of advertisement each organization produces, then a joint-advertisement could combine the two styles and still affect both those audience types. but also create the possibility for a third advertisement type through the combines efforts, and ultimately affect another audience all together. The intended goal for this advertisement would be to find a medium between verbal consumers and visual ones. This where the two organizations assimilating their advertising techniques into one would be most beneficial, it would be targeted at both verbal and visual consumers. An article conducted on the research of traditional versus interactive advertisement effectiveness concluded that the graphics were pared down so that the content of the verbal information were comparatively more salient, verbal consumers may have spent more time on the ads and hence have been more persuaded to (Bezjian-Avery et al. 1998). Due to the obviously visual Dinehart nature of The Real advertisement, verbal consumers may not be as affected, where as the advertisements tend to be more verbal and informative; they could benefit from more visual stimuli in their ads. Thus conforming to a advertisement that includes both styles would be beneficial to visual as well as verbal consumers, and it would hit another audience that relies on both. Inevitably, cigarette use is still the most relevant recreational drug, and one of the most harmful. Eliciting a compromise between The Real Cost and ALA would target a wider audience, be more affective in preventing youthful consumption of tobacco products, provide aid and opportunities to help those fallen victim to nicotine and offer ways to quit, and it would provide advocacy for the harmful effects of second-hand smoking. Producing joint advertisements that appeal to visual and verbal consumers could greatly increase the productivity of both organizations, hopefully reducing the number of deaths and illnesses brought on by cigarettes and other tobacco products. Dinehart Works Cited Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Current cigarette smoking among adults - United States, 2011. vol. 61(44) p. 889-94. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23134971 Miller, Darryl W., Marks, Lawerence J. The Moderate Of Enduring Involvement On Imagery- Invoking Advertisements. American Marketing Association. 1996 vol. 7 p. 121-128 Wimmer, Harold P. E-Cigarettes - A Real Threat To Young Health 2016. ALA Website. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23134971 The Real Cost. Home Page. therealcost.betobaccofree.hhs.gov/ gclid=CJOi1ZTB6NECFQwTgQodmAgBnw&gclsrc=aw.ds&g=t Breslau, Naomi, Nancy Fenn & Edward L. Peterson. Early smoking initiation and nicotine dependence in a cohort of young adults. Vol. 33(2) p. 129-137 www.drugandalcoholdependence.com/article/0376-8716(93)90054-T/abstract Alexa Bezjian-Avery, Bobby Calder, Dawn Iacobuscci. New Media Interactive Advertising vs. Traditional Advertising. Journal of Advertising Research. 1998. American Lung Association. E-cigarettes and Lung Health, 2016 http://www.lung.org/stop-smoking/smoking-facts/e-cigarettes-and-lung-health.html? referrer=https://www.google.com/ Dinehart