Verstay 1 Oakland Verstay Instructor Poston ENC1102.029 12 February 2017 Pandas, Bamboo, and the Grim Diet to Extinction? As a creature designed to devour the disembowel remains of anything with a vertebra, one would think it strange that the giant panda consumes large amounts of bamboo, similar to that of an herbivore. Bamboo offers little in terms of nutrients when compared to alternative meat sources, which are not readably available in this case, forcing the panda to rely on the preservation of its photosynthetic prey in order to prevent starvation. This translates to the giant panda consuming ample amounts of bamboo to maintain a healthy weight. The organization WWF favors the idea of the giant panda remaining is, while zoologist perceive something contradictory to that notion. That, although giant pandas depend on bamboo for the sake of its own survival, a change in diet to a more reliable victim for nourishment may ensure the increases of its stable population, but, of course, it is not that simple. To better understand the role that giant pandas play in their ecosystem means to adopt the perspective that environmentalist and stakeholders that care for both the animal and the environment. The World Wildlife Fund seeks both the protection and preservation of animals and their habitats, having dedicated their time and efforts to the conservation of endangered species like the giant panda. The organization claims that the diet makes them vulnerable to the destruction of their habitat, but does good in that it spreads and fertilizes bamboo seeds, restoring and cultivating vegetation that is the home of many endangered Verstay 2 species 1). Unfortunately, with a growing industrial country such as China, deforestation occurs on a common basis. Even the versatile, pervasive bamboo is not safe from the process, creating risks that the panda cannot compensate for. The blame would account onto the companies that endanger the creature by destroying its most precious resource, not the accustoms of the species dining choices. Therefore, in this case, the pandas themselves would not need to change but the methods from companies that lead bamboo forests to become barren, decreasing the odds of survival for the animal. In response to the risk associated with the extinction of the panda species as a whole, China has initiated some plans of action to ensure that such a prediction does not come to fruition. One demonstration is how Chinese government increased its commitment to giant panda habitat protection, and has established 21 nature (Wang et al 1107). Despite this effort, pandas are very needy creatures, as they migrate and have difficulties managing natural disturbances to their environment. As such, this method of resolving would surely demand a price that is astronomical, and it still would not help in supplying them with any natural supplements that could very well be connected to many other factors as to why pandas as a whole struggle to flourish in efforts of procreation. Biologists and Zoologists, through experimentation and observation, have looked into the bizarre behaviors of a vegetarian carnivore and the harms that come along with it. One would assume that no drastic harm would come to pandas for eating bamboo as they have signs of adaptation to suit their needs for bamboo, but their carnivoran alimentary very low digestive (Mel et al 1). And though it does not attribute to physiological harm, evidence such as this make it evident that pandas and bamboo are Verstay 3 incompatible with one another. Which has molded the animal to a sluggish state that is bounded by the very bamboo that sustains its life, leaving it to sit in one place and eat bamboo for most of its awoken hours. Now that would not be so bad if the very bamboo they love to chew on did not disrupt the nutritional intake of important vitamins and minerals expected in a meat cuisine. During the transition from winter to spring, pandas juggle their diet from one bamboo type to another, or transition from bamboo leaves to bamboo shoots. For the consequences of such a sudden change in available provision disturbs the chemical balance of nutritional intake, increasing the mortality rate of the black and white bears (Nie et al 29). Even in their natural environment, complications outside of foreign influences arise, with the adversary, in this case, being the sustainability of a lack-luster eating program. Alas, as the effects burrow deeper than that. A crucial element, calcium, during the food juggling and mating season, becomes scarce in a system, which in turn, hinders the development of panda embryos (Sekar 1). This suggests that bamboo is directly involved in the prevention of offspring among pandas, which can also be linked to why newly born pandas size appears abnormally small when compared to other bear babies. Evidently, a mother eating habits do not answer to the demands that a growing bear needs. Hence the argument that pandas should have more suitable resources at their disposal so that reproduction can become more reliable and the chances for survival increase. With these two stakeholders in the discussion, they do not necessarily meet eye-to-eye when it comes to if bamboo is overall good or bad for pandas. On one side, taking to account the deeply embedded reliance on bamboo makes the sudden change to a predatory creature Verstay 4 appear unfathomable. A sporadic introduction of an inadequate hunter would only bring harm to the balance of an ecosystem, and the distortion of this harmony could mean more than the death of one endangered species. On the other hand, though conservation has replenished the species from a state of endangerment to a state of vulnerability, that mean pandas can live with ease in nature. Moving them to captivity solve the issue as they are one of the most expensive animals to keep in enclosures. Though they can receive the needed nutrients in a preserve, they will either become too reliant on human supplied food to survive in nature or return to previous patterns once returning to a bamboo enclosed forest. A compromise would have to be something along the lines of genetic manipulation and the introduction of a better fit biome for a carnivorous panda. With the study of the genetic coding of a giant panda to find the reason for a sudden dietary switch from carnivore to herbivore, biologists speculate that pseudogenization of its umami receptor gene T1R1 is coincident with such bamboo dietary the dopamine metabolic system is probably not that competent in the giant (Jin et al 5). What this entails is that the genetic encoding of the panda and a stimulation of dopamine can link to some of the causes for why the panda contradicts normal expectations of a creature with a similar structure. And so, the theory stands that if the panda eats bamboo by inherited genetics, then the alteration of the sequence to create a dominate trait that can transform the panda to a proper predator is feasible. Of course, as of now, it plausible with modern technology to change the behavioral patterns of a creature to such a desired expectation of that level. Plus, the panda would need to find a new reliable resource to adequately satisfy its need for survival and growth without interfering with the nature flow of the food change to a great magnitude. Verstay 5 However, such a suggestion will become obsolete if the giant pandas thrive in population or if they fade from existence leaving only dust and bones. In any case, an opportunity for such a method will not ensue for a while yet. But, if such a discovery were to happen, then each stakeholder will have to agree towards the appropriate sacrifices to make the process work. Organizations similar to the WWF will have to willingly transmute the iconic, pacifist panda bear to more bloodthirsty incarnation. Zoologist will have to painstakingly observe and study the new creature and the possible damages associated with its presence. The extinction of animals, especially the cute one like the panda, does not invite a feeling of jubilance. Both stakeholders would not desire to say farewell to such a marvel of nature. The conversation devolves to whether pandas need to change to way they eat for their own wellbeing or pandas are fine as they are now and it is people who need to change for the better. Either way, the efforts made in supporting pandas in their time of need do reflect progress. With their numbers rising, things appear to be looking up for the species. Verstay 6 Works Cited Nie, Yonggang, Zejun Zhang, David Raubenheimer, James J. Elser, Wei Wei, and Fuwen Wei. herbivory in an ancestrally carnivorous lineage: the giant panda and bamboo from the perspective of nutritional Functional Ecology. 2015, Vol. 29 Issue 1, p26-34. University of South Florida Database. 26 Jan. 2017. WWF, 26 Jan. 2015. Sekar, Sandya. pandas survive on their bamboo-only Science. 2014. p.1 26 Jan. 2017. www.sciencemag.org/news/2014/07/how-pandas-survive-their-bambooonly- diet. Jin, Ke, Chenyi Xue, Xiaoli Wu, Jinyi Qian, Yong Zhu, Takahiro Yonezawa, M. James C. Crabble, Ying Cao, Masami Hasegawa, Yang Zhong, and Yufang Zheng. Does the Giant Panda Eat Bamboo? A Comparative Analysis of Appetite-Reward-Related Genes among PLoS ONE. 2011, Vol. 6 Issue 7, p1-8. University of South Florida Database. 28 Jan. 2017. Wang, Xuezhi, Weihua Xu, and Zhiyun Ouyang. population size analysis into habitat suitability assessment: implications for giant panda conservation in the Minshan Mountains, Ecological Research. 2009, Vol. 24 Issue 5, p1101-1109. University of South Florida Database. 28 Jan. 2017. Mel, Yonggang, John R. Speakman, Qi Wu1, Chenglin Zhang, Yibo Hu1, Maohua Xia, Li Yan, Verstay 7 Hambly Catherine, Lu Wang, Wei Wei1, Jinguo Zhang, Fuwen Weil. low daily energy expenditure in the bamboo-eating giant Science. 2015, Vol. 349 Issue 6244, p171-174. University of South Florida Database. 28 Jan. 2017.