Patel 1 Sasha Patel Taylor Poston ENC 1102-029 10 February 2017 Worldwide Deforestation Imagine 48 football fields being lost every minute, well that is how fast deforestation is currently happening across the globe. Deforestation is simply defined as the logging of trees, but the meaning is much deeper, and the effects are worldwide. Forests play a vital role in climate change, since trees absorb free- floating carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and replace it with fresh oxygen, also known as the process of photosynthesis. Forests are crucial, especially for the abundance of species that inhabit them. Many of the forests around the world are being deforested because of slash and burn (in which the forest vegetation is cut and set on fire to prevent any old growth) or clear cutting (cutting down every tree from the entire desired area) for agriculture, ranching, and logging for timber and pulp. The farmers and logging companies gain profit from the removal of these trees, but environmentalists and animal conservationists are against their detrimental actions. The harmful impacts of deforestation, such as climate change and loss of biodiversity have caused the government to ban logging in some areas, yet many of the local farmers and logging companies still depend on cutting down trees for their monetary gain. All the stakeholders share a common ground where they care about the well-being of the planet, since mother Earth is our only home. Many scholars agree that deforestation is detrimental to the climate and biodiversity. Many environmentalists believe that is a serious problem attempted Patel 2 solutions have been (Dauvergne, 497). Many animal conservationist organizations like the World Wildlife Fund or WWF, try to prevent deforestation. They work with companies to stop illegal logging, promote responsible forestry, create protected and privatized land. WWF even promotes sustainable bioenergy usage from scrap wood, oil, starch crops (corn, wheat, cassava, and sweet potatoes), and even algae to help people reduce their dependence on forest wood and charcoal. This in turn reduces the greenhouse gas emissions. The goal of environmentalists and animal conservationists is to restrict or limit the amount of deforestation that is occurring. The WWF works to stop deforestation because of the harmful impacts such as reduced animal and plant biodiversity, increased greenhouse gases which cause climate change, disruption of water cycles, increased soil erosion, and disrupted livelihoods for locals that depend on hunting and gathering herbal medicines, such as the locals in Southeast Asia or Africa. According to WWF, many wildlife species have been affected such as tigers, tree kangaroos, amur leopards, Asian elephants, bonobos, chimpanzees, pandas, gorillas, orangutans, and rhinos, etc. not including the loss of the smaller species. Many wildlife depend on one another. For instance, one researcher in the Amazon rainforest noticed how deforestation caused a disappearance of army ants, and that led to the decrease of insectivorous birds that were dependent on the ants (Turner, 204). The multitude of impacts has not only affected the animal and plant biodiversity, but has also impacted the local humans that live near the forests. Deforestation has also affected us to a greater degree, as our planet is being consumed by greenhouse gases that are causing the climate to change and increasing the global temperatures. Despite all the harmful impacts caused by deforestation, there are some stakeholders that benefit from the logging of trees. Large scale farmers and logging industries depend on cutting Patel 3 down trees. In 2001, there was a survey conducted in Peru about how the locals depended on many of the resources that were based on wood. Researchers found out that, of households in the city of San have many economic activities, such as agriculture to handcrafting. The percentage of locals that earn their money from agroforestry and forest product extraction is the largest compared to the other job types (Coomes, 11). This study showed how many locals were dependent on logging in the Amazon and Peruvian rainforests, because it was their only way to earn income. If deforestation was banned then the locals would be left with no jobs and would increase the poverty rates in those particular areas. Based on a study done by the Philippine council for Agriculture, Forestry, and Natural Resources Research and Development, many farmers were surveyed and they said they viewed slash and burn farming and shifting agriculture as non-destructive. The local Filipino farmers strongly believed that their actions helped promote plant diversity and that their actions were for the biodiversity. Some local Indonesian farmers that were also surveyed mentioned the multiple advantages of using fire for slash and burn agriculture. Some advantages that the farmers mentioned were creates space (51 % of farmers), ash acts as a fertilizer (23%), burning improves soil structure enabling faster establishment of seedlings (15%), burning reduces weed/tree competition, and burning reduces the occurrence of pests/diseases (Ketterings, 157). Without the farmers, food production for the local communities would stop. Many farmers even profit from selling their locally grown crops (such as large scale oil palm plantations and soybean production farms) outside of the country to other countries via past pace transportation. Trade and foreign sales help boost the local economies, strengthen foreign relationships, and are beneficial to many countries. Logging companies are essential as Patel 4 generations need them to cut down timber to use it to build homes, make paper products, and furniture. So many of the stakeholders believe that logging trees is a beneficial act, since they gain profit from it. The goals of the farmers and timber companies are to continue logging at a profitable rate. The stakeholders have tried finding common ground but many times problems arise when the laws the government set are broken. In many areas, national laws are set to help control the manufacture and trade of lumber products, from the stages of harvesting to the stages of processing sales. These laws are broken when companies take wood from restricted zones, harvest more than what is allowed, or even sell the wood for cheaper prices. Illegal logging occurs around the world, especially in the Congo Basin, Indonesia, and forests of the Russian Far (WWF). The Philippine government, who is also the landowner in the country- granted legal permission to harvest logs to a limited number of wealthy (Suarez, 92). 90% of the Philippines was once fully forested, but now there is only less than 20% of the original landmass left (Suarez, 91). Scientists mentioned that if deforestation continued at the current rates, then there would be no forests left in a decade. Problems even arise from local go- greeners, tree-huggers and animal- lovers, as they are constantly protesting and disrupting the local communities and intervening in government affairs. The common ground between the multiple stakeholders can be found if the government started setting, enforcing, and maintaining strong laws to control what the timber companies do. Although there are still multiple laws that the government has, many times the laws are broken and not strictly enforced, due to the corruption of the government. Some efforts that have been Patel 5 made to fight the illegal logging in countries. The Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN), connects multiple companies, communities, and NGOs in more than 30 countries to help create an environmentally safe forest product market (WWF). GFTN not only makes sure that illegal sales are minimized, but they also work at national levels to expand areas of certain forests managed by certified individuals. Their goal is to demand for wood and paper products from those well-managed (WWF). So the biggest compromise is to set strictly enforced boundaries and only permit deforestation in certain areas, so that not all wildlife is affected, and loggers still get their share of the wood. a result of this program, habitat has been preserved for endangered species such as the Borneo pygmy elephant, orangutan and great (WWF). The Global Forest & Trade Network is providing the biggest compromise to all stakeholders while still holding the common ground. In summarization, many stakeholders are at play when it comes to deforestation. The animals conservationists and environmentalists want to ban deforestation, while the logging companies and farmers want to continue deforestation. They both have different goals, yet they share a common ground. So although the stakeholders have completely different views on deforestation, there can be a compromise. The previous compromises were all good, but were not strictly enforced and were run by corrupt individuals. For illegal logging and excessive deforestation to stop, a new compromise that involves a third party such as The Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) has to be made. A third party will help control the levels of deforestation to the point that both the stakeholders would be equally benefitted. The loggers and farmers get their share of the land to log on/ farm on, with strict enforcement on the types of trees, the prices of the wood, and amount of land they use. While the animal conservationists still get privatized Patel 6 and secured land for the local threatened wildlife and species to be protected in. The GFTN can help provide credible and certified individuals to help manage the deforestation levels and control the surroundings. This can help ensure that our trees stay alive, since they are a vital part to our community because they provide us with fresh oxygen and absorb free floating carbon to keep our atmosphere and climate well balanced. Works Cited Coomes, Oliver T., and Graeme J. Burt. Peasant charcoal production in the Peruvian Amazon: rainforest use and economic  Forest Ecology and Management 140.1 (2001): 39-50. Dauvergne, Peter. The politics of deforestation in  Pacific Affairs (1993): 497-518. Patel 7  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ketterings, Quirine M., et al. perspectives on slash-and-burn as a land clearing method for small-scale rubber producers in Sepunggur, Jambi Province, Sumatra,  Ecology and Management 120.1 (1999): 157-169. Suarez, Raul K., and Percy E. Sajise. Deforestation, swidden agriculture and Philippine  Philippine Science Letters 3.1 (2010): 91-99. Turner, I. M. Species loss in fragments of tropical rain forest: a review of the  Journal of applied Ecology (1996): 200-209.