Student 1 Student Stephenie Derisi ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Rebranding Through Visual Rhetoric Genetically Modified Organisms, or are organisms that have had genes from a different organism implanted into their own genetic code in order to produce a new result engineered This practice has elicited polar responses across the globe, for a multitude of reasons. Besides the morality of changing an DNA for human benefit, one exceptional problem is the monopolization of by Monsanto, a company that is synonymous with due to their involvement with these crops. Monsanto has been at the center of many controversies regarding and is even considered to be ranked third to last for reputation among all major American companies (Bennett). Most notably, Monsanto has been known to sue farmers for having GM seeds in their fields, though they only exist in those fields due to pollen from these GM plants being blown by the wind into their fields (Bennett). The severe public backlash that has plagued Monsanto has forced the company to rebrand themselves in a more positive light in order to continue to be as profitable as they have been. This effort is clearly seen on their website, where they provide an overwhelming amount of information on the various ways that they are working to benefit individuals and the globe. website claims that their main focus is on sustainable agriculture, and providing new ways to increase production across the globe, along with fighting climate change, and working with universities regarding programs for students, research, and product Student 2 testing (Monsanto). These are attempts to repair the view of the company, which is also noticeable in many of the visual graphics included on their website that all have aspects that focus around a central theme of Monsanto being a constructive, global, and moral company. Following the notion that goal is to change the general view of their company, Figure message works to support their new appearance by elucidating the idea that Monsanto has been working to ameliorate lives across the globe. in the image, is Monsanto doing to help? Improve (Monsanto), is an appeal to the rhetorical strategy ethos. The fact that Monsanto is claiming to help improve lives shows how the company has the power, knowledge and ability to help make lives better, and that they are a credible company and are capable making these improvements. Though it does not include any proof, such as statistics regarding what Monsanto has done, their claim is presented as an assertive declaration of their impact on lives which is not often debated, allowing Monsanto to assert some credibility. The text is also included in an independent box that contrasts the rest of the image, allowing the message to almost be an entity of its own and be viewed as the most important, or most noticeable part of the image. This also shows the importance that Monsanto has placed on illustrating how they are helping others in order to change the opinion on it, since the text commands a majority of the attention in the photo. The rest of the attention goes to the bright, cheery image of an elderly man and two young children playing happily. This portrayal of a joyful, assumedly multigenerational family, shows that the image is utilizing the rhetorical strategy of pathos to invoke a sense of love and togetherness, that Monsanto has supposedly given these people, and others across the world through their efforts, allowing them to be viewed as a benefactor to people that needed an improvement in their lives. This is further Student 3 seen in the vibrancy of the colors in the photo, including the clothing, toys, the plants in the background. These colors help illustrate a sense of life, both in the form of nature and humanity, that is also seen in the smiling faces and playful activities of the children. The actions and colors in the pictures work as pathos to help the feeling of familial joy and coexistence that Monsanto claims to have provided for these individuals. Supplementary to the first image, Figure 2 bolsters attempt to be viewed as a better company as it shows how they are making an effort to be seen as more cooperative. Especially with the aforementioned situations where Monsanto would sue other farmers for using their seeds, this concept is critical for Monsanto in order for them to change the view on the company while remaining successful and profitable. The image tries to convey this message in a multitude of ways, including the use of pathos, along with incorporating the text into the photo. Pathos is used in the visual to evoke a sense of community as it shows numerous individuals, of all ethnicities and ages, working together, along with the plants and crops that Monsanto has provided. This allows the reader to feel a sense of community regarding individuals across the globe, along with a sense of community between people and nature, all of which Monsanto is claiming to have a role in making happen. The text, and the style of the text, helps support this idea even further. Contrary to the prior photo, where the explicit message of Monsanto working to improve lives stands alone and draws attention away from the image, this photo integrates the text and images into one cohesive part of the photo that draws equal attention to its intended message. Considering the message is about working together, this is a strategic move by the author to have the form and design of the image to follow the content that the image is portraying (Sheffield). The images and the text are seen as collaborating, which Student 4 provides a more implicit sense of community underneath the more prominent view of community, being the people and nature working together. This message vividly overshadows the actual of this image, which is the cover photo for 2015 Sustainability Report. The text that shows it is regarding the report is minute and in a dull color, which contrasts the vibrant, lively colors of the image above it. This shows that while this image is about a sustainably report, Monsanto has placed a greater importance on conveying a message of growing together than they did on Figure 2 being simply a cover photo. These photos, among with the other visuals present on website, work to alter the interpretation of Monsanto from one of villainy to one of a moral, outstanding company. The success of this endeavor is questionable at this point, due to the difficulty of such a drastic rebranding of a company that is so widely protested. However, a better view of Monsanto has the potential to bring about a better view of themselves, since the company they are so closely tied to has a major impact on the connotation of themselves. (WC: 1,144) Student 5 Works Cited Bennett, Drake. Monsanto, Third-Most-Hated , Bloomberg, 4 July www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2014-07-03/gmo-factory-monsantos-high-tech-plans- Accessed on 25 Jan. 2017. Medical Encyclopedia , NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine, 5 Jan. 2017, medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002432.htm. Accessed on 25 Jan. 2017.  Sustainable Agriculture Company . Monsanto Company, n.d. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Sheffield, Jenna Pack. Breaking Down an  Commons . N.p., n.d. http://writingcommons.org/index.php/open-text/information-literacy/visual-literacy/break Accessed on 21 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Figure 1 http://www.monsanto.com/SiteCollectionImages/improving-lives-improving-agriculture.jpg Student 7 Figure 2 http://www.monsanto.com/sustainability/PublishingImages/Sustainability-hero.jpg