Fisher 1 Chase Fisher Hanson ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Cars Driving Themselves Cars are quickly beginning to drive themselves and they will soon remove the task from people entirely. These vehicles, which can change lanes, control speed, and come to a stop with little help of the driver have seen rapid development over the past few years. These vehicles seem like bring only positives, and should be put on the road immediately, but not all groups agree with that. The Center for Auto Safety (CAS) believes that these vehicles are not ready for the road. They claim that there is a lack of National Highway Traffic Safety Administration regulation, which they consider a major concern. The CAS also has concerns about the ethics and safety issues of these vehicles. They believe more testing must be done before these vehicles should be allowed on public roads. On the other side, the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA) supports these vehicles, looking at the safety that the vehicles bring. The NHTSA points to the 94% of accidents that are caused by human error, which in theory would be lowered with self-driving vehicles. (Automated Vehicles). Their current policy for these vehicles puts in place safety tests and regulatory tools that has a relaxed NHTSA oversight. These groups cannot deny that these vehicles will replace the current driver-dependent world, they both want the vehicles implemented but disagree on the amount of regulation required. To please both organizations the self-driving vehicle needs to have proper regulation and get on the road to prove its value. Fisher 2 The Center for Auto Safety was founded in 1970 with the goal to provide consumers a voice for auto safety and quality. The group has many accomplishments, among which are implementing lemon laws, which are laws protecting the consumer from a defective vehicle that cannot be repaired in a reasonable number of repairs, and safety and highway standards that have dropped the death rate on road. This group primarily takes on the auto giants and fights for the consumer. In regards to self-driving cars, the Center for Auto Safety says, can and should have both ethical automobile technology and lifesaving mandated safety (Lemov). They believe that more regulation should be in place to ensure that these vehicles are safe and can make ethical decisions. The CAS disagrees with the regulatory abstinence and believes they should use their regulatory powers to ensure that these vehicles are safe for public roads. Currently the Federal Automated Vehicles Policy says that manufactures have to self-certify that their vehicles meet the Federal Vehicle Safety Standards. The CAS claims that this supports their argument that there is a lack of regulation. More safety issues arise when looking at how long it takes a driver to respond to a situation in a self-driving vehicle. The issue of response time was researched by Virginia Tech, they that it took drivers of Level 3 cars [in which the driver can fully cede control of all safety-critical functions in certain an average of 17 seconds to respond to takeover (Neumann). This is a concern because it shows that drivers do not think that these vehicles could need their assistance at any time. This lack of education and lack of regulation is what the CAS fears. The Center for Auto Safety has been fighting for safety which the public realized was required when the first self-driving fatality occurred. Safety of self-driving cars is now a more public issue and requires discussion and regulation. Fisher 3 Opposite of the CAS there is The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration, whose core values are, the highest standards of excellence in motor vehicle and highway (Automated Vehicles). The organization believes that the development of self-driving cars is important to the safety of the road. The NHTSA says that this technology can help the reduce the 94% of crashes which are caused by human error (Automated Vehicles). Currently this organization regulates self-driving cars and has multiple regulatory tools in their policy. A critical point of this policy is the 15 point which outlines safe design, development, testing, and deployment of automated vehicles (Automated Vehicles). Accelerated development of these vehicles is a goal of this group to reach their goal of lowering the amount of crashes caused by human error. These vehicles do not get drunk, distracted, or tired; which are involved in 41 percent, 10 percent, and 2.5 percent of all fatal crashes, respectively (Kalra and Paddock). These vehicles also can react faster than any person ever could to any situation. The perks of a self-driving car show that is should already be safer than human drivers, but more tests are needed to prove their worth. To show that the vehicles are safe they need data from real world road driven autonomous cars. Google has been developing a self-driving car for years, their car has traveled 1.3 million miles on public roads and has had 11 crashes from 2009 to 2015 (Kalra and Paddock). This data helps the NHTSA show that self- driving cars are safe and do not get into as many accidents as the normal human driver. This data helps the NHTSA to encourage companies to develop the self-driving cars which will provide great safety improvements. While self-driving cars currently do not seem as safe as the human driver, they will eventually be much safer than the human ever could be. To get to this level of safety the Center for Auto Safety thinks slow, impactful testing needs to take place. They believe that the vehicle Fisher 4 cannot be put on public roads if their safety is not guaranteed. The National Highway Traffic Safety desire to get these vehicles on the road as fast as possible means little regulation on the development and safety as the is self-certified by the manufacturers. Their wish for accelerated development creates a lack of safety regulations which the Center for Auto Safety disagrees with. The Center for Auto Safety says that the self- certifying assessment along with the Department of strong encouragement to to allow the DOT alone to regulate the performance of HAV [Highly Automated technology and (Brooks). The National Highway Traffic Safety desire to get these vehicles on the road fast and the Center for Auto desire to have the vehicles on the road when they are ready is conflicting. To solve this the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration needs to regulate the vehicles safety and development more and the Center for Auto Safety needs to see how these vehicles perform on the road. This compromise will give the Center for Auto Safety the confidence that that vehicles are being looked at by a regulatory agency before being put to the road. This will also please the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration as the vehicles they believe will make the road a much safer place will be able to get on the road quickly and hopefully start preventing accidents. While only a small percentage of vehicles on the road currently are self-driving, the future of personal transportation is the self-driving car. The safety these vehicles will bring can save thousands of lives and prevent plenty more injury. These vehicles can also bring greater efficiency and comfort for the driver. These benefits could change how the world works and bring the greatest advancement in the car since its invention. To get to this point these vehicles need to be further developed to ensure that they are safe and manage to provide the benefits Fisher 5 proposed for them. Successful development will show that these benefits will outweigh the negatives. To reach this future all groups need to be satisfied and agree that these vehicles are safe and beneficial to people. Fisher 6 Works Cited NHTSA. U.S. Department of Transportation, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Brooks, Michael. Request for Public Comments on Federal Automated Vehicles Policy, Docket No. Received by the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration, 22 Nov. 2016. Kalra, Nidhi, and Susan M. Paddock. Driving To Safety: How Many Miles Of Driving Would It Take To Demonstrate Autonomous Vehicle  Transportation Research Part A 94.(2016): 182-193. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lemov, Michael R. Driverless Cars, Ethics and Public  Center for Autosafety. The Center for Autosafety, 26 Oct. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Neumann, Peter. Risks Of Automation: A Cautionary Total-System Perspective Of Our  Communications Of The ACM 59.10 (2016): 26-30. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.