Wright 1 Clyde Wright Ms.Poston ENC 1102 27 January 2017 Resolving the Syrian Refugee Crisis Syria, also known as the Syrian Arab Republic, is a country in the Middle East bordering Iraq, Turkey, and the Mediterranean Sea. Since 2011 the country has been involved an internal conflict that has come to be known as the Syrian Civil War. The confrontation started when peaceful protests of political corruption escalated with the entry of armed rebels who now call themselves the Free Syrian Army (Purdy para 1). International intervention has also helped to prolong the war mainly due to Russian support of the leader of the Syrian government, President Bashar al-Assad, and the United States arming of Syrian rebels. Much of the fighting of the war has been in urban areas where the homes and businesses of thousands of civilians have been destroyed leaving many homeless and impoverished. According to the United Nations, the fighting has killed nearly 300,000 people, displaced more than 11 million Syrians, and left an estimated eighty percent of the population in poverty (Purdy para 1). The chaos and destruction of Syria has left its populous with only one viable option for survival and prosperity and that is to flee their homeland. This mass exodus of Syrians, who are now considered refugees, to neighboring countries and Europe has come to be known as the Syrian Refugee Crisis. The Crisis is growing into the largest migration of people ever in Europe and the results of this catastrophe are contingent on how countries and organizations around the world will respond. Wright 2 One group that has been working towards providing humanitarian support to Syrian refugees is Regional Response Plan 6. This organization is a partnership of more than one hundred United Nations agencies and international nongovernmental organizations. They deal with everything from logistics to boots on the ground involvement. Regional Response Plan 6 has three target groups: refugees in camps, refugees residing outside camps, and host communities. These refugees face very daunting circumstances arriving in a foreign country with little more than the people they are with and the clothes on their backs. More than 4.1 million refugees and 2.7 million people from host communities will benefit in some way from their plan to provide protection, food, shelter, clean water, education, basic necessities, healthcare and livelihood opportunities (Syria RRP6 10). All of these necessities are in very low supply for Syrian refugees. Education for example while not as important as food or shelter can give hope of a better life to desperate refugees. Currently, over sixty percent of school aged children in Syria are not enrolled in school and the situation in neighboring countries is worse. Ninety percent of Syrian children not attending school in Egypt and seventy percent not attending in Turkey (Syria RRP6 24). While the situation is bad it could be much worse. If neighboring countries like Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt, and Turkey did not allow Syrian refugees within their borders then refugees would be trapped in Syria where the intense fighting of the war is ever ongoing. Having sanctuaries in neighboring countries allows organizations like Regional Response Plan 6 to provide humanitarian support much more smoothly than within a warzone. It is no surprise that the massive influx of refugees into a country can have some substantial impacts. Turkey, for example has had an policy since 2011 that allows refugees to cross the border freely. This has increased the labor force of border towns in Turkey Wright 3 exponentially and has allowed some business owners to abuse the refugees compliance to work for a much lower wage to support their families. According to the Center for Middle Eastern Strategic Studies Syrian refugees are depicted and/or seen as taking away or stealing jobs, abusing and exploiting the system by establishing tax-free businesses and depressing wages. This tendency is confirmed by 40% to 100% of the people who lost their jobs in border cities and believe that they lost their jobs because of the Syrians (Koca 61). Countries who have allowed large numbers of Syrians into their countries are starting to see a change in attitude towards them. Many people are starting to associate Syrian refugees with crimes such as sexual assault, theft, and terrorism. While in some cases this is true, the portrayal of Syrian refugees in the media has given them a bad reputation. It is this general mistrust that has made the Turkish government start to turn away Syrians at the border who lack a passport or work visa even though the country is still considered to have an policy. It is these problems that arise through hosting so many refugees that have made some countries not get involved at all. The Arab Gulf States, excluding Iraq, have have not allowed a single Syrian to cross into their borders despite being in such close proximity to Syria. Places like Saudi Arabia do not wish to admit refugees because according conservative Gulf monarchies, Syrians are perceived as a destabilizing and pose a cultural and political risks as well as security threats (Welle para 16). Many in the United States are also skeptical of Syrian refugees for fear of allowing terrorist within the country. Some in Congress have even gone as far to say allowing immigrants into the country would mean certain loss of American life. One such representative is Doug Collins who stated, are a Nation of immigrants. We are a Nation of laws. And we are a Wright 4 Nation with a fundamental responsibility to preserve the rights of our citizens. And those rights include (Collin 1). As it stands right now ninety-five percent of Syrian refugees are hosted by just five countries: Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, and Egypt. This has created a number of problems for the countries hosting the majority of the refugees. For there to be a healthy integration of Syrian refugees into their host society there has to be a reasonable amount of refugees for that government to reasonably provide care for. In Lebanon, for instance, half of the population is made up of Syrian refugees and officials estimate that an average of 3,500 refugees cross from Syria into Jordan each day (Purdy para 16) . In countries that already facing economic problems, Syrian refugees put an additional strain on the education, health, and transportation, and social service sectors. The solution to this problem is relatively simple, more countries need to be involved not just financially but also in respect to allowing Syrian refugees into their countries. The more spread out the the mass of refugees is the less pressure it puts on host countries and allows them to provide better care to the individual. This compromise works for both sides who are either doing their best to help those in needs or are reluctant to help for fear of endangering their own people. Every refugee that is allowed into a country means not only that they get to have a safe and secure future but also provides a chance to help that overall wellbeing. For example the Arab Gulf need for labor presents a potentially win-win situation for both Syrians and the Gulf states the monarchies prefer to bring in labor from Asia rather than from other Arab states due to the perceived threat to security and the status quo, especially in the wake of the Arab Spring (Welle 14). For this compromise to work most effectively the shroud of suspicion surrounding Syrian refugees needs to be lifted. This can Wright 5 happen through making the refugees a pinnacle part of society by caring for them through job opportunities and accessible education. Those that say they have a moral obligation to the lives of their people contradict themselves because a refugee is a person in need of a country to call home. In conclusion the Syrian Civil War has affected millions of lives from all over the world. The people of Syria simply wish to live their lives outside a war torn country and seek a better life. Countries that neighbor Syria have taken the brunt of the fleeing refugees by giving them asylum. This overflow of refugees is starting to negatively affect these host countries. It is up to other countries to take up the slack in an attempt to even out the distribution of Syrian refugees so they can receive the care they need and become functioning members of their society. Wright 6 Works Cited Collins, Doug, et al. The Pros And Cons Of Allowing Syrian And Iraqi Refugees Into The United  Digest 95.1 (2016): 14-31. Search Premier . Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Koca, Burcu Syrian Refugees In Turkey: From  To  Perspectives On Turkey 54.(2016): 55-75. Abstracts . Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Purdy, Elizabeth Rholetter, PhD. Syrian Civil  Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters . Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Winter, Chase. Arab Monarchies Turn down Syrian Refugees over Security Threat News DW.COM  . N.p., 1 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 2014 SYRIA REGIONAL RESPONSE  SYRIA REGIONAL RESPONSE PLAN . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.