McCutcheon 1 Caitlyn McCutcheon Dr. Karen Hanson English Composition 1102 12 February 2017 Animal Captivity Animals can be our best friends, family members, and contribute to our happiness. facial expressions are brightened when they see a dog playing fetch or a funny cat video on the internet. This is how we always want to see animals, having fun and being happy. There is a difference between thinking of pets in captivity and wild animals in captivity. Pets are not usually considered to be in captivity because they typically have one on one attention and are not used for any kind of public relations or scientific research. Wild animals in zoos and aquariums are considered to be in captivity because they are not from their natural habitat, can be used for entertainment purposes and scientific research. Animal captivity is keeping any animal in a habitat that is unnatural to them. Although animal captivity has been a very extensive topic over the past few years, there are organizations for and against it. The organization Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) believe animal captivity is crucial to engage in the efforts of preventing extinction of species, while other organizations like People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) are completely against and feel like animals should be free in their own environment. Zoos and aquariums are examples of common places where animal captivity can occur. The AZA has a program called Saving Animals From Extinction(SAFE) which focuses on working with accredited zoos and aquariums throughout the country to promote capacity to increase direct conservation spending, as well as our impact on saving species through work in the field, in our zoos and aquariums, and through public McCutcheon 2 (Saving Animals From Extinction). A goal of AZA is to protect different species from going extinct, which is why they have accredited zoos and aquariums that constantly evolving and standards are continuously being (Accreditation). On the other hand, PETA has very different views. PETA is the largest animal rights organization in the world, and states focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest number of animas suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (About PETA). Both organizations have a good point to argue but to integrate the stances of both organizations, we can ensure the enclosures that the animals live in can be updated and more realistic. Zoos and aquariums can also establish a rule that the animals cannot be used for entertainment purposes for more than a certain amount of time per day. The enclosures could be built much larger, giving the animals a better chance not to feel so trapped. The zoos and aquariums can also build the enclosures as realistic as they can. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums is a non-profit organization that dedicates itself to the growth of awareness, conservation and education throughout zoos and aquariums in the United States and overseas. The AZA has a that includes conservation and care of species and their habitats, educating and engaging internal and external audiences and stakeholders, enhancing member services, and developing a robust and sustainable economic to improve the accredited zoos and aquariums (Strategic Plan). The AZA also created a program called Animals From which focuses on a variety of ten animals whose species are close to extinction. The focus group ranges from the Asian Elephant, to the Western Pond Turtle, the Vaquita Marina, and the Shark and Ray species. The AZA states species exist only because the efforts aquariums and zoos and our McCutcheon 3 (AZA SAFE) promotes why the organization believes captivity is best for animals. Squires, B., R. Lowry, and C. Banks. focus on the Zoos located in northern Kenya and the Connect-Understand-Act model can contribute to society in relation to like welfare of animals. The CEO of Zoos Jenny Gray states, can play a critical role in saving species from extinction. We care for amazing wildlife and have access to unique skill-sets and incredible reach. only just discovering how powerful we can (Squires, Lowry, C. Banks). The Toronto Zoo located in Toronto, Canada is partners with AZA. The zoo created a video showing how they help prevent extinction with their efforts of conservation, animal welfare, research and education. According to the Curator of Mammals numerous species that would be extinct if it for zoos, their expertise of husbandry and care of (Franke). As well as their advertising for conservation and awareness, there is also a reproductive physiologist on staff at the zoo whose main priority is to maintain genetic diversity. play a really important role in terms of protecting species and acting as assurance populations for species that maybe the habitat is no longer there in the wild but if we can keep them for a certain amount of time we can eventually bring them back to (Phillips). These few sources listed show the support with AZA of the importance of animal captivity in zoos to help prevent any animal extinction. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) has a different mindset towards animal captivity. The goal of this organization is to put a stop to animal suffering in the entertainment purposes. PETA has over five million followers, making it the largest animal rights group in the world. This organization believes breeding animals in captivity for protecting species from extinction, but to lure in guests, claiming new animals bring in more people. PETA states routinely trade, loan, loan, sell, or barter adult animals they no longer McCutcheon 4 (Zoos: Pitiful Prisons) in reference to the cruel approaches zoos take to receive and exchange animals after they are out of the cute baby phase. According to website general, zoos and wildlife parks preclude or severely restrict natural behavior, such as flying, swimming, running, hunting, climbing, scavenging, foraging, digging, exploring, and selecting a (Zoos: Pitiful Prisons) shows the restraints on animals if they are kept in captivity. A study published in the Applied Animal Behaviour Science, academic journal was done on the effects of temporary captivity of red foxes. Researchers captured seven rehabilitated foxes and put GPS tracking devices into thirteen wild red foxes to track them over a two-year period. Over the two years, researchers picked up on the different behaviors on the foxes. The research showed in temporary captivity display irregular and unpredictable behavior on (Tolhurst, Bryony). A charity based in the United Kingdom(UK), Captive Animals Protection Society (CAPS), mentions a government-funded study of elephants found was a welfare concern for every elephant in the (10 Facts About Zoos). PETA encourages the idea regarding to ending animal captivity and letting the animals live in their natural habitat. PETA continues to attract members and support every day to help put a stop to animal captivity for entertainment purposes in the zoo and aquarium business. The AZA and PETA have different views on whether or not animal captivity is valuable for the sake. Both organizations have a main goal of superior care for the animals, but different reasons to end or continue animal captivity. To ensure the extensive care and safety for the animals, the enclosures that the animals live in can be updated and more realistic. Zoos and aquariums can also establish a rule that the animals cannot be used for entertainment purposes for more than a certain amount of time per day. The enclosures could be built much larger, giving the animals a better chance not to feel so trapped. The zoos and aquariums can also build McCutcheon 5 the enclosures as realistic as they can. These organizations would agree on this compromise, because the AZA would still be able to keep the animals in captivity to prevent extinction and PETA would agree that the animals be used for more than the amount of time given for entertainment purposes. At the end of the day, people will still be arguing whether animal captivity is valuable for the sake or not, there are things that can be done to solve this issue. The AZA provides their view stating that animal captivity is necessary for protecting extinction throughout species all over the world and PETA provides their view why animal captivity is unethical and animals should be in their natural habitat. With the AZA and PETA agreeing on the standards of making the enclosures much larger and realistic, along with the animals in zoos and aquariums should be given a certain amount of time throughout the day they can be used for entertainment purposes. McCutcheon 6 Works Cited PETA. http://www.peta.org/about-peta/why-peta/zoos/ Accessed 26 Jan. 2017 Association of Zoos and Aquariums. https://www.aza.org/about-us Staying Association of Zoos and Aquariums. https://www.aza.org/becoming-accredited Accessed 27 Jan. 2017 SAFE: Saving Animals From Association of Zoos and Aquariums. https://www.aza.org/aza-safe. Accessed 27 Jan. 2017 Bonnie, Kristin E., Mabel Y. L. Ang, and Stephen R. Ross. Effects Of Crowd Size On Exhibit Use By And Behavior Of Chimpanzees (Pan Troglodytes) And Western Lowland Gorillas (Gorilla Gorilla) At A  Applied Animal Behaviour Science 178.(2016): 102-110. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. http://wildwelfare.org/enrichment-animal-welfare/ Accessed 28 Jan. 2017 Toronto Zoo. http://www.torontozoo.com/FightingExtinction/ Accessed 28 Jan. 2017 Zoos: Pitiful PETA. http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/animals-used-entertainment- factsheets/zoos-pitiful-prisons/ Accessed 25 Jan. 2017 The Reality of PETA. http://www.peta.org/living/entertainment/reality-zoos/ Accessed 26 Jan. 2017 Views: Animal Rights Uncompromised: PETA. http://www.peta.org/about-peta/why-peta/peta-tactics/ Accessed 26 Jan. 2017 McCutcheon 7 Shan, Lei, et al. Large-Scale Genetic Survey Provides Insights Into The Captive Management And Reintroduction Of Giant  Molecular Biology & Evolution 31.10 (2014): 2663. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Squires, B., R. Lowry, and C. Banks. Utilizing Zoos Connect-Understand-Act Model To Enable Social And Biological Gains In Northern  International Zoo Yearbook 50.1 (2016): 96. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Association of Zoos and Aquariums. www.aza.org/strategic-plan. Zoo: Why We Are Toronto Zoo. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j7y78qjf0GY Accessed 27 Jan. 2017 Facts About Captive Animals Protection Society. http://www.captiveanimals.org/news/2010/03/10-facts-about-zoos Accessed 26 Jan. 2017