Myroradov 1 Dan Myroradov ENC1102.029 Taylor Poston 12 Feb. 2017 American Cinematography and Violence Film production has become a progressive industry in the United States that generates enormous amounts of content every year. All around the world, people watch American movies, which brings incredible revenue to the production companies and the American film industry as a whole. Not only can films entertain the viewers with exciting stories, they can strongly affect disposition and even impact their perception. Additionally, many of the films depict violent scenes in order to attract more attention and therefore make more profit. To protect viewers from the explicit or violent content, Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) was founded. With its Ratings System, it often delimits the opportunities for the film companies to display the stories how they see them. In order to found the agreement, American production companies and MPAA should understand each position regarding the violence in films: the production companies and viewers need to retain their freedom to decide what content they want to see and MPAA needs to able to warn and protect the viewers. Since the establishment of the film industry in the United States, various film production companies were interested in telling an exciting story through the screen. It has become very popular because people were able to visually experience all the happenings and feel empathic for their favorite characters. They could have a certain mood and develop a definite perspective on a presented issue. With the development of the industry, more movies would depict the scenes of crime and violence that concerned the municipal governments about the potential loss of a Myroradov 2 image of the American citizens. Hence, the decision to censor the violent content in the American movies was made. In the article A Century of Film Censorship, Elizabeth McCauley explains how the American films were censored during the last century and compares the Motion Picture Production Code to Ratings System. According to McCauley, the first regulations were not clear enough and were often inconvenient for the film productions. As a result of those policies, numerous films were not allowed to distribute because certain standards were simply not met. In order to overcome the arising protests and make the regulations clearer, the Motion Picture Production Code (MPPC) was created (McCauley par. 5). According to of the the MPAA illustration that shows the timeline of the outstanding changes of the censorship policies, this code was founded in 1922 and is also known as Hays Code, because it was founded by William Hays. Consistent with this code, the scenes of drinking, gambling, violence, and sex were not permitted. Regardless of the fact that MPPC had clearly determined the censorship policies and enabled the film production companies to receive criticism on their movies by Motion Picture Producers and Distributors Association during the filming process in order to secure the release of the films, they were still repressed (par. 10). The rules generally dictated what the storylines were expected be: everything good had to overcome everything bad all those who committed immoral actions were to be punished, while the moral ones were to be rewarded. No matter how the policies would change over the years, the filmmakers did not have enough freedom to tell their stories accurately and to show the scenes of violence that numerous audiences and viewers wanted to see. Consequently, MPPDA loosened their censorship requirements and some of the movies could be released even when they were tagged as Myroradov 3 (par.13). Moreover, according to the illustration on the official website, in 1968, president Jack Valenti replaced the Hays Code with the film rating system that is used today. This system endures as a symbol of American freedom of Therefore, MPAA made a progressive step and found a reasonable compromise to then provide more autonomy for the film production companies in the United States. The idea of the Ratings System overall was not supposed to be harmful for the filmmakers, giving them more freedom and not outlawing the violent films, and was instead made to warn the viewers by marking the intensity of the explicit content and violence in the films with such labels as G (general audiences), PG (parental guidance suggested), PG-13 (parents strongly cautioned), R (restricted and requiring accompanying parent or adult guardian under the age of 17), and NC-17 (adults only) all portrayed on Film Rating illustration of the MPAA official web site. McCauley explains that replacing the code with the Ratings System had not fully resolved the issue. The modernized system would still shape the content of the films that contained violence and impede all the explicit films rated as NC-17 from being successfully promoted and distributed (McCauley par.16). The censorship history of the American films shows that the issue was approached differently; however, the inconvenience for the production remains unresolved today. To resolve the conflict of freedom for film production companies and censorship it is important to take into consideration the perspective of MPAA as well. The main interest is to protect the viewers from violent and explicit content. Taking into consideration this fact, it is important to determine whether violence in film actually has a strong relation to societal violence. The article Media Violence Predict Societal Violence? It Depends On Myroradov 4 What You Look At And written by Christopher J. Ferguson, describes a study where researchers were looking for the correlation of homicide rates and the high-grossing films from the beginning of the XX century (Ferguson E4). Due to the fact that in the late violence started appearing on the television more frequently, many were concerned about getting affected by the aggressive displays. Early analyses showed a small correlation of on-screen violence with homicides; however, according to a recent study, since the the correlation was completely reversed (E8). Consequently, Ferguson implies that even though the slight relationship was found at one period of time, it did not remain consistent hence, the violence in film does not trigger societal violence. Nevertheless, it is essential to realize that a huge responsibility lies on the production companies for everything they display in their films. For instance, in a newspaper article Violence in American Movies Is Rising, Study Michael Cieply states that gun violence has significantly increased over the years and can cause a negative influence on the viewers. The researchers from Ohio State University and Annenberg Center determined that the presence of violence in American films doubled in the period form 1950 to 2012 (Cieply par. 3). Daniel Roger, the researcher explains that since the depiction of gun violence has increased so drastically, this issue has to be approached more seriously (par. 11). Even if the increase of violence on television does not cause the rise of homicides rates in the society, it remains capable of causing other negative effects, such as an excessive gun usage. With the existing issue between the Rankings System and the production need for displaying their stories more truthfully by exploiting violence, there remain a few very successful franchises released that managed to depict certain elements of violence such as The Lord of the Rings. In Cinema Journal 3, Kia Afra states that close analysis of The Lord of the Myroradov 5 Rings illustrates, a textual-formal account reveals narrative and stylistic aspects of filmic violence that the FTC and the various media effects studies on the rating system (Afra 62). By this she means that there are numerous historical, cultural, and aesthetical aspects that may prevent the MPAA from providing harsh rankings and making some franchises more open to the publicity. The point that some popular films were able to depict all the events more or less accurately is the outcome of the compromise and reforms that MPAA has made by changing the Code to the Ratings System. This has definitely led to some improvements in the American film industry, but many issues remain unsolved today. In order to achieve some further improvements, a new compromise should be introduced. To create a new compromise, it is important to understand what viewers truly need: to have a variety of good films and an ability to know about the ratings defining the content, in order to protect themselves and their children from the violent and explicit material. In American Psychologist, Brad J. Bushman explains that parents have always been concerned about the stories their children would be exposed to. Nowadays, most of the stories are delivered to them through films and television (Bushman 1). The stories that convey violence may lead to the negative aggressive and antisocial behaviors of children. In view of this negative influence, the existence of the ratings systems is crucial. The most prevailing one is the Ratings System by MPAA that evaluates the content and proposes who this content is suggested to. However, Bushman clarifies that descriptive content-based ratings may appear even more important for the parents, for the reason that ratings often indicate the presence and/or intensity of violence, sex, profanity, or other controversial elements but do not make recommendations about who should or should not use the (4). Therefore, an application of the descriptive content-based system, instead of the evaluative Ratings System, would be a great solution and a Myroradov 6 fair compromise for the MPAA and the production companies. This way the viewers will be warned about the occurrence of violence and the film companies will be able to better promote and distribute the films by not getting them labeled as NC-17 by the Ratings System. All things considered, with all the improvements throughout the years, the conflict between the Ratings System by MPAA and violence in the American films has not been solved yet. On one hand, the film production companies need to present the stories more accurately and attract more attention from the audience, depicting the scenes of violence, which does not have a potential risk for the increase in the societal violence. On the other hand, the MPAA needs to protect the viewers from the implicit or violent content due to the remaining negative outcomes, such as an excessive gun usage or aggressive and antisocial behavior of children triggered by the violence in films. The best decision for both stakeholders is to become more understanding in finding some common ground and in achieving a compromise - the film production companies should be more concerned about the safety of the viewers and the MPAA should shift from the Ratings System to the descriptive content-based system. The viewers should be warned! Myroradov 7 Works Cited Afra, Kia. Ratings Creep, And The Legacy Of Screen Violence: The MPAA Responds To The Violent Entertainment To Cinema Journal 3 (2016): 40. Academic OneFile. Web 12 Feb. 2017. Bushman, Brad J., and Joanne Cantor. Ratings For Violence And Sex: Implications For Policymakers And American Psychologist 58.2 (2003): 130- 141. PsycARTICLES. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Cieply, Michael. Violence in American Movies Is Rising, Study The New York Times, 11 Nov. 2013. Ferguson, Christopher J. Media Violence Predict Societal Violence? It Depends On What You Look At And Journal Of Communication 65.1 (2015): E1. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. of the Motion Picture Association of America. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. http://www.mpaa.org/our-story/. McCauley, Elizabeth. Century of Film Back Story, 7 Oct. 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Film Rating Motion Picture Association of America. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. http://www.mpaa.org/film-ratings/.