Wahba 1 Seifeldin Wahba Ms. Poston ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Global Warming and Carbon Dioxide Emissions Global warming has been taking place in media and politics as it is turning to be a serious issue. Throughout the decades, the climate has been changing due to many factors. Two main factors are: human, represented in the production of greenhouse gasses, and nature, represented in solar activities and agriculture. One of the stakeholders regarding this topic is IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) which believes that human activities are the dominant factor driving global warming. While the other stakeholder is NIPCC (Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change) which argues that global warming is happening due to environmental changes. Before getting into the topic, a definition of what is global warming is needed. Global warming is the increase in the temperature of the surface, oceans, and atmosphere. Over the last century, the average temperature of the earth has risen by 1.65 degrees Fahrenheit. (Bradford 1). Therefore, whether the reason behind global warming is human activities or natural factors, most scientists agreed that the excessive amount of carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere is the reason driving global warming, thus reducing the burning of fossil fuels is needed to avert a global warming catastrophe. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is a body under the United Nations, established in 1988 to study the climate change scientifically and politically. There are thousands of scientists who volunteer to write and review the reports assessed every 5-7 years. IPCC claims that the climate is changing due to the amount of carbon dioxide levels in the Wahba 2 atmosphere which is caused mainly by humans. Factories and companies burn relentless amount of fossil fuels in the production process that results in carbon dioxide. The IPCC said in their fourth assessment report revealed in 2007 that, of the observed increase in global average temperature since the mid-20 th century is due to the observed increase in anthropogenic GHG (Nuccitelli 2). A study newly introduced by NASA gives update for the calculations made to show the energy imbalance these days. Energy imbalance is calculated to show the difference between the energy absorbed and released by the earth. When there is an imbalance, that is when climate changes. If the imbalance is positive, the earth would be warming. While if it is negative, the earth would be cooling. The study shows that the earth absorbed more than 0.5 watts per square meter than what was released. This means it is a positive imbalance causing the earth to warm. James Hansen, the director of Goddard Institute for Space Studies (GISS) in New York City, said: The fact that we still see a positive imbalance despite the prolonged solar minimum a surprise given what learned about the climate system, but worth noting because this provides unequivocal evidence that the sun is not the dominant driver of global warming According to calculation posted on their website (climate.nasa.gov), the levels of carbon dioxide are equal to 405 parts per million and these levels need to be reduced to 350 parts per million to reach an energy equilibrium and restore the energy imbalance. On the contrary, the Non-Governmental International Panel on Climate Change (NIPCC) is a group of scientists and scholars whose goal is to analyze the causes and consequences of climate change. It is not sponsored by any governments or governmental agencies, so it is independent of political pressures. NIPCC argues that human activities are not the reason behind Wahba 3 global warming and that there are several factors that is causing it to happen. They state that climate has changed before and is always changing and it is not because of humans, it is because of natural variabilities. is no scientific proof that human emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) are the dominant cause of the minor warming of the atmosphere over the past 100 years. If there were such a proof, it would be written down for all to see. No actual proof, as it is understood in science, said the ecologist Patrick Moore, an ex-member of Greenpeace. NIPCC assume that IPCC is not a credible source as it was created to and disseminate research finding a human impact on global as mentioned in Scientists Disagree About Global book published by the NIPCC. Therefore, climate was changed before and it was not caused due to greenhouse gasses. Sun activity, Volcanos, and ocean heat circulation were the main factors causing the Little Ice Age. From here it can be said that humans had no effect on that change. There are six countries that are responsible for 60% of carbon dioxide emissions and the shape of the future is dependent on how much these countries produce carbon dioxide. China comes in the first place as it emits more than 11 billion tons of carbon dioxide, surpassing the United States in 2006 to be the top emitter for carbon dioxide. The United States comes next producing almost half of production which is 5.8 billion tons. Even though the United States has never planned to reduce carbon dioxide emission, it has cut more carbon dioxide than any other country. Taking in consideration that China and the United States combined emit more than 40% of the total six countries. India follows as it produces 2.6 billion tons. In 2010, India planned to cut between 20% and 25% of carbon dioxide emissions by 2020 compared to 2005 levels. Then comes Russia which did not have to cut the carbon dioxide emission because its emission fell so much after the collapse of the Soviet Union. With that being said, they are Wahba 4 targeting to cut emission 25% from 1990 levels by 2020 and to meet its goal, it will increase energy efficiency by 40% and expand renewable energy by 4.5%. Additionally, carbon emission is 35% lower than 1990 levels. The fifth country is Japan which emits 1.4 billion tons of carbon dioxide. However, in 2012, a carbon tax based on the fossil fuels emissions started taking place. Lastly comes Germany, it produces 836 million tons which is 25% less than 1990 levels. Furthermore, it is planning to reduce the greenhouse gasses emission 40% by 2020. (Capiello). At the end, what IPCC and NIPCC agree on is that the globe is warming and they disagree on the reasons. They also believe that the change of climate change would never be beneficial for humans. Moreover, there are places that are already feeling the effects of global warming. Some of these places are the Glacier National Park, where it used to have about 150 glaciers and now it has just 25 glaciers. (National Park Montana). That was caused due to the melting of the ice resulted from the increase in the temperature. Furthermore, satellite measurements show that there is a decrease in the temperature of the waters of Australia Great Barrier Reef by 0.36 degrees Fahrenheit causing a loss for more than half of the Great Barrier Reef. (Chow 2). And to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, a treaty - that forces countries to cut the emission of carbon dioxide until it reaches the safe level in the atmosphere - should be enforced between all the countries in the world if possible, and if not, then, at least it should be between the six leading countries in carbon dioxide production. To support this compromise, an example of such treaty took place in 2005. Kyoto Protocol, a treaty that commits the participated parties to cut greenhouse gas emissions, entered in force. It currently has 192 countries. The problem with that treaty is that some countries did not hit the targets planned for. So, to make it more effective, stronger, and avoid any countries withdrawing from the protocol, a fine should Wahba 5 be issued to countries that does not meet the target and emits more greenhouse gas than what was planned for. Wahba 6 Works Cited Bradford, Alina. Is Global Live science, December 15, 2014, Web. Cappiello, Dina. 6 countries Are Responsible For 60% Of CO2 Business insider, December 5, 2014, Web. Chow, Denise. Places Already Feeling the Effects of Climate Livescience, November 21, 2013, Web. Idso, Criag, Carter, Robert, and Singer, Fred. Scientists Disagree About Global The Heartland Institute, November 23, 2015. IPCC. Fourth Assessment IPCC, March 2007, Web. Jian Bin, Huang. Changes in Climate System: Debates on the Causes of Global Advances in Climate Change Research, Vol. 3 Issue 1, p38-44, March 2012, USF library, Web. Jones, Jenny. Human Activity, Not Solar Activity, Driving Global Civil Engineering, Vol. 82 Issue 4, p32-32. 2/3p, April 2012, USF library, Web. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Lindzen, Richard. Warming: The Science in Three Nut The New Criterion, vol. 34 Issue 10, S12, p. 4, June 2016, USF library, Web. Wahba 7 Park National Park Service, Web. Nuccitelli, Dana. Warming: Why Is IPCC Report So Certain About the Influence of The Guardian, September 27, 2013, Web. Thornhill, Ted. Are Not to Blame for Global Daily Mail, February 27, 2014, Web.