Curry 1 Paul Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 11 February 2017 Is the privatization of prisons unethical? Some may ask if the privatization of prisons is unethical! According to the Corrections Corporation of America also known as CCA it is not, this corporation provides the primary funding for majority of the private prisons in todays and A private prison is a prison that is not federally funded, these prisons are funded but some third party source. They are one of the top organizations that provides private goods for prisons in the nation. On the other side of the table there is the American Bar Association which is primarily referred to as the ABA which is completely against the privatization of prisons because they feel it is unethical to put people behind bars for increased funds. Although these two organizations seem very different they do share many similarities which most of our fellow Americans would not notice right of the back. For starters, the CCA is the fifth leading manufacturer of private goods in the nation. As the fifth leading organization, they house between 70,000 and 100,000 inmates per their website CCA.com. According to the President/CEO, Damon Hiniger it is their social responsibility to provide need to these private prisons. Damon also states that since private prisons are with overcrowded facilities, skyrocketing taxpayer costs and inmates struggling to break the cycle of crime, corrections systems across America faces serious challenges. For 30 years, CCA has successfully built and managed detention and corrections facilities in partnership with governments of all levels to help address these challenges, and we are proud of the important Curry 2 Paul Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 11 February 2017 public service we provide. CCA is comprised of more than 16,000 dedicated professionals. From our veterans to those who support them at home and from chaplains to security officers, we are working hard each day to provide safe, affordable correctional services. personally very proud of their commitment to their jobs and communities, their compassion, and their professionalism. I invite you to learn more about the work they do every day to make CCA a great organization, a great partner and a great corporate The organization has a strong foundation which they believe is helping prisons. The CCA has benefited from private inmates since about 1983 according to grassroots.org, this website also states that since 2009 the CCA has made over 1.7 million dollars. CCA has also has positive effects on people that most citizens do not notice. Such as the fact that they have saved the country so much money by limiting resources and wages for private prisons. As a top organization in the private prison industry they have provided jobs for many Americans and according to the anonymous review by glassdoor.com over 80% of the people who were reviewed immediately accepted their offer and are pleased with the work they do for the organization and this country. Corrections Corporation of mission, vision and goals seem ethical to some but far from all, they are consistently down by organizations such as the American Bar Association which completely disagrees with the foundation of the organization. The American Bar Association or more commonly referred to as the ABA is a organization composed of many former business law students and nonprofit committees per their website Americanbar.org. Established in 1878 by over 70 lawyers has aided to them being the Curry 3 Paul Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 11 February 2017 leading organization for human rights solely responsible for private prisons. The ABA does not have a problem with private prisons just the way the private prisons treat their inmates. The website states that they stand for the criminal justice standards on the treatment of prisoners. Also, according to their website, the ABA has four main goals which are serve their members by provide benefits, programs and services which promote professional growth and quality of life. They also would like to Improve their profession by promoting the highest quality legal education, promoting competence, ethical conduct and professionalism and promoting pro bono and public service by the legal profession. The third goal is to eliminate bias and enhance diversity by promoting full and equal participation in the association, our profession, and the justice system by all persons and eliminate bias in the legal profession and the justice system. Lastly, they attempt to advance the Rule of Law by increasing public understanding of and respect for the rule of law, the legal process, and the role of the legal profession at home and throughout the world by holding governments accountable under law working for just laws, including human rights, and a fair legal process assuring meaningful access to justice for all persons and preserving the independence of the legal profession and the They are a organization dedicated to getting rid of organizations such as the CCA through legal measures. They solely believe that human rights should be enforced. They are not a organization full of protest similar to the groups that the CCA commonly deals with. They provide jobs for individuals as well but they are a nonprofit organization so salaries are low and more people enjoy their jobs because they are doing something they love to do. The ABA does not make the country any money so it is on by many individuals. These Curry 4 Paul Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 11 February 2017 organizations seem very different but they do share many similarities that individuals do not realize. The American Bar Association and Corrections Corporation of America do contain many similarities in which they could ultimately come up with a compromise from. Through research and critical thinking there have been three potential compromises found. Both of these organizations intend to make the people they care about happy. One of the best compromise would be release and increased amount of prisoners but charge the prisons for better goods for the prisoners. Corrections of America will continue to make increased sums of money and the American Bar Association could view this as more ethical because less prisoners would be behind bars. Both organizations could also come to another compromise. This compromise would be to stay out of the judicial system. This would provide for a more fair trial for potential inmates. The American Bar Association judges provide shorter sentences and Corrections Corporation of America judges provide longer sentences to inmates for their increase of money. These organizations share qualities that they do not notice similar to the countries two main political parties. They need to notice these similarities and come together as one to please interests. Lastly, the organizations could agree to consult each other before making irrational decisions similar to our political houses. These three compromises may not be the best but they are undeniably some of the better compromises and it would be nice to see these come into effect at some point. Curry 5 Paul Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 11 February 2017 As stated before these two organizations are two of the top organizations on completely different sides of the table. These two organizations both have a strong impact on our country from an ethical stand-point to a financial stand-point. They may not agree now but one day they may find a compromise and it will ultimately put this country one step ahead financially, ethically, and emotionally. Curry 6 Paul Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 11 February 2017 American Bar Association . About  About the American Bar Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Candidate Interview Reviews  Corrections Corporation Of America Glassdoor. Glassdoor, 3 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://www.glassdoor.com/Interview/Corrections-Corporation-of-America- Interview-Questions-E6826.htm> Corrections Corporation of America. Who We  CCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://www.cca.com/who-we-are>. Harrington, Judith. Too Good to Be  James Joyce Quarterly 29.4 (1992): 848. Too Good To Be True. Cody Mason, Jan. 2012. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://sentencingproject.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/Too-Good-to-be-True- Private-Prisons-in-America.pdf>. Heritage Foundation. A Guide to Prison  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., 2017. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/1988/05/bg650- a-guide-to-prison-privatization>.