Ernst 1 Katie Ernst Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 12 February 2017 The Dilemma of College Athletes and their Possible Income The subject of whether college athletes should receive a salary through their sports has created an unstable controversial topic over the past several years. Some organizations may want to expose this income to all college campuses since they believe athletes deserve that type of special treatment. On the other hand, some associations may depict that paying college athletes is unethical since education comes first and it is unrealistic to give that amount of money to them. In compliance to this well-known management, the Entertainment and Sports Programming Network are set on that college athletes should be paid since they are assumed as employees of the university they attend. However, the National Collegiate Athletic Association is against this idea since they believe education comes first and that it is not necessary to allow college athletes to receive an income. A compromise between these two associations is possible but they just have to agree with all aspects in this accommodation. ESPN should research to see the numerical value of students who earn scholarships where they already have their college paid for and the NCAA should realize how much dedication college athletes invest into their desired sport. The action these two groups should agree on is to communicate with the government and see if they can satisfy both parties to come up with a fair arrangement. A reasonable compromise could include allowing colleges to give a $2,000 salary to all college athletes each semester so they can still keep their scholarship and maintain focus on their education to the best of their ability. Ernst 2 To begin with, ESPN is a prominent sports cast channel whose mission statement is serve sports fans wherever sports are watched, listened to, discussed, debated, read, or mission statement (with tweet) They are precisely involved in the sporting world and the company and commentators within this organization have one set opinion on this contention within the country. Jay Bilas, a strong representative of ESPN, states various reasons to prove that college athletes have the right to receive income for the time and effort they invest into the sport they are most passionate about. The concern Bilas has developed is that a multi-billion-dollar business where the only people who are restricted in their earnings in any way, are the (Bilas). This situation is uncommonly biased since no other student on campus, such as a music student, cannot get kicked out of the program for consulting with any professional or in any professional sense, like with money (Bilas). Another aspect in this topic would be individuals who care about these college athletes speculate that if these students start receiving money into their accounts from their playing time in their sport, then other athletics will be cancelled as a result of this payment. Bilas reacted to this negatively and stated: are not going to cancel these programs if in their interest to have (Bilas). Lastly, Bilas emphasizes that paying college athletes will not change how powerful each of the top teams are since they are previously very talented and skilled in their qualified sport (Bilas). Overall, his opinion towards this issue speaks for itself and his words comply to the whole ESPN community. For example, an analyst for ESPN and former sportswriter by the name of Michael Wilbon has similar views on why college athletes deserve to be salaried. Wilbon understands that it is impractical to pay every single college athlete; however, he believes another thing entirely for the students who play for revenue-producing teams to be somehow compensated from the lucrative Ernst 3 TV/radio/Internet rights fees they make wholly (Wilbon). Likewise, he has determined that since millions of dollars are funded into categories like special assistance and student-athlete opportunities, questions arise about why these funds cannot relocate to different funds to help athletes apply that money to regular activities during the day (Wilbon). This action would help them, exclusively since some jobs are not compliable to intercollegiate athletes. As a result, the ESPN system seems to be pushing for the college pay since should be considered employees of the school and with everything they accomplish within the school, income is a must for these individuals. Accordingly, the National Collegiate Athletic main goal is to come together and devote their time to try to give college athletes success throughout their whole life The values include pursuit of excellence in both academics and athletics, highest levels of integrity and sportsmanship, and In order to be classified in a collegiate level sport, players must follow NCAA protocols, which include not obtaining a salary for participating in athletics, no rewarding money about the classified expenses, and no contracts are allowed with any professional team They classify this as a part of amateurism, which puts satisfying education before anything in college, like sports. NCAA considers the athletes would not exist in collegiate sports if it was not for the learning aspects in the classroom. They value the belief that these students are more competing in academics, not athletics. Their overall assumption to this matter involves a college scholarship is pay enough-though in truth, most of those taking this position are athletic directors and (Nocera). Even though court cases have presented themselves from the NCAA violating anti-trust laws, like the case, this organization still has their eyes set on one important aspect: to stop college athletes from getting paid. Ernst 4 Even though both organizations seem to be at odds with each other, they still seem to share a common goal with these college athletes. They both strive to give these individuals their effort into what they believe is best for the athlete. Like ESPN is fighting for college students to receive income since they believe they deserve it with all of the hours of consolidated work they put into their sport. Also, the NCAA is attempting to convince the athletes that they care about their education and that academics always comes first above all sporting events, which is why they consider paying college athletes is unnecessary in the long run. This common ground will help resolve a compromise between the two associations and overall depict what is best for the college athletes. Since both of these associations share a common goal of supporting the athlete in the best way they see possible, a candid compromise would include offering a per semester stipend to student-athletes [since will help ease their concerns of daily living expenses while still maintaining the integrity of receiving a college (Rose). This would satisfy both institutions since the college athletes would be getting paid, in favor of ESPN, and they will not give out an excessive amount of money in order to keep the college scholarship. Although the NCAA does state that they do not approve paying college athletes, in reality however, an scholarship can be taken away instantly even if the player has a high GPA and the coach depicts that they are not suited for the team. Also, this compromise is applicable since these athletes are committed to many hours during the day toward team sessions, it is not feasible for them to maintain a job in that situation (Rose). Overall, if both parties and the government agree to this plan of action, all athletes will be more likely to excel in both education and athletics. In essence, this controversy of whether college athletes should get paid has been going on for years. Even though ESPN and NCAA have opposing thoughts on the subject, they both share Ernst 5 a common goal: to help and guide the college athletes in the best way they think is possible for their well-being. ESPN should conduct more research to make sure the scholarship will not be affected with the income they could be receiving and NCAA should realize all of the dedication these athletes invest into their sport and also recognize that maintaining a job is out of the question for those individuals. But these organizations can communicate with the government, plus each other, and consider giving this $2,000 salary per semester to each college athlete. This settlement would solve unnecessary problems in the future and will have this income rally come to an end to appease both athletes and all other individuals concerned with this issue. Ernst 6 Works Cited  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 24 Apr. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Co-host, Michael WilbonPardon the Interruption. College athletes deserve to be  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 18 July 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. ESPN mission statement (with tweet)  Storify. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Maurice PeeblesDeputy Editor Complex Sports. Twitter. IG. 7 Common Sense Reasons Why College Athletes Should Be Paid (According to Jay  Complex. N.p., 03 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Nocera, Joe. A Way to Start Paying College  The New York Times. N.p., 8 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2016. Rose, Jalen. Paid College Athletes: A Reasonable  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.