Rivera 1 Marielisa Rivera Karen Hanson ENC1102 29 January 2017 Hydrologic fracking and enhanced regulation Recently in the last few decades hydraulic fracking has become a highly controversial topic. According to Joshua Pritchard fracking is mechanical process that uses fluid pressure to release quantities of petroleum or natural gas from deep below the (Pritchard). However, this process does not go on without leaving an environmental imprint. Since fracking involves the use of high pressure and chemicals to break down the shale bed, there is concern for aquifers being at risk of contamination. The Delaware Riverkeeper Network fears that fracking will cause groundwater leaching as the pressure from fracking causes an increase permeability within the aquifer. (Wei) This means that chemicals used in the fracking process can breach the porous material surrounding aquifers much easier, leaving water unsuitable for human consumption. In addition, fracking is troublesome when it comes to waste disposal. If the chemicals and water used during the fracking process are not disposed properly it will leave the surrounding environment vulnerable (Smith and Ferguson). Such revelations have caused the Delaware Riverkeeper Network to rallying against the natural gas industry and government agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency(EPA), as they feel that the health of the public is not being protected. Although the EPA has imposed regulation to limit the environmental impact hydraulic fracking has on the Environment, the Delaware Riverkeeper Network feels that there are not enough safeguards in place to truly protect the environment and the health of humans. Per Smith and Ferguson, the Rivera 2 current backlash against the EPA is due in part of the failed communication between, state, local, and federal government. Antifracking organizations such as Water Action, and the Delaware Riverkeeper (Smith and Ferguson) must work with all levels of government to hold the fracking industry accountable not just the EPA. In order to ensure the overall protections of the environment, federal agencies must move to legitimize and except state and local regulation over fracking. The Environmental Protection Agency aims to protect the environment and the health of humans. It focuses on making sure that companies follow legislation that gets passed through congress and imposes regulation it creates (United States Environmental Protection Agency). Currently the stance on hydraulic fracking is that it will continue to spend revenue on water sampling in areas where there is fracking. The EPA hopes to ensure that there are minimal leaks and that there is proper waste disposal. However, since the EPA is a federal agency, it is greatly affected by legislation passed through congress. Specifically, the numerous regulation in place that prevents the EPA from imposing too much regulation on the natural gas and oil industry, such as the Energy Policy Act which exempted gas industries from any federal regulation and oversight under the Safe Drinking Water (Smith, Ferguson). This act is also commonly referred to as the Halliburton Loophole. As it created a loophole against EPA imposed regulation and oversight. Despite the attempts to regulate the fracking industry the DRN feels that they are being left unprotected. The DRN is under the impression that the EPA is not stopping the contamination of the aquifers. As in some cases methane has contaminated the ground water so abundantly that some have ability to ignite running tap (Coman). Which have left homeowners furious and wanting fracking to halt completely. The DRN have collaborated with Rivera 3 other local and state organization to try and dismantle the fracking industry. Even going as far as raising the issue with the supreme court. The DRN works to collect water samples and protect thousands from the contamination of their drinking water. Currently the DRN holds on to the sentiment that federal regulation is too concerned over short term economic gain then the long term environmental consequences. In addition, the DRN feels that the public is not being presented with enough information surrounding the consequences of fracking. Which is why the DRN feels that there needs to be more local commitment and outreach groups so that there is more over watch surrounding the ensured safety of the public. (Smith, Ferguson). Middle ground can be reached. A strong opponent of federal intervention is that there is fear amongst politicians that if federal environmental agencies are given to much power over industries then it will cripple the United States economic infrastructure. As fracking provides thousands of jobs and an alternative energy source. Which is why despite some states voicing their concerns about the affect fracking is having on the environment federal regulation has been relaxed. The federal government fears that if the natural gas industry becomes overwhelmed with regulation then it might result in a deficit of millions of dollars a year, as well as an increase dependence on other sources of energy such as oil. The mixed feeling on how the federal government should regulate the industry has caused confusion amongst local and state officials on how to regulate the industry. Especially when there is an increased movement to defund attempts made by the EPA to protect the environment and the health of consumers. As a result, contamination of water sources has occurred. Both the EPA and DRN recognize that without oversight companies will be left to self-regulate. Possibly creating a huge liability that could leave the United States susceptible to gross levels of pollution, and the loss of valuable drinking water. Both organizations are trying to prevent the contamination of the potable water sources Rivera 4 located in the United States. With the public becoming increasingly more environmentally aware as the result of outreach from the DRN and other environmental organizations a path towards deregulation has been deemed unacceptable to those like the DRN. However, this means that delegitimizing the work of the EPA cannot stand either especially if there is to be more communication throughout all levels of government (Smith, Ferguson). Which is why the federal government must allow the EPA to function like it was intended to do. For instance, since the federal government cannot allocate sufficient resources to monitor all activity within different industries, state officials, and even local homeowners must enforce the regulation necessary to maintain sustainability and a clean environment. This might look like state mandated testing, local government imposing weekly water testing from drill sights near wells, or state oversight of waste disposal. This way the EPA can work alongside groups like the DRN without interference, and having the help of the DRN the EPA can make federal and state communication more transparent and make sure that companies are being held to higher standards. Although hydraulic fracking has been around since the it has indeed become a controversial topic recently (Coman). Fracking has been debated across the media recently because of the sharp growth of the industry in a short period of time. Leaving some feeling as though legislation and regulation is not keeping up with the pace at which the natural gas industry is growing. Especially since regulatory agencies such as the EPA are being crippled with legislation and movements from congress to defund attempts made by the EPA to impose stricter regulation despite the public outcry. Making it appears the EPA is not entirely concerned with the health of the public. Groups such as the DRN have made interlevel communication harder between federal and state government by trying to disfranchise claims made by the EPA surrounding fracking. Rivera 5 If more regulation is to be implemented with the acknowledgment of the possible economic tolls, then there must be attempts made from all levels of government to ensure the safety of the environment. Furthermore, the federal government must also recognize the need for more funding for the EPA. Without funding no amount of interlevel government cooperation will make proper oversight possible. Frequent water samples might prove to be costly. Especially if some states require fracking companies to pay for different third party research companies to provide the result. A possible solution to this cost might be green tax breaks. Where companies who spend more on testing and preventing leaks can get a state tax break reducing the cost or perhaps in some cases making a small profit for being environmentally aware. This will address the DRNs concerns about protecting the Delaware river from contamination. In the end regulation is a key to protecting the limited drinkable water within the United States. If ground water was to become contaminated widely then the United States might have to resort to importing potable water. Resulting in costs far greater than what is needed to regulate the industry. Rivera 6 Works Cited Coman, Hannah. Balancing The Need For Energy And Clean Water: The Case For Applying Strict Liability In Hydraulic Fracturing  Boston College Environmental Affairs Law Review 39.(2012): 131. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Pritchard, Joshua. Fracking:  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 Smith, Michael F., and Denise P. Ferguson. Issue Management And Locus Of Policy Decision-Making In The Marcellus Shale Gas Drilling  Public Relations Review 39.Public Relations and Democracy (2013): 377-386. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 United States Enviromental Protection Agency. Mission and What We www.epa.gov/aboutepa/our-mission-and-what-we-do(web).29 Jan. 2017 Wei, Yaqiang, et al. Model For Simulating Hydromechanical Responses In Aquifers To Induced Hydraulic Stresses: Laboratory Investigation And Model  Journal Of Natural Gas Science And Engineering 30.(2016): 592-603. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.