Irfan 1 Sumaiya Irfan Professor Noah Pearlstone 2/12/17 ENC 1102 Stem cell research: the debate Science is a mystery that we as humans have struggled throughout the millennia to discover. Our struggles have led towards numerous discoveries that can be seen through the apparition of modern day technology. Stem-cells are an example of such. They are a type of cell that leads to the development of different type of cells, they are different from other types of cells as they are unspecialized and later develop into specialized cells. There are two types of stem cells: somatic and embryonic stem cells. Somatic stem cells are stationary and only work during injury while embryonic stem cells are found in embryos and develop into different types of cells after fertilization. The controversial type of stem cell is the embryonic stem cell (NIH Stem Cells). Pro-life is a movement composed of numerous organizations that are against the notion of abortion and subsequently stem-cell research. On the opposite spectrum, we have pharmaceutical companies and research institutes that are aiming towards furthering the human cause. One such organization is the International Society for Stem Cell Research (ISSCR). If these two groups were to compromise, they must be ready to change. For these two groups to compromise, both must be willing to change their approach. Pro-lifers would need to become more flexible towards their beliefs while research institutes would need to have more regulations in regards to how they will research and dispose of stem-cells. Irfan 2 Pro-life is a movement composed of numerous numbers of organizations that are based on fundamental Christian values. The movement is not centralized on any one group. The beginning of the Pro-life movement came as a result of the landmark Supreme Court decision Roe v. Wade. This case made it illegal for the government to have say about a decision to have an abortion until the third trimester (Hull, Hoffer). Pro-lifers are against stem-cell research because they feel it is a form of abortion. To be able to use embryonic stem cells, scientists need fertilized eggs which is considered unethical and going against God according to Pro-lifers. Their ultimate goal is to get rid of government funded abortion clinics as well as anything that has some relation to abortion (Frazzetto, Cells, and On the other side, the International Society for Stem Cell Research (ISSCR) is a nonprofit organization that aims promote and foster the exchange and dissemination of information and ideas relating to stem cells, to encourage the general field of research involving stem cells and to promote professional and public education in all areas of stem cell research and the 1). Stem cell research has lead towards various discoveries for instance cancer cells have been found to stem-like characteristics to a degree sufficient to warrant the comparison with stem cells; the observed experimental and clinical behaviors of metastatic cancer cells are highly reminiscent of the classical properties of stem (Croker, Allan, 374-390) With this lead the probability of curing cancer has increased. Another important discovery was in 2014 where the transplantation of embryonic stem cells helped improve the sight of legally blind patients. Nine out of eighteen patients had a significant increase in sight (CNN). However, despite such discoveries, research has been minimalized since the Bush era in the early (Lacchman). Irfan 3 Although at a glance it seems from face value that one group is trying to do something while the other group is trying to stop them, both groups have similarities. Both groups wish to further and preserve human life as well as create a healthy and positive world for everyone. To create a compromise between the two groups we would have to lay a groundwork about what they both agree upon. As both parties agree that human life should be treasured, stem-cell researchers (in the United States) would need to be restricted on how much they are able to use stem-cells. Instead of using embryonic stem-cells, researchers could use somatic stem-cells. Research has shown that somatic stem cells could transform into embryonic stem cells (Thomson, Itskowitz-Eldor, et.al). Pro-lifers could change their mindset to look at the big picture instead of focusing on the aspect that resembles abortion. The usage of stem cells in medicine has saved lives and as such has lead towards the progression of life. If pro-lifers truly wish to save lives and promote a platform that is fundamentally based upon preserving human life, they should also be able to make the compromise between the stem-cell research platform. They should also understand that since not everyone in the world is Christian, they should minimize the use of the religion argument. In conclusion, the proponents of stem-cell research as well as its opponents have various disagreements on the issue which stems primarily from the usage of embryonic stem cell usage. However these two groups have the same goal which is to preserve and protect human life. Members of the Pro-life movement would need to understand the benefits of stem cell research as well as be willing to compromise about some of the restrictions placed upon researchers. Researchers should be willing to use alternatives to embryonic stem cells. They should also be willing to have stricter restrictions placed upon as to how they are to attain stem cells and how Irfan 4 much funding they are going to get. If both sides are willing to compromise, they will be able to solve their disagreements on the issue. Irfan 5 Works Cited: Frazzetto, Giovanni. Cells and EMBO Reports 5.6 (2004): PMC. Web. 10 Sept. 2016. Cell National Institutes of Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, http://stemcells.nih.gov/info/basics/1.htm. Accessed 2/12/17. Lachmann, Peter. Cell Is It Regarded as a Threat?: An Investigation of the Economic and Ethical Arguments Made against Research with Human Embryonic Stem EMBO Reports 2.3 (2001): PMC. Web. 13 Nov. 2016. Croker, A. K., and A. L. Allan. Cancer Stem Cells: Implications for the Progression and Treatment of Metastatic  National Center for Biotechnology Information. U.S. National Library of Medicine, Web. 13 Nov. 2016. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18182063>. Hull, N. E. H., and Peter Charles Hoffer. Roe V. Wade : The Abortion Rights Controversy In American History. n.p.: Lawrence, Kan. : University Press of Kansas, c2001., 2001. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Staggenborg, Suzanne. The Pro-choice Movement: Organization and Activism in the Abortion Conflict. New York: Oxford UP, 1991. Print. Young, Saundra. Stem Cells Help Nearly Blind to  CNN. Cable News Network, <http://www.cnn.com/2014/10/15/health/stem-cells-blindsee/>. Accessed: 2/12/17 Irfan 6 Thomson, J. A., Joseph Itskovitz-Eldor, Sander S. Shapiro, Michelle A. Waknitz, Jennifer J. Swiergiel, Vivienne S. Marshall, and Jeffrey M. Jones. Embryonic Stem Cell Lines Derived from Human  Science 282.5391 (1998): 1145-147. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. the ISSCR, http://www.isscr.org/home/about-us/about-the-isscr. Accessed 2/12/17.