LoPresti 1 Andrew LoPresti Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Common Goal of Animal Rights Activists and Zoos. Although proper treatment of animals is generally a topic that most people agree to be an important issue, the means by which animals are treated in practice are diverse. Zoos, circuses, wildlife conservationists, and animal rights activists all have their own differing opinions on how the many species of the animal kingdom should be cared for and maintained. However, some of these different organizations end up in confrontation because of their different beliefs. The San Diego vision statement states that will lead the fight against Protecting animals in their natural environments and in captivity at the San Diego Zoo, this organization prides itself on its global animal conservation In contrast, the Captive Animals Protection Society (CAPS) is an organization which condones the practices of zoos and claims that animals should never be taken out of their natural habitats for treatment and protection. Although these two organization are at odds with one another, each organization shares a very similar vision in which animals are properly protected from endangerment and ultimately extinction. An effective compromise uniting these 2 organizations would call for a new balance between animal welfare/rights and wildlife conservation. The San Diego Zoo could balance its efforts in the protection of species both global and in captivity whilst adhering to the standards set by animal rights groups while CAPS could shift its focus from attacking zoos more towards the protection LoPresti 2 of species in their natural environment whenever possible and working with other organizations that share their common goal. The San Diego Zoo prides itself on being one of the worlds utmost authorities on animal conservation, even being voted the #1 zoo in the world by the 2015 Choice. (San Diego Zoo Global Wildlife Conservancy) Their goal is to fight and end extinction around the globe both in the zoo and in the field.The San Diego Zoo Global is currently breeding more than 165 endangered species of animals and working with other global organizations have completely saved the lives of entire species such as the Giant Panda and California Condor. (San Diego Zoo Global Wildlife Conservancy) The San Diego Institute for Conservation Research is also of the zoo-based multidisciplinary research efforts in the Although serve as a media of entertainment to many people, the San Diego Zoo focuses on education for the public and its conservation efforts in order to create a better future for our world. While they do work around the world, the San Diego Zoo holds firm to its belief that their Zoo is also protected place where breeding of endangered species can take place to increase their Diego Zoo for Conservation Research) In contrast, the Captive Animals Protection Society actively petitions against the mistreatment of animals in circuses, zoos, and parks. Firmly believing that animals should be cared for primarily in their natural environment, they condone the practices of many other animal conservation societies. Taken from their website, CAPS believes that can be damaging to conservation and that conservation is carried out by working in the natural habitat to protect individuals and entire Animals Protection Within the past decade CAPS has shed light on a number of shady practices within LoPresti 3 zoos including breaches of licensing laws as well as the illegal sales of animals to circuses. For over 60 years, CAPS has been spreading their ideals across the globe for the fair treatment of animals and the corruption within zoos, circuses, and the exotic pet trade. However, while spending most of their time fighting the practices of zoos around the world, their ability to physically care for animals has been diminished. Although CAPS is an organization that directly attacks the practices of other organizations like the San Diego Zoo, they share a very similar set of goals that has become muddled in practice. Both parties want to see not only the survival of animals but the treatment of animals with dignity and respect. However, CAPS believes in a more strict and almost radical sense of animal welfare in which animals should never be kept in captivity. CAPS is right to engage in stopping the mistreatment of animals in shoddy zoos and circuses but attacking like minded parties like the San Diego Zoo only hinders the goals of both groups. The best possible compromise for these two organizations would begin with balancing out their views. The San Diego Zoo must operate in a way that focuses primarily on the protection and nurturing of animal species within the standards of animal welfare to please animal rights activists like CAPS. This could encompass a shift in animal care away from captivity and more towards hands on conservation in the natural world. CAPS would also have to shift its focus from attacking zoos and their practices and more towards furthering their own goals. By educating and sharing their ideas globally, they can help make sure that animals are properly taken care of on a global scale. Jozef Keulartz backs this compromise in his paper Captivity for Conservation? Zoos at a Crossroads stating that for the zoo to achieve a morally acceptable balance between animal welfare costs and species conservation benefits look LoPresti 4 rather good, provided that the core tasks are all geared to wildlife conservation and the species collection clearly reflects the conservation Conclusively, if the San Diego Zoo maintains its practices within the morals of animal welfare, its goals may align with those of animal rights groups like CAPS and allow for their common goal to be pursued more effectively. The battle between animal conservation/animal rights groups like CAPS and zoos like the San Diego Zoo can be solved through mutual understanding and proper adherence to each goals. If the San Diego Zoo is to maintain its standards of animal protection both in the wild and in captivity whilst adhering to the standards of animal rights groups, CAPS should be able to shift its focus away from fighting zoos and more towards their common goal of protecting species on a global scale. By following this compromise, these 2 organizations have the opportunity of making peace and pursuing their common goal of protecting animals on a global scale in whatever ethical ways they can. LoPresti 5 Works Cited Keulartz, Jozef, J.Keulartz@science.ru.nl. Captivity For Conservation? Zoos At A  Journal Of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics 28.2 (2015): 335-351. Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. San Diego Zoo Global Wildlife Conservancy. Accessed 29 Jan 2017 San Diego Zoo for Conservation Research. Accessed 29 Jan 2017 Captive Animals Protection Society. Accessed 29 Jan 2017 Wildlife Conservation Society. Accessed 29 Jan 2017