Choto Segovia 1 Alicia M. Choto Segovia Mr. Spencer Bennington ENC1102.008 12 February 2016 The Bitter Taste of Chocolate: Child Labor The chocolate candy industry represents 100 billion dollar market, and the foundations of this empire are in the cocoa bean. However, the harvest process of the cocoa bean is a dangerous work, especially for children who are forced to work in the cocoa farms in hazardous conditions. According to the International Labor Organization, more than 200,000 children are working in the worst forms of child labor in the Ivory Coast and Ghana (IPEC). The major chocolate companies have expressed their concerns and have started to launch organizations to solve the problem. One of these organizations is the Nestle Cocoa Plan, which aims to solve the child employment issues. It gives an opportunity to educate communities and their children so that helps to increase the productivity and efficiency. One of the main goals of this project is reducing the child labor rate by 70% in West Africa by 2020. The Nestle Cocoa Plan achieved its goal in 2015 and kept working hard to continue its goals. On the other hand, the Payson Center for International Affairs is aimed to measure and improve the effectiveness of projects like the Nestle. The Payson Center has conducted researches in the Ivory Coast and Ghana (West Africa) to collect objective data of children working environment. The first result showed that 2.1 million children had been engaged in child labor which demonstrated that 21% child employment had been increased compared to 5 years ago in the Ivory Coast and Ghana The contradictions with this two organizations are notorious, but they both share a main objective: ending with child labor in the cocoa fields. Creating a collaboration plan between the Nestle Choto Segovia 2 Cocoa Plan and the Payson Center might be a great option if they both communicate and share resources, including fundings, data, and labor agents. Then, ending the child labor will be easier and faster than now. The Nestle Company is aware of that the companies who supply cocoas employ children for cheap labors. And Nestles argues that cocoa supplying companies guarantee that they have eliminated the risks of children working environment, but they are determined to tackle the problem. In words of Jose Lopez, Nestle Executive Vice President of Operations, the use of child labor in our cocoa supply chain goes against everything we stand  (Nestle). The strategy of Nestle Cocoa Plan to avoid child labor has several steps; the first step is addressing the root that causes child labor by training farmers to improve their productivity to increase their income. Second, farming communities have built or renovated schools around the farms so children can go to school. Third, enabling mothers of children at risk to generate their own income to cover the school cost. And fourth, providing school supplies such as basic facilities and uniforms for children. The Nestle Cocoa Plan website displays their progress in 2015 we exceeded our objective of purchasing 100,000 tons of cocoa 25% of our total through the Cocoa Plan. We also trained 44,617 farmers, distributed 1.6 million plants and achieved our ambition to build or refurbish 40 schools over four  (Nestle). Although all these accomplishments from Nestle, the Payson Center for International Affairs, insists that the progress is slow and there are still a lot of children suffering from child labor. The Payson Center for International Affairs is focused on creating estimates for the prevalence of children suffering child labor in the cocoa growing areas in West Africa and considers how projects can be improved such as Nestle Cocoa Plan. The research by the Payson Center found that the number of children performing dangerous tasks had decreased Choto Segovia 3 by 6% in Ghana but it had increased by 46% in Ivory coast. This means that 2.1 million of children have been involved in dangerous environment during harvest seasons in 2014 and 2015. The decline of 6% child labor in Ghana is not a coincidence because the Ghana was the first country where the Nestle Cocoa Plan started. But the Payson Center argues that more can be done if Nestle has conducted more plans and hired more child labor agents for communities. The common ground with both the Nestle Cocoa Plan and the Payson Center for International Affairs is eradicating the child labor from cocoa plantations. The efforts to solve the issue must continue, and they can be more effective if the stakeholders collaborate each other. It is possible to create a compromise with Nestle Cocoa Plan and the Payson Center by implementing a collaborative program. This program can resume in three different aspects: the Payson Center can share the data that it already has and the Nestle Cocoa Plan can fund the Payson Center so they can have enough resources, and send child labor agents from both organizations to the cocoa communities to regulate the illegal employment. Currently, the Payson Center has a complete map of the most affected cocoa farms by child labor, and most of these areas are located where the Nestle Coca Plan is planning to intervene in the future. Using the data from the Payson Center will save time and money to Nestle because they will not have to do the identification process of the areas at risks, and they can start directly working on the issues. Furthermore, the Payson Center already has child labor agents that are supporting the data collection process and they are trained to deal with the child labor situations. Obtaining financial supports from Nestle will maximize those job efficiency. Unfortunately, diminishing the supply chain of child labor cannot be as fast as Nestle wants, thus, Nestle has to set a more realistic goal. On the other hand, the Choto Segovia 4 Payson Center will have to use its child labor agents to make sure that the efforts are taking place and to assist the Nestle Cocoa Plan agents with what they need. Organizations like The World Cocoa Foundation have recently encouraged these two stakeholders to work together. The World Cocoa Foundation says convenes the sector in order to align complementary roles and responsibilities, leverage scale and efficiency through collaboration, and catalyze efforts to accelerate sustainability in the cocoa  (Cocoa Action). They have suggested that the Payson Center and Nestle should work together, because they are working in the same geographical area and on the same issue, and each of them needs the resources that the each other has. An example that they can follow is the Mars and the Company alliance, they compromised to achieve cocoa sustainability and to give a better quality of life to the farmers, especially the children, in the cocoa plantation in Panama by 2020. Nowadays, they have achieved 80% of their goals, and are expecting to end with child labor in Panama by 2020 (Cocoa Action). All these accomplishments were possible because The Company shared funding with the Mars, and the Mars designed the intervention plan, and then, they sent child labor agents from both companies to work on the issue. To summarize, child labor is a complex problem and it will take decades to be eradicated, but advances in the subject can be achieved if private companies, labor organizations, and governments started to work together instead of doing insolates interventions plans. Choto Segovia 5 Works Cited Bertrand, Willian E. Elke de Buhr. Research on Child Labor in West African Cocoa Growing Payson Center at Tulane University. 2012- Ongoing. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. http://www.payson.tulane.edu/projects/survey-research-child-labor-west- african-cocoa-growing-areas Cook, L. Russell, and Ed.  Encyclopedia Britannica (2014): Research Starters. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Cocoa Action, Cocoa Web 10 Feb. 2017 http://www.worldcocoafoundation.org/about-wcf/cocoaaction/ International Programmed on the Elimination of Child Labor (IPEC) Child Labor in Cocoa Web. 28 Jan.2017. Nestle Cocoa Plan Web. 27 Jan. 2017. http://www.nestlecocoaplan.com/ Brian. Bitter  Fortune 173.3 (2016): 54-73. Business Source Premier. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.