Bunyon 1 Robert Bunyon Instructor Basil ENC 1102 13 February 2016 The Fight For/Against Planned Parenthood Since his inauguration day on January 20th, President Donald Trump has signed off on a few policies that have created controversy throughout the nation. One of these policies was the defunding of international planned parenthood facilities by the United States. There have been backlash from protesters and the media from the signing of this executive order. The discussion of planned parenthood became an issue in many states because of videos released of planned parenthood leaders discussing fees for fecal tissue donation (Bidgood). The argument is on whether planned parenthood should be defunded or not, and if defunded, it would likely drive Planned Parenthood facilities out of business (Planned Parenthood). Two major stakeholders that are at odds with each other over this conflict are the American Life League and NARAL (National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League) America. Each of these organizations have conflicting views, the American Life League believes that Planned Parenthood should be defunded and services like abortion be made illegal, NARAL Believes that Planned Parenthood should be funded and other services such as abortion and contraception be made more accessible to women. These views are completely opposite from each other, but there could possibly be a compromise between the two that completely satisfy each of their goals but instead bring about change that both sides could support, and create a more unified society. Bunyon 2 In addition to wanting abortion to be illegal, the American Life League is also against contraception methods such as birth control and Plan B (the pill) because they prevent the implantation in the womb of a human embryo about 5 to 7 days (Brown). They believe that Planned Parenthood is also harmful to women. Their fight for the defunding of Planned Parenthood has centered around a Christian approach. In their eyes Planned Parenthood is an anti Christian organization because of the fact that Parenthood Federation of America is the largest operator of abortion facilities in the United (Brown). The American Life mission statement is centered around building a society that respects and protects every individual from the beginning of life to death. Funding being cut from Planned Parenthood facilities would reduce the prominence of these practices that ALL is so against and in turn build the society that they believe in. Expanding on the goals that NARAL has, they push for abortion to stay legal, birth control for women to be more easily accessible, sexual education to be more prominent in society, and to support all women throughout pregnancy to insure that it is a safe and healthy process. NARAL fights to keep abortion legal by combating conservative politicians that threatened the right to abortion. Another objective of NARAL is to reduce the need for abortion by improving access to birth control and comprehensive sex education. they also want to make birth control more affordable for women. They believe that teaching teens the program (which is what ALL supports) is not teaching them enough about birth control or other birth control methods, and that the more traditional approach to sex education would help to prevent unwanted pregnancies and transmission of sexually transmitted diseases. NARAL feels that it is hypocritical for lawmakers to try to implement laws outlawing abortion but then not support women throughout their pregnancy through prenatal care. It is stated that Bunyon 3 who have access to Quality prenatal care throughout pregnancy are more likely to have healthier (NARAL). If funding is cut from Planned Parenthood facilities, many of the facilities will be out of business and the thousands that work for them will be put out of work. In other words, these two organizations are on completely opposite sides of the spectrum when it comes to Planned Parenthood because of their own personal beliefs on the issue. The whole objective of the American Life League is to outlaw and defund Planned Parenthood, whereas whole objective is to keep abortion legal and Planned Parenthood funded. Thinking of ways to bring each of these groups to a compromise that would satisfy both of their goals would be practically impossible, but one thing that could end this dispute is if each side gave up on one aspect of their fight. The proposed solution would call for ALL to give up on the fight against contraceptives in turn for NARAL accepting that abortions will be made illegal at Planned Parenthood facilities. Instead, Planned Parenthood facilities will refer abortion related procedures to other qualified providers in order for the procedure to be completed. Funding will be continued to be supplied to Planned Parenthood, but only for non abortion services, such as contraceptive methods and sexually transmitted disease research and testing. This will result in funding to be cut greatly since abortion is an expensive procedure. Abortion will then be made illegal at Planned Parenthood clinics.. The proposed solution involves sex education being implemented as a course that will better educate teens on birth control, sexually transmitted diseases, and abstinence, instead of the abstinence only approach. I believe that this compromise could work if each side was willing to give some to get some, but this is not usually the case when dealing with polar opposites. The matter has become a growing concern and has called for leaders of Planned Parenthood to negotiate its future (Cox 15). Bunyon 4 All in all, these two organizations have a lot of work to do if they ever want to come to a compromise. A good idea for each of them is to team up with other organizations that support their cause and work together for the greater good of the fight. NARAL could begin a partnership with the American Civil Liberties Union (ALCU) in order to work towards change. The ALCU could lend support and funds to NARAL in times of need and work as a bigger entity when combatting politicians and their proposed policies. Conversely, ALL and organizations sharing similar ideal such as STOPP could also begin a partnership and do something similar to what was proposed with NARAL and the ACLU. These organizations would benefit greatly from working with groups who have similar views because the more people you have working towards a compromise/change, the faster and more efficiently it will be completed. In conclusion, Planned Parenthood is an organization under attack by conservative politicians and pro life members of society that believe what they are doing is wrong. Planned Parenthood facilities perform sexually transmitted disease screenings, provide birth control and other contraceptives, and are the go to place if you need an abortion. Organizations like ALL and STOPP work towards creating society in which planned parenthood does not exist and every individual is respected, protected, and given a chance at life. They believe if they work towards defunding Planned Parenthood that they will just wither away and stop their evil practices. On the other hand, organizations like NARAL and the ACLU want to keep Planned Parenthood a funded organization and its practices legal and easily accessible. The problem facing these opposing organizations is that one cares more for the child and safety over the mother, and the other cares more for the mother and her safety over the child. A compromise that satisfies Bunyon 5 each group is nearly impossible, but change could be a possibility if both are willing. Working towards a compromise would be much easier if each side came together in order to better come up with ideas and ways of fighting this ongoing struggle. Work Cited Bidgood, Jess. New Hampshire: A Vote Against Planned  Proquest. New York Times, http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/docview/1701706851?accountid=147456 Aug. 2015. Web. . Brown, Judie. ALL: Building a Culture of  American Life League. http://www.all.org/, N.p., 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Cox, Travis L. The Postwar Medicalization of Planning: Planned Conservative Comic, Escape from  Womens Studies in Communication, 04%40sessionmgr4006&vid=4&hid=4203 , 2016. Web. NARAL America. NARAL  http://www.naral.org, NARAL America. N.p., 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Bunyon 6 Planned Parenthood Controversy Spurs Attacks on Family Planning  LexisNews. N.p., 28 Sept. 2015. Web. http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/?verb=sr&csi=365623&sr= HEADLINE(Planned+Parenthood+controversy+spurs+attacks+on+family+planning+funding)% 2BAND%2BDATE%2BIS%2B2015.