Bello 1 Pulcherie Bello Professor Karen Hanson English 1102 12 February 2017 A solution to world hunger? The World food programme found that 795 million people in the world do not have enough food to lead a healthy active life. about one in nine people on World hunger is an issue that we all know that every country is a victim of and had always been a problem. With this problem still not resolved another issue arise: overpopulation. With this new factor that is is surpopulation, there are too many to feed and some thinks that the problem is demographic while other parties think that there is not enough resources, there is an inequity of resources. Concerned by overpopulation, the international community through many measures, such as the sustainable development goals of the United Nations, have tried to remediate to the problem of world hunger, that contribute to the increase of the rate of poverty and malnutrition. Greenpeace, which is a non-governmental organization that fights for the environment, and Monsanto, which is a private company working with GMOs, therefore, came with some ideas for a solution involving biotechnology and agroecology. While Greenpeace thinks that the answer is the use of agroecology, conventional farming, Monsanto thinks that the solution would be the use of GM crops. Clearly Greenpeace and Monsanto have opposing ideas about the measures to take to end hunger but they have some common ground by wanting to help the population while Bello 2 at the same time protecting the environment. Therefore those two organizations could compromise and collaborate to have a better impact instead of fighting each other. Monsanto found a solution to world hunger through the use of technology. Living in a world where technology is taking the control, companies such as Monsanto decided to use it as an advantage: GMOs. This company firmly believes that a solution to world hunger would be genetically modified crops. Genetically modified crops allow a more profitable production with some crops that have some traits of pesticide, therefore, making the production easy and fully usable. Monsanto also believes that GMOs will help produce more by using less resources, especially since we live in an era where resources are becoming scarce. This company works with the goal to produce more The use of GM crops not only will help with global hunger but also protect our environment and climate change. Monsanto believes that GM crops are the solution to world hunger and that GMOs actually subscribe to the United Nations Sustainable development goals. According to Monsanto the use of GMOs in agriculture could actually be safe and healthy for the population and provide vitamins and fiber that are essential so, in addition to a well-fed population, GM crops will also contribute to a healthy population. GMOs will help bring agriculture to another level and make food production easy while being green and using fewer resources possible, this why GMOs could be a solution to world hunger and this is what Monsanto work for. In fatal attraction: the intuitive appeal of GMOs scientists Blancke et. al explain that contrary to the usual disgust about GMOs, those organisms could actually be good and not unhealthy. Through their study, scientists explain why some could not like GMOs and why such oppositions to this method and they also explain that In Africa and Asia, the Bello 3 resistance to GMOs has had tragic consequences, costing thousands of ( Blancke et al.). That means that the use of this method could have avoided these lost. This article insists on how anti-GMOs intuitions can gain our minds but the fact is that Biotechnology could actually be a be a formidable tool in the realization of a sustainable form of Blancke et al. 6). These scientists through this paper explain that GMOs could be a good asset for agriculture and could actually save some lives that the anti-GMOs approach lost, biotechnology is not that bad but in contrary could help produce sustainable food thus that could support the development goals of the UN. After all, GMOs could be the solution to this problem that we try to eradicate for decades now. alternatnive will able us to produce enough for the population without using so many resources while using a tool that scientists believe could only become better and better with time, technology. Biotechnology could be the answer. While Monsanto thinks that the solution to the world hunger is the use of GM crops, Greenpeace, a non-profit organization affirms that GMOs is the worst and be the answer to this problem but agroecology is. Agroecology is a knowledge-rich type of farming which protects and sustains the diversity of life on earth [and is gaining recognition as farmers struggle to adapt to a changing climate and the out-dated, chemically intensive model of farming increasingly comes into (Kruszewska). Greenpeace believes that ecological farming will help produce healthy food without the use of pesticide or other chemical going against our environment. The organization also believes that using ecological farming will be more than only beneficial to produce more food but only using renewable resources and protect our environment against climate change therefore using less carbon dioxide. Biotechnology contrarily to what is thought actually uses non-renewable resources thus not really helping the case and lead at one Bello 4 point to scarcity while this problem be observed by going green with ecological farming instead of technology. This technique will also remediate to the problem of the inequity of resources making impossible to feed a part of the population because using agroecology will an equitable food system for the people who actually produce the To remediate to the problem of world hunger International organizations believe that method that will provide a sustainable food system will be needed, and that is the goal of agroecology according to Greenpeace. Global hunger can be resolved with the adaptation of agricultural practices,; conservation of biodiversity and natural resources; and development of embedded food  (Wezel et. al). Through their research, they affirm like Greenpeace that world hunger is not only about nourishing the whole world but also about food ( Wezel et al. 1). While companies like Monsanto choose GMOs that still leaves the problem of inequity not resolved, these scientists believe that agroecology would solve this problem because it will be available for small farmers or big farms. They also include the fact that agroecology is not only about quantity and quality but also about protecting the environment through the conservation of diversity, and the non-use of intensive methods that could deplete the land. Agroecology could be a solution that will actually help the population, with the quantity of resources and food, the preservation of the environment, the conservation of biodiversity and social and economic issues. In sum, Monsanto and Greenpeace are proposing ideas to end world hunger but their positions are opposed. While Monsanto thinks that the solution is GM crops (Monsanto) they also think that technology will help feed the world not ecological agriculture. At the same time Bello 5 while Greenpeace thinks that agroecology is the answer, (Kruszewska) the organization also thinks that GMOs is poisonous(Greenpeace USA). One or another they are against each other, technology or conventional. It can be seen that both Greenpeace and Monsanto here are trying to find a solution to feed the population in a healthy, no-risk and fair way even though one of the stakeholders promote quantity of food over fair equity of resources. It can be seen that they both care for the population, the resources, and the environment. There is some commons ground here. It could be then proposed an unusual compromise that could be beneficial to both stakeholders: working together. Working by themselves, each stakeholder be able to support the need of the world population but while together, both can end global hunger, and this what plant geneticist Pamela Ronald tell us in her paper Genetics, Sustainable Agriculture and Global Food Together biotechnology and agroecology could help feed the nine billions of people and provide a sustainable agriculture that would be the solution. In her paper Ronald explains that some lacks that biotechnology has, agroecology could help with it and same the other way around. In a sense, agroecology and biotechnology could be complementary. Agroecology would help with the fertility of the soil, the conservation of diversity, the efficient use of water and land and less use of chemicals while biotechnology would help by contributing trait that permits the crops of being resistant to pest and, use less water and release as much carbon ( Porterfield). To then conclude, world hunger is a problem that for decades international organizations tried to find a solution to. Through the years two stakeholders demonstrate interest for the topic and proposed ideas for a solution. Could GM crops or ecological farming been the answer to the question? It was found that both stakeholders in their positions were opposed. Monsanto thought Bello 6 that genetically modified crops would provide more food and use less resources therefore it could be a solution. Greenpeace thinks that ecological farming because while it only uses conventional tools for the production it is not intensive as biotechnology and could provide in addition to more food for the world, a fair production and still protecting the soil and the environment. Having some common interests such as the environment and the well-being of the population at heart, those two stakeholder could compromise and work together and become complementary one to the other as geneticist Ronald studied in her paper. Bello 7 Works Cited Blancke, Stefaan, et al. Fatal Attraction: The Intuitive Appeal Of GMOs  Trends In Plant Science 7 (2015): 414. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 30-bc54-766 GMOs & Toxic  USA . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hunger  Statistics WFP United Nations World Food Programme - Fighting Hunger Worldwide . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kruszewska, Iza. From good to : Ecological Farming Is International . N.p., 21 Jan. 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.  at a Glance . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Portherfield, Andrew. A Co-existence Peace Plan for GMOs and  Genetic Literacy Project. N.p., 16 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ronald, Pamela. Genetics, Sustainable Agriculture and Global Food Ed. J. Rine. Genetics 188.1 (2011): PMC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Rotolo, G.C., et al. Environmental Assessment Of Maize Production Alternatives: Traditional, Intensive And GMOs-Based Cropping  Ecological Indicators (2015): 48. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wezel, A., et al. Agroecology territories: places for sustainable agricultural and food systems and biodiversity  and Sustainable Food Systems 40.2 (2016): 132-144. Bello 8