Nguyen 1 Duyen Nguyen ENC 1102 Bennington 29 January 2017 Gender Pay Gap no longer a surprise that women get paid less than men. Database collector PayScale reported that women make approximately 24 percent less than men, meaning that women only earn 76 cents for every dollar earned by men (Gender Pay Gap). This controversial inequality is considered fundamentally unfair by many organizations around the world. Highly involved in the issue in America is the Equal Employment Opportunity (EEOC) and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). Despite taking the same role as advocates against gender pay gap, the EEOC and ACLU approach the issue with different laws and different aspects. While the EEOC states to strictly enforce only federal laws that are passed by Congress by implementing the Equal Pay Act of 1963 (EPA), a law that protects men and women from sex discrimination in paychecks, the ACLU finds the EPA very limited and avidly advocates the passage of a new act called Paycheck Fairness Act. The ACLU thinks that the new act would strengthen the current system since the Equal Pay Act has not been able to fulfill its purpose because limited enforcement tools and inadequate (Equal Pay). With the two stakeholders being active voices for gender pay gap, it only seems reasonable for both side to work together and help solve the issue. Long established and influential, the two backgrounds and missions further advance their impacts upon gender pay gap. Formed by Congress upon the enforcement of the Civil Right Acts of 1964, the EEOC promotes its mission of creating an equal workplace for all. Nguyen 2 One of their main roles is to enforce federal laws and investigate charges, protecting employers against discrimination of the ethnicity, religion, age, disability, or gender (Overview). Upon gender discrimination, the EEOC implements the Equal Pay Act (EPA) to enforce to prohibit gender wage discrimination between men and women carrying the same job under the same workplace. The ACLU was founded as a group civil liberties activists in 1920 to ensure that the Bill of Rights will provide justice and protection to every American. Now as a nationwide organization, the ACLU defends rights before both state and federal government, and often the Supreme Court (About the ACLU). The ACLU advocates against the EPA and favors the passage of the Paycheck Fairness Act, expecting the new act to strengthen the law enforcement of gender-based wage disparity so equalities are protected. Despite holding different viewpoints, both impactful stakeholders share the glorious historical achievements. The Equal Pay Act (EPA) and the Paycheck Fairness Act are very similar yet distinctly different. The EPA prohibits wage disparity to men and women if they perform equal work in the same workplace by enforcing federal laws. The Paycheck Fairness Act would also ban wage disparity but with different penalties for violations and stricter laws. The new act would require employers to show evidence that the pay difference between men and women are not gender- elated, and direct the Labor Department to assist employers and oversee data wage-related, broken down by race and gender (Equal Pay). Gender pay discrimination is reinforced by the EPA while the Paycheck Fairness Act, which has not passed as a law, was proposed to strengthen the EPA. The passage of the Paycheck Fairness Act holds difficulties. Senators and representatives in Congress share different perspectives upon the passage of the act. Many of them think that the Nguyen 3 bill will only bring more lawsuits and nothing will be accomplished. The Paycheck Fairness Act had been reintroduced four times and every time, blocked before it could move forward by either Senate or House of Representative (Convert). Scott Brown signaled Monday night that he support it because he thinks it may burden small businesses. Senator Marco Rubio told reporters Tuesday that he think the bill would do the job and said it more to me like some sort of welfare plan for trial published by The Huffington Post upon the rejection from the Republican Senator in 2012. The avocation for the new act seems impossible after many failed attempts. As it seems like the debate will never end and pay gap will never vanish, activists in Maryland are making their voices heard while coming up with solutions to the problem. Instead of waiting for Congress to pass national legislation, Maryland has moved forward in passing the Equal Pay for Equal Work Act, which significantly updates and strengthens the existing pay equity law. new law increases transparency in the workplace by allowing employees to ask about, discuss, or request information about wages without fear of retaliation or being fired and bans employers from forcing their workers to sign waivers regarding wage discussions or information (Maryland). Looking up to Maryland as an example, the decision falls in the hands of the people when it comes to bringing fairness to workplace. Due to common belief of equal pay and significant political roles that both stakeholders share and hold, a passage of an essential law could be efficiently compromised but does not ensure that the law will solve the problem and not making it more complicated. The law passed in Maryland raised awareness to the power of states and how each 50 state can create and enforce its own gender discrimination laws. The ACLU and EEOC could help praise the awareness of the Nguyen 4 current or upcoming state prohibition, creating a workplace that is fair for all men and women, for all Americans. Nguyen 5 Works Cited About the  American Civil Liberties Union. American Civil Liberties Union, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Bendery, Jennifer. Paycheck Fairness Act Fails Senate  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Covert, Bryce. Marco Rubio Explains His Opposition to Equal Pay  Think Progress. Think Progress, 23 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Equal Pay for Equal Work: Pass the Paycheck Fairness  American Civil Liberties Union. American Civil Liberties Union, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Equal Pay for Equal Work in  Equal Pay for Equal Work in Maryland U.S. Department of Labor Blog. U.S. Department of Labor Blog, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Gender Pay Gap Ratios, Stats and  PayScale. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.  About the EEOC: Overview. The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.