Jenkins 1 Skye Jenkins Sarah Basil ENC 1102.905 10 February 2017 Living Non-GMO and The National Academy of Sciences Living Non-GMO and The National Academy of Sciences are two completely different organizations with far different views about genetically modified organisms. Genetically modified organisms are where genes from one food are extracted and moved into another organism, thus being genetically modified. When they came out in 1994 it was due to the fact that we were starting to have more and more people and less and less food supplu. The high demand for food forced farmers into genetically modifying their food in order to have enough for everyone. GMOs have become a heavily debated topic in the last few years with people trying to decide if we need them or not. Although the two organizations have different views on genetically modified organisms, they can still work together to find a common ground. This common ground could be that the organizations work together to find farmers and distributors who make both foods and not just one or the other to in turn support them financially by only purchasing their products. The National Academy of Sciences is an organization whose mission is to learn and teach more science in America. When Abraham Lincoln signed for this organization in 1863, they had no idea that this organization would one day be writing on GMOs, or have any idea what these modified were. Now that we are in the 21 st century and the population of the world is 7 billion, there is no way farmers would be able to produce enough foods for all 7 billion of us. We must genetically modify our food in order to have enough. In one Jenkins 2 article, the NAS discusses this issue, not much focusing on the health, but the need. particular, GM technology, coupled with the important developments in other areas, should be used to increase the production of main food staples, improve the efficiency of production, reduce the environmental impact of agriculture, and provide access to food for small-scale (The need for GM technology in agriculture). The NAS is trying to say that we need genetically modified organisms to up the production of food with the amount of the people in the world. Another article titled Humans Need GMOs? - A View from a Global Trade starts off with the total acreage planted is no longer increasing, unless new world production technology is adopted, such an increase in demand that is unmatched by an increase in supply in the world food market will raise food prices and lead to shortages, especially in underdeveloped (Chi-Chung157). This is following them saying the raise in population will also be a raise in food, therefore, the need for GMOs increases. The main goal of this article from the National Chung-Hsing University in Taiwan was to inform people that GMOs are in fact necessary and that they are not harmful to us. In the article about GMOs being necessary, they find that they actually benefit some crops by allowing them to be grown at higher rates. The authors do discuss how there are some health risks in more run down countries and therefore they are afraid to trade with countries who use GM technology on their crops. All in all, the NAS says that we as humans need GM technology Living Non-GMO is an organization whose sole purpose is to, quite obviously, live non- GMO. They work with companies to make sure that there are non-GMO food options for those living with non-GMO diet restrictions, or just want to live non-GMO because they think it is the proper way of eating. They started the project in 2010 and have since verified thousands of brands for non-GMO products. This is their main goal, getting companies to partner with them to Jenkins 3 make non-GMO foods. They have a blog where different people can go on and write about living non-GMO. In one article, posted quite recently, they discuss different ways to eat healthier in 2017. The author, Annie Valpone, editor-in-chief of thehealthyapple.com, discusses that the biggest part in eating clean is cutting out GMOs. She states that bodies need pure, unaltered ingredients to nourish our cells in our bodies on a daily basis GMO foods may not be beneficial to our health as they could cause unknown (Eating Clean in 2017). She continues by saying she eats healthy by only eating non-GMO products verified by Living Non-GMO. Being a celebrity chef, nutritionist and writer specialized in clean eating (sugar, dairy, GMO- free), she should know the difference between what is good for our bodies and what is not good. Another article, titled Illusory Consensus behind GMO Health analyzes the difference between GMO deniers, like those of Living Non-GMO, and those who believe GMOs do no harm. Sheldon Krimsky says in this article that is more than a casual association between GM foods and health (Krimsky 893). This particular quote is following a study which Krimsky evaluated. In this study, the researcher finds that GM technology effects animals as well as humans, through their findings they found that GM technology can really hurt animal life. Some of the things include infertility, premature aging, liver and kidney issues, and not all of them. Although this article speaks specifically on the different findings of if GM technology is healthy or unhealthy, there is a lot of information included in it. Krimsky found that some risk assessments, researchers say GMOs are healthy and others say there are no risks. In chapter seventeen of a book titled Handbook of Action Research: Concise Paperback Edition, they discuss how community action research is affective. action research confronts the challenges of producing practical knowledge that is useful to people in the Jenkins 4 everyday conduct of their (Reason 194). Basically, it is when people with different views can research the same thing to come to one conclusion. The authors go on to state that this form of research helps diverse organizations, such as Living Non-GMO and the NAS, will help them in working together. During this chapter, they give many examples of community action research. Through their research, they found that when organizations with opposing views come together to research something together, it can be very effective for both of those organizations. As you can see, these two organizations have opposite views on genetically modified organisms. A good compromise would be the two of them working together to find out which farmers and distributors produce both GMOs and non-GMOs so this way, they can start buying from those farmers and distributors so that they can make more money and continue producing both GMOs and non-GMOs. The issue as much of labeling issues as some people think GMOs are unsafe to be consumed. The law on labeling GMOs was already passed in august of 2016 by former president, Barack Obama. If the National Academy of Sciences and Living Non- GMO came together to find out about who produces both types, they would be able to start buying only those products to financially support those buisnesses Overall, this compromise would be good for both stakeholders and, in turn, be good for farmers and distributors. This solution will help people who want to eat genetically modified organisms and those who do not as they will be able to find people who produce both and buy specifically from them. The biggest part of this compromise is that it will also help the farmers and food distributors continue to produce both because it can get expensive to do so. As you saw earlier, this has worked for other people in the past so it should be able to work for GMO versus non-GMO eaters. Jenkins 5 Works Cited Chi-Chung, Chen, and Tseng Wei-Chun. Do Humans Need Gmos?--A View From A Global Trade  Journal Of American Academy Of Business, Cambridge 8.1 (2006): 147- 155.Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Eating Clean in  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. Living Non-GMO, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Krimsky, S. An Illusory Consensus behind GMO Health  Science, Technology & Human Values 40.6 (2015): 883-914. Web. Reason, Peter, and Hilary Bradbury. Community Action Research: Learning as a Community of Practitioners, Consultants and  Handbook of Action Research: The Concise Paperback Edition. London: SAGE, 2006. N. pag. Web. THE NEED FOR GM TECHNOLOGY IN  Transgenic Plants and World Agriculture. Washington, D.C.: National Academy, 2000. N. pag. Print.