Embry1 Claire Embry Professor Spencer Bennington Composition 2 12 February 2017 The Diamond Industry and Corruption Diamonds are said to be first discovered 25,000 years ago. 25,000 years of beauty, but also 25,000 years of conflict over these precious jewels. The Diamond industry throughout its existence has caused many feuds between the diamond producers and the people who work in the industry. Monopolization of the industry has held barriers between the African mining people and their human rights. By creating mandatory regulation checks through the Kimberly Process Certification Scheme among all the mines involving diamond harvesting, will insure diamond corporations such as De Beers are not allowing illegal diamonds to seep through the legal process. A regulation such as this will give nonprofits trying to clean up the industry such as Greener the insurance that the industry is being held to standards and reinforcement is in forced. The Company of De Beers, established in 1888 through Cecil Rhodes held a monopoly over the diamond industry from establishment to over a hundred years later. At the time of founding this powerhouse corporation controlled around ninety percent of the diamonds. While their period of monopolization, the conditions of their mines were far from fair. Wars/outbreaks over the famously named were existent, especially highlighted in the nineteen nineties during the Chaos and civil wars in Sierra Leone. The outbreaks in the small African country of Sierra Leone began the start of attention to the industries corruption by the common public. From the sheer Embry2 number of deaths raging from around 50,000 (Fighting the Resource Curse, Wenar) the term the resource was then used in response to this outbreak of civil wars throughout the divided undeveloped nation. Since these events hit public, diamond sales plummeted in response to the consumer hesitation to purchase from these so called profit-centered companies. In response to the drastic profit plummet, De Beers created there motto A diamond is The corporation released a report to society in 2015 stating concept of Building Forever describes our commitment to making a positive and lasting contribution to the (De Beers group 2015). The release of such information has helped boost these companies reputation for clean morals. The power put into the peoples hands is starting to shift due to the public knowledge that is now easily accessible. Some claim that the general public has the most power in controlling the demand of diamonds now then ever had. In response to the publics ability to control some aspect of the demand market big corporations have made an effort to show their pure intentions. The progressive focus on the purity of their production shows promise for the Diamonds industry rights for the people. There are several organizations that live off the purpose to help the victims of the diamond industry and abolish blood diamonds for good. The greener diamond is a group in particular that was formed due to the fact that its founder discovered her engagement ring was most likely a blood diamond. From this shocking realization she formed this organization living off three basic goals, back to those who have suffered from the earth-mined diamond trade, Inspire a generation independent of the current unethical industry of conflict diamonds, and Educate jewelry consumers about the role they play in purchasing conflict greener diamond 2015). Many of the big Embry3 corporations claim that the use of blood diamonds is non apparent in this day and age anymore; Statements from the academic articles such as Dirty explains the heightened magnitude and continued danger/the sheer amount of blood diamonds that are still smuggled through out the countries are still very high (Dirty Diamonds, Baker).From the recent shift of power into the consumers hands non profits such as the greener diamond strive to educate the public even further to make them aware of what they are truly purchasing. 2010 to 2014 it was estimated that over 48 million carats of diamonds mined under horrific conditions made it to the international diamond Mieke Anderson). This statistic alone proves that this problem many people believe is gone is far from it. Further discussed in the engineering and mining journal matters: a look at the world diamond-mining industry, and some of the ethical issues that continue to dog by Walker, Simon, the earlier proposed solution of the Kimberly Process Certification Scheme is failing on many aspects. This scheme put in place in 2003 intended to regulate the diamond industry and stop illegal blood diamond from being smuggled out of these major mining countries such as Sierra Leone. The problem with this Scheme is the lack of reinforcement and regulation. Many believe with the rise of conflict between the big corporations, and the foundations trying to clean up the industry that the whole diamond industry will blow up and be stopped all together. This is not what either of these sides wants. They both want the industry to be strong and thrive. To achieve this there should be a new section implanted into the Kimberly process certification scheme to conduct monthly/yearly regulations check among these mines. By Placing mandatory checks at each mine it ensures strong Embry4 enforcement of rules expressed already within the Kimberly Process Certification Scheme. This follow up checks among the corporations sites will give the non profit organizations reinsurance that nothing illegal is happening, along with giving the large corporations such as De Beers proof of their pure diamonds driving the trust/drive to purchase diamonds. A solution as proposed above would be the most ideal situation. The industry little by little will be cleaned up, corporations will not loose a significant amount of money, and the people of these mining countries will at last be at peace. While De Beers has ruled for so long, it is promising seeing the industry move from a less monopolized situation into a human rights based system. The Kimberly Process Certification Scheme was originally put in place to make the diamond environment safer, by placing more enforcement into the KPCS it will ensure the safety to rise even higher. These jewels will no longer been seen as a symbol of death, destruction and violence, but as clean, peaceful natural beauties. Embry5 Works Cited Anderson, Anna-Mieke. The Greener Diamond.21 January 2016, http://thegreenerdiamond.org/conflict-diamonds-2/environmental-impact/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Process Certification Preamble. November 5 2007. https://www.kimberleyprocess.com/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Riley, Shawn De Beers Report to society. March 2015. https://www.debeersgroup.com/content/dam/de- beers/corporate/documents/BuildingForever/Report%20to%20Society%202015.pdf . Web. Accessed 22 January 2017 Walker, Simon. Clarity E &MJ. Enginnerring Mining Journal, http://www.e- mj.com/news/africa.html. n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Walson, Ken. Why the Blood Diamond Trade  Time. Time, n.d.Vol 7. Published 12 August 2012. Embry6