Fournier 1 Ian Fournier Bennington English Composition II 1/29/17 Should College Athletes Get Paid? College athletes have not been receiving any payment while they play for their colleges an organization that supports the college athletes on getting paid is the NCPA which is the National College Players Association. The NCPA is try to help college athletes receive more money for scholarships they receive from the colleges. The NCAA which is the National Collegiate Athletic Association has made rules and regulations stating that no college athlete can receive any payment while they are in college and playing for that college. The college athletes cannot receive any endorsements or receive money from giving out autographs or giving out other memorabilia for money. One of the main reasons that the college athletes do not get paid while they are in college is that the NCAA is allowing the college athletes are getting some or all of their schooling paid for while they are intending college, some of the college athletes can also receive housing like dorms for free. The NCAA and the NCPA should come together for compromise for the college athletes so they can get some type of compensation for playing for their specific college. Having the NCAA allow the colleges to give the college athletes a yearly stipend to each college athlete, each college can decide what amount of money the stipend is and once the college athletes use up all the stipend then that college athlete must wait to the following year to receive another stipend. This will help with a compromise between the NCPA and the NCAA. Fournier 2 The National College Players Association (NCPA) fight for the college athletes to be treated fairly. The NCPA believe the college athletes should get paid because the college athletes put their bodies on the line every time they play the sport that they are playing for while they are in college and getting the scholarship for. The NCPA see that the colleges and the NCAA profit when the college athletes are playing for their college. The NCPA is trying to get the NCAA to increase the scholarships for the college athletes to help cover basic necessities that the full scholarships do not cover (NCPA, 2009). Some college sports do not get the same amount of profit towards the college as some sports. Nigel Hayes is a college athletes who plays basketball at the University of Wisconsin, who is protesting about how college athletes should get paid. He held up a sign during one of College Gameday shows, when the show was at the University of Wisconsin. The sign said athlete anything Nigel Hayes believes he is getting ripped off by the regulations and rules stated by the NCAA about athletes not getting any money while playing. (Ziller, 2016). The NCPA want the college athlete to have a success time in college whether its playing to try to get to play the sport professionally or get an education they might have never received if they did not have the scholarship. The NCPA wants the college athletes to get the recognition that they want from the NCAA. The NCAA has been restricting college athletes from getting paid for a long time. The NCAA has been using the amateurism rules, the amateurism rules is insurance that the college athletes hold priority in their education and that all college athletes are competing equitably (NCAA, 2007). All college athletes and international college athletes have to follow the NCAA amateurism requirements to remain eligible to play the sport they want to play. Some points that the amateurism requirements do not allow is salary for participating in athletics, contracts with professional teams, and prize money that is above actual and necessary expenses (NCAA, 2007). Fournier 3 The NCAA does not want to pay college athletes because the college athletes are paid with free schooling and housing while they are playing for the college. Paying college athletes could lead to eroding the system because if colleges start to pay college athletes then the incoming high school athletes who trying to find a college to play at would pick a college that would pay them more money whether then going to college for the education, the academic quality, and tradition (Yankah, 2015). The NCAA and the colleges want to do what is right for the college athletes by making sure they focus on their education whether then getting paid for playing during college because once the college athlete gets the degree or is good enough to make it to professional sports then can get recognition and the payment that the college athletes would want. There is some common ground between the NCPA and the NCAA about if college athletes should get paid. Both the NCPA for the college athletes and NCAA want the millions of dollars that is received from television deals, selling memorabilia, like jerseys of the athletes, and tickets sells for the sports. The NCAA gets majority of the money that is from the large television deals, memorabilia sold, and from ticket sells. The NCPA wants a piece of the money because the college athletes are providing the entertainment that yields all the revenue and the NCPA wants to some of the money to help increase scholarships. The NCAA and colleges should use the money they get from the television deals, the memorabilia sold, and tickets sales to find a way to appease the NCPA and the college athlete, because it is not fair to the college athletes who get any revenue from selling memorabilia or autographs, when the NCAA and the colleges receive millions of dollars when it comes to the television deals, selling memorabilia, and ticket sells. The main common ground is that the NCPA and the NCAA want to do what is right for the college athletes so they get the education they deserve while they play for their respective colleges. Fournier 4 The compromise between the NCPA and the NCAA is that the NCAA should allow the colleges to give a yearly stipend to each college athlete that is affiliated with the NCAA like the sports baseball, football, basketball, and soccer. The stipend will only apply to the college athletes that are playing the sport, the college athletes that graduate or are not on the team anymore are not eligible for the stipend. Once the college athlete uses all of the stipend then the athlete will have no more until the next year. The stipend will be same amount for each college athlete, so the football player will be getting the same amount of money for the stipend as the track and field athlete. It is up to the NCAA will figure an amount to use for the stipend each year. The NCAA get pull the money for the stipend from the revenue they get from television deals, ticket sales, and memorabilia sold. The NCAA can take 15% of the money the NCAA makes from the television deals, ticket sales, and memorabilia can be given to the colleges to help pay for the stipend each year. With some college athletes complain about going to bed hungry because they could not afford to buy extra food, now with the yearly stipend if they use their money right will be able to use the stipend for buying extra food when hungry, laundry, school fees (Isidore, 2015). This will be a great compromise for the NCPA and the NCAA because it allows college athletes the payment they would want form the colleges and it is good for the NCAA because they do not have to give money to out of their own pockets to the college athletes. Fournier 5 References (2009, March 3). In National Collage Players Association. Retrieved fromhttp://www.ncpanow.org/about/mission-goals Isidore, C. (2015, September 4). CNN. Retrieved from money.cnn.com: http://money.cnn.com/2015/09/04/news/companies/extra-cash-college-athletes/ NCAA. (2007, October). Retrieved from www.ncaa.org: http://www.ncaa.org/amateurism Yankah, E. N. (2015, October 14). The New Yorker. Retrieved from www.newyorker.com: http://www.newyorker.com/news/sporting-scene/why-ncaa-athletes-shouldnt-be-paid Ziller, T. (2016, October 17). SBNation. Retrieved from www,sbnation.com: http://www.sbnation.com/college-basketball/2016/10/17/13297796/nigel-hayes-protest-ncaa- paid-athletes