Mahbubani 1 Amar Mahbubani Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102.024S17 12 February 2017 The battle of immigration The United States of America is a country that was founded and developed by immigrants.The topic of immigration has been at the forefront of American politics for decades. The polarizing nature of the discussion has resulted in stakeholders identifying with extreme positions. Despite this, there is room for a middle ground. Some believe that a lack of resources must be accounted for when taking in new residents. Immigrants encompassed 13.3% of the total population in the United States as of 2014 This figure is cited as terrifying for some but encouraging for others because they believe that it will lead to a young, and diverse America. A group that embodies one side of this debate is the AIC. The Americans for Immigration Control is non-partisan organization that is dedicated to reducing the amount of illegal immigrants in the United States ). On the other side of the aisle is the ACLU. The American Civil Liberties Union is a group that fights for the civil liberties for all within the court ). In this case they seek to protect the rights of both legal and illegal immigrants. In order to compromise, both organizations would have to give up a few of their specific values. One solution is to provide illegal immigrants with a path to legal status but not citizenship. At the same time, to satisfy the AIC, border control could be strengthened to discourage foreigners from entering illegally. For this settlement, the American Civil Liberties Union must sacrifice the idea Mahbubani 2 of a path to citizenship while the Americans for Immigration Control would have to give up on the idea of no amnesties. A group that generally empathises with immigrants is the American Civil Liberties Union. The American Civil Liberties Union is a collection of legal and nonlegal professionals that focuses on guaranteeing civil liberties to everyone; their mission statement reflects this notion,  Since its founding in 1920, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) has been the guardian of liberty, working in the courts, legislatures and communities to defend and preserve individual working rights and liberties guaranteed by the constitution and the laws of the United ). In terms of immigrants, the American Civil Liberties Union believes they should protect anyone who deserves to be protected according to the constitution, regardless of their legal status They are staunchly against policies that advocate for what they believe is unequal treatment of illegal immigrants; a particular policy where this is apparent is one that allows for the continued detention of undocumented immigrants. In recent light of President executive orders regarding immigration, the ACLU has raised over ten million dollars in a matter of days and they intend to pursue a lawsuit against administration (Isikoff). This amount is more than the amount raised from all of 2016. The overwhelming amount of support from the public demonstrates the relevance and importance of the American Civil Liberties Union. Even with widespread support there are groups who do not embrace the efforts, such as the AIC. The AIC, or Americans for Immigration Control, has consistently supported laws and policies that contradict the core values of the American Civil Liberties Union. The AIC is essentially devoted to reducing the influence and number of immigrants within the United States Mahbubani 3 Although the AIC does not have a definitive mission statement, on their website they address topics related to immigration. A handful of their stances include promoting tougher enforcement of current immigration laws as well as border control, standing against all amnesties, and reducing the amount of annual legal immigration. The AIC is a small group but represents views that are popular amongst A large amount of US adults. Upwards of 37 % americans feel that immigrants have adverse effects on economy according to a pew poll Chapter 4: U.S. Public Has Mixed Views of Immigrants and Although the AIC is miniscule in size when compared to the American Civil Liberties Union, they have also been endorsed by multiple congressmen including John Culbertson, Rep. Roscoe Bartlett, Rep. Ed Royce, Rep. Charlie Norwood, Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, and Rep. Virgil Goode ). Recognition within congress has legitimized the AIC and their values are now shared amongst the officials in the highest level of our Even with a concrete backing there is a clear conflict between the AIC and groups like the ACLU. The AIC is against providing illegal immigrants with any sort of break or defense. They believe that an illegal initial transgression of entering the country illegally is enough to warrant the treatment that they receive. In this regard, the ACLU and AIC are directly at odds with each other. The AIC and the ACLU are divided in almost every aspect related to immigration, at a certain point it may seem like there is no solution. However, there is common ground between the AIC and the ACLU if you dig deep enough. Both groups are interested in protecting the law in some way shape or form. The ACLU is committed to preventing unconstitutional activity while the AIC advocates against illegal immigration. On top of that, the AIC has made it clear Mahbubani 4 that their intentions are to benefit the living situations of American citizens. The ACLU is interested in reducing unnecessary spending related to immigration as there are anti immigration programs that use significant amounts of tax dollars This particular goal shows their interest in saving American money. Knowing these commonalities, a comprehensive solution can be devised. Firstly, the process in which non criminal undocumented personnel are detained could be removed or reduced significantly. In 2013 the DHS requested about 1.84 billion dollars from the White House to use for customs operations including detention, this amount entails 5 million dollars a day to detain illegal immigrants (Silva 3). These funds could instead be used on enforcement at our borders or safe spaces in other countries. Within this compromise a path to legality could also be arranged. As previously mentioned, the AIC is fully against all amnesties while the ACLU is a backer of the current path to citizenship. A fix to this conflict could be to reserve the ability for illegal immigrants to gain legal status but not citizenship. This particular path would involve both groups giving up specific ideals but the immigrants would undoubtedly be supported by the American legal systems, which the ACLU is interested in, and illegal immigrants still could not become citizens after violating our laws, which favors the AIC. The overall solution satisfies both sides. In the end, there is a foreseeable future where both the AIC and the ACLU are at least somewhat fulfilled in their mission. The ACLU and the AIC are in contention with each other but there goals can be reached with sacrifices to their specific objectives. Programs that the ACLU believes are unconstitutional can be reduced in funding, and that money can be used elsewhere to benefit citizens. In addition, a system that provides legal status to immigrants can serve as a middle ground between the organizations. These stakeholders both have good Mahbubani 5 intentions and a common sense compromise benefits all parties in a certain way. Hopefully this divisive dispute can be fully solved with this proposed arrangement. Mahbubani 6 Works Cited Civil Liberties Union , American Civil Liberties Union, www.aclu.org/issues/immigrants-rights. Chapter 4: U.S. Public Has Mixed Views of Immigrants and  Research Hispanic Trends Project . N.p., 28 Sept. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Zong, Jie, and Jeanne Batalova. Requested Statistics on Immigrants and Immigration in the United , Migration Policy Institute, 14 , American for Immigration Silva, Andrea. confronts Latinos: Paradigmatic shifts in immigration Studies , vol. 14, no. 1, 2016, pp. doi:10.1057/lst.2015.50. says it raised $10 million since News , Yahoo!, 29 Jan. 2017, www.yahoo.com/news/aclu-says-it-raised-10-million-since-saturday-201828838.html.