Weber 1 Holly Weber Bennington ENC 1102 12 February 2017 The Great GMO Debate The issue of GMO labeling has become an increasingly controversial subject in the United States in recent years, creating a sharp divide between large food production companies and smaller consumer-driven organizations. Genetically modified organisms, GMOs, include any and all organisms that have been genetically changed or modified using genetic engineering systems (Facts About GMOs). GMOs often provide superior crop yield, as well as a decreased need for energy and natural resources (Facts About GMOs). Large food production companies, such as General Mills, generally support the use of GMOs in farming and crop-growing industries. They tend to believe that GMOs are essential to providing the customer with the greatest variety of products at the cheapest price (Facts About GMOs). However, there is concern that GMOs may present health and other risks that are not completely understood (Facts About GMOs). Consumer-oriented organizations, such as Just Label It, support the implementation of a labeling system that discloses the use of GMOs in food products. These organizations advocate that consumers have the right to know if GMOs are used in the foods they consume. It is clear that large food production companies, such as General Mills, seem to be in opposition with organizations such as Just Label It on the subject of GMO labeling. However, a compromise may be proposed in a way that has the ability to benefit both interests. General Mills could provide a QR code (a small barcode) on their food packaging that would lead to a webpage detailing information about the use of GMOs in that food product, ultimately providing Weber 2 interested consumers with detailed knowledge of ingredients that are present in the food products they consume. Just Label It is a consumer-driven organization that promotes the implementation of a labeling system disclosing the use of GMOs in common food products. JLI firmly believes that consumers have the right to know the exact ingredients in food products they purchase and consume (Just Label It). JLI argues that around 40 countries, the majority of the developed world, have implemented a mandatory food labeling system, and regulate the use of GMOs in their food products (Newswire). The United States is one of the only developed nations in the world that does not have a regulated labeling system (Just Label It). Central to campaign is the idea that consumers have the right to know if food products contain GMOs so they may make the best-informed decisions about the food they are consuming. JLI states that than 90% of Americans support the mandatory labeling of genetically modified (Just Label It). Since well over three-quarters of the US population supports the labeling of GMOs, JLI argues that the government is infringing on the right to know by failing to require GMO labeling, in favor of large food production companies, such as General Mills (Just Label It). JLI has partnered with multiple organizations the healthcare community, consumer advocates, farmers, concerned parents, environmentalists, food and farming organizations, businesses, the faith-based community, and many more. . to raise awareness of GMO labeling and inform the government on this issue (Just Label It). However, many large food production companies such as General Mills persist in their opposition to the implementation of a mandatory GMO labeling system. General Mills, a popular food production company, expresses open opposition to the implementation of a mandatory labeling system. GM states that GMOs have been approved by Weber 3 multiple health agencies and have been used by farmers in food crops for more than 20 (General Mills) They propose that if genetically modified ingredients do not pose an immediate health concern, GMOs can provide an efficient way to achieve the greatest crop yield while using the least amount of natural resources while also sustaining the environment (General Mills). Along with their support for global sustainability, GM recognizes the impact of food scarcity around the world, stating that shows promise to address such issues as strengthening crops against drought and extreme temperature, and delivering more nutritious food, even in poor soil (General Mills). General Mills believes that GMOs can provide ways in which food production can reach a broader scale and, in time, decrease the amount of worldwide hunger (Bain, Carmen, Dandachi). Even so, they have continued to voice their opposition to the implementation of a mandatory labeling system, arguing that shifting to a non-GMO labeling system would be relatively impossible, given the use of (Bain, Carmen, Dandachi). Nonetheless, GM continues to strive to produce the best products for their customers, stating that care about the foods they eat so we care about the foods we (General Mills). General dedication to their customers provides a pathway to collaboration with organizations such as Just Label It to give consumers the information needed to make careful choices about the food they eat. Both Just Label It and General Mills put customers at the forefront of their mission, and would not be able to reach any level of success without the support of their customers. A compromise between these two organizations may offer a way in which JLI and GM can work together with the common goal of providing consumers with the best products, by offering a GMO labeling system available to interested consumers. General Mills has shown their opposition to GMO labeling in general, and has stated that consumers may shy away from Weber 4 products containing GMOs, therefore reducing their customer base and net profit. To provide a solution this issue, General Mills could provide a QR code on their packaging, instead of a non- GMO label, that can be scanned by a phone. This code would then direct the customer to a webpage informing them about the use of GMOs in the specific product. The QR code would not provide visible labeling as to whether a product contains GMOs, but the interested customer would be able to gain this information indirectly. By agreeing to this compromise, General Mills may be able to gain a larger customer base, since the informed customer would gain a better understanding of the ingredients used in GM products. Furthermore, GM could avoid the expense of continually changing product labeling as they move between GMO and non-GMO products, since the information could be easily modified on the website. QR code labeling would also satisfy JLI goal of providing GMO ingredient information to consumers in a relatively straightforward fashion. Despite concerns about profit being hindered through the implementation of a labeling system, some large food companies, such as Nestle, have been able to maintain profits after implementation of a labeling system. (Nestle). Nestle incorporated a label in their packaging, to inform customers about the ingredients used in the production of their food products. Although Nestle did not execute a QR code labeling system, it might be assumed that simply providing GMO information with a QR code would also have little impact on profits. successful implementation of a labeling system provides important clues as to the success that could be achieved by General Mills and Just Label It through the use of a QR code. Although General Mills and Just Label It appear to be completely at odds with each other concerning the labeling of GMOs, a QR code labeling system would provide a way in which Weber 5 General Mills and Just Label It could work together and collaborate while achieving their individual goals. The proposed compromise would provide consumers with the tools to make informed decisions in accordance with their to while also fulfilling mission of providing the best products to their customers. Weber 6 Works Cited Bain, Carmen, and Tamera Dandachi. Governing Gmos: The (Counter) Movement For Mandatory And Voluntary Non-GMO  Sustainability (2071-1050) 6.12 (2014): 9456. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. General Mills: Genetically-modified (GM)  General Mills: Genetically-modified (GM) Ingredients. General Mills, 2014. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. It, Just Label. Right to  Just Label It. N.p., 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://www.justlabelit.org/right-to-know-center/right-to-know/>. Nestle.  On GMOs. Nestle USA, 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. <http://www.nestleusa.com/about-us/gmo>. PR, Newswire. Just Label It Survey: Parents Overwhelmingly Say Label Genetically Engineered  PR Newswire US 10 Sept. 2012: Regional Business News. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. The Facts About  The Facts About GMO. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <https://www.factsaboutgmos.org/>.