Gabriel Hineman Spencer Bennington Comp II 10 February 2017 Locked, Loaded, and Safe As each century has passed the human race has become more technologically advanced, including in the area of weaponry for personal protection. Due to the fact that weapons such as handguns are easier to access and use, there has been an understandable concern regarding the depth of knowledge owners possess on gun safety protocols. A debate continues to broil regarding the purchase and ownership of firearms, along with most importantly, gun safety between a few groups, most noticeably, the National Rifle Association (NRA) and the Violence Policy Center (VPC). These are two stakeholders who stand in firm opposition with one another in regard to gun laws and gun usage in the United States. While these two organizations see eye to eye on most issues, they both seemingly have a sincere desire to educate the public about gun safety and the dangers of gun violence. This is a similarity that can be exploited to facilitate the reaching of a beneficial compromise that both factions could rally behind, especially among our youth. It could be the foundation that both groups build upon jointly to better educate gun owners, those interested in how to better handle and take care of their weapons, as well as those who may just happen upon them. Gun safety educational events could go a long way to accomplish this goal. When the NRA came into being in 1871 its primary goal was to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific To get their movement off the ground they developed a shooting site for the members to practice at in land they were granted in New York. Immediately political opposition surfaced to halt the promotion of marksmanship in the area and they were forced to relocate. In spite of this political resistance a new era of gun lovers began to appear. In 1903 they chose to support and facilitate the promotion of shooting sports, mainly among youth. To this day, the youth clubs and competitions are still one of the cornerstones of the NRA. The NRA placed some of their focus on creating a magazine designed to be a conduit of information surrounding any new firearm bills or other items of interest to those in the gun sector. To combat the numerous attacks on gun ownership rights, provided by the Second Amendment of the Constitution, they created the Legislative Affairs Division in 1934. At this time, the NRA did not personally partake in lobbying rather they chose to mail out legislative facts directly to the people that could take action on their own if they felt so inclined. The primary focus of the NRA remained on training, education and marksmanship. Additionally, they dabbled in reaching out to the hunting community and published a magazine, The American Hunter, for avid and regular game hunters alike. Many would argue that the NRA continues to be the leader in firearms educations for civilians. They conduct seminars, such as to Be a to help educate men and women alike to develop personal safety plans (NRA). To ensure financial support for firearm related activities for future generations they created the NRA Foundation to ensure projects and programs will continue benefitting the general public. Today the NRA is most known for being the principal defender of Second Amendment rights. This focus does not lie in opposition to the driving focus possessed since their infancy, which is to provide gun owners with the highest education possible in regards to firearm safety. They have many different vehicles to educate and disseminate information to the public such as TV commercials, personal mailings, and Newspaper ads. The NRA is arguably the strongest, most vocal and well-funded pro-gun supporter making them a lethal opponent for those who fight for strict gun control laws. On the other side of the spectrum sits the Violence Policy Center. Their main goal is the prevention of gun deaths and potential injury among gun owners and bystanders alike. Through research, education of the masses, advocacy for better or more strict gun control laws, and collaboration with other organizations for more gun control they pursue this end. The VPC informs the public of the potential impact of gun violence on everyday lives and how it can affect their very psyche. Additionally, they strive to put a spotlight on the duplicitous workings of the firearms industry and gun lobby in relation to their opponents lobbying activities as well how they operate in a profit driven market. They also provide expertise to policymakers with the goal of helping to save lives. There is an interesting quote that they include on their webpage about stopping gun violence. a quote taken directly from the NRA acknowledging that VPC is most rabble rouser in (VPC). This statement lends credibility that the NRA perceives VPC as a formidable opponent as they forge ahead to fight against leaner gun control laws. It is the belief of the VPC that all can be instrumental in making an impact towards creating a safer world, one void of unnecessary gun violence and injury. They encourage and promote multiple means for others to be involved and fight the giant of gun proponents. It can be as simple as donating money to help fund their organized fight for the safety and well-being against gun violence, joining an organization against gun violence, contacting government representatives to urge them to write and/or vote for certain gun laws that limit their availability to the citizenry (such as an assault weapon ban,) or choose to educate others about the issue and impact of gun violence in communities. The stance on gun control makes them the ideal candidate of opposition to the NRA. Thus getting both parties to merge on a point of agreement could pave the way for compromise that might diffuse the war of words that continue to divide a good part of America in regards to gun ownership and safety. One area of gun education that seems to have garnered high interest as of late is gun safety in our schools. It seems increasingly important that an effort be made to teach children how to safely handle a gun in order to, ironically, save lives. This is an area of danger that both groups on each end of the spectrum of gun control can come to an agreement. If a child or student were to get their hands on a gun when they have not been properly taught how to safely handle one, it could have disastrous consequences. In one instance first grade boy brought to school a gun he found at home and shot his 6-year-old classmate in Mount Morris Township, (Moore). Creating educational events for students would help to minimize the likelihood of such tragic events from happening. Currently the approach to gun education in schools has been criticized by its opponents and, likewise, educational programs such as STAR (Straight Talk About Risks, a program that deals with gun safety/dangers) that are run by anti-gun people are equally criticized by the NRA. The best approach in educating the young malleable minds of the youth in our educational system would be for groups such as the NRA and VPC to work together harmoniously to create a more all-encompassing program/event that would meet the criteria they both deem important. To turn this idea into an actuality the groups would send their representatives to meet, discuss, and create an event with the essential components that would provide gun safety for all levels of understanding. Due to the fact that all of the above mentioned factions sit on opposite sides of the gun control spectrum there is inherent tension to overcome. There is much to gain, however, should they be able to put their differences aside to focus on this common ground as it relates to keeping our youth safe from potential, yet avoidable, harm from the mishandling of a gun. They all care about safety and providing proper education of young people and they can accomplish more working together by creating a program that incorporates aspects from both Eddie Eagle educational program) and STAR. This would involve teaching children things such as the risks of handling a gun without an adult around, what to do if they see a gun laying about, to make sure the safety is on if they pick it up, how a gun is not a toy, etc. Pooling the resources and contacts from each group in this area of education would allow their area of influence to expand and they would actually accomplish something instead of remaining as complete adversaries in gridlock. At the end of the day, all that really matters are the lives that may be saved by making gun education events accessible to a larger youth population. This could be accomplished by organizations, such as the NRA and VPC, joining forces with this ultimate and noble goal in mind. Works Cited: National Rifle Association , National Rifle Association of America , https://home.nra.org/. Accessed 3 Feb. 2017. Moore, Claire. To Teach or Not Teach Gun Safety in  abc NEWS, ABCNEWS.COM, 20 Aug. 2017, abcnews.go.com/US/story?id=96091&page=1. Accessed 3 Feb. 2017. Violence Policy Center, VPC, 1988, www.vpc.org/. Accessed 3 Feb. 2017. Spies, Mike. ACADEMIC REGRETS WORK ON NRA GUN SAFETY LESSON FOR  NewsWeek, NewsWeek LLC, 15 Oct. 2016, www.newsweek.com/regrets-work-nra-gun-safety- lesson-kids-509650. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Harris, Alexander. Gun control proponents claim gun industry is marketing to  APEX GUN PARTS, Guns.com, 22 Feb. 2016, www.guns.com/2016/02/22/gun-control-proponents- release-study-claiming-guns-being-marketed-to-kids/. Accessed 3 Feb. 2017.