Chang 1 Jarred Avery Chang Instructor Modlin-Jackson ENC1101 January 29, 2017 The impact of sources of renewable energy such as wind and solar on the level of biodiversity in California. Biodiversity remains an essential element of nature, which depends on the wellbeing of the environment, and directly contributes to the proper functioning of society across human civilization. Throughout most of history, mankind has been severely ignorant to the consequences of the reduction of biodiversity. Only in more recent times have communities all across the world notice an alarming decrease in levels of biodiversity. This trend has snowballed into the modern age, where current human activities have a greater impact on wildlife. Although equipped with vast knowledge of its importance, mankind continues to play a major role in the steep decline of biodiversity. This has urged states with a high levels of it, such as California, to be more cautious when dealing with the environment. One of the major human activity which plays a large role in the condition of the environment is how we obtain energy. The burning of coal and fossil fuels as well as the methods used to obtain and transport them has left the environment in a suboptimal state, less capable of accommodating wildlife. States such as California began to employ various alternative sources of renewable energy in order to improve the condition of the environment. decided to investigate the effects of sources of renewable energy such as wind and solar on the level of biodiversity in California. Multiple organizations have implemented the use of renewable sources of energy in California. My research question for the semester is: how do sources of renewable energy such as wind and solar affect the level of biodiversity in California? Chang 2 Gasparatos, Alexandros, et al. Renewable Energy And Biodiversity: Implications For Transitioning To A Green  Renewable And Sustainable Energy. vol. 70, no.1, 2017, pp. 161-184. ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.rser.2016.08.030, Accessed Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This describes how solar and wind energy can negatively influence biodiversity. It mentions how solar energy can lead to either a change of an ecosystem or a loss of an ecosystem, both of which harms the level of biodiversity. The loss of the ecosystem is mostly due to the destruction of habitat that occurs in order to complete the installation of solar energy. Hiding places, preying strategies and even reproductive cycles are among the things that can be impacted as a result of the installation of solar energy. Furthermore, solar energy may also be a factor in pollution. An instance of pollution caused by solar energy is observed when herbicides and dust suppressants are used. However, several methods used to suppress the negative effects on biodiversity are also expressed in the article. Solar energy could be installed in areas with less biodiversity, and alternative installation methods can also be used to reduce its impact on the habitat. Loss and change of habitat are also demonstrated when installing wind energy. Wind turbines require a large space to operate. These large spaces are provided by destroying habitats. The blades of the wind turbines pose a threat to flying animals as a large number of birds collide with the blades or tend to avoid areas with wind turbines due to fear of collision. These problems, much like those of solar energy are also solved by simply selecting areas of less biodiversity and by implementing biodiversity-friendly methods of installation. Chang 3 Alexandros research concerns the relationship between renewable energy sources and biodiversity, followed by steps that could be taken to preserve biodiversity while using those sources of energy. He is the Associate Professor at the Integrated Research System for Sustainability Science at the University of Tokyo. His article has been peer-reviewed and has been published in an academic journal. The author analyzes statistics to study the effects of renewable energy sources on biodiversity. He states in his article that it could have a negative impact on biodiversity due to its effects on the habitat and ecosystems. He uses various examples to illustrate how the statistics support his claim. Altogether, he concludes that the installation of renewable energy can cause a negative impact on biodiversity. Kreitler, Jason, et al. Conservation Planning For Offsetting The Impacts Of Development: A Case Study Of Biodiversity And Renewable Energy In The Mojave  vol. 10, no. 11, 2015, Plos ONE, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0140226, Accessed Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This research article displays several statistics concerning the challenges associated with the implementation of renewable sources of energy in the Mojave Desert, located in California. It starts of by mentioning how the ultimate goals of using renewable energy is to improve the environment. It also adds how improper planning of renewable energy sites will lead to a negative impact on the ecosystem. It then illustrates how the siting of multiple solar and wind farms are planned along with statistics based on how those sites affect the population of wildlife. Multiple locations across the Mojave Desert are also shown where certain locations can be sited with minimal impact on biodiversity, and possibly a positive impact on biodiversity in the long term. Chang 4 Jason Kreitler is a researcher for the Western Geographic Science Center, and works on the conservation of biodiversity and enhancement of natural resource management within socio- ecological systems in a changing climate. He obtained a PhD in Environmental Science and Management from the University of California Santa Barbara. His article has been peer-reviewed by other peers of a similar academic integrity. The article report statistics which imply the various threats of improper siting of renewable energy sources which can be harmful to the level of biodiversity in the Mojave Desert. Inman, Richard D., et al. Impacts Of Climate Change And Renewable Energy Development On Habitat Of An Endemic Squirrel, Xerospermophilus Mohavensis, In The Mojave Desert,  Biological Conservation, 2016, ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.biocon.2016.05.033, Accessed Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article written by Richard Inman focuses on the population of an endemic squirrel population in the Mojave Desert of California. It highlights how the pursuit of renewable energy sources threatens the status of the Xerospermophilus Mohavens, a squirrel endemic to the Mojave Desert. The article displays estimated levels of the population as renewable energy sources are implemented based on a series of simulations and by performing multiple statistical calculations. Inman discusses how the loss of habitat and change in climate caused by the installation of renewable energy farms can lead to a negative impact on the population of the squirrel. He adds however, that the factors of these occurrences can be alleviated by simple mitigation techniques. When discussing future implications, he notes that the change in habitat and long-term effects on the climate might also pose a threat to the population of squirrels. The Chang 5 ability to adapt is uncertain, although failure to adapt may also lead to a great migration may also occur, thus further reducing the population in the desert. He notes of the importance of biodiversity in the region discussed and concludes that careful steps should be taken when planning renewable energy sources. Richard Inman has received a degree in Biology from the University of Nevada Reno. He had many articles published in academic journals and this particular article is peer- reviewed by others who specialize in urban development and planning while also being published in an academic journal. This article argues that drastic changes to the climate caused by renewable energy sources will cause a decrease in the population of squirrels. He provides evidence in the form of calculation based on statistics gained from simulations and models. He concludes that renewable energy sources will have a negative impact on the population of the squirrel which would affect all wildlife within the Mojave Desert. Stoms, David M., Stephanie L. Dashiell, and Frank W. Davis. Siting Solar Energy Development To Minimize Biological  Renewable Energy, 2013, vol. 57. no. 1, ScienceDirect: AGRIS. Accessed: Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article focuses on minimizing the impact of solar energy sources on the surrounding environment. It explains how there are several criterions when selecting a certain area to develop sites for the sources solar energy. It displays results of calculations based on surveys to help determine the compatibility of multiple locations and decides which areas are most suitable for siting. Criteria can be classified into on-site degradation and off-site impacts. These results are a Chang 6 part of a method used to decide whether a location is suitable for installation of renewable energy sources with minimal impact on biodiversity. A mapping technique is also used to map out areas which are recommended, containing higher solar potential with less impact on biodiversity conservation. Information of this mapping scheme is highly valuable to developers as well as permitting agencies concerned with the implementation of solar energy. David M. Stoms holds a PhD in Geography which he obtained from the University of California in Santa Barbara. He has received awards and has been involved in a few research projects focused on planning for the conservation of biodiversity and ecosystem mapping services. In addition to receiving a doctorate in the field that concerns my research question, his article has also been peer-reviewed by fellow scholars who study the field intensively. He uses in depth examples and carefully calculated statistics based on surveys performed on various locations in California. Upon doing so, he found out that conflict arises between conservation interests and renewable energy development due to the direct impacts that it will have on the climate and habitat. He states however, that careful siting of locations chosen to install renewable energy sources through a process of mapping can reduce the impacts on the environment, thus minimizing conflict with biodiversity conservation interests. Brunette, Cassandra L., John Byrne, and Christopher K. Williams. Resolving Conflicts Between Renewable Energy And Wildlife By Promoting A Paradigm Shift From Commodity To Commons-Based Policy  Journal Of International Wildlife Law And Policy 4 2013, vol. 16, no. 4. HeinOnline, DOI: 10.1080/13880292.2013.844000, Accessed Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Chang 7 This article uses reasons with evidence to suggest that improper planning of renewable energy installment along with changes in habitat caused by renewable energy sources may lead to a decrease in the level of biodiversity. It then describes the various ways in which renewable energy sources can cause occurrences which can interfere with surrounding wildlife, such occurrences include habitat change, habitat avoidance and climate change. However, careful planning will reduce the impact of these consequences and furthermore maintain a healthier environment in the long run. The article then proceeds to describe several mitigation systems which should be put into place to guard the biodiversity within an area. These include using careful planning and eco-friendly construction methods. In addition to the article being peer- reviewed by those who specialize in its respective field, the authors are also distinguished scholars who intensively study this field. John Byrne, Christopher K. Williams and Cassandra L. Brunette, have been thoroughly educated in matters that concern the environment, infrastructure and renewable energy. The article itself states that there are many ways in which renewable energy sources can be approached for the improvement or detriment of the environment and wildlife. In conclusion, the impact of renewable energy sources is generally beneficial to mankind, however, it may lead to a decrease in biodiversity unless careful steps are taken in order to prevent loss of wildlife. Arnett, Edward B., and Roel F. May. Mitigating Wind Energy Impacts On Wildlife: Approaches For Multiple  Human-Wildlife Interactions, 2016, vol.10, no.1, Accessed Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Chang 8 This article investigates the various mitigations undergone to alter the impact of wind energy sources on an biodiversity. It employs multiple statistics to illustrate which steps is helpful to which species and how to avoid causing an imbalance in the ecosystem. It also mentions optimal placements of wind turbines all over California which minimize the amount of avian casualties each year caused by birds flying into the blades of the turbines. It also states a method where operations for turbines are halted temporarily during periods of avian migration. Other methods are also mentioned, such as the reduction of audial and visual disturbance which deters wildlife. These mitigation systems provide promising results for the future of biodiversity. However, results still show that, although minimal, the negative impacts on biodiversity caused by wind turbines has yet to be considered negligible. Roel F. May holds a PhD from the Norwegian University of Science and Technology, and is considered by peers as a senior research scientist. Edward B. Arnett also hold a PhD from Oregon State University, and has written several articles about wind-turbine related impacts on wildlife. Their article has been peer-reviewed by peers of equal caliber and has also been published in an academic journal. Their research provides a lot of information regarding the potential to drastically reduce the negative impact of wind energy by simply integrating multiple mitigations. They concluded however, that the optimal conditions necessary for a natural growth biodiversity levels have yet to be achieved. Chang 9