Ramsamy 1 Taylor Ramsamy Dennis Composition II February 12 ,2017 The Issue of Copyright The world of entertainment is an vast area of information and media that has seen major changes within the last two decades. In recent years, it has become a point of contention, leading to groups arguing what truly falls under the cover of copyright and how content can be used to create new creative works. In fact, this contention has led to over 20 million requests to Google weekly for websites to be removed for copyright violations (Ovide 2016). The point of contention seems to come from the fact that copyright can mean different things, as there are no set guidelines for it. This argument can be seen through stances given by two different groups, stakeholders. These groups are Viacom Inc. and Creative Commons. Although Viacom believes in the strictest application of copyright law to protect the monetary value of their content. Creative Commons argues that copyright should be edited to allow all creators, not just companies, the ability to use content to create new creative works. These two sides can be accommodated by the implementation of a trusted organization to preside over cases of copyright, giving both sides a chance to argue their cases in individual cases as the topic of copyright varies in every case. To properly understand the issue at hand, we must discuss stakeholders in the issue, the first stakeholder that I will bring in is Viacom Inc. Viacom is an entertainment company that is in possession of several television channel brands, like Nickelodeon and MTV, as well as a film studio named Paramount Studios. The main priority of this stakeholder is to bring in as much revenue as possible through its various television shows and movies, as it is needs this money Ramsamy 2 to sustain itself and make a profit. Viacom takes a very heavy stance on the topic of copyright, as copyright infringement could cost them a lot of money. In a press release made by Viacom, it is actually revealed that in 2015, the company saw a 4% drop in overall revenue, giving a reason to why their stance is so strict when it comes to their product Viacom). This strict stance can be seen earlier, however, in their lawsuit against YouTube in 2007. The company sued YouTube, claiming that 90% of the content on the site relating to their company was not approved and that it should be removed. (Harvard 2012). concerns were not without basis, however, and in fact they can be even more important today. A Bloomberg article called War on Internet referenced a study made by Sand vine on web traffic compared from 2011 to 2015, showing that about 17% of main web traffic goes to YouTube as of 2015, as shown in the chart below (Ovide 2016). This shows that nearly a fifth of all main web traffic goes to this one site, possibly even more as this study took place two years ago. Viacom could certainly lose a lot of money if 90% of content Ramsamy 3 on YouTube is not being used the way they want it. In addition, while the company did lose the case in the end, it still shows that the company does have concerns over their content and how it could be properly used as they stated after the case that it would only lead to more cases of copyright infringement ( Hassanabadi 2011). The second stakeholder is a non-profit group called Creative Commons. Creative Commons is a group that makes it goal to help people use the internet to the fullest extent by providing licenses to creators to inform people of what they will allow their work to be used for in order to help promote the influence of original content on the creation of new, more progressive information. Creative Commons covers copyright all types, ranging from educational to cultural content. In terms of the licenses themselves, the group provides six licenses to creators to use in order to communicate what they believe their work can be used for. The licenses provided by the group allow creators to inform people that they can use their work for any purpose, commercial or personal, as long as the original author is credited. They also do put out licenses informing any potential creators that they are not allowed to use the content for any reason, even if it is personal (Leaver 2008). This shows that while the company does allow authors to keep the ability to decide what their work is for, but their main goal is to promote the creation of new content based on old work. However, there is no legal backing to this and this is done purely on the assumption that people will keep their word 2015). In addition, this does not cover for those authors who already have perished. The main argument between the two stakeholders is the handling of original content as the issue of copyright is a complicated subject. There is no possible way to establish a set system of rules in the current state that we are in because each case of copyright infringement has a unique situation. In this case, I believe that to fix this, there needs to be an organization built of patent attorneys each certified to have knowledge of copyright laws and regulations. In addition, Ramsamy 2 there should be representatives from the World Intellectual Property Organization, an organization concerned with the issue of intellectual property by providing a reference guide of patents and trademarks already existing (WIPO). This would provide a third party organization to review all cases and give judgement on individual cases after being presented information by both parties that are affected. This would allow for a platform for parties to argue cases of copyright before judges who would know about copyright and would be able to give a proper opinion on the issue. I believe that there should be three parties present on this platform. The first should be the party representing corporations like Viacom Inc., so these companies have a way to explain their grievances. The second party should be the party in question, so that they may explain their reasoning for using the original content and how it is used. This would satisfy Creative Commons as the new would have a say on how they can use the original content and explain themselves. The final party would be the group of patent attorneys and members of the WIPO, as they would serve as judges to listen both sides and give a nonbiased answer. There is no easy answer to the question of how content should be handled by creators. There is the side of Viacom, who believes that the author should have sole rights over the content and use it to the fullest intent by themselves with no exceptions. On the other side, there is Creative Commons who believes that people should build upon old content to use the internet to the fullness extent and move the world further, I propose that a council should be formed to deal with copyright issues in a way that can help benefit from their work and get credit, but also allow for work to be used in a way that helps us advance. I believe that this will be helpful to everyone as it allows for everyone to put out content in a manner that is beneficial to all parties. Ramsamy 3 References Copyright Law - Willful Blindness - Second Circuit Holds That Willful Blindness Is Knowledge In Digit al Millennium Copyright Act Safe Harbor Provision - Viacom International, Inc. V. Youtube, Inc., 676 F. 3D 19 (2D Cir. 2012)  Harvard Law Review 2 (2012): 645. HeinOnline. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tanja. Current Case Law On Creative Commons Journal Of Intellectual Property Law & Practice 10.4 (2015): 310. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hassanabadi, Amir. Viacom V. Youtube--All Eyes Blind: The Limits Of The DMCA In A Web 2.0 Wor  Berkeley Technology Law Journal 26.(2011): 405. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Ja n. 2017. Leaver, Tama. Creative Commons: An Overview For Screen Education 50 (2008): 38. Infor mit Literature & Culture Collection. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ovide, Shira. War on Internet Bloomberg.com, Bloomberg (2016), 23 Mar. 2016, Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year Financial Viacom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year Financial Results (NASDAQ:VIAB), 12 Nov. 2015, Web. 12 Feb. 2017 - World Intellectual Property  WIPO - World Intellectual Property Organization Home Page Web. 12 Feb. 2017