Vieira 1 Karen Vieira Sarah Basil ENC 1102.905S17 12 February 2017 Universalizing First Year Composition: a Transferable Skill Thing Everyday a college education becomes more vital to gain footing in the job market and every college wants to sell itself as being able to adequately prepare its students for such. Much sense then lies in the fact that these students take different classes with information necessary in the fields they choose to pursue; still there are some outliers in the form of transferable skills. This instigates a challenge for all colleges to create a curriculum for its students that both satisfies their educational needs and administers that education in a way accessible to all their different learning styles. A core component of these transferable skills every student must obtain during their college career are those skills to do with communication and writing. Both Duke University and The University of South Florida are caught in this dilemma and each believes pedagogy is the most successful, switching to another though, Universal Design for Learning, which incorporates aspects from both their approaches may truly be the path to success for their students. This essay will dissect both Duke University and The University of South first year composition programs and then attempt to explain what they have to gain if they both choose to adopt the same Universal Design for Learning approach in their classrooms. Vieira 2 Duke first year composition course is truly student centered. In other words, instead of providing one set curriculum the school offers a range of class sections for to choose from. Each section focuses on different topics from literature to religious mysticism, militia movements to and much more Thompson Writing By allowing students to preselect their interests before joining a class Duke surrounds its students with those of similar interests and presumably those with the same job aspirations. This has both pros and cons as with anything and while students meet like minded peers and thus would be expected to be engaged in their work it seems to eradicate one of their few chances to truly get out of their comfort zones and work with those who think in different ways. These classes are also in seminar style; with no more than twelves students per class professors are able to a seminar environment consisting of vigorous class discussion and careful consideration of student Thompson Writing Here it becomes apparent that Duke does value group discussion though and actually something it shares with program. The University of South first year composition curriculum is divided into two courses: Comp I and Comp II. The goal of each is to gain prowres in literacy skills through reading comprehension and research, refine critical thinking processes through exploring historical perspectives and visual images, and critically reflect upon visual and textual and, research, and compose respectively Despite their class sizes being larger than those at Duke they do also attempt to generate discussion by focusing on classroom workshops and peer review Through these means they are able to create real world job skills when it comes to taking Vieira 3 constructive criticism and sharing their own opinions and ideas with a group. Another aspect of their curriculum is the WOVEN approach. understands that communication is multimodal, that it is more than words on a piece of paper. WOVEN resist communication paradigm. Instead, it celebrates it by incorporating different modes of In this sense USF emerges students in the career world of today by implementing multimedia in its curriculum such as creating a project with the focus of analyzing images. Though both these schools demonstrate they believe writing skills to be an important transferable skill they do not agree on how to educate their students. in writing studies regarding subject matter for first-year composition courses are controversial. There is no consensus on what is appropriate subject matter in academic writing and due to this no set guide on how these courses should be constructed or taught (Friedman 78). This is something that makes sense however as there are pounds, upon pounds, of research done on separate yet effective pedagogy across first year composition courses. Duke and USF for example are set in their ways due to following different but strong research demonstrating their approaches are valuable. In Way For Vampires: Teaching First-Year Composition in the following is brought up, and Saltz (2004) discovered in their longitudinal study of Harvard undergraduates that the reason why some students develop and sustain an interest in academic writing is because they see a purpose greater than fulfilling an assignment: they are able to pursue questions and problems that genuinely interest (Friedman 81). abundantly clear then why Duke would choose their approach if their goal is to allow for writing to be a skill students will be able to transfer onto their daily lives and future Vieira 4 careers. By allowing students to pick sections of courses centered around their own interests they present these vital skills in ways that demonstrate their all-important nature to the student in particular. USF flagrantly ignoring this though, they have their own perspective, and a sound one at that. argued that schools must prepare students for by implementing multimodal techniques into their curriculums (Moore et al 10). Everyday more and more jobs rely on their workers competently composing text through multimodal contexts and impossible to dismiss this. Still there is another option that could allow both to provide their students with these important factors. The proposal of both taking up Universal Design for Learning in their classrooms would both satisfy views of allowing students to pick their interests and interest in students being prepared for multimodal environment. In the academic journal Design in First Year Composition- Why Do We Need It, How Can We Use Danielle Nielsen describes Universal Design in Learning or how she abbreviates it, UDL, like this UDL teachers apply flexible strategies that allow students to learn, demonstrate competency, and become interested in learning in different ways For instance, students may prove their ability to understand narratives by writing a story or by filming a silent movie, a less traditional method that requires more visual acumen than written expression. Both choices enable students to prove they understand narrative development, however. Additionally, students may show they have mastered material through group work, presentations, portfolios, or community projects (Bowe (5). So what Universal Design is, is in fact a teaching approach that allows students to take decisive choices about their own education. The example Nielsen provides is a perfect demonstration of how it satisfies own interest of catering to students interests. An art Vieira 5 student may not feel as comfortable with the written word as most, and true to some of those in their major it may not be vitally important that they even are. The concept of communicating a story through their work nevertheless may very well be a transferable skill in their line of work. Universal Design then allows people like this to demonstrate their understanding through things that interest them specifically as specialized sectioned classes allow. On the other hand variability allows for generating a curriculum in which despite allowing for students to make decisions on how to complete assignments, USF could dictate that students change their form of presentation for every assignment It is impossible to deny that the world is changing, and with it the job market. To adequately prepare the students who choose to study at their schools colleges must be ever vigilant and prepared to adjust their teaching styles into a form that would produce the best working task force. Today style is completely centered on student interest while the University of South Florida dedicates its time to generating students who could make good use of this days multimodal communication. Each follows a suitable and sound approach backed by peer reviewed research but that equate to the fact that they could be doing better. By altering to the Universal Design for Learning pedagogy they would both still be able to adhere to their values of what is important for student learning of first year composition while incorporating the very important values to their own curriculum. Change may not always be easy or pleasant, altering curriculums takes time, but a experience and competency of such basic principles such as communication says something about the college from which they came from. Vieira 6 Composition  Year Composition . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Composition  Year Composition . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Duke Thompson Writing  University Thompson Writing Program: Writing 101 . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Moore, Jessie L., et al. Revisualizing Composition: How First-Year Writers Use Composing  And Compositio n 39.(2016): 1-13. t . Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Nielsen, Danielle. Universal Design in First-Year Composition - Why Do We Need It, How Can We Do  CEA Forum 42.2 (2013): 3-25. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Friedman, Sandie. This Way For Vampires: Teaching First Year Composition in Challenging  in Teaching & Learning Fall2013 6.1 (2013): 77-84. Index . Web. 12 Feb. 2017.  Year Composition . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.