Running Head: Rising College Tuition Rates 1 Rising College Tuition Rates Nafia Ali University of South Florida Rising College Tuition Rates 2 After graduating college, many students continue to higher education. That usually involves moving into a dorm, signing up for classes, and paying college tuition. However, the rising college rates make it difficult for families to send their children to college. Elizabeth Farrell found that public college tuition prices rose 33 percent within one year while private college rose 10 percent (Public Colleges Tame Price of Tuition). According to McPherson, this rising cost contributes to costs for research, clinical practices, student residence halls, athletics, and other activities that in general produce their own (Understanding the Cost of Public Higher Education). One of the stakeholders in this issue is the Department of Education, which is a department of the United States government that oversees managing the education of the country in addition to the schools and universities in the country. The other stakeholder involved in this issue is the prospective students or current students attending college. . Each university is different in the way they go about distributing the financial aid that they receive per year. This can cause students to not get the financial assistance that they need because of the money being recirculated to research funds instead as directed by the department of education. In order to solve this problem, the students, the Department of Education, and the universities need to find a common ground where students are able to attend and afford college while the Department of Education still has enough money in their budget for other purposes. For one stakeholder, the Department of Education is in charge of financial aid which awards financial assistance based on need and academic achievements. They have created a form called the Free Application for Federal Student Aid which students complete in order to receive government assistance. They give out Pell Grants, Stafford Loans, and Work- Study opportunities to students and many universities use this system to decide how much they should award the students financial aid and scholarships. McKinney states how FAFSA is a Rising College Tuition Rates 3 central component of the current US financial aid system and filing this application is the critical first step in helping procure the financial assistance that so many students desperately need to enroll in and graduate from (FAFSA and Why Does it Matter?). The Department of Education is responsible in creating a budget big enough to give out money to students who need it. Many low-income families would have qualified for a need-based grant, yet nearly 2.3 million students complete the application every year (McKinney). Studies show that students who do not complete the application are more likely to drop out of college due to not being able to afford it (McKinney). This application helps students avoid extra hours, asking friends and family for help, or applying for (McKinney). The Department of Education helps students afford college and help alleviate the stress that students are put under during the four years at a university. However, college tuition is still expensive which causes the amount of aid to not be significant enough for some universities. Secondly, another stakeholder in this conversation on rising college tuition is the students. While there is no specific organization being introduced, the weight of the matter is still the same. Universities all over the country are constantly raising the price of college and the expenses associated with it. This makes it difficult for students to pay for higher education and end up in debt. In 2008, the cost to attend a four-year public university or college was $6,585, which was more than 5% higher than the previous year (Ehrenberg). This rate continues to rise as inflation grows as well, but also other expenses are beginning to take a toll on college tuition. Housing fees, meal plans, and books make the cost of going to college skyrocket and causes families unable to send their children. The impact on the college pockets are significant with rising rates, since keeping up grades while attending school also involves buying the correct materials (Kelderman). However, low college tuition might not provide the best education, since Rising College Tuition Rates 4 in order to provide low tuition the college would have to make a series of budget cuts (Kelderman). This can be cuts from faculty, research, academic programs, and student services. The Department of Education makes investments in students daily and they must decide how they will want to treat their long-term investments. These two stakeholders play a very important part in this conversation. The Department of Education assists students in going to college by being able to make it affordable, while the universities that these students attend continue to raise the prices. This makes it hard for the Department of Education to give low-income students enough aid in order for them to make their way through the four years. These stakeholders do work together though, since the students attending college depend on the Department of Education for assistance. The university uses the results from that application and the financial aid office of that school decides on whether or not more scholarships or grants should be given to that specific student (Farrell). Their common ground is being able to have students attend and afford college, while still providing the best education possible. However, they do oppose each other on how to get there. Universities raise their tuition and book prices, in addition to hall rates to pay for the faculty and research going on at the school which makes it difficult for the students to attend college on a budget. The Department of Education tries to give enough aid to compensate for this raise but there is only so much that the government can give. A compromise that can happen is a tuition cap off for public and private universities. Many states can start making a budget and instead of constantly increasing tuition each year, they can redirect the funds to another part of campus. While the quality of campuses is an issue which needs to be up kept, it is possible to lower prices even if the best management is in (Kelderman). According to Kelderman, the University of Montana already participated in a Rising College Tuition Rates 5 tuition freeze which helped lower prices of tuition and keep them from being raised. In order to do this, the government allotted roughly $50-million to public universities to give them enough money needed to keep up the campus life and also pay their workers (Kelderman. If other states started programs like this, then colleges all over the country would be able to have affordable tuition and a larger pool of college applicants to choose from. In conclusion, college tuition is constantly rising and by having a tuition freeze, students will be able to apply to college with comfort knowing that the rates will not go up during their years there. The states will have to attain an allotted amount of money that can be given to the state universities that will give them enough financial security so they will refrain from raising tuition prices. It will make the students less stressed and let them dive more into their academics and get more involved on campus. Overall, students will be healthier by not having to worry about tuition prices. Rising College Tuition Rates 6 Works Cited Amuedo-Dorantes, C., & Sparber, C. (2014). In-state tuition for undocumented immigrants and its impact on college enrollment, tuition costs, student financial aid, and indebtedness. Regional Science And Urban Economics, 4911-24. doi:10.1016/j.regsciurbeco.2014.07.010 Farrell, E. (2005). Public Colleges Tame Costs of Tuition. The Chronicle Of Higher Education, (10), Kelderman, E. (2009). Calculating the True Cost of Tuition Freezes at Public Colleges. The Chronicle Of Higher Education, (36), McDearmon, J. T. (2009). Tuition rising: Why college costs so much. International Journal Of Educational Advancement, (1), 54. McKinney, L., & Novak, H. (2015). FAFSA Filing Among First-Year College Students: Who Files on Time, Who and Why Does it Matter?. Research In Higher Education, 56(1), 1-28. doi:10.1007/s11162-014-9340-0