Sherer 1 Julia Sherer Professor Pearlstone ENC 1102 25 January 2017 Vaccine Safety Within the past few decades, there has been a serious concern of whether or not vaccines are completely safe. While some complete their own research and form their own opinion, others listen to what any leading drug company says. The conflict between these groups is their differing opinion on the safety of vaccines. According to the company Merck Pharmaceuticals, their goal is to create the best medicines, including vaccines, in order to help others. However, the National Vaccine Information Center is dedicated to educating the public on informed consent to medical treatment. The conflict between these two groups are whether or not vaccines are completely safe. The compromise between these two groups would have to be their willingness to change. Merck Pharmaceuticals would need to research their findings for a longer periods of time to thoroughly make sure that vaccines are effective and safe, and the National Vaccine Information Center would need to fully educate the public on the positives and the negatives of vaccines. Merck Pharmaceuticals is the second largest drug company in America. They are committed to creating a difference in the lives of others by producing modern vaccines and medicine. Their mission statement is, discover, develop, and provide innovative products and services that save and improve lives around the the World be Merck Pharmaceuticals works with many different diseases including cancer, cardio-metabolic disease, hepatitis C, and With over 68,000 employees in over 140 countries, Merck has discovered hundreds of vaccines and medical products. Furthermore, each year they publish Sherer 2 hundreds of papers and articles in leading reviewed journal Overall, Merck Pharmaceuticals pushes for curiosity and creativeness in order to build the best possible product. On the other hand, the National Vaccine Information Center is a nonprofit organization that works to promote vaccine safety. They are dedicated to the prevention of vaccine deaths and injuries through educating the public. over three decades, they have been the leading voice to the public in vaccine safety by monitoring vaccine research, development, regulation, policymaking, and legislation from their headquarters in Washington does NVIC Inform the Public about Vaccine Not only do they monitor others findings, but they also conduct their own original research that they publish in their weekly newsletter. They have also formed a database called the Vaccine Reaction Registry where those who have been affected by a vaccine injury can post their stories. In addition, they also offer counseling and guidance to those who need it. All around, the NVIC works to help the community be able to make an informed decision on the safety of vaccines. With that being said, the NVIC and Merck Pharmaceuticals have completely different motives. Yet, they still have the same common purpose: to do what is best for the community. The NVIC works towards educating the public on the health risks of medical treatment. National Vaccine Information Center represents citizens from every state, who support the principle of informed consent to medical (Fisher). While the NVIC works towards educating the public, Merck works towards formulating a tangible product for the community. They are dedicated to their research to be able to help prevent some of the most invasive diseases. unique vaccines have helped prevent a number of diseases, including ones never thought and Prescribing Although each company is heading towards a different outcome, they still have the same goal for the community. Sherer 3 Since their common goal is to do what is best for the community, the compromise between these two groups would have to be for the NVIC to fully educate the public on the positives and negatives of vaccines. Often times, NVIC will only write about the negative impacts of vaccines or will try to invalidate the findings of drug companies. Whereas, Merck Pharmaceutical needs to conduct research for a longer period of time in order to effectively help the community. In 2010, Merck was accused of lying about the results of their research and a lawsuit was filed. lawsuit, which was unsealed in late June, alleges that Merck defrauded the U.S. for over 10 years by overstating the MMR (Wrangham). Many scientists believe that the reason they defrauded their statistics for so many years was to continue to be known as the only certified drug company in America to legally sell the mumps vaccine. Therefore, being the only company to sell a vaccine would significantly increase their monopoly and power within the United States. In order for a compromise to work, Merck would need to be completely honest about the effectiveness of their products. Each company would need to be committed to investing the extra time which would be necessary in order to maximize the productivity of this compromise. The question of whether or not vaccines are completely safe is still up in the air. Although each company has a different view of vaccines, they have the same purpose: to do what is best for the community. The NVIC would need to be willing to tell the community about the positives of vaccines, while Merck would need to research more in depth and tell the truth about their products. Overall, the compromise between these two groups would have to be willingness to change. These two companies could have the opportunity to unite and create a more substantial impact on health. Sherer 4 Works Cited Fisher, Barbara. Informed Consent National Vaccine Information  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Helping the World Be  Merck.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. How We Inform the Public - About Us -  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Judge: Lawsuit Against MMR Vaccine Fraud to  Health Impact News. N.p., 26 Jan. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.  Merck.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Feb. 2017. Vaccines & Prescribing  Vaccine and Prescribing Information. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wrangham, Theresa. Merck Lawsuit Reignites Vaccine Safety Concerns - NVIC  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., 30 July 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.