Daffner 1 Marcus Daffner Composition II Professor Spring 2017 What Privacy? In recent years there have been countless news stories of the government, businesses, and individuals being or having sensitive information about these entities being leaked to news networks and then the In February 2010, WikiLeaks began dumping an astounding 700,000 classified documents stolen from internal State Department communications to the public (Anderson). One of the leaked files was a video released in April of the same year, known as The video was shot from an American helicopter hovering over a group of civilians which were then filmed being mowed down by the guns while the crew laughed in the background What other secrets or atrocities is the government hiding from you? Stakeholders like the United States Justice Department do not take kindly to actions of those whom hack and or leak sensitive information, while Stakeholders like WikiLeaks whose ultimate goal is to create a more transparent world will go many lengths to reveal the dark secrets of organizations that are up to no good. The issue between the two stakeholders is that information leaked by WikiLeaks is normally obtained illegally. These documents greatly damaged the US reputation, since the incident in 2010, the US government has been looking for a way to prosecute WikiLeaks and Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks,While the United States Justice Department believes that they are protecting the American people by attempting to prosecute WikiLeaks. I believe that a reasonable compromise can be made between the two stakeholders with the guidance of a non-biased mediator. Daffner 2 According to Sara Criscitelli, a writer for the Salem Press Encyclopedia, the US Justice Department is largest and most influential law-enforcement entity in the U.S. criminal justice system, the federal Justice Department serves as a link between the court system and the executive branch of the federal government (Criscitelli). Established in the year 1870, the US Justice Department has grown from small offices and few staff members to recently in 2003, having a budget that exceeds 22 billion and a staff that approximately reached 106,000 people (Criscitelli). The US Justice Department has many resources at the tips of fingers because the organization itself has many offices, sections, and agencies underneath it including the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) (Criscitelli). The US Justice Department has difficulty prosecuting WikiLeaks for a few reasons. According to Anderson, One is Assange was supposedly not directly involved in the illegal activity, it is harder to determine whether any charges can be brought against him personally, or against WikiLeaks as an organization, for publishing the (DiLascio). According to Tracey DiLascio, a writer for the Salem Press Encyclopedia, WikiLeaks was officially launched in 2007 by Julian Assange, The website creates an easy way for whistleblowers to upload information anonymously. mission for WikiLeaks is to promote transparency and accountability by governments around the world by publishing documents that demonstrate questionable, unethical, and even illegal behavior in important matters such as war, economics, corruption, diplomacy, and (Dilascio). According to website they have published over 10 million documents, have over 100 connections to major media organizations, and gives sources the negotiating power, impact, and safety that Daffner 3 otherwise would not be possible (WikiLeaks). WikiLeaks claims to have over 100 staff members across the globe, is funded by Julian Assange, publications sales, and donations from the general public, and has a global legal team. WikiLeaks has for a long time taken extreme measure to make sure that it could not be taken out easily. First of all, it is difficult to prosecute Julian Assange because he is considered a journalist so the work he publishes is protected by the first amendment in the United States (Dilascio). According to Dilascio, website has several websites that duplicate the content of Wikileaks official website, servers in two separate countries to make it a matter of international law if it were to be shut down or attacked (Dilascio). Recently, WikiLeaks has been making huge waves in the U.S. election. If you look at the graph below, from the Los Angeles Times, you can clearly see the volatile polls of both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton. To make the graph easier to interpret, black stars have been added to show important dates when statements from Julian Assange and leaks from WikiLeaks were conducted. The first major event was on July 22 when WikiLeaks dumped over 20,000 emails take from the Democratic National Committee, DNC for short (Thompson). The emails showed that the DNC showed preference towards Hillary Clinton over Bernie Sanders (Thompson). In the wake of the emails being released Debbie Wasserman Schultz resigned from her position as head of the DNC on July 24, 2016 (Thompson). According to Emamdjomeh and David Lauter, two writers from the Los Angeles the DNC Email leaks lead to Hillary Clinton going from 43.2% to an all time low of 40.1% (2016). The second black dot on the graph singles out September 8th, on this day Julian Assange publicly announced that he had over 100,000 documents that were related to Hillary Clinton, which ultimately led to a drop from 44.5% to 41% and Lauter). On October 7th, John Podesta, Hillary Daffner 4 Campaign Chair, had his emails leaked to the public by Wikileaks (Thompson). This batch of emails had excerpts from paid speeches and had focus on where the Clinton Foundation receives donations from countries with mining and nuclear interests (Thompson). On November 4th, only four days before the election, Wikileaks dropped about 1,800 emails that allegedly connected Clinton to several scandals including child trafficking, Anthony Sexting Scandal, corruption within the Clinton Foundation, and led James Comey, the Director of the FBI, to reopen the investigation of emails (Vora). After looking into both standings and interests I believe that both WikiLeaks and the US Justice Department could reach a fair compromise. I believe that the Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Julian Assange should meet in the Embassy of Ecuador in London, Assange currently cannot leave the embassy because he has taken political asylum there, if Assange leaves he will be extradited to the US by the UK or Sweden (Justice For Assange). I believe that if both parties met and were assigned some non-biased mediator, a Daffner 5 lawyer or politician of some sort, they could work out a way for both parties to continue coexisting peacefully. I believe that WikiLeaks should have to pay fines for the personal damages done to some lives. When WikiLeaks releases documents some personal information could be compromised on the internet, henceforth no more personal information should be released. The mediators should be able to come up with an appropriate amount of reparation due to those who ( did not deserve) to have their own personal information compromised. Julian Assange has been under house arrest for 2246 days and counting, the US Justice department is still unsure on how it will actually prosecute WikiLeaks or Julian Assange because technically in the US the first amendment protects his right to publish what he pleases. Julian Assange has caused many problems in the United States in the past seven years, being the face of WikiLeaks I believe that he should face whatever punishment is appropriate for the crimes he has committed. If a compromise can be close to my proposed idea, than I believe that the two stakeholders can go their separate ways and coexist peacefully. Daffner 6 Works Cited Anderson, Dale. Chelsea  Press Biographical Encyclopedia (2016): Starters . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Criscitelli, Sara. U.S. Justice  Press Encyclopedia (2016): Starters . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. DiLascio, Tracey M. Wikileaks  Press Encyclopedia (2016): Starters . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Emamdjomeh, Armand, and David Lauter. Where the presidential race stands  Angeles Times . Los Angeles Times, 4 Aug. 2016. Web. 08 Feb. 2017. Justice for  Years in Embassy - Justice for Assange . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Fidel. The Wikileaks Saga (II): Challenging the Major  . Prisma, n.d. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. Thompson, Paul. Email Investigation Timeline . N.p., 2016. Web. 08 Feb. 2017. U.S. Department of Justice . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Vora, Hemal. Latest Clinton Emails Include Child Trafficking, Anthony Weiner Info: Will Trump Win As A  Inquisitr News . Inquisitr, 04 Nov. 2016. Web. 09 Feb. 2017.  . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.