Mousa 1 Mohamed mousa Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Student Athletes and Salaries For years, student-athletes have been one of the most elite people to go through both the education and athletics. However, a major conflict has occurred: An argument on whether student-athletes should get paid or not. To some, paying student athletes will give them a sense of the professionalism and confidence, to others it is allowing the student-athletes to become greedy and demanding. The situation has been covered by different organizations that have attempted to solve the matter. According to the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Rules had been set to preserve the mentality that student-athletes remain amateurs as long as they are still studying. In contrast, ESPN is an entertainment and sports programming network, a number of journalists working for espn such as Michael Wilbon, Dan Shanoff and Robert Lipsyte believe that, the profit made to the ncaa by the student-athletes is enough to cover earned salaries to the student-athletes that work day in and day out to perform at a top level. For a variable compromise to be reached, espn must accept the beliefs of the ncaa, in return the ncaa should offer student-athletes an alternative reward other than money, such as a day to day basic needs, due the effort student-athletes put in managing both the education and athletics. Firstly, National Collegiate Athletic Association also known as the ncaa, is a non-profit association which regulates athletes. Their main aim is to set rules for student-athletes in order to protect, preserve and guide the student-athletes towards professionalism. The ncaa developed the idea called which included a set of rules that forbid student-athletes to do, which Mousa 2 include; student-athletes not being allowed to play for any professional clubs, so as they are not allowed to play with any professionals and finally not allowed to receive any salaries as long as they are involved with the athletic activities (Lodge). The ncaa stands firmly behind their decision to protect the education and to keep a balance between academics and athletics. Even though there were several attempts to over-rule this call, the ncaa was able to provide enough evidence to prove why paying student-athletes would be a wrong move. This led the sports court board of to agree as stated, procompetitive justification in integrating academics and athletics because student-athletes would receive the same academic benefits whether they received NIL compensation or (Lodge 783). Meaning that if they are to get paid, this will not differentiate between them being student or athletes. Therefore, it best believed by the ncaa that maintaining the mentality of student-athletes being just athletes is the right move. On the other hand, espn is known to be the worldwide leader in sport, it is a U.S. based global cable and satellite sports television, that covers all news regarding U.S national sports. Their goal is to cover all news and updates that include all sports decision, board and directors, including both professional sports and college sports. They tend to utilize any given information to make a story out of it, however, whatever news they inform the people is made sure 100% of its source, so as it is provided with evidence to back up the story. Many journalists and news reporters in espn have mentioned the case of student-athletes not being paid. As they stated on their website that the ncaa has enough revenue to pay student-athletes for all the hard work they are putting. To the amount of profit, the ncaa is receiving, some of it should be distributed to student-athletes in a way as states, money much more accessible to athletes for the kinds of regular day-to-day expenses regular college (Wilbon 1). As the funding is coming Mousa 3 directly through the student-athletes its believed to be unfair that the student-athletes not only are they not allowed to get paid but as well cannot sign for any professional clubs unless they are no longer considered undergraduate students (Bayless). Both these federations have different ends to the matter, as one thrives on the mistake of the other. However, both organizations tend to defend the same source which is the student-athletes. As both sources want the best there is to provide to student-athletes. Whether it is paying student-athletes or mentality conserving them from the greed, the end result is what is best for the student-athletes, in order to have them prepared for the professionalism. Since the main aim of both parties is to look after the student- athletes, in order to please the specific journalist contradicting the rules, to them, the right compromise would result in having the ncaa having to specialize a segment of their profit to student-athletes, as often most of the profit is usually divided between staff, faculty, and schools and their supplies. That way student-athletes will have the sense of belonging and claim what is rightfully theirs. Nevertheless, due to the beliefs of the ncaa on paying salaries, also best if they were able to come up with an alternative to salaries in order to compensate the student- athletes for all the hard work they put in, which means if paying them is out of the question then according to the journalists its best if they are able to provide student-athletes with the day to day basic needs, besides the scholarship, student-athletes are required to pay for their own food, gas, groceries and so on. Therefore, believed that the ncaa is required to cover all these expenses. For the compromise to happen, both parties need to overrule their laws and think of what is best for the students. (Elias). As espn stands behind what should be rightfully given to student- athletes and that the ncaa has the enough budget to satisfy all parties, to fairly and equally divide it between all that is involved the athletic activity. (Berri). So as on the other end, espn being its length and power in the U.S it does not set the best example contradicting the ncaa as it would Mousa 4 only provoke the student-athletes and lead them to set their mind off to something other than what they are supposed to be thinking in their current age, as the student-athletes already go through a ton of stress such as; grades, practice, family and any other personal events that might occur. In conclusion, the argument is on whether student-athletes should be paid or not. Furthermore, the two organizations have a completely different approach to the matter, yet still want the best for the student-athletes. To provide them with the best there is to compensate them for the hard work they put in. The ncaa has the upper hand in this matter as they set the rules on what they see is fit for the student-athletes and what Therefore, there is a good potential for both the organizations to come together with a solution to have the espn to stop contradicting but instead represent the ncaa in a respectable image, where it will motivate and encourage the student-athletes that have the talents to complete in the program and respect the agreed ruled between both parties discussing the matter. Mousa 5 Works cited Berri, David J. NCAA N.P., 26 Mar. Web. Elias, Paul. heat up over paying NCAA The Virginian Pilot. Sept 20, 2010, C2. Jackson, Scoop. Myth of ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 12 Sept. 2013. Web Lodge, Alexander. Afraid of the Big Bad NCAA? ... The Ed Impact on the Amateurism The Journal of Corporation Law, 2016/04/01, Vol: 41, p775 Wilbon Pardon, Michael. Athletes Deserve to Be ESPN Internet Ventures, 18 July 2011. Web.