Alissa Crotty Professor Casey Clague ENC1102 12 February 2017 Project 1: Cuba and US Relations In the 1960s during the height of the Cold War, Cuba aligned itself with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republic (USSR). This put the United States and Cuba on opposing sides and resulted in years of resentment and bitterness between the two nations. A result of this was to enforce a holistic embargo on Cuba that in recent years has been drastically amended and partially lifted. Though the United States and Cuba have had political differences for many years that have put them at odds with one another, both desire to be a part of the global market can help them overcome these differences. For decades, the United States has had a difficult time moving forward with Cuban relations. Following the Cuban Revolution, Cuba became a communist state where everything was regulated through the government. This led to a society that had injustices and crimes that are often seen in dictatorships and other communist regimes. From the stand point of the United States, a main issue with Cuba was the human rights violations that were committed in Cuba. Cuba has violated the Labour Organization that it has ratified, specifically regarding freedom of association, collective bargaining, protection of wages, and prohibitions on forced (Cuba). The state also does not allow for any criticism of Cuba and those who do are incarcerated in prisons that are vastly overcrowded and underregulated. To this day, Cuba also does not acknowledge human rights monitoring as a activity and denies legal status to local human rights (Cuba). Due to many human rights violations, the United States has allowed for Cuban immigrants to seek political asylum to escape the Castro Regime. During the Cuban Revolution, many affluent Cuban individuals and families chose to emigrate, with the overwhelming majority choosing the area around Miami (Walter and Ingo). During the 1980s, the Regan administration put Cuba on a terror threat list due to their ties with many dangerous separatist movements and are currently still on that list due to their ties with the Basque separatist movement and Colombian Guerillas (Lamrani). Some parts of the American government still believe that Cuba poses a real and imminent threat to the United States due to their ties to various separatist movements. Until recently, there was a total travel ban between the United States and Cuba, partly due to the perceived threat of Cuba. In addition to the total embargo on Cuba, the United States attempted to completely isolate Cuba from the Western hemisphere. In the 1960s, the United States moved to suspend membership from the Organization of American States on the grounds that communism incompatible with principles and objectives of the inter-American (Leogrande). Over the next couple of decades, this would break down and become disregarded by all Latin American countries. The United States believed that in essentially icing out Cuba from the global market, as best as they could, that they would succeed in persuading Cuba to change its totalitarian government into something more closely reflecting the government of the United States. Before the 1960s and the Cuban Revolution the Cuban government needed serious reform due to a government full of corruption and Cuba exceedingly nearing failure as a state due to the mismanaging of the country. The country was a dangerous, racist, and corrupt place that was not benefitting from the current government. At the beginning of the 1920s, until Fidel taking of the government in 1959, the Cuban government was a long series of government and military coup The country had experienced so much turmoil as a and that the people of Cuba grew restless and resentful of their (Walter and Ingo). Taking this into account, desire for a new and different political system was understandable regardless of how drastic it seemed. This is also true for alignment with the USSR as it was an alignment of two countries that held the same ideological beliefs for their governments. In accordance with this, once the USSR fell in 1991, as well as its allies, relations between the United States and Cuba should have warmed since the fight against communism was over and had taken a new approach. Additionally, Cuba did not have the resources to be a formidable opponent to the United States (Campos). After the fall of the USSR, the main case for combating communism was replaced by issues, like the fight for democracy and the defence of human (Campos). This supports the notion that the United States was overbearing in their attempt to isolate Cuba from the global community because as the ideals in how to handle communism and dictatorships evolved, the handling and treatment of Cuba from the United States did not change and remained steadfast in its old ways. Equally important, for the past two decades Cuba has sought to improve the overall shortcomings of the country in compliance with international standards in order to once again become fully ingrained in the global community. Though at a slower pace than ideal, Cuba is modernizing and at a but, for Cuba, ultimately radical overhaul of the relationship between the state, the individual, and society, without cutting the socialist umbilical (Sweig, Rockefeller and Rockefeller). Cuba has undergone a massive reform that includes most prominently agriculture, the formalization of a progressive tax code, and the highly publicized efforts to begin shrinking the size of state payrolls by allowing for a greater number of small (Sweig, Rockefeller and Rockefeller). This allows for Cuba to remain the socialist state that it desires to remain but this also creates allowances for the country to have real profit and a competitive market in the global community. When Fidel Castro transferred power to his brother in 2006, it opened Cuba to the possibility of modernization, some of which occurred while Fidel was still alive. Some of the most notable instances of modernization include the travel ban being lifted and Cubans no longer needing the basically impossible to leave Cuba, which occurred after his death. Cuba will continue to transition into a more modern and less problematic state in the coming years. Leader Castro said, reform, or we (Sweig, Rockefeller and Rockefeller) meaning he acknowledges that in order for Cuba to become fully integrated in the global community in the long term, they must modernize and update the way that they do things. By looking past what the United States believes that Cuba has committed too many atrocities and stands for the wrong ideals and Cuba has established a system that they believe works for them, the two can find middle ground in order to move past the issues of previous decades and forge ahead. That being said, the United States should not remove the embargo against Cuba entirely. There should be heavy regulations against the United States doing business in Cuba until Cuba is able to properly mandate the private work sector. Cuba has stated its goal to have percent of GDP be in private hands within five (Sweig, Rockefeller and Rockefeller). As of now, there is very little oversight in the private sector in Cuba which could result in poor working conditions for Cubans as well as either the Cuban government being taken advantage of or businesses being taken advantage of by the Cuban government. Until all basic human rights are standard throughout Cuba, the United States should also have a trade embargo. The United States should properly vacate Guantanamo Bay and allow for its rightful return to the Cuban government. Furthermore, the Cuban Adjustment Act should not be abolished. While at a national level the country is reforming, it takes time for local corruption and atrocities to stop, so Cubans should be able to seek political asylum. The United States should also cease interfering with the Cuban government type and allow for the country to remain a socialist state. If Cuba and the United States could reach a consensus on these points, then the two nations could potentially be on a path for copacetic relations. Word Count: 1354 Works Cited Campos, Carlos. Cuba In the Western Hemisphere: What Has  International Journal of Cuban Studies 7.2 (2015): 142-163. Cuba. 2016. <https://www.hrw.org/world-report/2017/country-chapters/cuba>. Lamrani, S. Rapprochment Cuba/USA: Opportunities and  International Journal of Cuban Studues 7.1 (2015): 1-8. Leogrande, William. Normalizing US-Cuba relations: escaping the shackles of the  International Affairs 91.3 (2015): 473-488. Sweig, Julia, et al. Cuba After Communism. July/August 2013. Walter, Roy and Roy Ingo. Understanding a Cuban  Independent Review 20.4 (2016): 531-546.