Nannapaneni 1 Rohitha Nannapaneni ENC 1102 Composition 1102 Professor Noah Pearlstone 12 February 2017 Eating Disorders According to the American Psychological Association (APA), eating disorders are abnormal eating habits that can threaten your health. The three most common eating disorders include: anorexia nervosa, bulimia, and binge eating. It has been shown that certain psychological factors and specific traits are linked to each of the disorders (American Psychological Association). The mission is to apply psychological knowledge to benefit lives (American Psychological Association). Dance/USA is a national organization dedicated to serving a broad cross-section of professional dance (Dance/USA). Both of these organizations are known for promoting good health. However, it has been proven that dancers have a high risk of developing eating disorders. APA thinks that dancers and dance companies are not educated about eating disorders as much as they should be. Dancers are encouraged by nutritionists to lose more and more weight which the APA deems unhealthy. What these two groups need to do is send professionals who can alert and educate dancers about eating disorders and the consequences and promote good nutrition at the same time. The APA is the leading scientific and professional organization representing psychology in the United States. According to the APA, certain traits like anxiety and depression are linked to different types of eating disorders. Most people diagnosed with eating disorders suffer from Nannapaneni 2 low self-esteem, helplessness, and intense dissatisfaction from the way they look (American Psychological Association). Genetics can even play a role in putting health at risk. There are multiple situations that can lead individuals to develop eating disorders. People who participate in sports that emphasize low weight have a higher risk at developing eating disorders. Once people start engaging in eating disorders, these behaviors can escalate. Research done by the APA has shown that people diagnosed with anorexia have a mortality rate 18 times higher than people with no eating disorders. Eating disorders can even cause physical problems that can devastate the body. The physical problems vary with each disorder. However, most eating disorders can be treated successfully by trained health care professionals. For some cases, treatment would be long-term (American Psychological Association). Dance/USA believes that dance is essential to a healthy society and hopes to lead the professional dance industry. They have a task force on dancer health that is composed of medical professionals that work directly with professional dancers across USA and Canada. The primary goal of the Dance/USA Task Force on Dancer Heath is maintain the health, safety and well being of professional (Dance/USA). The Task Force provides educational sessions at the beginning of every season that include educational sessions on nutrition and other general health issues for dancers. These educational sessions are paid time and must the same importance to both dancers and administration as any paid (Dance/USA). There are other ways the Task Force recommend on teaching dancers about nutritional health. Recent data revealed that disordered eating is as high as 70% percent among female athletes and dancers. While they do promote good nutrition, they still require dancers to be thinner. They do, however, discourage while making efforts to help dancers achieve a reasonable dance physique. When it comes to there is very little data to guide the Task Force on what Nannapaneni 3 dancers can safely weigh (Dance/USA). Dancers are mostly observed to see if they have or have any symptoms of disordered eating or severe weight loss. To say that Dance/USA does not care about the health of its dancers would be bias and untrue. And to say that the APA is exaggerating about this issue is even more so. Both of these organizations may be at opposite ends of the issue. However, there is a common ground between the two. Both stakeholders want best for subjects, in this case, dancers. They want the dancers to be as healthy as possible. The main discussion is held between people who want dancers to be physically and mentally healthy. Since their common goal is to teach the significance of eating disorders, the compromise between APA and Dance/USA would be to voluntarily send professionals who can alert and educate dancers about eating disorders and the consequences and promote good nutrition at the same time. These professionals can educate dancers through hourly sessions and seminars. Often health issues are already taught to dancers, but not that much. Dancers would have to be required to attend these sessions. Although these two organizations have different approaches to promoting good health, they still have the same goal in mind: to educate dancers about eating disorders and consequences. Nannapaneni 4 Works Cited American Psychological Association. About APA. 2017. 29 January 2017. <http://www.apa.org/>. American Psychological Association. Eating Disorders. October 2011. 12 February 2017. <http://www.apa.org>. Arcelus, Jon, Gemma L. Witcomb, and Alex Mitchell. Prevalence Of Eating Disorders Amongst Dancers: A Systemic Review And  European Eating Disorders Review 22.2 (2014): 92-101. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dance/USA. Dance/USA Taskforce on Dancer Health. 2010. 29 January 2017. >. Dance/USA. Mission Statement. 2013. 29 January 2017. <https://www.danceusa.org/>.