Zeinab 1 Talal Zeinab ENC1102 Noah Pearlstone February 11 2017 Social Media and Teens For years, technology has constantly developed, growing to become an essential branch of knowledge that is vital in the contemporary world. The creation of products such as mobile phones, computers and television has opened the door for the launching of social networking sites, the likes of Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. Social networking sites became a huge success, and Twitter, founded in 2006, grew to become one of the most renowned social networking sites on a global scale. Twitter is a prolific social networking site, with their mission being, To give everyone the power to create and share ideas and information instantly, without  (About Twitter). The American Psychological Association is an involved stakeholder who oppose the beliefs of social networking sites, the likes of Twitter, and work to minimize the exposure of users to the side effects of social networking sites. The two involved stakeholders, Twitter and the American Psychological Association, operate in contrasting manners and oppose each principles. For a feasible compromise to be reached, both stakeholders must be willing to make sacrifices. Twitter must accept the fact that an age limit is necessary for the preservation of underage users, while the American Psychological Association must realize how powerful their opponent is and that their complete elimination is not an option. Both stakeholders will not receive exactly what they want, but in an opposition such as this one, the best Zeinab 2 compromise is one that equally satisfies both parties with the most reasonable solution employed. Twitter is one of the most accessed social networking sites in the world, and their reputation speaks for itself. According to the Twitter Company Facts, an approximate 313 million users are active on a monthly basis (About Twitter). For teenagers, a social networking site such as Twitter will highly appeal to them, encouraging them to be a part of the growing population. Sasha Frere-Jones, an author for the New Yorker magazine, published an article revolving around the positive aspects of Twitter. Frere-Jones stated, How does a common squirrel like to spend its afternoon? Now you know. What does dubstep sound like? Let Twitter tell you. Every word in the English language, being tweeted one by one?  (1). Evidently, Twitter is designed in a captivating manner that makes it hard for teenagers to not get involved. As a social networking site, the bounties that it has to offer to its users are many, keeping them up to date on everything going on locally or globally, as well as feeding them with knowledge they cannot attain elsewhere. Based on its uniqueness and creativity with what it can offer to users, Twitter has the power to attract. However, regardless of all of the good, Twitter exposes its users, especially teenagers, to negative impacts. Doctor Gregory Jantz, a strong representative of the Huffington Post, produced an article exposing the impacts of Twitter on the teenage brain. The article revolved around a study that was conducted by the International Center for Media & the Public Affairs (ICMPA) in collaboration with the Salzburg Academy on Media & Global Change. The experiment involved 1,000 college students from 10 different countries, challenging them to stay away from all forms of technology for 24 hours. Jantz spoke on the findings, reporting that, A majority of students regardless of country successfully unplug for 24 hours. Either they cheated on their own or found it impossible to avoid the Zeinab 3 atmospheric nature of media. Students reported feeling depressed, anxious, lonely, bored and sad without technology in  (1). findings exhibit the negative impacts of social networking sites on teenagers, stressing their importance in the lives of teens. Evidently, teenagers end up suffering addiction, being too engrossed by Twitter to a point where they forget they have other things to do. Cyber-bullying is another worrying issue that teenagers may experience. It is side effects like these that alert an association such as the American Psychological Association, pushing them to take action and solve the issue. The American Psychological Association, the stakeholder on the other end of the argument, is an organization of psychologists who are dedicated towards preserving adults, teenagers and children from any psychological issue. Their task is, to advance the creation, communication and application of psychological knowledge to benefit society and improve  (About APA 2016). As health professionals, the organization prioritizes the public and work to ensure the protection of their mental health. Based on their beliefs, the American Psychological Association must take action to preserve people, especially teenagers, from the woes of Twitter. Doctor Larry Rosen, professor of psychology at California State University, presented an article discussing the impacts of social media on the younger populace. Rosen did not fail to mention the positive impacts of social media, but his findings revealed that the bad outbalanced the good. Rosen stated, daily overuse of media and technology has a negative effect on the health of all children, preteens and teenagers by making them more prone to anxiety, depression, and other psychological disorders, as well as by making them more susceptible to future health  (1). Due to these findings, the APA have developed a rivalry between them and Twitter, as they see that social networking sites, the likes of Twitter, are accountable for the negative impacts that their users are exposed to. Zeinab 4 The two involved stakeholders have completely differing goals and objectives, making the need for a compromise much more urgent. The reason behind the indifference and the inability of these two stakeholders to make peace is due to a lack of comprehension of their beliefs. According to the APA, social networking companies believe that adapting to standard social networking and legal requirements is enough to ensure their services and quality to the needs of its users and other stakeholders (2011). Based on that notion, it is understood that teenagers, along with the remainder of the users, are subject to negative impacts that are causing them harm indirectly. Twitter and the APA must seek a solution that satisfies both of their needs, or in other words, getting them to meet half way. The solution they should look for is one that comes with the minimal damage, not affecting either of the stakeholders in a negative manner. The most logical solution that they should work towards is for Twitter to employ an age restriction for the users. Teenagers under the age of fifteen should not be given access to Twitter unless granted permission by a parent or a legal guardian. Twitter must accept the fact that a percentage of their users might drop, but they must also make peace with the matter as it is something necessary. What Twitter can also do is advertise the negative impacts of their own site, giving timed notifications that encourage the users to leave Twitter and focus on other important things in daily life. On the other hand, the American Psychological Association must make peace with Twitter and not argue over the age restriction or any of the rules set by the social networking site. They must understand that the elimination of such a powerful social networking site is not an option that they can seek, and therefore must accept the conditions and terms between them and Twitter. If this solution is employed properly and practiced rationally, the safety of teenagers will be ensured. Zeinab 5 Decisively, Twitter and the American Psychological Association both have differing goals and beliefs. goal is attract as many users as possible, without giving attention to the negative impacts the users can experience. The American Psychological Association work to protect the mental health. However diverse their ideologies are, the two stakeholders will find settlement if the delivered compromise is correctly employed. For any compromise to be successful, sacrifices must be made from both opposing parties, otherwise the severity of the conflict will only grow, and the likeliness of a collateral damage grows with it. Zeinab 6 Works Cited About  N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. American Psychological Association (APA). Good and Bad Impacts on American Psychological Association 2011. Frere-Jones, Sasha. Good Things About  The New Yorker. The New Yorker, 16 July 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Jantz, Gregory. What Is Twitter Doing to Teen  The Huffington Post. N.p., 11 Aug. 2011. Web. Rosen, Larry D. Social Good and Bad Impacts on  The American Psychological Association, 6 Aug. 2011. Web.