Chen 1 Lulu Chen Mr. ENC 1102 003 January 29, 2017 Immigration: Are You For or Against? Jose is a normal boy who grows up with toys and friends just like other American kids. He never knew he is on the illegal status till he was fifteen years old. Jose came to the United States when he was five, his parents took him across the American border. Because of his illegal status, he cannot go to school, find a job or even have his own car(Myimmigrationstory). After World War II, America became a super power country, and it also attracts a large number of migrants trying to live here. According to Trends, Consequences and Prospects for the United the author Chiswick mention the total number of allowing immigrants was around 600,000 in 1990, till 2002, the average of increasing amount is about one million per year (10). The image next page shows the percentage of illegal immigrants in different states of United States in 2012. Some people started to think about is an immigration benefit for the country, or it will harm the United States. They divided into two camps that one is to support immigration, and the other one is to against immigration. While the National Immigration Forum believes immigrants should have more opportunities and higher social status because immigrants have great potential to help the economics of America, the Federation for American Immigration Reform argues that immigration should be reduced and limited due to the large amount of immigrants are uncontrolled and increase the unemployment rate. To satisfy the objectives of both groups, the government should set a limit for immigrants that enter America every year, Chen 2 offer more opportunities for immigrants who enter America legally, and strengthen border management to restrict illegal immigrants. immigration debate) The National Immigration Forum is an organization that helps immigrants have more opportunities and live better in America. The organization has many sponsors, such as AltaMed, SEIU Strong Together, and IBC Bank. The total financial donation of the year 2015 was around five million US dollars. The chair of the organization is Laura Foote Reiff from Greenberg Traurig. This organization helps immigrants through three major programs: Bibles Badges Business, New American Workforce, and Forum Action Fund. The National Immigration Forum believes should be treated better as same as other Americans do because immigrants have great value to make America better(NIF). Many immigrants came to America with skill and knowledge, and they could benefit the economics of the United States. According to the author Borjas, who is an economist study on immigration issue Chen 3 and currently teach at Harvard University. He mentions GDP and labor supply have a positive correlation, which means when more immigration get in America, GDP will increase. For every 0.3 percent of GDP increase, it presents the gain of $800 trillion (149-168). This data shows how a large amount of economic increase by allowing immigrants enter in America. The image below shows the relationship between immigration and unemployment from 1990 to 2004. (Global economic slumps and migration) When immigration rate increases, the rate of unemployment decrease, which means immigration can help to reduce unemployment rate. It proves immigrants can really help the United States raise up the economic status in the world. Also, the economic increase could benefit the citizens of America by building better infrastructure. For those who the considering economic effect that brought by immigrants stand on the support side of the immigration issue. Chen 4 The Federation for American Immigration Reform is an organization that tries to reform the immigration law and reduce immigration in the United States. This organization has established more than thirty-five years and it has become the group of anti-immigration. They have over one-point-three million memberships and about fifty private sponsors. The Federation for American Immigration Reform believes immigration should be limited because immigrants will cause unemployment and social security issue(FAIR). According to policy and the authors writes of the 9/11 hijackers entered the United States using various immigrant visas, some perfectly in order and other obtained fraudulently. (Givens This means allowing more immigrants enter in America will also increase the risk of social security. The image below shows the relationship between immigration and criminal from 1970 to 2007. (Immigration and Crime: Assessing a Conflicted Issue) Chen 5 Criminal increase accompanied with immigration increase. It proves allowing more immigrants get into America will result in higher risk of security. It is hard to make sure every immigrant is not a potential terrorist, and the government cannot keep on track the action of every migrant. For those who considering the social security effect that caused by immigrants will take an opposite side with those who support immigration. One way to meet both objectives is to limit the number of immigrants that enter into America every year and provide better welfare to those who enter America legally and with high skill. Illegal immigrants are the major factor that causes social instability. They are not being inquired and enter America without security customs inspection. Compare with legal immigrants, they are more educated and less possible to become a terrorist. According to the article We Know About Illegal Immigration from the author Barrera states, Mexico is the largest single group of immigrants in the United In 2014, the number of illegal immigrants from Mexico is around 5.6 million. (Barrera). President Trump had signed an agreement that starts to build a border wall between America and Mexico. Although it is a controversial action, it will restrict illegal immigrants enter America through Mexico border. On the other hand, legal immigrants who with high skill should be welcome to America. The United States immigration law has an employment-based immigration, which allows people who has high skill and being invited by their employer immigrates to America. This act attracts many people who are highly educated and high skill from different countries immigrate to the United States. They can use their skills to contribute this nation and making America become a better country. In conclusion, immigration is the most important issue of America since the United States is the first immigration country. Whether support or against immigration, they both have their Chen 6 reasons. The only goal of both groups is to make American greater. Immigration has its own advantage and disadvantage. When considering to support or oppose it, people should first determine what are the positive effects and what are the negative effects. Keeping the benefit brought by immigrants and reduce the harmful effect is the only way to make America great and strong. Chen 7 Works Cited Barrera, Ana. We Know About Illegal Immigration From PewResearchCenter, http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2015/11/20/what-we-know-about-illegal- immigration-from-mexico/. Borjas, George J. Immigration Economics. n.p.: Cambridge : Harvard University Press, 2014., 2014. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Chiswick, Barry R. Immigration : Trends, Consequences And Prospects For The United States. n.p.: Bingley : Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 2007., 2007. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Givens, Terri E., Gary P. Freeman, and David L. Leal. Immigration Policy And Security.U.S., European, And Commonwealth Perspectives. n.p.: New York : Routledge, 2009., 2009. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hatton, Timothy., Williamson, Jeffrey. economic slumps and Vox, http://voxeu.org/article/global-economic-slumps-and-migration Jose. Immigration Myimmigrationstory, https://myimmigrationstory.com/ Vaughan, Jessica., Camarota, Steven A. and Crime: Assessing a Conflicted Center for Ummugration Studies, http://cis.org/ImmigrantCrime N/A. immigration The Economist, http://www.economist.com/blogs/graphicdetail/2014/11/graphics-0