Guilarte-Debras 1 Laura Guilarte-Debras Dennis Composition 2 01/30/2017 Animal Testing In 2006, there were six men that took a drug known as (TGN1412) in a clinical trial at Northwick Park Hospital in London. The drug caused the men to have serious life threatening and disastrous side effect in less than two hours after taking the drug, the side effects included organ failure as well as brain swelling. That same drug was previously tested and given to monkeys at a 500 fold higher dose. The monkeys unlike the humans showed no ill effects and the drug was therefore considered safe enough to proceed to human trials. Animal testing is a procedure that has been around since the year 1850 as a way to have preliminary data on the usage and safety of makeup products. While European Coalition to End Animal Experiments is attempting to get together 20 groups to end animal testing and intersect experiments on animals in laboratories because they believe that animal testing is inhumane, cruel, and no longer necessary, Pro-Test fights for the right to be able to use animal testing to facilitate science because they believe that no other alternative will deliver the same results. To satisfy the objectives of both groups, Pro-Test should reside to other animal testing alternatives such as Vitro which provides almost the same results animal testing delivers that way the objective of European Coalition to End Animal Experiments is also being met because it limits the amount of animals that are being tested on. The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments is an organization that branches into 20 different organizations that are made for the protection of animals. It was formed in the year 1990 by organizations all across Europe, they were campaigning for a ban on animal testing for cosmetics. They believe that animal testing is scientifically unreliable and that human alternatives are the best way to go, a lot quicker and a lot cheaper. An animal test for eye irritation is 1,800 dollars compared to a Vitro human test it is 1,400 and a photoxicity test on animals is 11,500 dollars and a non animal test is 1,300 dollars. ECEAE is an organization that opposes to all animal experiments. In their main website they have a quotes of sayings the organization stands for and one of them was something Mohandas Gandhi once said abhor vivisection with my soul. All the scientific discoveries stained with innocent blood I count as of no Mohandas (Mahatma). The website also states that million animals are used in European laboratories every year- 137 animals suffering in cruel and painful experiments every 10 (ECEAE website) they provide the audience with facts on how many animals suffer every year to animal testing that tends to not be reliable 92 percent of the time. The graph above shows the statistics on animal use throughout the years and what they are used for, weather it is biological research, applied studies, safety, or other. Pro-Test is an organization that has been around since 2006 and is fighting for the right to keep animal testing in laboratories going. Pro-Test aims to educate people on how animal testing is still the best way to go when it comes to measuring the reliability of a chemical or a specific drug. Pro-Test standing for science is an organization that advocates animal testing and seeks to fight for the right to be able to use animal testing to facilitate science. The organization strongly supports animal testing and believe that is it crucially needed to be able to further medical science. They claim that without animal research a lot of the medicine that is out there would not exist today. According to them animal research has made it possible for scientists to find treatments for cancer, antibiotics, and vaccines. Their goal is to keep spreading awareness on the necessity of animal research and that someone will listen and stop trying to take it away from them. 87.5 percent of all animal testing is done on rodents but there is a total of 1.13 million animals, not including mice or rats that are tested on for experiments but it is stated that animal research has helped develop many vaccines including those that are against polio, TB and, meningitis. The graph below illustrates the amounts of animals of a specific species that are used for animal testing. It is very difficult to find common ground between these two stakeholders since their goals are so far apart from one another. One stakeholder is aiming to put an end to animal testing for once and forever and the other stakeholder refuses to let go of their rights to do animal research and animal experiments. Something that they do have in common and their ambition to keep fighting for what they each believe is right. They both provide plausible explanations for why they believe and feel the way that they do. Although ECEAE has been around a whole decade longer than Pro-Test, they have been around for quite some time as well and keep fighting for what they believe. After the disaster that occurred in Northwick, an alternative which was a human based toxicity test was developed and when they tested the drug TGN1412 on it, the method showed that you should avoid using it on humans. European Coalition is against the use of animal testing no matter what it is for but if Pro-Test reduces the amount of animals that they use during their research and use alternative such as In Vitro which uses samples of blood, cells, and other tissues some of European Coalitions objective will also be met. Works Cited European Coalition to End Animal  . Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pro-Test. PAST  Standing up for Science . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Www.drumbeatcreative.co.uk, Drumbeat Creative -. About  About Us . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. What happened to...Observer stories updated: Pro-Test in support of animal  The Observer (London, England) 2006: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Works Cited About  Reasons Why We Need Animals in Research Understanding Animal Research . N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Costs of Animal and Non-Animal Testing : Humane Society  . N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Dilling, Walter J. Modes In Which Drugs Have Been Introduced To  British Medical Journal 2.3481 (1927): 546-48. Web. Posted by EMJ on March 2, 2010. Animal Testing Statistics and  Primate Diaries . N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Proof of  . N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Seth. STATS Animal Testing  Brain . Statistic Brain, 09 Sept. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.