White 1 Zaria White Sarah Basil ENC 1102 10 February 17 Drop Dead Gorgeous or Average Female? Over the years the definition of beauty has changed with each emerging decade. In the 1900s the definition of a beautiful woman, was tall and slender with a voluptuous chest and wide hips. This was the standard up until the 1950s when curvy was considered the new sexy. With this, women were able to feel slightly more comfortable in their own skin. After some decades passed, and the 2000s came around it seemed as if the beauty standards back to where it had started. To fit in, Vogue advertises beautiful woman as being tall, thin, fair skinned, long hair, big eyes, and symmetrical proportions. Though this is what is considered beautiful by magazine standards, the average woman does not resemble this definition. On the other hand, Dove has started campaigns to promote self-love to help those who have suffered mental and health disorders caused by not fitting into the category that Vogue and other magazines set. Vogue, being a popular magazine advertises clothes and accessories through the use of women that are deemed attractive, however the average person does not resemble the image present in the photographs leading to high rates of self-hate and low self-esteem, as well as mental and health disorders. By incorporating a more diverse range of models into beauty magazines it can help to lower the high rates of low self-esteem, self-hate, and mental and health disorders. Vogue Magazine, whose mission statement is to fashion in the context of culture and the world live in how dress, live and socialize; what eat, listen to and watch; who leads and inspires Vogue immerses itself in fashion, always leading White 2 readers to what will happen next. Thought-provoking, relevant and always influential, Vogue defines the culture of wishes to represent all people, but does not incorporate a wide variety of models (Kuipers). Magazine companies and model agencies say the reasoning behind the hiring of thin models is because clothes look better on taller, thinner girls. They also believe that average looking models will not aid in the selling of clothes, for they could ruin the lines of an outfit when on the runway. Most of their models still fit into that fair skinned, very thin, long hair, light eyes, image. Since magazines and advertisements portray this as the ideal perfect body and image, many people feel as though they are not beautiful, therefore causing low self-esteem that can lead to many other problems. In order to fit the beauty standards, set by fashion magazines and advertisements, many women turn to eating disorders or plastic surgery in order to obtain the perfect body, which can cause many problems. In an article written on the effects of media and appearance it states disorders theorists and feminist scholars have long indicted fashion magazines, movies, television, and advertising for their advocacy of disordered (Levine & Smolak, 1998). Bulimia Nervosa and Anorexia Nervosa are among the top eating disorders that average women and models experience in order to get the shape they want or to stay as thin as possible. Other women believe that surgery is the next best option, from having ribs removed to obtain a smaller waist, or getting liposuction on every part of their body containing some fat. However, these surgeries come with many risks such as infection, nerve damage, or organ damage. Also, women who have more pigmentation undergo cosmetic surgeries that will help lighten the skin in order to achieve a more desirable complexion. The women who undergo these operations and commit to these eating disorders believe they will be able to fit into the category of beautiful. White 3 Self-love organizations and campaigns, such as Dove, aspire to help all women feel that they are beautiful in their own skin and that the beauty standards set by media is not actual beauty. In the early 2000s Dove conducted a survey asking over 3,000 women in 10 countries what their priorities and interests in beauty were. From this study research showed that only two percent of the women who were interviewed consider themselves as beautiful 2016). The results of this study then sparked an idea in the mind of the companies Director, which came to be known as the Dove Real Beauty Campaign. The company put together the campaign in order to promote self-love, through the use of real women, and bring to surface a topic that women wanted to talk about. Real Beauty mission statement is believe beauty should be a source of confidence, and not anxiety. why we are here to help women everywhere develop a positive relationship with the way they look, helping them raise their self-esteem and realize their full 2016). From this campaign, women have been able to appreciate and except their bodies for what they are and not for what they look like. Another reason that this campaign was created was to have a positive impact on the lives of young girls growing up, to have someone to look up to, that were not size 2 or smaller. In an article, written by Angela Celebrex and Ashley Waggoner, it states has been suggested that women viewing commercials that include average-sized models might experience greater self-awareness of their own bodies due to the explicit focus on women, triggering a fear of (Celebre and Waggoner 2014). By incorporating a wider variety of models varying from thin-to larger and from gorgeous to into Vogue magazines, advertisements, and campaigns this could help the low self-esteem epidemic that is occurring now, as well as help to promote that normal is considered beautiful. Dove and other companies White 4 have been able to achieve this as well as new lengths of success through the use of real models, success is evident in the tremendous publicity that it has received, for example, with the models being asked to appear as guests on many popular American talk shows, including The View, Good Morning America, The Today Show, Ellen, and (Celebre and Waggoner 2014). However, this compromise has not yet worked due to the fact that Dove alone has received a lot of criticism over the use of real models, and Vogue has been told by fashion designers they do not wish to have their clothes advertised by larger models. Vogue, in recent news, released an issue featuring Ashley Graham, a size 14 model, alongside other diverse yet thinner models, which has Beauty Revolution: No Norm Is The New on its cover (Reporter 2017). Though Vogue is making an effort for change, the use of Photoshop on the cover and throughout its March issue still makes these models appear to have no imperfections as well as making the body positive model, Ashley Graham, appear thinner. If Vogue were to stop the use of Photoshop and use a variety of models, they will be able to gain more support by everyday women around, as Dove has portrayed through its gain of millions of worldwide followers since their campaign has launched. In a study conducted by Swam and Smith they state television programs that are thought to evoke positive feelings toward body image actually have the same aversive impact as television programs that promote the thin (Swami, Smith 2012). If such changes are made to Vogue and other magazine companies, people who watch or see advertisements that use will not feel the need to become as self-conscious about their own bodies or criticize companies who use real models due to thin being the ideal beauty standard. This will cause greater success and more support for Dove and Vogue, which both strive to produce ads and White 5 campaigns that appeal to all women, as well as making women everywhere feel beautiful and comfortable in their own skin. Vogue magazine has had many magazines issues featuring women who are very thin and gorgeous as the cover and throughout pages. These are the same magazines that everyday women, who are considered average or as not fitting the beauty standards are looking at and comparing themselves to. A result of these standards set by magazines has resulted in huge low self-esteem epidemic that has spread all over the country. Women have resorted to eating disorders and surgeries to acquire the look that is considered by beauty standards. Companies like Dove have set up campaigns in order to help women overcome their low self- esteem and see themselves as the beautiful person they truly are. By incorporating a wider variety of models that are, thin to plus size, light to dark, smooth complexion to freckled, and so on into magazines and advertisements both Vogue and Dove will be able to gain more supporters while receiving less criticism . White 6 Works Cited Celebre, Angela, and Ashley Wagonner Denton. Magazine Issue 2 2014 / Issue  The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly of the Dove Campaign for Real Beauty Magazine Issue 2/2014 - Issue 19 In-Mind. Ed. Rosanna Guadagno and Reine Van Der Wal. N.p., 2014. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. Caffrey, Cait. Of Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters.Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Kuipers, Giselinde, Yiu Fai Chow, and Elise van der Laan. Vogue And The Possibility Of Cosmopolitics: Race, Health And Cosmopolitan Engagement In The Global Beauty  Ethnic & Racial Studies 37.12 (2014): 2158. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Levine, M. P., & Smolak, L. (1998). The mass media and disordered eating: Implications for primary prevention. In G. Van Noordenbos & W. Vandereycken (Eds.), The prevention of eating disorders (pp. London: Athlone. White 7  Dove UK. N.p., 22 June 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.dove.com/us/en/stories/about-dove/our-vision.html>. POWELL, MICHELLE. RADICAL LOVE IN A POST-FEMINIST AGE: Reading The Pedagogy Of Campaign For Real  International Journal Of Critical Pedagogy 6.1 (2015): 83-98. Education Source. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Reporter, Dailymail.com. Happened to Vogue Accused of Photoshopping Cover and Trying to Make Ashley Graham Appear  Daily Mail Online. Associated Newspapers, 09 Feb. 2017. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. <http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-4204764/Vogue-accused-Photoshopping- Gigi-Hadid.html>. Swami, V., & Smith, J. M. (2012). How not to feel good naked? The effects of television programs that use on female body image and mood. Journal of Social and Clinical Psychology, 31(2), 151-168.