Comeskey 1 Matthew Comeskey Instructor: Sarah Basil Composition 2 29 January 2017 Uber v. Taxi Companies With the rise of technology throughout the twenty first century, many new apps or mobile applications have been created. Of these apps, Uber has been one of the most controversial and powerful apps currently dominating a market. Uber strives to promote transportation through their mobile application that is very convenient for drivers as they can drive on their own time, are payed based off the base pay of the ride, the cost per mile, and the cost per minute. These variables are all dependent on the city that a driver is working in and the amount of traffic the application is experiencing. Yellow Cab Taxi Companies have been struggling heavily due to competition in the market place. Taxi companies are going into bankruptcy and thousands of hard working Americans are losing their jobs due to Uber. Therefore, the contention between Uber and Yellow Cab Taxi company is that Uber is rapidly becoming a monopoly; the compromise between the two should be for the leveling of the playing field to prevent Uber from becoming a monopoly so that traditional taxi companies can thrive as well in a growing marketplace. The taxi cab industry is getting increasingly fed up with Uber driving out customers and dropping competing prices so low that there is no room for taxi companies to make a profit. Many might wonder, is Uber doing Nancy Trejos, a seasoned traveler and writer for USA today weighs in on the impact that Uber has had on her travel experiences. Trejos explains that when she travels she simply uses Uber because of the comfort factor. found that normal cabs have an awful quality of (Trejos). This explains Ubers rapid takeover of the Comeskey 2 industry due to the simple quality of service that Uber holds standard to their drivers. Ubers big claim that gets so many drivers to convert to their company is that you can work at your own schedule. The ease of becoming an Uber driver and benefits that they provide their drivers such as surge pricing late at night or for busy events reels new Uber drivers in with ease. Taxi companies have been outraged with Uber as stealing their customers and driving market prices so low that there is little to no room for profit. Yellow Cab Co Op in San Francisco at one point was one of the biggest Taxi companies in a city where the demand for transportation is increasing exorbitantly. Yellow Cab Co Op in San Francisco released this statement regarding the status of the companies San Francisco chain largest taxi company, Yellow Cab Co-Op, said that it will file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in a December letter to shareholders obtained by the San Francisco Examiner. While regular taxi operations will continue, the company needs to restructure due to serious financial  caused by mounting debt and competition from ride-hailing (Solomon). The words predominantly Uber are dominating the transportation industry due to the simplicity yet sophistication of their business model. Essentially, Uber is stealing drivers, becoming a monopoly of the industry, and running taxi cab across the United States out of business. Uber is destroying the jobs of taxi companies and the article Uber The Job Destroyer by John Liss explains that Uber is simply stealing taxi company customers by offering considerably better customer service. This new transportation giant has their drivers easily roped in by the convenience and better paying opportunities presented by regular taxi companies. The convenience of being able to drive whenever you want or preferably in high flow time ranges is represented well in this quote by Liss drivers whom I know see effect on a daily basis: in the greater Washington area, UberX drivers flood the streets on weekends and in the Comeskey 3 evening when day jobs end. At other times, cabs sit on company lots because of decreased (Liss). Ubers plethora of drivers in popular and heavily populated cities means drivers flood the streets during busy hours to gain the higher pricing available to customers. This is one of the main reasons the company has taken off and is doing so well compared to their competition. While the two companies seem drastically different, they are very similar. The end game for both taxi companies and Uber is for drivers to get their customers from point A to point B with a quality service. Similarly, both companies also need the public to have a high demand for ride services. Uber and taxi companies are not even located in some cities due to the lack of profitability. Lastly, the two companies are relying on customer service to gain and continue to get customers back after they have used their service for the first time. When a customer becomes unhappy with one service they are more likely to result in heading to the competing companies. Each heavy reliance on customer service is driving both ability to succeed or fail. Taxi companies are very close to going down the same path as Blackberry, a cell phone company that went out of business in the US due to a lack of responsiveness to the market. Taxi companies are in the same situation as Blackberry was, if they do not respond to what the market wants and change their ways they could easily go down the same path. Don Reisinger wrote about the 10 issues that led to decline, the one that was strikingly like what Taxi Companies are going through states executives acknowledged that they failed to see how influential Apple would become in the smartphone market. They believed that Apple a real contender and would ultimately lose its position in the marketplace. The reality, however, was that Apple captured handset attention, made strong sales deals with mobile carriers Comeskey 4 and delivered innovative devices that people were willing to pay a premium (Reisinger). The effects of Blackberry not keeping up with what their consumers wanted ultimately lead to the downfall of their company. Taxi companies should look at failure and take away from their wrongdoings that they need to adapt and change their business model to better fit what customers are looking for. The proposed solution between the two groups would be for San Yellow Taxi Companies to become more like Uber to provide the best possible services and regain customers. Heather Mallick writes about the possible technology upgrades that could make the two companies very similar. cabbies and Uber not work on the same technology, making booking, paying, and fare-splitting easier and faster? Or cab companies could create their own (Mallick). If the cab company were to improve their technology, create their own interface, and work with drivers to better their quality of service; this would improve their ability to keep up with Uber and level the playing field. If this plan could work in San Francisco, then is it out of reach to say that they could gain customers back nationally by implementing this compromise? Uber would also gain as it would create a fair market place and drive away the lawsuits that are accusing Uber of becoming a monopoly and the legality of an app being a real-life service. Ubers main goal would be to achieve better public relations due to the political firestorm caused by taxi companies suing Uber for the variety of reasons stated above. Between the two companies, there are currently many differences. Taxi companies are struggling due to a lack of customer service and a technological interface. Uber is borderline considered a monopoly due to their extreme control on the market. If taxi companies were to gain a technological interface like Uber, and drivers were subjected to better conditions and Comeskey 5 personal vehicles, Taxi companies would be able to keep up in the growing industry. Uber would then gain competition and be turned from the route of becoming a monopoly. Each company would gain from these upgrades and very possible to create an interface for taxi cab companies to implement better training and customer service for their employees to level the playing field and become competitive with Uber again. Comeskey 6 Works Cited Driving Jobs vs Driving With  N.p., 2016. Web. LISS, JON. Uber The Job  Nation 300.7 (2015): 16-21. Academic Search Premier. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Mallick, Heather. a Middle Ground between Uber and Taxis:  Thestar.com. N.p., 11 July 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Reisinger, Don. 10 Mistakes That Contributed To Long  Eweek (2016): 1. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Solomon, Brian. First Casualty? San Largest Taxi Company Filing For  Forbes.Com (2016): 30. Business Source Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Trejos, Nancy. Uber, Lyft overtake taxis for business travel  USA Today 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.