Santoro 1 Lena Santoro Professor Spencer Bennington ENC1102 29 January 2017 Child Vaccination From Two Different Perspectives Throughout the years, vaccinations have vastly improved the quality and longevity of life. People, especially children, around the world have been protected against harmful infections and diseases. Some would think that most parents would jump at the chance to protect their child from lethal infections, however there are still those who question the benefits that vaccinations have to offer. The National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC) is an organization that has a neutral position when it comes to vaccinations, but encourage the use of preventative healthcare. Their main mission is to educate people on vaccinations for safety reasons, and fight for the right consumers have when it comes to making their own choices with healthcare (National Vaccine Information Center - Your Health. Your Family. Your Choice.). Every Child Before Two (ECBT) is an organization whose goal is to protect health with the help of vaccines, by informing parents, and ensuring that everyone has access to vaccinations (Every Child Before Two). These two groups have a common ground, despite their positions. Both of these organizations want to protect the people. Despite there being no federal laws requiring children in school to be vaccinated every state in the US requires children entering public schools to be vaccinated, with medical, religious, or philosophical exemptions. Currently 19 states offer philosophical exemptions (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). A compromise that would benefit the goals of both NVIC and ECBT would be, that in the states that allow philosophical exemptions, before a parent Santoro 2 could make the decision to declare a philosophical exemption, ECBT and NVIC would give a class on the potential benefits and consequences of vaccines in order to ensure well informed choices. The National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC) is also a non-profit organization founded in 1982. They raise awareness and funds towards research, to improve the safety and effectiveness of vaccines. They also follow the legislation and policy making that goes with vaccinations, in order to protect the rights people have regarding vaccination decisions. The NVIC is a big supporter in research to determine the effects of vaccines, and are actively seeking participants for longitudinal studies for heavily and unvaccinated children. Their goal is, inform and empower all Americans with vaccine information that will prevent vaccine injuries and (National Vaccine Information Center - Your Health. Your Family. Your Choice.). Overall, their ideology is to protect the health of all Americans. Every Child Before Two is a non-profit organization goal is to reduce vaccine preventable illnesses. Their mission is to increase public awareness in the benefits of vaccinations, guarantee all families have access to vaccines, and support proper vaccination scheduling for children. ECBT was founded by former First Lady Rosalynn Carter and Betty Bumpers, the former First Lady of Arkansas. After a measles outbreak that affected over 55,000 people they worked towards immunization laws for young children. Not only do they run campaigns aimed towards children, but for the whole family to spread awareness for the issue. ECBT also keep healthcare providers up to date on immunization information, and make sure that public health polices and laws are based on accurate scientific evidence (Every Child Before Two). These two organization have a common interest in mind, but some differences as well. If they were to work together possible that they could make a bigger impact with their combined voices. a lot of misconceptions when it comes to the admittance of children into public Santoro 3 schools when they are not vaccinated. Currently a non-vaccinated child can still attend public school if they are exempt for medical, religious, or philosophical reasons. The first two exemptions are self-explanatory, but a philosophical exemption means that a parent feels as though administration of one or more vaccines contradicts personal (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). An example of why a parent may not vaccinate would be they feel as if the information available is inadequate due to limitations in vaccination data (Adverse Effects of Pertussis and Rubella Vaccines). In the states that do allow philosophical exemptions a parent can simply hand in a written statement stating a opposition to the immunization for philosophical (Maine State Vaccine Requirements National Vaccine Information Center). A parent is not required to have proof of in-depth knowledge about the benefits and consequences of vaccines. Since NVIC and ECBT are both strong believers in parents making informed decisions to protect their families, a compromise that would benefit both parties would be that before a parent could make the decision to declare a philosophical exemption, ECBT and NVIC would give a class on the potential benefits and consequences of vaccines. After receiving the information, this would permit a parent who still did not want their child vaccinated to move forward with declaring a philosophical exemption. This extra step in the exemption process would benefit both stakeholders, by ensuring that parents are fully aware of all aspects of vaccinations in order for them to make, what they believe, is the right choice to protect their family. A reason why this proposal would prosper would be because of the similar compromise involving school lunches. The government and public schools had a common goal when it came to the betterment of children, and that was making sure that students are performing at the best standard they possible could at school. Food makes a huge impact on the performance and health of students. why Michelle Obama came up with the National School Lunch Program. After Santoro 4 gathering fourteen child-nutrition experts it was determined school children consuming the recommended diet for a healthy lifestyle. Michelle Obama decided to implement the National School Lunch Program to improve the diets of students. The National School Lunch Program introduced more fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and less sugar into the cafeteria (Baidal and Taveras). Some schools decided to opt out of the lunch program after noticing costly waste from students throw away their lunches, but only after the program was implemented in their schools (More Districts Opting Out of National School Lunch Program). In this situation schools were informed on the available knowledge concerning the National School Lunch Program, and when more knowledge was found about how well it was performing, schools were able to opt out. With this situation in mind, the proposed compromise about child vaccinations should be able to work as well. Ultimately, the views parents have on vaccinations can be conflicting. However, if parents were to stay informed with accurate information regarding vaccines the decision to vaccinate their child would be easier to make. where Every Child Before Two and the National Vaccine Information Center come in. They both share the mission to make sure children are protected from infection and disease. If they were to work together to improve a knowledge regarding vaccinations, parents would be able to make informed decisions that could protect their child in the long run. Santoro 5 Works Cited Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 21 July 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Every Child By  Every Child By Two. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Maine State Vaccine Requirements National Vaccine Information  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. More Districts Opting Out of National School Lunch  Education News. N.p., 09 June 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. National Vaccine Information Center - Your Health. Your Family. Your  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Read Adverse Effects of Pertussis and Rubella  at  Afterword on Research Needs Adverse Effects of Pertussis and Rubella Vaccines The National Academies Press. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Woo Baidal, Jennifer A., and Elsie M. Taveras. Perspective: Protecting Progress Against Childhood Obesity The National School Lunch  The New England Journal Of Medicine 371.(2014): 1862-1865. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.