Al Balushi 1 Abdullah Al Balushi TJ Murray ENC1102.903 12 th Feb 2017 Opening Borders In United States Immigration is considered one of the main issues that American government is facing nowadays. In the last decade, people in United States are talking over a huge issue that is immigration issue. Furthermore, people in United States have different vision of this matter, so some people think that immigrants are threatening them in too many ways. Some citizens think that borders should not be open for immigrants due to the disadvantages they cause in the country. For example, qualified immigrants compete with citizens in job opportunities; also the percentage of the crime would be increased because of the poor people who would come from the other countries. And some of the locals think that might affect their national identity. On the other side, a lot of citizens believe that immigrants would bring a lot of advantages and it would make their future better, which reflect a positive vision about immigrants. In addition, American people think that immigrants could support Americans economy via own their business, so that would bring a lot of opportunities for jobs with them for locals. Moreover, Americans think immigrants are well to support their education system via create many innovation. have the power to boost the economy such as creating new opportunities of jobs, and boost the education such as brining new ideas of innovation, as well as boost the technology such as developing the global Over the years, the immigrants in the United States makes the economy growing via working in efficiency way. As stated in the article New Common Al Balushi 2 that has written by Hayter, immigrants have been contributed to push the economic wheel in United States by the huge numbers of immigrants students who are paying taxes and scholastic costs to study in United States. In addition, immigrants always trying to prove themselves, because of the lack of the opportunities that they have either they are students or workers. According to The Hub Nation benefit America because they study and work This quote shows that immigrants do not have much of chances to increase their income and be creative. Furthermore, an Indian guy that help the economy progress forward by invented a new device that assists stops the medical errors, this new device sold over some countries which is count as a great income to increase the economy Also, immigrants would be able to lower the percentage on unemployment citizen in United States, because many of immigrants brought all their money from their country and start to build their own companies and business. Consequently these immigrants are really helpful for the United States because the support the Unites States economy. For example, Andres Ruzo moved to United States when he was 18 years old, he studied engineering and he supporting the United States economy when he made a huge telecom company and his company was around more then 10 countries in the world. Thus, he stated that who would provide jobs for locals, also he paying taxes for his company so this count as second benefits for the United States government. In order to make the country in prosperity the education system should be improved annually. Educational system influenced positively from the immigrants, as stated that United States has one of the strongest education system in the world, so too many people around the world would like to get a chances to study in United States. For example, Eriika Alden is an immigrant from Mexico and she won in the Al Balushi 3 champion for the best project in high school, she innovation a new device with professional GPS system via using solar system, think keeping a constant flow of legal immigrants into our country whether they wear blue collars or lab coats is the key to keeping us ahead of L. Friedman, As stated in the article American Real Dream, United States could be the best country around the world just because of the idea that immigrants bring, which going to place it ahead of the countries. In addition, the relations among the countries those immigrants come from with the United States politically and economically are increased. There are many negatively points that United States citizen think that immigrants would bring to the country. For example, American people think that immigrants would compete them in the jobs, truly that immigrants would create a lot of opportunity for people in United States, because many people just immigrate to find better life condition and safe place for their business. On the other hand, United Sates citizen think that immigrants threat their national identity, and locals think that the crime percentage would increase if the borders open for immigration. In conclusion, via providing a lot of the opportunities and paying taxes, immigrants have been supporting United States economically. Immigrants in the last decades have been brought a lot of innovation and new ideas which support the United states educationally. Al Balushi 4 Works Cited Lexington. Hub The Economist. April 22 2010. Web.10 Jun Teresa Hayter. Common The New internationalist Magazine. Oct 1 2002. Alsever, Jennifer. Immigrants: Job  Fortune 169.8 (2014): 56. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Orrenius, Pia M., and Michael Nicholson. Immigrants In The U.S. Economy: A Host-Country  Journal Of Business Strategies 26.1 (2009): 35-53. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Magazine. March 10 2010. Web. Thomas L. Friedman. Real Dream The New York Times Magazine. March 10 2010 Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Vedder, Richard, Lowell Gallaway, and Stephen Moore. The Immigration Problem: Then And  Independent Review 4.3 (2000): 347. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.