Perez 1 Cover Letter When writing this paper, I realized that I am a better writer than I thought I was. It shows my progress as a writer since I started college. I wrote this paper a day before it was due, and that might have helped me because I was focused and had to get it done. usually good at meeting the assignment requirements because something that I can easily do, but the hard part is writing a good, proper paper. I tend to write like a five-year-old because I also speak like one, therefore writing is hard for me. This past year, I have received compliments from my professors and peers; and that makes me confident that I am getting better every time I have a writing assignment. Next time I write an essay, I will try to expand my vocabulary and become a better writer. Perez 2 Amber Perez ENC 1102 TJ Murray 28 January 2016 Astro Turf Over Grass sure heard of the saying grass is always greener on the other but what if I told you it could be green everywhere and anywhere all the time? Astro turf is used for many things in world, including yards and professional sporting events like football. As time goes on, it seems that more people are replacing real grass with artificial grass. I propose that we should get rid of grass all together because it requires high maintenance, people are allergic to it, and it always look nice. Astro Turf Corporation would have workers replace grass for free because the government would fund it. To begin with, we would benefit from replacing all the grass in the world with Astro Turf because it requires less maintenance. In O&M Plans for Homeowners Association: Case Rita Oberle claims it is hard to maintain a lawn with real grass because of erosion caused by rain runoff (80). She goes on to say that are basically three ways to approach water Of course, proper site planning, hardscaping and landscaping, proper drainage installation, and around foundation walls with porous materials is one way to achieve proper (80). These approaches may be smart and efficient, but too expensive. Real grass is costly to maintain whether its watering the grass, buying gas for the lawn mower, or pesticides. So much money goes into maintaining real grass but Astro Turf require all of that and save you money. Perez 3 In addition, multiple adults and kids are allergic to grass and Astro Turf is a solution to that problem. The article Prick Testing Alone Is Not a Good Predictor of Allergy Symptom Severity in Grass gives a list of grass allergies such as rhinitis, conjunctivitis, urticaria, atopic dermatitis, and asthma (Patel 255). With these potential outbreaks, hard for a kid with grass allergies to play outside. It also can hold someone back from participating in certain sports like football and soccer. Astro Turf provides a safe way for all kids to play outside. In Rhinitis in the Child and Associated Tania Sih writes chronic of the process other related systems or organs, such as lungs, ears, growth, (109). There are so many risks associated with grass allergies and it is preventing kids from living life to the fullest, therefore all real grass should be removed to provide a safe and active life for children who are allergic to grass. Last, but not least, Astro Turf looks better than real grass. nice to have a presentable lawn all the time but a little hard to do that when your lawn is covered in real grass. Residents in a neighborhood do so much to keep their lawn looking nice because the Home Owners Association(HOA) requires a nice-looking lawn. John Sisser writes in Municipal Policies and Neighborhood Norms Influence Homeowner Residential Landscape that homeowners ban certain practices of maintaining a beautiful lawn and goes on to talk about the lawn restrictions such as grass height (19). Having real grass is a drag because people are always getting nagged by the HOA about their lawn being too tall or too worn down. With Astro Turf, your lawn will look nice all the time and you wont get citations about not keeping up with your lawn. Although replacing grass with Astro Turf is a good idea, there are also some cons. As stated in the article, and Management of Sports Grounds: Does Surface Heat Perez 4 artificial grass results in a hotter surface (Twomey 35). Yes, this is true but all of the pros of artifical grass out weighs this one con. There are also many solutions to this problem. Simply, you can wear the proper gear to protect you from touching the hot surface. There are also tents and huge covers that could keep the grass in the shade where it be as hot for kids to play outside. In conclusion, the overall quality of Astro Turf is better than real grass and it will have positive affect on life if we were to replace grass with it. No one wants to mow their lawn every couple of weeks and spend money on water used for the sprinklers. Also, kids with allergies find it difficult to have fun playing in real grass. Most importantly, everyone hates getting told that their lawn being taken care of and that they are required to make it look pretty all the time. Replacing grass with Astro Turf solves all of these problems and it cost you any money because te government would take care of all the expenses. Perez 5 Works Cited Oberle, Rita. Developing O&M Plans for Homeowners Association: Case  Journal of Architectural Engineering (2008): 76-84. Patel, Sameer. Skin Prick Testing Alone Is Not a Good Predictor of Allergy Symptom Severity in Grass Allergic  Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (2016): 255-261. Sih, Tania. Allergic Rhinitis in the Child and Associated  Pediatric Allergy and Immunology (2010): 107-113. Sisser, John M. Lawn enforcement: How municipal policies and neighborhood norms influence homeowner residential landscape  Landscape and Urban Planning (2016): 16-25. Twoney, Dara M. Selection and Management of Sports Grounds: Does the Surface Heat  Journal of Facility Planning, Deisgn and Management (2016): 33-47. Perez 6