Fattah 0 Dr. Theodore Murray ENC 1102 Throughout this paper, I have adhered to third person speaking and avoided the use of contractions to keep with the idea of a formal paper to be turned in and graded as a class assignment. The topic of this paper was chosen with the idea of absurd in mind while also choosing a topic that pertains to society. The topic of limiting large franchises adheres to this in that limiting large franchises themselves is a nigh impossible task due to the scale of such a task and due to the impossibility of such legislations passing in a capitalistic government. The idea to limit large franchises is, however, a topic that pertain to society due to the excessive foreign outsourcing occurring on the US. One of the main arguments for this topics cause is that by limiting large franchises small businesses will rise and lead to the fall of foreign outsourcing and the increase of local work. Ahmad Fattah Dr. Theodore Murray Fattah 1 ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Large Franchises Large franchises may be found everywhere in these times, ranging from gas stations to convenience stores. On a previous school excursion to Washington D.C. large franchises could not be avoided, such franchises as: McDonalds, Subway, Walmart, 7-Eleven, KFC, Chipotle, Burger King, etc. the list continues near endlessly. This experience is proving the previous statement of large franchises existing everywhere. A franchise defined as, a large business that has multiple international locations as well as available stock for purchase. Large franchises are monopolizing business industries by establishing multiple locations within a limited area, preventing small businesses from flourishing, this can easily be remedied by state legislations limiting the expansion of large franchises in each state. If such standards are to be implemented to increase local businesses, they must be done on a state level rather than on a national level due to the varying population density and size of each state. By doing so, local businesses will be able to flourish and reinvigorate the local economies by keeping many products on a local level. One of the largest issues with small businesses is that business has neither debt nor stock traded in organized (Ang 2). This is an issue due to a lack of credibility, in market the view that the larger the stock of a company and the greater the price of said stock, the greater said success is appears rather frequently. Through this, unless through word of mouth from a trusted Fattah 2 acquaintance, friend, or family member, the view on small local businesses is one of being unsuccessful or new and inexperienced. In some cases, this is the case, however, overall this is not the case. Most local business are successful in their own area, enough to continue and eventually expand. With the eventual expansion of said small businesses, monopolies are prevented. A monopoly defined by Merriam Webster as ownership through legal privilege, command of supply, or concerted Although it may be claimed that the large franchises do not hold a monopoly over any product, it is argued that through the grouping of large franchises, such as Costco and Club, monopolies are made over certain services, in this case being wholesale services. Some such scenarios being when the exercising monopoly power over the small (Ang 4) rather than the large franchises. To successfully limit the large franchises in states would be a costly endeavor that would show little to no initial return. In doing so, the current locations of these franchise locations must be changed or the area around these locations must be changed. This would have to include the purchase of the property, changing the preexisting city structure plan, and the relocation of existing buildings, and the possible job loss from the change in businesses in the area. Before, small businesses were protected from the international market, however, local businesses are threatened by international competitors penetrating formerly protected domestic (Etemad 91). This is, in part, due to the continued international expansion of the large franchises. Fattah 3 The survival rate of small businesses decrease greatly due to the presence of large franchises, as Deller mentions, survival rates vary significantly by birth year, and new businesses in rural communities tend to have higher survival rates than those in urban (Deller 1). Thus, limiting the expansion of large franchises is necessary and should be done on a state by state basis. The state by state is primarily needed due to the differing size and population density and tourist density of each state, to mention some of the more important of the many reasons. For example, Florida would have greater tourist activity than Iowa. Also, a factor for consideration is the taxes on the property, both on purchase and after. Ang mentions when comparing small businesses to large businesses that tax considerations and the lack of market valuation could affect the type of financial decisions made [by small (Ang 7). To consider all options, large franchises compared to small businesses are in a much more advantageous position. As is often said, rich keep getting richer, and the poor keep getting This just goes on to further demonstrate the advantage of start-up capital, which small businesses are rarely able to acquire and later pay back. need to alter the available locations for large franchises to allow for greater flourishing of small businesses and through this, reinvigorate the local economy. Rather than to allow the continuous spread of large franchises and the continuation of foreign outsourcing over the local work force. Works Cited Fattah 4 Ang, James S. (1991) Small Business Uniqueness and the Theory of Financial  Journal of Small Business Finance: Vol. 1: Iss. 1, pp. 11-13. Deller, Steven C., and Tessa Conroy. Business Survival Rates Across The  Community Development 48.1 (2017): 67. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Etemad, H. (1999a). Globalization and small-to-medium-sized enterprises: Search for potent strategies. Global Focus,11(3), 85-104. Merriam-Webster (1828). Merriam-Webster Dictionary. https://www.merriam-webster.com/