Kirkus 1 David Kirkus Professor TJ Murray Composition II 12 February 2017 Pink Houses for Everyone! Most people choose to believe that being unique is what makes us all human, but do not realize that world peace may be accomplished by simply maintaining stronger similarities with others. This similarity, even though it seems small and lackluster, will utter a significant outcome. The color of home is something that seemingly everyone wishes to remain unique amongst themselves. By painting every home in the United States a different shade of pink, everyone will have a greater sense of unity, and world peace will be achieved within the century. According to a study performed by Yumi Saito and Harue Tada, the effects of colors on the human brain can have a mood altering effect. Many of the volunteers in this experiment, and in prior experiments of the same nature have come to the conclusion that when exposed to certain colors, one will experience a reduction in stress. By having a pink home, an otherwise stressful day at work would turn into a relaxing night at home every day of the week! Everyone would be more positive in general, and in turn there would be fewer criminals and fewer negative encounters. The average person would feel more accomplished, live a stress free life, and would likely live for a longer period of time. In a journal she wrote, Nicola Mammarella talks about how color can alter memories, and certain colors have differing effects on the brain. Kirkus 2 with a low need of achievement prefer red, while people with high need of achievement more frequently prefer (Mammarella 1). Although the color being considered for utilization is pink and not green, pink is also a positive mood altering color, therefore the experiment will elicit similar effects regardless of which color is used. Most people will begin to see a decrease in stress soon after assimilation, and will spread happiness and positivity naturally. With an increase in positivity, the rate at which humans could accomplish new things would increase. More technologic advancements would be made all the time, at an incredible rate, because humans everywhere would be a lot more efficient than ever before. are of course a number of things me might do immediately to lessen unhappiness here and there, to a greater or lesser extent. Alienation from social norms is clearly one source of unhappiness; poverty (Robin Barrow 127). The author of this journal, simply titled goes into detail about how and why we strive for happiness. Barrow says in this quote that people will attempt to get away from what makes them unhappy. That being said, the change in the color of home could be a way to limit the amount of negativity one experiences. Along with being less stressed overall, people would have a sense of unity within their country because they would share something with every member of the nation. Everyone would remain unique in every other way possible, and would even have the benefit of choosing a unique shade of pink for their home. With this small change in lifestyle can come a better overall environment, and happiness among all people. There would also be present something that everybody has in common, so meeting new people would be much easier since everyone can talk about how awesome their shade of pink is. When it comes to having guests over or giving directions to home, there would no longer be any difficulty in finding the residence Kirkus 3 because the homeowner can give a detailed description of the shade of the home. The main point in everyone having a pink house is for a better life for everyone. It would allow for so much more ease and would ultimately produce better efficiency than ever seen before by humans. Once everybody has assimilated into owning a pink house, then stage one is complete and everyone can then look to the world leaders for further action. At this point, the nations of the world would all agree to remain more peaceful and to ultimately decrease the amount of future wars. As for the people who will claim that the idea is ridiculous, or that it would never yield such a magnificent result, or the people who simply dislike the color pink, the results have been determined several times over, and the conclusion could be historic if utilized correctly. Sure, it would seem odd for a while, not only having a pink home, but sharing that aspect of life with every other person in the country. It might also seem ineffective for the first few years while things have yet to change on a grand scale, but after several years there would be a large increase in positivity. All of these arguments can be made, but at the end of the day, what truly matters is not the color of home, but the unification and synchronization of humanity. Most people would agree that having a pink house is a small price for everyone to pay if the outcome includes world peace down the line. Jack Levy and William Thompson talk about a realist theory for explaining war as having an of a legitimate governmental authority to regulate disputes and enforce agreements between states or other This means that within our world, never achieve a sense of peace until unification happens. in the context of a dictatorship, secrecy becomes of the highest importance for both the circle of rulers and the circle of prodemocracy (Moghaddam 42). This small yet bold change in the way each of us live Kirkus 4 our lives can change the world in a major way. Even though having a pink house seems like a minute detail in life, it is an idea that has the potential to change the world for the better. In the end, the united ownership of a pink house by citizens of the world would yield personal results that could allow for a reduction in stress, but more importantly it would yield the increase in change all around the nation, and potentially the world over a long period of time. If color has the power to change mood so seamlessly, then why not use colors to yield the appropriate response? With a lower crime rate and a lot more time to focus on the bigger picture, issues such as national debt and unemployment, things would start to change for the better in no time. Most people would agree that sacrificing the uniqueness of house color is worth achieving world peace. Kirkus 5 Works Cited Saito, Yumi, and Harue Tada. Effects Of Color Images On Stress Reduction: Using Images As Mood  Japan Journal Of Nursing Science 1 (2007): 13. Academic OneFile. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Mammarella, Nicola, et al. When Green Is Positive And Red Is Negative: Aging And The Influence Of Color On Emotional  Psychology and Aging 31.8 (2016): 914- 926. PsycARTICLES. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Barrow, Robin. Happiness. [Electronic London: Routledge, 2012., 2012. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Levy, Jack S., and William R. Thompson. Causes of War. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 2011. Web. Moghaddam, Fathali M. The Psychology of Dictatorship. [Electronic Washington, D.C.: American Psychological Association, 2013., 2013. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.