Gass 1 Darren Gass Gocinski ENC1102, Febuary 15th 2017 A US and Russian Team I will begin explaining why the USA and Russia should not have any problems with each other why they have a good relationship, then I will explain specific actions they can take to form a mutually beneficial relationship. Since the USA and Russia are very broad words that make up millions of people and square miles, I will be referring specifically to the governments of the USA and Russia when I say USA and Russia. All throughout history, nations have been switching and breaking alliances to help tilt the balance of power in their favor. Britain and France has switched from allies to enemies many times through history. It is time for the USA to shift alliances with our old enemy, Russia. With our new president, we are undoing the cold war and beginning to turn our rivalry with Russia, and make it a friendship. Russia is no longer in the superpower conversation with its GDP being only 12 th highest, when it was 2 nd highest only 30 years ago, so Russia is not big enough of a threat for the USA to focus its foreign affairs policy around hurting. So, if Russia is not a major threat to the USA why are the tensions so high? The root at US Russian tense relationship lies in the second election after the fall of the Soviet Union. The first president of Russia post-Soviet era received flak from his people Gass 2 for bowing down to the USA too much, then in the next election the Russian people decided to vote for an anti-western pro-Nationalist leader over a pro-US liberal candidate. So, the tense relations began essentially because the Russian people voted for it. The main reason why Russian people voted against the USA (while the rest of Eastern Europe was okay with integrating into a US lead world) is because they still viewed Russia as a super power and stand being told what to do by the US. Splitting the EU is perhaps #1 foreign affairs goal, but this can benefit the USA more than it does Russia. Things are about to get complicated so hang in there. Russia voted for an anti-USA candidate in the 90s, it explain why Russia and the USA have disagreements 20 years later. Russia is interested in keeping its sphere of influence, for the past 20 years, the USA has infiltrated the Russian sphere of influence in the form of NATO and the EU. For Russians, NATO and the EU may as well be translated to US-controlled organizations in Russian. Essentially, the USA and Russia have been at odds because various Nations in Eastern Europe have decided to stop trading with Russia and sign trade deals with the USA and its allies. They have been fighting a trade war in Europe for the past 20 years and the US has been winning. It shows how much Russia cares about this, because after Ukraine flip flopped and decided to sign a trade deal with the EU rather than Russia, Russia invaded Ukraine, it was the final straw for them as the influence backed Russia up all the way to its border. So how do we fix this problem? The timing is right for this solution because the EU is in the middle of falling apart. If the US president said something like EU is obsolete therefore I will be seeking trade deals with individual countries alone and not the This would hit the nail on the coffin and make the EU and Euro have zero value. This would create a currency vacuum throughout Europe that would be filled mostly with the Gass 3 US dollar and the Easternmost Nations would choose to adopt the Ruble. The USA would benefit from this greatly as it would strengthen the dollar and give the USA even more influence in Europe. Russia would also be extremely happy about this as they restored their traditional sphere of influence. After this, the US and Russia would not have any fundamental opposing interests. Therefore, a compromise can be reached if both parties recognized each sphere of influence. So, what about the side? As stated prior, throughout all of history, foreign affairs have been dominated by the balance of power, shifting alliances to tip the scales in your favor. As a superpower, it only makes sense to focus on tilting the balance of power against other superpowers, not a country with too small of an economy to be a threat. China Is the only country that is anywhere close to the USA in terms of economy and influence. China is currently expanding its influence by producing military bases in international water and claiming entire seas as their own. It should not only be a major goal of the USA but it should be the biggest goal for the foreign affairs policy to contain china. Either the USA is going to use Russia against China, or China will use Russia against the USA. leader is actively and openly seeking hand in an alliance against the USA, as evidenced by this quote are currently observing the aggressive actions, both in regards of Russia and China. I believe that Russia and China can create an alliance before which NATO would be weak, and this would put an end to the imperialist ambitions of the This was stated on the 95 th anniversary of communist party 4 th of July). It is amazing that the Chinese president on their day of patriotism would make the focus of his speech asking Russia for a military pact between Gass 4 Russia and China to help deter the USA. China is seeking a NATO like alliance with Russia. Stephen Blank, an expert on Russia in The American Foreign Policy Council stated China- Russia relationship has been based in a large measure on their rejection of U.S. interests in the global order. This would be affected if there is improvement in (the) U.S.-Russia (James) China wishes to stop relying on the USA for trade, and use the silk road to trade with Europe and has many gas pipelines coming into it from Russia, if things with China were to really go south, Russia would be able to block much of Chinese trade and resources. The USA and Russia can work together to trade with each other and Europe, that way China does not have Europe, USA, or Russia to trade with and must go to worse less developed markets. So, if the US government respects sphere of influence they need to worry about Russia and China forming an alliance against the USA. However, that is only a side benefit compared to causing half of Europe switch to the US dollar. For the past 60 years, what is the biggest issue with USA and Russia? A nuclear war. United States has 1,367 nuclear warheads on deployed strategic missiles and bombers, and Russia has 1,796 such deployed warheads, per the latest published assessment by the U.S. State (Falconbridge). What did it cost to develop and deploy thousands of nukes for the USA? From 1945-1996 the USA spent 5.5 trillion dollars on producing and deploying nukes (Goldgeier 43). Donald Trump told the London times he would offer Russia an end to the imposed sanctions if Russia agreed to a nuclear arms reduction deal. Along with always having nuclear missiles pointed at each other, the USA spends an insane amount of money maintaining a significant troop presence in Eastern Europe to deter Russian aggression. However, the USA Gass 5 has no interests in Eastern Europe so there is no need to protect it. Russia looks at the US troops in Eastern Europe as aggressive and provocative by the USA. So, the USA is spending millions of dollars every year just to piss Russia off in Eastern Europe. The USA can pull out those troops and save tons of money and not lose anything. Russia would never ever attack a NATO Country so it is foolish to keep as many troops as we do there. War never benefits anybody, it is better to reach an agreement than blow everything up, the USA and Russia are both pointing guns at each other and are spending millions doing so, both countries would benefit greatly if we put those guns down. So, if the USA recognized sphere of influence and took troops away from border, it would save the military billions over time. fact, that the USA and Russia can successfully work together. Every day for the past 16 years, US and Russian scientists have worked side by side aboard the international space station. Astronauts say that the political feud between the USA and Russia is not felt up in the ISS. The USA and Russia have helped keep peace in recent history. When Assad, the dictator if Syria used chemical weapons on his people, the USA was about to go to war with him because the USA forbids the use of chemical weapons. However, Russia stopped the USA from getting involved in another war by using their tight relations with Syria to convince Assad to give up the rest of his chemical weapons to Russia so they could be destroyed. So clearly, the USA and Russia can work together. Putin and Trump have both expressed willingness to work together. The US and Russia have been enemies for almost a century but through recognizing and respecting each historical sphere of influence they can stop fighting over influence in Eastern Europe and form a beneficial relationship. Gass 6 Works Cited Plumer, Brad. Rex Potentially Huge Conflict of Interest over Russia and Oil,  Vox. Vox, 14 Dec. 2016. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Judson, Jen. The Icebreaker  The Agenda. N.p., 01 Sept. 2015. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. James, Marsha. Possibility of Improved US-Russia Relations Worries  VOA. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Falconbridge, Guy. Offer to Russia: An End to Sanctions for Nuclear Arms  Reuters. Thomson Reuters, 16 Jan. 2017. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Lulko, Lyuba. Strategy Is to Set Russia against  PravdaReport. Pravda in English, 30 Dec. 2016. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. China Offers Russia Alliance against NATO. What Will Be  China Offers Russia Alliance against NATO. What Will Be Response? N.p., 07 July 2016. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Goldgeier, James M., and Michael McFaul. Power and Purpose: U.S. Policy toward Russia after the Cold War. Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institution, 2003. Print. Miller, Katherine. The Cracks in Fault Narrative: Why NATO Enlargement Fails to Explain Russian  M.A. International Security & Intelligence, n.d. Web. Mearsheimer, John. Why the Ukraine Crisis Is the Fault: The Liberal Delusions That Provoked Putin Essays 93 Foreign Affairs  Why the Ukraine Crisis Is the Fault: Gass 7 The Liberal Delusions That Provoked Putin Essays 93 Foreign Affairs 2014. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.