Allan 1 Ashley Allan Casey Clague ENC 1102:076 12 February 2017 Raising the Federal Minimum Wage in the United States The amount of fast food workers in the United States that are living below at least twice the official poverty line was 43.1% in 2014, according to the Economic Policy Institute (Shierholz, 2014). This means that over two-fifths of all fast food workers are living well below poverty and they can barely support themselves, let alone anyone else in their families. The organization Fight for $15 is largely known for believing that all workers, including people in fast food, education, and retail, deserve to make $15 an hour, allowing them to live above the poverty line and improve their standard of living. Many of the restaurants that this group is fighting, such as believe that raising the minimum wage this dramatically would significantly increase the unemployment rates in this normally high-employment rate field of work, so a raise to $15 would be too much. To try and satisfy both the Fight for $15 group and a possible compromise would be to nearly average out the wage opinions from both sides and settle for a new minimum wage of $12 with better benefits for the workers who have been with their company for a set minimum amount of time, such as around one year. In the minimum wage debate, many fast food workers have taken the for stance because they believe that all workers deserve to be paid enough to be able to support themselves and their families without working multiple jobs. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, in 2015 there were 14.5 million people under the age of 18, 24.4 million people from Allan 2 ages 18-64, and 4.2 million people over the age 64 living in poverty, with over 30% of these people employed (Proctor et al., 2016). Fast food restaurants and retail stores are places that often hire people that severely need a job to deliver some amount of support to their families. With such large numbers for each of the given age groups, especially for all of the people 64 and under, quite obvious that there is still a large problem with how many Americans are barely able to support themselves or their families. The Fight for $15 organization also believes that a large change in wage will not badly affect employers, but instead it would boost the economy significantly. Two researchers from the National Institute of Economic and Social Research and Centre for Macroeconomics, UK, Rebecca Riley and Chiara Rosazza Bondibene, argue that higher minimum wages will increase a productivity and efficiency by using a study done on new National Minimum Wage system (NMW). They say that because there are higher labor costs now than before the NMW, employers take more precaution to better training to improve the worker efficiency in the quickest time possible. They also predicted that workers receiving a higher wage would exude more effort into their work than people doing the same work for less money (Riley and Bondibene, 2016). So while some companies may have fewer employees as the minimum wage increases, the productivity of companies will be higher than before, and turnover rates will be lower for employers because the workers will be less inclined to leave their job if they are being paid decent living wages. Unfortunately there would be some employees that would not benefit from this raise in minimum wage when they are fired or laid- off due to a increased labor costs, so the liberal goal of raising the minimum wage to $15 may not be completely feasible. Allan 3 The workers who are part of the Fight for $15 organization protest large fast food and retail corporations that do not believe the minimum wage does not need to be increased this significantly. Corporate leaders of restaurants such as and KFC believe that an increase of the wage by more than double what it currently is would decrease employment levels, therefore the negatives of raising the minimum wage would outweigh the benefits. Former chief executive Edward Rensi states that fast food companies are more like to buy a self-service kiosk than pay a worker a $15 wage because it would be extremely cheaper in the long run. Rensi believes that increasing the minimum wage would actually damage the economy and cause more people to rely on government aid (McFarland, 2016). Simulations done by Jonathan Meer and Jeremy West, researchers who published a working paper in the National Bureau of Economic Researchers, are done to show the effect of raising minimum wage for low- wage workers over a matter of years. The researchers then concluded that according to the model, a permanent increase in minimum wage would indeed decrease employment by about 0.29% (Meer and West, 2013). A theoretical approach to this subject is helpful and shows that there would be a negative effect to raising the minimum wage, and the simulations all explain that the decrease in jobs would take several years. Dr. John Gaski, economics professor at the Mendoza College of Business at Notre Dame, also analyzes the minimum wage debate, but rather than from the standard political viewpoint he discusses the negative effects from the increase in minimum wage from an ethical viewpoint. Gaski explains how it would hurt the workers who find themselves unemployed due to the labor costs not being able to cover all of the expenses for a higher minimum wage as well as keeping the same number of employees (Gaski, Allan 4 2004). While keeping people away from unemployment is an ideal thought, keeping workers in poverty by not raising the minimum wage still the best situation. fairly simple to tell that the Fight for $15 organization and the and other fast food corporations have different goals. Unions and corporations in the United States have been disagreeing on many issues since the 1800s, such as working rights for women and immigrants, child labor laws, maximum work hours per day, and minimum wages. One thing that all employers and employees should be able to agree on is that the unemployment rates need to continue to decrease, but the poverty rate also needs to continue decreasing but at a much faster rate. Having other fellow workers suffer is something that all people should be able to agree that a problem that needs to be fixed. While raising the minimum wage to $15 would be beneficial to many of the low-wage, fast food workers by getting them out of poverty and letting them be able to be a household supporter, it would negatively affect the employment rates due to the greater appeal of cheaper, self-service kiosks. On the other hand, keeping the minimum wage at $7.25 would keep over 40% of the current workers below twice the official poverty line. A possible solution would be to raise the minimum wage to $12, which is around the average of the sought-for $15 and the current minimum wage of $7.25, as well as increase the benefits that the employee would receive after working there for a minimum time set by each individual company. With this proposal, the workers would be able to significantly increase their standard of living and freely spend more money, which in turn would stimulate the economy. David Cooper, an economic analyst, states that a minimum wage increase to $12 by 2020 would lift wages of 35.1 million workers in the United States. Also, with only 14.4% of fast food workers in 2014 receiving health insurance and Allan 5 8.4% provided with pension, increasing the amount of employees receiving these benefits would help them increase their ability to take care of their families and the standard of living even more (Cooper, 2015). Not only is this great for workers, but the wage increase would not affect the restaurants as negatively as they believed the increase to $15 would. The United States Department of Labor agrees with many studies and surveys done on minimum wage, and declares wages sharply reduce employee turnover which can reduce employment and training (United, 2015). This proposal would still raise the minimum wage, but not so much that the unemployment rates would go back up in the fast food industry as significantly as it would with the raise to $15. Though poverty in the United States has been decreasing recently, 13.5% of Americans are still in poverty (Proctor et al., 2016). To fix this, many people have joined the organization Fight for $15 to fight for their belief that the minimum wage should be raised to $15. Several corporations they fight against have denied this proposal because they believe this raise will raise unemployment rates again, so they would rather remain at or near $7.25. A plausible compromise would be to meet in the middle of these two amounts and try to pass a bill for a $12 federal minimum wage with better benefits for employees that have been there for a minimum amount of time. Though this compromise obviously $15 or $7.25, the average of these would still have a great affect on these workers impacted by poverty while only slightly affecting unemployment. Allan 6 Works Cited Cooper, D. (2015). Raising the Minimum Wage to $12 by 2020 Would Lift Wages for 35 Million American Workers. Economic Policy Institute, 405. http://www.epi.org/publication/raising-the-minimum-wage-to-12-by-2020-would-lift- wages-for-35-million-american-workers/ Gaski, J. F. (2004). Raising the Minimum Wage Is Unethical and Immoral. Business & Society Review (00453609), 109(2), 209-224. doi:10.1111/j.0045-3609.2004.00192.x McFarland, M. (2016). CEO says raising the minimum wage will help robots take jobs. The Washington Post. https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/innovations/wp/2016/05/25/ex-mcdonalds-ceo- Meer, J. and West, J. (2013). Effects of the Minimum Wage on Employment Dynamics. National Bureau of Economic Research, 19262. http://www.nber.org/papers/w19262.pdf Proctor, B.D., Semega, J.L., and Kollar, M.A. (2016). Income and Poverty in the United States: 2015. United States Census Bureau, P60-256(RV). https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library/publications/2016/demo/p60-256.pdf Riley, R., & Bondibene, C.R. (2016). Raising the standard: Minimum wages and firm productivity. Labour economics, 44, 27-50 http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S09275371163034 87?np=y Allan 7 Shierholz, Heidi. (2014). Low Wages and Few Benefits Mean Many Restaurant Workers Make Ends Meet. Economic Policy Institute, 383. http://www.epi.org/publication/restaurant-workers/ United States Department of Labor. (2015). Minimum Wage Mythbusters. Department of Labor. https://www.dol.gov/featured/minimum-wage/mythbuster