Kulow !1 Nathan Kulow Professor Phillips ENC1102 January 29 2017 The Federal Reserve The Federal Reserve (or the Fed) has been controversial since its creation in 1913. The Fed is a privately run central bank that controls the financial sector of the economy. Its purpose is to promote the stability of the U.S. economy and the financial system. The Democratic Party, and the Constitution Party are at opposite ends of the spectrum in terms of their opinion on the Fed. The Democrats believe that the Fed is very crucial to the U.S. economy as a whole and should remain private; The Constitution Party is lobbying for the complete abolishment of the Fed and to return our currency to the Gold standard. The Board of Governors of The Fed are appointed by the president himself, their purpose is to implement certain policies in order to encourage economic growth, create employment, profits, etc. The Fed does this by using several tools to control the lending and interest rates of big banks and investment firms. Assuming both opinion on the Fed is based on their motives to help society prosper as a whole, a compromise must take place in order to achieve this. For this compromise to work it would have to be realistic, and both stakeholders must meet in the middle. This compromise would involve giving Congress complete oversight of The Fed, and creating a bill that allows the general population to vote for the Chairman of The Fed; this compromise would then make The Fed a legitimate part of government rather than a privately run central bank. Implementing this compromise would Kulow !2 benefit both the people of the Democratic Party, and the Constitution ultimate goal to get the financial sector of the economy under control. The Federal Reserve Act was signed by President Woodrow Wilson, who represented the Democratic Party. This may explain why the majority of the Democratic Party has been in such favor of The Fed since its creation. Currently, the Democrats blame much of the recent economic crises solely on Wall Street. The Democratic party makes this obvious on their official site, will protect and defend the Federal independence to carry out the dual mandate assigned to it by both full employment and low threats from new To restore economic fairness, Democrats will fight against the greed and recklessness of Wall This party believes the Fed to be essential to the U.S. economy. One problem many people see with the Fed is the fact that many of the members of the board are actually executives of the financial institutions. Note that these members of the Fed are the same people the democrats blame for the inequality of wealth in America. Because of this issue, the Democrats address this on their site, will also reform the Federal Reserve to make it more representative of America as a whole, and we will fight to enhance its independence by ensuring that executives of financial institutions are not allowed to serve on the boards of regional Federal Reserve banks or to select members of those Aside from this proposition, the Democrats wish to do nothing but protect the Fed from any new policies that could jeopardize independence. While Democrats are in favor of the Fed the Constitution Party is lobbying to completely abolish the Fed. This party believes strictly in the Constitution; anything considered unconstitutional is opposed by this party. The Constitution Party writes this in their Platform, Kulow !3 stand opposed to any regionalization of governments, at any level, which results in removal of decision-making powers from the people or those directly elected by the This statement applies to the Federal Reserve. They also mention the current monetary and banking system to be unconstitutional, federal government has departed from the principle of  money as defined by the U.S. Constitution and the Mint Act of 1792 and has granted unconstitutional control of the monetary and banking system to the private Federal Reserve The Constitution party has created a small list on what must be done to reform this unconstitutional system; to the money system set forth in the Constitution; Repeal the Federal Reserve Act, and reform the current Federal Reserve banks to become clearing houses only; Prohibit fractional reserve More and more people are beginning to consider the aforementioned list of acts the Constitution Party wishes to implement. Former columnist for the Wall Street Journal George Melloan writes, popular pressure for serious monetary reform is building as consumers see their buying power eroded by the sinking value of the (Melloan 16). Melloan goes on to reiterate comments that were said at a conference in Washington assembled by a number of first-rate economists; at the conference used words like  to describe an inflationary policy that robs the poor, destroys the savings of the elderly, erodes the middle class as living standards fall even for people with jobs, and accommodates government profligacy that enriches the politically (Melloan 17). These are the main reasons why the Constitution Party and many people wish to abolish the Fed and return to the gold standard. While the Fed may seem utterly corrupt to some, the Fed has the ability to help the U.S. economy if their policies are used correctly. The Constitution Party would have to give up their Kulow !4 idea of completely abolishing the Fed, and the Democratic Party must give up their wish to continue to let The Fed be privately run. A viable compromise to help the financial system of the U.S. would be to give Congress complete oversight of the Federal Reserve, and to allow the public to vote who the Chairman of the Federal Reserve will be. As of now, Congress has no oversight of the Fed. Paul Kupiec states the current of the Fed is unable to see the majority of transactions made, which include, with or for foreign central banks, governments, or non-private international financing organizations; Deliberations or actions concerning monetary policy; Federal Open Market Committee (Kupiec 97). If Congress were given oversight of the Fed these transactions, meetings, etc. could be monitored. There are many cases in which billions of dollars have been lost and our own government does not know where it went. If Congress were given oversight, they could monitor how The Fed uses their economic tools, and where the money they goes in to. Allowing the public to vote for the Chairman of the Fed could stop executives of investment firms from being on the board. By doing this it could end situations where The Fed might implement policies solely to benefit them rather than the economy as a whole. By implementing these policies not just investment firms, but every day working people could benefit from the tools used by the Fed. According to the Salem Press Encyclopedia, main criticism of the Federal Reserve has been that it protects banks and the U.S. financial system but not average citizens. The Federal Reserve tends to worry more about inflation than about unemployment. It also protects financial institutions (for example, bailing out Bear Stearns when it was near default from making bad mortgages) but does little to help individuals unable to make mortgage (Pressman). Putting this compromise in to play would fix this issue. Kulow !5 This compromise would be beneficial to both and their goal for the economy to prosper. In order for the Fed to be beneficial, Congress should know how exactly the Fed uses their powerful instruments, and where the trillions of dollars is spent during economic crises such as the housing bubble in 2008. This would help the Democrats because they are able to still keep The Fed. The Constitution Party would also benefit with this compromise because The Fed would be more so in the hands of the people, rather than being directly appointed by the president. As a result, the act of these two stakeholders coming to this compromise would benefit their ultimate goal to help the economy flourish. Kulow !6 Works Cited Constitution Party. N. p., 2017. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Democratic National Committee. Reining in Wall Street and Fixing our Financial . Democrats. Democrats.org. N. p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Kupiec, Paul H.1. Federal Reserve Accountability And  Assurances Et Gestion Des Risques 82.3/4 (2015): 95-110. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Melloan, George. Return To The Gold  American Spectator 45.1 (2012): 16-21. Academic Search Premier. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Pressman, Steven. Federal  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Willis, Henry Parker. The Federal Reserve  American Economic Review 4.1 (1914): 1. Business Source Premier. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.