Hadeel Ali Professor TJ Murray Composition II February 12, 2017 0 Dear Readers, The point of this essay is to persuade the people and also the government to create an edible insect repellant. Some may find this unnecessary but there are many instances where this creation can avoid harm and even death. It is the small things in life that make the biggest difference in our lives to the point where we it will become a necessity. Not only will ordinary households carry them but businesses like restaurants will find much use to it as well. An edible insect repellent can protect people from harmful chemicals and fumes especially children. One body paragraph focuses just on the protection of children and even stated in said paragraph is a tragic incident with four children who were exposed to such fumes and consequently died. This essay is not only supported by cited evidence but also on plausible scenarios. I take in consideration possibilities that can happen in every day life to the one individual all the way to populations. It is important for audiences to find some connection with this invention so they can imagine it in their everyday lives and understand the positive difference it will make. Sincerely, Hadeel Ali Hadeel Ali Professor TJ Murray Composition II February 12, 2017 1 Hadeel Ali Professor TJ Murray Composition II February 12, 2017 2 Edible Insect Repellent We are surrounded by insects, over 1.5 million different species of insects actually. Everywhere you turn there could be an ant almost miniscule or a tarantula as large as your palm, depending where you are in the world. Even though they are vital to us, breaking down wastes, dead animals, and plants to keep Earth cleaner they can be dangerous. Many insects are poisonous and venomous, and since they inhabit what we also inhabit crossing paths is a high possibility. There could be a way however to lessen the chances of being bit by these creatures. With modern technology and science expanding its knowledge, with persistence and dedication an insect repeller susceptible to the human body can be invented. To make this happen the government should fund the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDCP) with the resources to create what could be a world wide phenomenon. With this edible bug spray safety for children, convenience for restaurants, and outdoor adventures can be easily achieved. With a bug spray that is harmless when ingested the death of a young child could be avoided. In a household there could be children running around, knocking down things, and opening cabinets. In cabinets there are usually chemicals and one of those chemicals could be bug spray. If a child decides to drink it because children struggle with common sense, then their decision could lead them in a predicament. In Texas, four children died from a insect repellent sprayed under their trailer which caused the family to be unwell. When the father tried washing it away with water it released fumes which killed the children and left five other family members hospitalized (Piggott, Four children die after father accidentally pours water on pesticide Hadeel Ali Professor TJ Murray Composition II February 12, 2017 3 beneath family A predicament that can be lethal in some situations. Sometimes the wrong things get in the wrong hands and to avoid freak incidents like the one described precautions should be taken. To keep your outside dining experience as wonderful as it can be an edible insect repellent will be more than useful. Imagine this. It is a nice summers day and the breeze is just right. You decide to take in this weather since it is rare. You go with friends or family to a restaurant on the beach with the clear sky and crystal blue water just a short walk away. The food arrives and you all dive in until suddenly there is one no, wait two now countless flies surrounding you and your delectable meal. If only there was a way to repel the insects so you, along with other customers, can enjoy the sunrise in peace. Well, with edible bug spray that dilemma is solved and the rest of the evening can be enjoyed with laughs and delight. To enjoy the outdoors for hours on end everyone should carry around edible bug spray. The outside is filled with possibilities and adventures. Skydiving, camping, hiking, and other activities many can experience. It can bring people closer together and even realize things about themselves they never would have discovered like laying in your sleeping bag gazing at the stars after a long day of hiking and horse riding. But those happy memories can be tainted by the unfortunate events that also played out. Tropical areas are well known for people finding discoveries however they are notorious for vector borne diseases are a major threat to the public health but also in European countries where the presence of mosquitoes can be nuisance  Who Let the Bugs Malaria and dengue fever are well known diseases that cause a lot of deaths Hadeel Ali Professor TJ Murray Composition II February 12, 2017 4 in the world today. Also, when staying in the outdoors it is common for some foods to be contaminated by neighboring creatures so seeing your food supply for the next couple days being devoured by insects your trip could be cut short. You never know if the next morning you wake up and see your food infested with aphids, mealy bugs, scales or whiteflies and not knowing you eat it Bugs That Leave Clear Sticky Liquid on Plants & This situation could end like the situation with the child previously described. Your trip and body could be saved with edible bug spray. Even though edible bug spray has the potential of saving lives and making it safer for humans there is a reason why this product has yet to surface for public use. The chances of this bug spray killing you is very high considering you are ingesting severe chemicals. The balance between edible and non-edible is far from equilibrium because the chemicals used to kill bugs can kill us too. So, to make this dream a reality, chemists must decipher what chemicals could be replaced but still effective to rid insects but only insects. Insects are important and their existence is crucial to the growth and productivity of Earth. But they are a nuisance and if not contained they can be dangerous and harmful. To enjoy life but have insects co-exist and do to their duties an edible insect repellent would make this ideal situation come to life. A product though is not on the market but we are one step closer to that dream. In the 90s a patent was placed on a repellent for fruits, vegetables, and plants where two basic ingredients comprising filtered water and garlic juice which is extracted from a given batch of fresh frozen garlic puree (McKenzie). This patent is lapsed but if this was brought back Hadeel Ali Professor TJ Murray Composition II February 12, 2017 5 to scientist attention and with new technological advancements changes can be made and the possibility can be widened. Hadeel Ali Professor TJ Murray Composition II February 12, 2017 6 Works Cited 1. Piggott, Mark. Four children die after father accidentally pours water on pesticide beneath family International Business Time, IBTimes, January 4, 2017, http://www.ibtimes.co.uk/texas-four-children-die-after-father-accidentally-pours-water- pesticide-beneath-family-trailer-1599160 . Assessed February 12, 2017. 2. Ciera, Lucy Wanjiru, Vincent Nierstrasz, Karen De Clerck, et al. BUG: Biobased Mosquitoes Repellent Training School of Hybrid Organic- inorganic Nanoparticles for Innovative Nanostructural Abstracts. Ed. Francesco Branda. 2011. Print. 3. Bugs That Leave Clear Sticky Liquid on Plants &  Home Guides SF Gate. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. 4. Who Let the Bugs Out? Purdue entomology insect collect supplies specimen mounting identifying displaying preserve  Who Let the Bugs Out? Purdue entomology insect collect supplies specimen mounting identifying displaying preserve labels. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. 5. McKenzie, John. Insect repellent for fruits, vegetables and  U.S. Patent No. 5,429,817. 4 Jul. 1995. Print.