Samin, 1 Mohammed Samin Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 12 February 2017 LEGALIZE IT, CRITICIZE IT Marijuana, also referred to as weed amongst many other terms, is the dried leaves of a Cannabis plant, which can be smoked or ingested to generate relaxation or to treat the symptoms of particular medical conditions. Modern society and legislators accept the use of alcohol and tobacco quite easily, although both of these are harmful to the health. Alcohol use can also lead to violence and other crimes alongside being harmful to the human body. The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) Foundation, is one stakeholder which is a non-profit established to educate and move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana. Smoking weed does not have any serious consequences, there are barely any health risks while under its influence, however federal law prohibits the use of marijuana except in regards to certain medical situations. POP POT is one stakeholder that are against the legalization and recreational use of marijuana. POP POT stands for Parents Opposed to Pot, which is a state-wide organization of citizens against legalizing marijuana (mostly composed of parents). The two stakeholders mentioned above have contradictory views on marijuana use, however, they can adjoin forces to come up with a working compromise and a solution where marijuana use is not only legalized, but it is also regulated and maintained with regards to age, amount accessible by an individual and also price if required. Legalizing marijuana use responsibly can be beneficial to the society and to the economy if it is maintained with proper regulations, and it can also aid law enforcement agencies in several ways. Samin, 2 mission is not only to move public opinion towards legalization and responsible use but also to provide advocacy for consumers to ensure they have access to high quality marijuana that is affordable, safe and convenient. NORML leads the fight to reform state and federal marijuana laws, either through voter initiative or elected legislatures. Marijuana is ranked third as the most popular recreational drug in USA, alcohol and tobacco being ranked first and second respectively. Approximately 100 million Americans have used cannabis once in their lifetime, and around 14 million regularly consume marijuana although there is a risk of being arrested (NORML). The NORML foundation is a sister organization that sponsors public advertising campaigns to educate the public about responsible and safe marijuana use, provides legal assistance and also initiate suitable research. POP POT is an organization composed mostly of parents concerned for their children and how marijuana use can affect them. Although there are parents understand marijuana to be socially acceptable and their children will leave it behind sometime in the future responsively, some parents take marijuana use as a big deal since kids are getting lost to addiction within a small period. One concerned parent shares her views through an article saying, have found out we have a whole generation of pot smokers that communicate appropriately and are bullies. I was under the impression that pot was supposed to make you calm and love one another, but that is not true (POP Members from POP POT contradict with marijuana activists who say that the substance is not addictive, and that the contents are unlike those that they came across during their youth. pot is often greater than 15% THC. in both Spain and the Netherlands have stated that THC greater than 15% has addictive qualities on par with cocaine and heroin (POP POP POT provides articles that are news stories, depositions or testimonies that are showered with solid proofs. Samin, 3 1937, marijuana was freely bought, sold, grown and smoked in the United States. Since that time, all these activities have been illegal, but many groups and individuals have fought to decriminalize marijuana Legalization of marijuana and commercializing its use will help the economy to grow faster, it can increase consumption in the food industry due to the improved appetite after its use, and it can be used to research further for use in the medical field. The debate of legalizing marijuana use in the United States is highly disputed. People consuming marijuana, either through smoking or ingestion, can develop a dependency towards the drug which can introduce distractions, or influence the social lifestyle of an individual. In spite of these effects, cannabis does treat and comfort patients with various health problems. A study published in and reports that marijuana does not impair lung function and can even increase lung capacity (SALAVITZ). Legalizing marijuana can be financially beneficial to law enforcement agencies as they spend large amounts of funds to imprison marijuana users. The public provide these funds through taxes and the expense to imprison, and provide shelter and supplies in prison for marijuana users is quite high. According to the Federal Bureau of annual Uniform Crime Report in 2011, marijuana prohibition costs taxpayers an estimated $10 billion annually and results in arrests of more than 853,000 individuals per This is a huge number when compared to the number imprisoned due to other crimes and the public pays quite a large amount for it. Medical marijuana use is regulated in many states and it has been beneficial to patients suffering from various conditions, examples include pain relief for people diagnosed with cancer, or those with muscle tissue disorder. 60 or more American and international health organizations are in favor of providing patients direct lawful access to medical marijuana under a observation (NORML). Organizations that disapprove the use of cannabis are built upon the idea that marijuana use is a Samin, 4 sign that the user can access other drugs or that they would consume the substance without regulations. Some strongly believe it can affect the character or the activities of an individual. The article Oppose which specifies POP reasons to oppose marijuana legalization mentions, summer a crane operator in Philadelphia killed 6 and injured 13 while demolishing a building. He tested positive for recent usage of marijuana. The pot suggestion that marijuana comes without harm raises the risk that our children will be harmed by someone using marijuana, or will harm themselves with it (POP This implies that parents or employers are worried that being influenced by marijuana can affect an individual and how they might harm others. has been observed that those who use large amounts of cannabis frequently use other drugs as well, especially alcohol Dr. Kooyman of the Netherlands says, legalization of cannabis reinforces already existing opinion among youth that there are no risks in using cannabis (POP On the contrary, if marijuana use is viewed from a similar perspective as with alcohol, it is quite noticeable that recreational marijuana use can be regulated in an identical way. Compared to alcohol, which influences an intrusive or aggressive behavior, smoking marijuana brings a feeling of euphoria and calmness in an individual. In addition to this, marijuana can be a safe alternative to other drugs alongside alcohol and tobacco. The journal Clinical & Experimental found that alcohol use results in 36 percent of hospitalized assaults and 21 percent of all injuries (ALCOHOLISM). The journal as a substitute for alcohol and other describes radical alcohol treatment protocol as substituting cannabis or other drugs for alcohol (REIMAN). If an individual is negatively affected by alcohol use, cannabis or another drug can be used as an alternative. Cigarettes and alcohol are much more harmful than marijuana. Tobacco causes around 443,000 deaths annually, while marijuana has still not caused Samin, 5 a single one (AMERICAN CANCER). It can however be understood that perpetual long term use of marijuana can induce breathing problems such as bronchitis. UCLA School of Medicine led a research on 243 strong marijuana users to find out the result of this particular substance abuse. from the long-term study of heavy, habitual marijuana smokers argue against the concept that continuing heavy use of marijuana is a significant risk factor for the development of chronic lung disease (American Lung This shows that an overdose of cannabis use does not have devastating health effects. However, if there is an issue of breathing problems resulting from smoking, it can be avoided through other means, like ingesting via food or using a vaporizer. Marijuana use can be regulated by the law and its officials, and people should have to recognize its effects so as to know how and when to best utilize it. The presence of THC can be tested in the system and it can be a crucial method to keep a check on employees or individuals. Smoking weed does not tempt an individual to harm others or is not damaging to the health. The two stakeholders can come to a compromise where marijuana use is regulated to maintain a safe environment for people of all age. Taxpayers, which include almost every parent will save their income and the budget could be utilized elsewhere. Cannabis regulation agencies or lawmakers can monitor that the sale of such substances are age appropriate and limited to a certain amount. A society where everyone is responsible for their actions, legalizing the use of marijuana responsibly and appropriately will be a sufficient solution to this debate as long as both parties come to understand their compromise, and its regulation is mainta ined in a proper manner. Word Count: 1550 Samin, 6 Works Cited About  NORML: Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. The Dark Side of  Parents Opposed to Pot. N.p., 21 Nov. 2015. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Rich, Alex. of Marijuana: An Points of view: Legalization of Marijuana (2013): 1. Points of View Reference Center. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental  Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research - Wiley Online Library. Grune & Stratton, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Reiman, Amanda. Cannabis as a Substitute for Alcohol and Other  Biomed Central: Harm Reduction Journal. N.p., 3 Dec. 2009. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. American Cancer Society. American Cancer Society. American Cancer Society, 17 Jan. 2013 Szalavitz, Maia. Study: Smoking Marijuana Not Linked with Lung  TIME. N.p., 10 Jan. 2012. Web. American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care  American Lung Association, 1994. Web.