Akshay Bhikha 1 Akshay Bhikha Instructor Adam Phillips ENC 1102 February 12 2017 Immigration in the United States Immigration is a hot button issue and has been since the nation of The United States of America was born. Controversy is often found in the limiting and acceptance of these immigration laws. Between the parties of the GOP and the Democratic party a central conflict includes the pathway towards citizenship as well as border policies and the screening of potential immigrants from certain backgrounds or nations; expansion of opportunities is also a major point of contention between the two stakeholders. To resolve the issues of immigration in the United States These two stakeholders have been around for much of The United States history. The Republican party at its beginning seeked to combat slavery in the 1850s. The Democrat party is considered to be the oldest voter based party in the history of the world and in its beginnings were proponents for farmers, urban workers and interestingly enough, for immigrants as well. Today the political landscape has shifted significantly and the two parties stances have changed a great deal over the years. The Republican stance on immigration today is one that appreciates the contributions of legal immigrants and strongly believes in protecting the American worker. A central belief as quoted by the GOP is immigration policy must serve the national interest of the United States, and the interests of American workers must be protected over the claims of foreign nationals seeking the same (GOP platform website) The Republican party essentially wishes to protect American jobs and wages above the interests of other nations or other nations people. Another interesting quote from the website includes oppose Akshay Bhikha 2 any form of amnesty for those who, by breaking the law, have disadvantaged those who have obeyed (GOP platform website) The Republicans strongly oppose leniency for those who have already broken the laws of immigration and state that the current millions of unidentified individuals pose great risks of sovereignty in terms of terrorism, drug cartels, human trafficking, and criminal gangs. As stated above the Republican party is highly against any form of leniency or amnesty perhaps out of fear or hate of moral hazard. The party may feel that if amnesty is given to those who have broken the rules in the future this issue of illegal immigration may continue or possibly escalate further. In the past however the Republican party was in favor of bailouts like in 2008. These bailouts by extension also favor moral hazard which begs the question, if the GOP can favor bailouts why is amnesty not an option. The Democrat party wishes for immigrants to continue to come to the US as a safe haven and wishes for it to be done in legal ways, however the Democrat party also understands and believes the immigration system is broken. As quoted by the Democrat party than 11 million people are living in the shadows, without proper (Democrat platform website) It is the belief of the Democrat party that a great deal of reform is required for the United States Immigration system to be fixed. Issues include large backlogs resulting in families waiting decades to be reunited, the current quota system discriminates against those of colored descent. The Democrat party also has questions regarding the practices of detention and deportation of illegal immigrants. According to the article Human Being is Illegal published in studies quarterly by Mae M Ngai Democratic voters support cultural diversity and inclusion while others worry cheaper immigrant labor depresses domestic (Ngai page 291) For this reason many Democratic politicians steer clear of immigration stances as a whole. The GOP in the past has taken a strong position against immigration. In the 1992 Republican convention speech Republican presidential candidate Patrick Buchanan spoke immigration is one of the targets in his declaration of a religious war that is going on for the soul of Diamond page 155) Patrick Buchanan also pushed for something called the Akshay Bhikha 3 which would be a trench that separates the US and Mexican border. This is particularly interesting because 15 years later today the Republican party is pushing for a wall to be erected between the borders of America and Mexico. The two parties of the Democrat party and the Republican party have perpetually been at odds with each other. The main reason for this is the fundamental philosophies of how the parties feel the role in the nation should be. In many ways the GOP can be looked at as the fathers of the nation in the sense that they feel the government should encourage, foster, and reward those who take independently take initiative. The Democrat party however feels the role of the government should be that of a powerful mother that supports and protects those in need. Sufficient arguments can be made for the merits of either side and ideally the U.S most likely would benefit from having a mixing of the two philosophies. The differing philosophies coupled with the longstanding rivalry over the years probably has resulted in an inability to come up with a compromise. Specifically the GOP feels that those who have blatantly broken the U.S. laws should be punished. It is the opinion of the Democrat party that the immigration system currently is broken and discriminatory. As a result they feel this leaves little choice for many people and leads to the illegal immigration into the US. Both sides however do concede and believe that there is an issue when it comes to illegal immigration and actions need to come to reign in these undocumented individuals. Solutions have been proposed from both sides however there can be a solution that appeals to both the Republican party as well as the Democrat party. The first step would be to systematically identify all the illegal immigrants already in the U.S. To do this would be costly however if these undocumented individuals were to volunteer to be identified specifically if those individuals were hard working individuals who had not infringed on the laws of the U.S other than the obvious immigration laws. These individuals that were deemed to be law abiding individuals would pay fines ideally the government could do a preliminary research of how many individuals were deemed to be law abiding and how many Akshay Bhikha 4 individuals would be deemed to be threats to national security. Once this research was done the law abiding citizens could receive temporary work visas and would pay fines that would amount to pay for the deportation and or imprisonment of the individuals deemed as threats. Although these individuals had blatantly disrespected the laws of the nation the benefits to the nation as a whole of providing this leniency would outweigh the moral costs. Precedent can be found in the various bailouts that the government has provided to large corporations deemed Big To By allowing some individuals to remain in the country legally this will provide the government with a larger population in which to bring in taxes. Mass deportation is very costly and is therefore less feasible. Whilst the deportation of the threatening individuals was dealt with legislation could be put into place reforming the current immigration system. The quota system could be abolished and the number of individuals allowed into the U.S. could be limited. Priority should be kept for those with family members already in the U.S. as families should not be separated. By increasing opportunities for immigration the likelihood of illegal and undocumented immigration would be much less. When people have a choice and an opportunity to legally participate illegal measures are less likely to occur. By increasing opportunities and consequently decreasing the illegal immigrants entering, the government would have less of a strain on resources and would be able to handle those individuals entering much more efficiently and effectively. Interestingly enough according to a sociology professor from the University of Princeton after doing extensive research on illegal immigration he discovered an interesting concept of circular flow. As quoted from Professor Massey himself sum, illegal migration rose after 1965 not because there was a sudden surge in Mexican migration, but because the temporary labor program had been terminated and the number of permanent resident visas had been capped, leaving no legal way to accommodate the long-established (Massey Abstract). Simply put the decreased opportunities to obtain temporary work visas as well as the stricter permanent resident rules led to those illegal immigrants that already entered the United States to remain in the United States which caused Akshay Bhikha 5 the rampant unchecked illegal immigration we see today. As a result the best course of action contrary to logic would be to in fact loosen many laws that are put into place but however expand and increase the security and vetting measures for the potential immigrants as well as expand the opportunities for temporary work. Illegal immigration has always been a hot button issue and may continue to be especially between the two parties of the GOP and the Democrats. However through compromise and working together the most effective solutions can be discovered and implemented for the benefit of the United States as well as the citizens and immigrants of the United States. Akshay Bhikha 6 Works Cited , www.democrats.org/party-platform. Diamond, Sara. Politics and The Anti-Immigration Justice , vol. 23, no. 3 (65), Immigration: A Civil Rights Issue for the Americas in the 21st Century, 1 Oct. 1996, pp. , Massey, Douglas S, and Karen A. Pren. Consequences of US Immigration Policy: Explaining the Post-1965 Surge from Latin and Development Review , U.S. National Library of Medicine, 2012, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3407978/. Ngai, Mae M. Human Being Is Studies Quarterly , vol. 34, no. 3/4, Envy, 1 Oct. 2006, pp. , , GOP, www.gop.com/platform/reforming-government. RESOURCES: READY RESOURCES IN IMMIGRATION , vol. 30, no. 5, IMMIGRATION, 1 Sept. 2013, pp. ,