Johnson 1 Anjelica Johnson Mr. Phillips Project 1 Final Draft 12 February 2016 Technology in Early Childhood Development Today, technology plays a tremendous role in society. Many people depend on technology and it has become a prime source in the education of children. The Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood (CCFC) and The Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning and Media are at odds about technologies role in childhood development. While one organization (the Campaign) a wants to reduce the corporate markets access to children, the other (the Fred Rogers Center) wants to increase the use of technology. Both organizations can agree that there is something wrong with what the children are getting from the technology and not the actual technology itself. Together they can come to a compromise where the use of technology can be effective if there were limitations on the duration and content in which the children see. On one hand, the Campaign for a Commercial-Free mission is to protect the rights of children to grow up without being exploited for corporate interests. The CCFC also believes that, . . keys policies and agencies created to protect kids from harmful marketing have been weakened. The results is a commercialized culture causing harm to Children are the future and when they adopt values of materialism, conformity, etc. the health of our world is diminished. The CCFC is known for hosting Community Kids Summits, a program created to reclaim childhood from marketers and uses a wide range of media coverage to change attitudes. They also submit petitions regularly to change the rules. To change how children how Johnson 2 children spend their time, the CCFC hosts a Screen-Free Week to encourage children to enjoy life outside of a television screen and to connect with nature. CCFC also works with schools to create commercial-free zones. On the other hand, The Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning and mission as a whole is to help children grow and their beliefs are that foundation of every healthy development is the power of human As far as technology in childhood development, to help children grow on the inside, learn through relationships, and give meaning to as they for positive potential for The center believes that digital media and technology play a significant role in a development as it is important and effective if used correctly. With this they focuses mainly on technology in an educational setting. Along with other places school is where cognitive and social abilities are developed and the center is dedicated to helping children do this. The center has also conducted studies that show that technology expands knowledge, but exposure to violence is harmful. That is why monitoring what children watch is a very important step. Both organizations have separately partnered with other organizations as a way to promote their cause. The CCFC has worked with the Alliance for Childhood and Teachers Resisting Unhealthy Entertainment (TRUCE.) These two organizations worked together to construct, Facing the Screen Dilemma, the first guide created to help educators make decisions about screen technology when working with young children. The Fred Rogers Center has worked with the National Association for the Education of Young Children to conduct a position statement that provided research to prove this. Both organizations . . recommended that early childhood educators need training, professional development opportunities, and Johnson 3 examples of successful practice to develop the technology and media knowledge, skills, and experience needed to meet the expectations set forth in this (p.172.) The CCFC and the Fred Rogers Center have not been able to work together because they have not been able to come to a compromise that will benefit both parties. Both stakeholders can agree that limitations on the use of technology are important and effective when used appropriately, this would act as there common ground. So a compromise between them is limiting the duration and content of commercials and other mediums. By monitoring what the children see, what the media puts out, and how much children see both parties will be satisfied. Technology itself is not necessarily inadequate, but what is being broadcasted to ourselves and to our children is. The duration is also a problem because kids in this generation grow up with technology and become attached. As a result, social skills, along with other necessary life skills, between children declines. There is no way to eliminate technology use completely, but by using this compromise you eliminate the harmful things that children get from technology that could affect their development. Technology has become a key part of society and will continue to be. The best way to insure that children are getting the necessary tools while doing it the healthy way is to use this compromise. Both organizations will have to give up things to make it work. In the end, with this compromise children who have access to technology can take advantage of technology in an effective and healthy way. Johnson 4 Works Cited Finger, Peter, and Walt Seng. digital media & learning - Fred Rogers center for early learning & Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning & Media. Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning & Media, Dec. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Linn, Susan. Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood. Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, 1 June 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Parette H, Hourcade J, Chrismore S, et al. Technology User Groups and Early Childhood Education: A Preliminary Study. Early Childhood Education Journal [serial May 2013;41(3):171-179. Available from: Academic Search Alumni Edition, Ipswich, MA. Accessed February 12, 2017. Sharkins, K.A., Newton, A.B., Albaiz, N.E.A. et al. Early Childhood Education Journal (2016) 44: 437. doi:10.1007/s10643-015-0732-3