Ebert 1 McKenzie Ebert Adam Phillips ENC 1102 12 February 2017 The Meat Environmental Impact Not long ago, a meal centered around meat was regarded as a rare occurrence, a treat even. However, most individuals in the West now consume meat on a daily basis, or even at every meal. Worldwide meat production has skyrocketed from 78 million tons annually in 1963, to 308 tons in 2014 (Hooper 1). The downfall of the growth is the detrimental impacts it has caused to the environment, for instance, pollution (Hopper 1). There are two main stakeholders that fail to come to an agreement on the issue. One of the stakeholders is The North American Meat Institute, a key producer of meat. They have attentively refined a benevolent image of themselves and worked hard to disseminate that image into consumers heads. On the other hand, the additional stakeholder, Green Vegan, advocates a vegan diet and a termination of meat production. In order to formulate a compromise, both stakeholders views need to be examined and put into consideration. The North American Meat Institute has the vision of being the main source of information, education, and service that allow meat companies to supply people around the world with safe and sustainable protein (NAMI). Despite their goal of sustainability, they Currently do not seem to acknowledge the negative environmental impacts meat production produces. However, The North American Meat Institute list their values on their website, one being the value of sustainable practices and sound environmental stewardship in which they Ebert 2 operate. As well as fulfilling compliance with environmental regulations. Also, The North American Meat Institute recognizes outstanding achievement in voluntary environmental protection through an annual awards program (NAMI). The benefit of the production of meat is its exceeding contribution to the economy. meat and poultry industry, directly and indirectly dispenses $832.4 billion dollars annually to the U.S. economy (NAMI). The amount totals to roughly 5.8 percent of total GDP (NAMI). The industry directly employs 1.8 million individuals, paying $45.5 billion in wages and benefits. This is vital to mention, because without the meat industry numerous people would be unemployed and the economy would suffer. North American Meat Institute does care about the environment and are determined to follow regulations regarding the environment, which is one of Green Vegans main concerns. Green Vegan claims that a vegan diet is the answer to the environmental problem of the meat industry. On their website, they explain one of their main goals is to advocate the end of animal agriculture with a vegan diet, because of its extreme contribution in destruction of ecosystems (Bekoff). According to Djekic, the meat industry is an extreme detriment. He claims the meat sector is one of the leading polluters in the food industry. He distinguishes the main environmental impacts of the meat chain to be climate change, and pollution (Djekic 63). The world population is predicted to reach 9 billion in the year 2050, meaning the meat industry would have to increase production by 50-73% to maintain the demand for meat (Bonny 256). An increase in production of meat would result in an increase in pollution and negative environmental impacts. Thus, a plan of action to reduce the of meat produced needs to be implemented. Society is taking so much from that they are ruining the scope to generate the surplus that allows humans to live (Bekoff). Without question, Ebert 3 these are unfavorable effects on the environment, however, both stakeholders want to support the environment. The most fundamental question on the issue is what is the most environmentally sustainable practice of meat production. In order to reach a compromise, a sustainable amount of meat production needs to be put into place. The government would have to play a primary role in changing consumption patterns. A number of studies have deliberated the consumer enthusiasm to participate in a more plant based diet and the results conclude consumers appear to be unaware of the environmental impacts correlated to meat consumption (Austgulen 49). Many who are opposed to a reduction in meat consumption view meat as biologically meant to be eaten, and associate not eating meat with ill health (Tucker 175). Suitable knowledge is vital for environmentally attentive action. The lack of knowledge of the environmental effects the meat production creates diminishes the probability of a solution being put into place. In order to educate the public, the government would have to make a national or even worldwide announcement about how the meat industry negatively impacts the environment. In addition, the government would have to discuss how less meat in diet is not detrimental. According to Tucker, less dependence on animal based protein can supply a substantial part of the resolution to decrease the environmental harms (Tucker 169). He points out it is important to note that he is suggesting meat reduction not a complete absence of meat in diet (169). By the government placing limits on how much meat can be produced the harmful effects on the environment would decrease and both organizations would reach a happy medium. The exact limit the government should place would require further research to conclude. Ebert 4 With a decrease in meat, there would need to be alternative options put into place. Bonny suggests, the future agroecology, cloning, and artificial meat may provide technologies and techniques which would allow the meat industry to meet the increasing demands. However, it would be unrealistic to expect artificial meat to completely replace conventional (Bonny 260). There are already an array of different artificial meats to choose from in grocery stores across the country. In addition, another alternative could be in vitro meat. In vitro meat is meat grown in cell culture versus inside the animal (Galusky 935). According to Galusky, the potential of in vitro has captivated acknowledgment from various entities and individuals concerned about the dilemmas associated with meat production (936). Hence, a plant based diet or alternative meat options could be the answer to replacing meat if it was placed on limited production by the government. The two organizations, Green Vegan and the North American Meat Institute, can reach a compromise. With the government educating the public on why the limit needs to be placed as well as an implementation of a limit on how much meat can be produced, the detrimental environmental effects will be reduced. The exact limit would require further research to determine how much of a boundary on meat production would need to be placed. There are several factors that would have to be considered when deciding what the limit should be, for example, the economy. Individuals could substitute some of the meat they consume with plant-based products, a few times a week. It would be unrealistic to expect everyone to go vegan or to stop the meat industry completely. It can not be denied, both advocate concerns for the environment and want to preserve the earth to the best of their abilities. With this compromise both stakeholders are giving up something, yet, still reaching a happy medium. Green Vegan Ebert 5 would be giving up a desire to completely cease the production of meat, while the North American Meat Institute would be giving up some of their meat production. By setting regulations on the amount produced society would still be able to enjoy meat, it would just be considered more of a treat than a typical daily diet. Ebert 6 Works Cited About  North American Meat Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Austgulen, Marthe Harvik. Environmentally Sustainable Meat Consumption: An Analysis Of The Norwegian Public  Journal Of Consumer Policy 1 (2014): 45. Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Bekoff, Marc, PhD.  Vegans. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Djekic, Ilija. Environmental Impact Of Meat Industry Current Status And Future  Procedia Food Science 5.The 58th International Meat Industry Conference (MeatCon2015) (2015): ScienceDirect . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Galusky, Wyatt, galusky@morrisville.edu. Technology As Responsibility: Failure, Food Animals, And Lab-Grown  Journal Of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics 27.6 (2014): 931-948. Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Hooper, Rowan. The Real Cost Of  New Scientist 225.3005 (2015): 1. Science & Technology Source . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. MCDERMOTT, MAT. Assessing The Meat Impact On  Hinduism Today 39.1 (2017): 52-57. Search Alumni Edition . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. McGrath, Emma. The Politics Of  Social Alternatives 19.4 (2000): 50-59. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Sarah P F Bonny, Graham E Gardner, David W Pethick, Jean-Franois Hocquette. What Is Artificial Meat And What Does It Mean For The Future Of The Meat  Journal Of Integrative Agriculture 2 (2015): . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Ebert 7 Tucker, Corrina A. The Significance Of Sensory Appeal For Reduced Meat  (2015): . Web. 24 Jan. 2017.