Knowles 1 Ivy Knowles Adam Phillips ENC 1102 Feb. 12 2017 Project 1 Final Draft Mental illness is a topic generally considered as taboo. Why? Because society raises people to generally believe that mental illness is not a real thing unless someone has schizophrenia or an extreme illness like that. People are taught that if you have something like depression, that is all made up in your head and there is really nothing wrong with you. with mental illnesses are discriminated against in their housing, employment, and (Barbara Hocking) And even today there are many people who are committed against their will and misdiagnosed and then not properly treated for their illness. The National Alliance on Mental Illness acknowledges mental illness as real diseases, and promotes the education of mental health, helping people find proper help for their illness and promoting healthy psychiatry practices. They also promote the belief that people with/without mental illnesses be committed against their will and forced into a life of mislabeled diagnoses. The Antipsychiatry Coalition believes that mental illnesses are made up by people who cannot cope with life and believe that certain forms of psychiatry is abuse. They promote the belief that psychiatrists torture their patients and seek to help people who are being by their psychiatrist or Knowles 2 therapist. They also heavily believe that many people are misdiagnosed and committed into institutions against their will, and then labeled and judged for life by it. These stakeholders are in conflict, but I believe that the compromise I propose will help both stakeholders come together for the greater good. The compromise is two-steps: 1) I propose the coming together of both stakeholders and promoting/educating the masses that everyone, even people with or without mental illnesses should have their own choice of seeking professional help and not being involuntary committed.2) I also propose both stakeholders come together and raise awareness that state standards in the U.S. are in adequate when it comes to involuntary commitment and urge states to reconsider. The National Alliance on Mental Illnesses main goal as our first stakeholder, is to help build better lives for millions of Americans dealing with mental illnesses. Founded in 1979, NAMI started out as a group of families promoting mental health, and is now todays leading voice in our nation on mental health. NAMI is an association with community centers all around America to promote awareness and provide support for those with mental illnesses in need. They rely on donations and gifts to fund their works. Nami runs a toll-free help line that provides free referrals, support and information and also is used just a support for someone who just needs to talk. They also run education programs, help shape public policies for mental health in states, and hold public awareness events. They have a magazine that is published three times a year and covers topics Knowles 3 relating to mental health. They also have a mental awareness week and hold NAMIWalks successfully fight stigma and encourage They also raise awareness on people who have been committed into institutions against their will and then misdiagnosed. They offer help to these people by helping them find the right doctors and treatment. The second stakeholder, The Antipsychiatry Coalition is a organization consisting of people who feel we have been harmed by psychiatry-and of our supporters. We created this organization to warn you of the harm routinely inflicted on those who receive psychiatric and to promote the democratic ideal of liberty for all law-abiding people that has been abandoned in the USA, Canada, and other supposedly democratic This organization runs a serious website/forum that promotes the belief that mental illness is a myth that people made up with and society made up to help people avoid their problems in life. They list many accredited about topics like liberating mental patients, myths of depression and mental illnesses, how psychiatry is torture, electroshock therapy is archaic and abuse and things like how psychiatry should be abolished as a medical specialty. They hold marches all over the world to protest electroshock therapy and the mistreatment of people who have been involuntary committed and misdiagnosed. They promote the belief that every person should have their own choice in being committed or even diagnosed with their mental illnesses. They hold protests yearly for those who have been misdiagnosed and improperly treated for their illnesses. Knowles 4 a long-range solution, mental liberation means ending all involuntary commitment of law-abiding people, thereby restoring one of most fundamental and most important To create a compromise, it would be a two-step process: 1) Promoting/ educating people on the impact/danger of involuntary commitment and that people should have their own choice of being committed and helped, even if they do or do not have a mental illness. Nami states on their website, believes that all people should have the right to make their own decisions about medical treatment. However, NAMI is aware that there are individuals with serious mental illnesses such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder who, at times, due to their illness, lack insight or good judgment about their need for medical treatment. NAMI is also aware that, in many states, laws and policies governing involuntary commitment and/or court-ordered treatment are inadequate. NAMI, therefore, believes that the availability of effective, comprehensive, community-based systems of care for persons suffering from serious mental illnesses will diminish the need for involuntary commitment and/or court-ordered The Antipsychiatry Coalitions states, a long-range solution, mental liberation means ending all involuntary commitment of law-abiding people, thereby restoring one of most fundamental and most important promises. Our anger is the fuel of our movement, and when we come together, acknowledging our identity to ourselves and to teach others, we will have made the first and largest step in striking back at our Step 2: Both Stakeholders coming together and raise awareness that state standards in the U.S. are in adequate when it comes to involuntary commitment and urge states to reconsider. civil commitment laws provide for the forceful detention and commitment to an institution by judicial means of persons with mental illnesses who meet certain further (Robert A. Brooks) decision to involuntarily commit an individual has become more challenging due to rapid changes in health care and (Nancy B. Engleman) To conclude, mental illness may or may not be real, but it should be up to a person to decide that for themselves. I believe that both stakeholders NAMI and The Antipsychiatry Coalition can come together and educate the masses on the danger of involuntary commitment and misdiagnosing, and then also come together to raise awareness and push states to changing their regulation and laws on involuntary commitment Knowles 5 Work Citation 1. http://www.nami.org/About-NAMI/Policy-Platform/9-Legal-Issues 2. http://www.antipsychiatry.org/mplib.htm 3. http://www.antipsychiatry.org/abolish.htm 4. Barbara Hocking, mental illness stigma and discrimination MJA Vol 178, May 5,2003 5. Nancy B. Engleman, Ph.D., David A. Jobes, Ph.D., Alan L. Berman, Ph.D., and Laura I. Langbein, Ph.D., Decision Making About Involuntary pg. 1 July 1,1998 http://ps.psychiatryonline.org/doi/pdf/10.1176/ps.49.7.941 6. Robert A. Brooks PhD Opinions About Involuntary Civil Commitment: Results of a National pg.1 November 2,2007 6e000000/Psychiatrists-opinions-about-involuntary-civil- commitment-Results-of-a-national-survey.pdf