Cyr !1 Renee Cyr Professor Adam Phillips English Composition II 27 January 2017 The Use of Laboratory Animals for Research In the world of zoology, the ethical treatment of laboratory animals is a widely controversial issue. The purpose of animal testing is for scientific and medical advancements. Specifically, animals are used to test human medications to ensure they are safe. Not only are they used to help humans but also other animals. When experimenting on animals, veterinarians can create new medicines to benefit other sick or injured animals. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and American Association of Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS) are organizations that both care about animals but have opposing views on whether to experiment on animals or not. PETA believes that all beings, human or nonhuman, should have rights and be free from harm. Members of PETA actively defend the rights of animals all over the world. On the other hand, AALAS holds the belief that laboratory animals are necessary for medical and scientific advancement. The two stakeholders can come to a compromise in terms of protecting animal rights by engaging in the three (replacing, reducing, and refining) for the purpose of improving laboratory welfare. The first stakeholder, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is one of the most powerful animal rights organizations in the world. PETA maintains that animals were not created for humans eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other Their vision has been supported with their actions in undercover Cyr !2 investigations. For instance in 1980, PETA began their active investigations with exposing a Silver Spring research laboratory in Maryland for monkey cruelty (Maroufi 1). This laboratory was abusing the monkeys in order to advance their scientific research. In addition to their continuing undercover operations, this organization is also responsible for educating the public about animal testing through lectures, visual images, workshops, and much more. Members of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals believe that it is not ethical to test on animals because they have rights too and since they cannot give consent to be experimented on, members of PETA are their voice. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals mainly focuses on targeting areas where animals suffer the most: factory farms, laboratories, clothing trade, and entertainment (Maroufi 1). Therefore, it is their number one goal to protect animals at all costs. Despite views on animal testing, there is another stakeholder in the matter with conflicting beliefs which is why animal testing is such a controversial issue. Another organization involved with animal testing is the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science, which is comprised of a group of professionals who use laboratory animals for scientific and medical research. According to the AALAS website, this association was created in 1950 by the five founders: Dr. Nathan Brewer, Dr. Elihu Bond, Dr. Robert Flynn, Dr. Bennett Cohen,and Dr, Robert Schroeder Members of AALAS believe laboratory animals are needed for testing products, vaccines, and other medicines that people take. Because animals have similar organs and body systems as humans, they are susceptible to similar diseases Biomedical research with animals is essential data to the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science because it can be applied directly to humans and other animals with the hope of saving lives in future years. Through the study of Cyr !3 animals, scientists have learned extensively about bodies and how they function. Therefore due to this knowledge and the experiments on animals, life expectancy of humans has risen from an average of 49 years in 1900 to 70 and older in 2004 Hence, according to the AALAS Foundation, increase in the number of older Americans is mostly due to medical advances that have been based on animal Although it may seem that PETA and AALAS do not share the same values, there are still aspects of each organization that overlap in belief. For instance, each stakeholder has a mutual love for animals. Because most members of the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science are veterinarians, they have chosen their profession as a result of their love for animals and their hope to see animals survive. Consequently, they get to be involved with the care and treatment of laboratory animals. These veterinarians have come to understand that animal testing results can improve the health of other animals as well as that of humans. Similar to AALAS, the organization PETA began because of their love for animals and their hope for their survival. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals believe humans should live in harmony with animals and not control them because both are beings created to live on earth. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals and the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science share the fact that they love animals. However, plan to stop animal testing cannot be achieved when AALAS continues to research on laboratory animals. Nevertheless, there are steps that can be taken in order to come to a compromise; the first step is replacement. This arrangement can be used in laboratory studies when computer models or tissues can provide results that are just as accurate if an animal was used (Curzer 556). If this cannot be done, there can be less harm inflicted if the research was to replace one species with Cyr !4 another more suitable for the experiment. For instance, philosopher Howard J Curzer states that could draw blood from healthy animals which will have no trouble replenishing it, rather than injured or otherwise compromised animals which are likely to suffer from the (551). The next step of the arrangement is reduction; this means that a in the numbers of animals used to obtain information of a given amount and is needed (Curzer 552). This method cuts down on the number of animals handled in a laboratory. After reduction is taken into consideration, the final step is refinement. Researchers need to choose the less harmful procedures and euthanize all animals unintentionally injured instead of letting them suffer (Curzer 560). Animals should never be tortured, even for research purposes. Also, laboratory animals should also be kept in reasonable living quarters and have enough food and water. Furthermore, researchers should try to make animals as comfortable as possible before, during and after their experiment. The Three clarify some of the moral conflicts between the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Additionally, these steps establish boundaries to stay ethical and assist researchers in improving the welfare of animals used in science. For both stakeholders, the goal of this compromise is for the protection. Furthermore, it establishes that have moral standing and may not be harmed without a good (Curzer 562). To make this compromise work, the American Association of Laboratory Animal Science will have to give up some of their laboratory animals and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals will not get a total cease of animal testing. However, both gain the best interest when they go through with it. Cyr !5 PETA and AALAS, the stakeholders in this issue, have a common ground of caring about animals. In order to combat their differences, a compromise of replacement, reduction, and refinement of animal testing is necessary. Overall, there are beneficial aspects of testing laboratory animals as well as unfavorable ones. Although the debate over animal testing is sure to continue, each stakeholder desires to make the world a better place for animals. Cyr !6 Works Cited About Animal Testing : Humane Society  HSI. Humane Society International. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. About  PETA. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Animal Research  American Association for Laboratory Animal Science. AALAS Foundation. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Atkins-Sayre, Wendy1. Articulating Identity: People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals And The Animal/Human  Western Journal Of Communication 74.3 (2010): 309-328. Education Source. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Curzer, Howard1, howard.curzer@ttu.edu, et al. The Three Rs Of Animal Research: What They Mean For The Institutional Animal Care And Use Committee And  Science & Engineering Ethics 22.2 (2016): 549-565. Humanities Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ethical Issues In Behavioral Research : Basic And Applied  (2007): Bibliotheksverbund Bayern. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Flynn, R. Founding And Early History Of The American Association For Laboratory Animal  Lab. Anim. Sci (1980): 765. SciTech Connect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Maroufi, Chogollah. People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Watson, Stephanie. Animal Testing : Issues And Ethics. New York: Rosen Publishing Group, Inc, 2009. Discovery eBooks. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Welcome to the AALAS  Welcome to the AALAS Foundation. American Association for Laboratory Animal Science Foundation. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cyr !7 World Health  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.