Octavius 1 Brunard Octavius Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.012 17 January 2017 Minimum Drinking Age, The Good, The Bad The national drinking age is a popular topic to debate on because of various studies that support both argument sides. Staggering statistics show that teens continue to gain access to alcohol, for instance, drivers under the age of 21 represent 10 percent of licensed drivers they are responsible for 17 percent of fatal alcohol-related (Stim). Problems such as drunk driving is just one component of underage drinking professionals seek to eliminate from society before more lives are claimed. Alcoholism under the age of 21 has grown more and more as technology advances (fake identification cards that become more difficult do decipher from the real), has come to be called of the most significant and complex public health problems today (Fitzpatrick). Groups and organizations with the sole purpose of ending underage drinking and its public effect were formed to correct the issue but the way in which they go about solving the unsolvable (there is no real way to stop underage drinking but it can certainly be reduced) problem often collides causing debate. The Amethyst Initiative plans to tackle the issue of alcohol amongst the youth by reducing the legal drinking age while the Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) plan to tackle the same issue by upholding the current drinking age. The common ground of the mutual want to save lives from underage drinking is the perfect bridge between the two organizations to come to a reasonable compromise. A compromise can be met by both groups by lowering the drinking age but only allowing for those individuals to purchase Octavius 2 beer in standard stores and hard liquor only in controlled environments (such as a bar with security). The Amethyst Initiative is a group of Chancellors and Presidents of universities and colleges across the United States that no longer believe that the age of 21 is the proper age to begin to purchase alcohol (Amethyst Initiative). The group is led by their president John McCardell (former president of Middlebury College), but also contains juggernauts such as the president of Duke University Richard J. Brodhead. With the support of over 80 college presidents, the Amethyst Initiative argument must be respected simply because of the high ranks as presidents of universities and colleges. Their job is to help regulate the lives of individuals that are usually (as statistics and surveys show) breaking the law of underage drinking. With such insight to their disposal the arguments made against the current drinking age by the Amethyst Initiative are not to be taken lightly. The reasons given to lower the drinking age are, because teens lack the ability to purchase alcohol legally when they do get their hands- on drink, they over consume or binge drink. On average teens involved in alcohol related car accidents have a blood alcohol content level of more than five times the legal limit of .40 BAC (Stim). By lowering the drinking age, the more consistent access to alcohol will lead to less over consumption of alcohol. The current drinking age forces students to ethical compromises that erode respect for the when they make the choice to use fake IDS. In Clinical and Experimental the group of scholars that considered the Amethyst Initiative reasoning for the call to lower the drinking age concluded: appears that increases in social availability of alcohol have a stronger impact on drinking behavior than decreases in (Fitzpatrick). The Amethyst Initiative have valid arguments with Octavius 3 scholarly backup, but their ideas and goals are refuted by many organizations such as the Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) began over 35 years ago. In 1980 Candace Lightner founded MADD following the death of her 13-year-old daughter Cari in Fair Oaks, California (Madd.org). The story of the death of the daughter becomes even more troubling when revealed that the driver that killed Cari had three prior drunk driving convictions and was out on bail from a hit and run arrest 2 days earlier (Madd.org). MADD was created with the purpose aid the victims of crimes performed by individuals driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, to aid the families of such victims and to increase public awareness of the problem of drinking and drugged (Madd.org). Mothers Against Drunk Driving have gained traction over its 35+ years and have become one of the largest and most impactful nonprofit organizations. MADD reminds the public of the alarming statistics and truths that surround drunk driving such as is killed every 51 minutes by drunk (Madd.org). The Mothers Against Drunk Driving justify the 21-year-old drinking age by making the claims that more than 25,000 lives have been saved due to the 21-minimum legal drinking age. MADD also makes the claims that the 21-minimum drinking age decreases crashes by an estimated 16 percent. Mothers Against Drunk Driving make the argument that, age limit for alcohol is based on research which shows that young people react differently to alcohol. Teens get drunk twice as fast as adults, but have more knowing when to stop. Teens naturally overdo it and binge more often than So, then the question is asked, would lowering the legal drinking age make alcohol less of a big deal and less attractive to teens? response, says no. When states had lower legal drinking ages in the U.S., the underage drinking problem was worse. For example, before the 21-minimum legal drinking age was implemented Octavius 4 by all states, underage drunk drivers were involved in over twice as many fatal traffic crashes as (Madd.org). arguments make sense, one give a cocaine addict more access to cocaine for them to kick their addiction. Scholarly authors James C. Fell and Robert B. Voas combined on an article that legitimizes the arguments of MADD stating that per the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, founding in 1980, alcohol related traffic deaths in the United States have decreased from an estimated 30,000 to 16,694 in (Fell). With both stakeholders making valid points with the scholarly authors to support them, a compromise is always possible. Despite the Amethyst Initiative and the Mothers Against Drunk Driving having opposing views on the minimum drinking age, the have some things in common. Both organizations recognize binge drinking as an issue in the teen community. With this known fact between them, the want to reach across party lines to end such issues should be there. Which is essentially the same common ground but on a slightly larger scale, both organizations agree that drunk driving must be ended in not only the teen community but in the adult community as well. A viable compromise for both organizations will be to lower the minimum drinking age but to allow the purchase of soft alcohol (such as beer), and to only to allow the purchase of hard liquor in controlled environments (such as a bar with surveillance and security). All public alcoholic stores will be required to check IDs and stores that fail to do so will face penalties given by the local government. The restrictions of the purchase of non-hard liquors in public stores end at the age of 21. With this compromise in place, both parties give and receive a little. The Amethyst Initiative now gains what they fought for in legal exposure to soft alcohol prior to 21. MADD receives the peace of mind of having pre 21 year old individuals drinking hard alcohol in a controlled environment as well as the age of 21 still remaining relevant because at Octavius 5 this age is where the hard liquor restriction becomes non-existent. The Scholarly article An Analysis of Changes in the of Alcoholic show that exposure to alcohol at an age under 21 ultimately led to a decrease in alcohol consumptions in marco-areas from 2.5 to 2.0 (does not specify circumstances) (Europe. An Analysis of Changes in the Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages: The Interaction Among Consumption, Related Harms, Contextual Factors and Alcoholic Beverage Control Policies, pg. 16955). Something interesting about the Amethyst initiative is that they never stated a specific age that the minimum drinking age should be lowered to, hence making the compromise easier by simply the drinking age. If the research and claims on both sides are correct, then binge drinking should decrease with the higher availability of alcohol as shown in the analysis of Europe and alcohol consumption. Drunk driving is an issue that has plagued and continues to negatively affect our society. To pin point the issue even further, drunk driving is a trend in the under 21 community. Binge drinking and drunk driving accidents continue to claim the lives of our young people across the nation. The hot national debate topic contains many valid points on both sides, but they all boil down to the single purpose to end drunk driving. References James C. Fell, Rober B. Voas. MOthers Against Drunk Driving (MADD): The First 25 Years. 25 January 2007. 30th January 2017. <http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/15389580600727705>. MADD. Addressing Underage Drinking. n.d. 30th January 2017. <http://www.madd.org/underage-drinking/why21/>. Initiative, Amethyst. Amethyst  Amethyst Initiative Statement. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Stim, Attorney Rich. Teen Drunk Driving & Underage DUIs: The Sobering  Drivinglaws.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Octavius 6 Fitzpatrick, B. G., Scribner, R., Ackleh, A. S., Rasul, J., Jacquez, G., Simonsen, N. and Rommel, R. (2012), Forecasting the Effect of the Amethyst Initiative on College Drinking. Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research, 36: doi: 10.1111/j.1530-0277.2012.01765.x Substance Use & Misuse. Oct2014, Vol. 49 Issue 12, p1692-1715. 24p. 3 Diagrams, 7 Charts, 4 Graphs