Student 1 Student Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Drug Policy Alliance Photo Analysis The Drug Policy Alliance, DPA, was formed in 2000 when two organizations, The Lindesmith Center and Drug Policy Foundation, merged to create an organization dedicated to fighting the war on drugs, as they believed it was more harmful than good The goal for the newly merged organization was to become powerful advocacy organization national and Supporters of DPA come from all around the country, hoping to influence legislation through compassion, health, and human the Drug Policy Although the organization is known for its activism in the legal process of marijuana, they hope to reform current drug-related legislation and potentially decriminalize drug use. The reform will allow equal access to drug use solutions that offer safety and reduce the harm of currently illegal drugs the Drug Policy Drug Policy Alliance is holding out that the legalization of marijuana will prevail throughout all country. One image (Figure 1) that appeared in Marijuana Legalization and Regulation, features the types of marijuana products available at a local dispensary. Each flower is fashioned in a sample dish with a label containing its name, price, and quality testing results. The photo makes it seem as if a consumer is shopping at their local butcher shop looking for a specific type of beef with all its nutritional values. The image uses two powerful rhetorical tools; color scheme and logistics. Colors in general, have the ability to affect the audience by conveying a specific image (Pack 350). In this image, few colors are used: green, red, blue, purple, and gray. The lack of Student 2 color emphasizes the importance of the cannabis at the heart of the mind. While the photo is focused on a couple labels, the most important piece is the cannabis itself. Throughout the image, it is easy to see how rhetorical appeals, such as pathos and logos, are used profusely. Pathos is perhaps most important for this image because it to the experience of or sensitivity toward (Jane et al. 22). For this image, pathos is focused through color, and while other colors are present, they are not nearly as abundant as the amount of green, symbolizing the importance of the marijuana in the photo. In general, the color green is seen as natural and healthy, and by having the cannabis at the center of the image, the viewer gets the idea that it is acceptable to use marijuana because of its conceived healthfulness. Green also represents a regenerative resource that can easily be regrown or collected again. The fight between vegetarians and meat lovers stems from not only the inhumane treatment of animals but also idea that by fueling your body, you are killing another living thing. However, herbs are on a different spectrum and marijuana can be conveyed as a natural resource itself. Logos is also used in the photograph through the array of products. The audience can get the sense that the marijuana industry is similar to the grocery industry, passing quality inspections, having different purposes, and even have its own nutritional value. By providing a nutritional label, the photographer is putting the unconvinced patron at ease since numerical values tend to make consumers comfortable because of the perceived knowledge gained by the label. The second image (Figure 2), appears at the top of the article Marijuana Wins Big, As Dark Struggles Loom, features a map of the United States that represents the number of states that have already legalized marijuana either as a recreational or medical drug. The image uses the colors green and orange to signify the states and their various levels of legalization. The color Student 3 orange is used to show which state has passed legislation legalizing only medical marijuana whereas the green signifies the legalization of both recreational and medical cannabis. A total of eight states has check marks which represent the newly passed legislation for each of those states as of the 2016 election cycle. Similarly to Figure 1, Figure 2 makes use of rhetorical appeals, such as logos and kairos. For this image, logos is used through the presentation of the map. By coloring each state, based on their legislation, the viewer has an idea of how many states have actually passed laws in relation to marijuana. By utilizing check marks, the reader has a sense of success as check marks generally symbolize victory in an area. Those check marks also show that there are many more states that have just recently legalized marijuana, indicating that there is more to come. Since Americans tend to have a pack mentality, the reader may come to the conclusion that since everyone else approves of marijuana, then they should as well, especially when a word like is used in its title. Reform is the changing of details, usually for the better. By adding the aspect of marijuana reform into the text, the audience will have a more positive view on the subject. Kairos is easily spotted in Figure 2 due to the use of patterns. Since each state that has passed is a shade of either orange or green, it can be assumed that, eventually, every state in the United States will be of some shade. Although each color represents a different stage of legalization, it can be conveyed that it is only a matter of time before marijuana is legal in all fifty states. The title also conveys the inkling of change by using words such as new This conveys that it is only the beginning of change and it is the more accepted path to the future. By adding very specific images to the article, DPA successfully persuades the reader that marijuana legalization is going to sweep the nation and that the reader should be in support of the Student 4 process. The legalization of marijuana would be of financial value to DPA as it would play into the theme of their organization; lobbying for more understandable drug legislation. Although seemingly positive, the DPA mission is to not only decriminalize marijuana use but the profit it makes on the subject would be put towards the lobbying of other bills to decriminalize drugs far more dangerous. (Word Count: 1031) Student 5 Works Cited About the Drug Policy Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance. n.d. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Davies, Jag. Wins Big, as Dark Struggles Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance. 9 Nov. 2016. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance. n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Jane, Emily, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyrem Kate Pantelides, and Kendra Gayle Lee. The Rhetorical N.p.: n.p., n.d. 20-26. Print. Legalization and Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance. n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Pack, Jenna. Breaking Down an N.p.: n.p., n.d. 345-51. Print. Student 6 Figure 1. http://www.drugpolicy.org/marijuana-legalization-and-regulation Figure 2. http://www.drugpolicy.org/blog/marijuana-wins-big-dark-struggles-loom