Laverde 1 Valentina Laverde Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.068 12 February 2017 The Different Approaches to Feminism modern world has evolved from its later counterparts, rising past obstacles that have been overcome throughout the years because of growing movements. Of the several movements that are still alive and fighting today for a cause, women have united, joining in the strive for equality, taking on the name as feminist through their own definitions and beliefs of the idea. As women have slowly accomplished their goals as a united movement, success has been a popular outcome across the movement. Those who characterize themselves as feminist each have their own reason for identifying as a feminist (Kelly). Awareness, education, and personal experiences can influence the perspective of not only an individual who identifies themselves as a feminist but a group as well (Swirsky and Angelone). Several organizations support feminism; different beliefs or values determine the issues organizations support along with their solutions to those issues. Disagreements may surface regarding distinct approaches, methods of activism or awareness, and issues addressed within the topic of gender inequality. The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the Concerned Women for America (CWA) are organizations that have their own individual approaches towards the topic of feminism, opposing goals may coincide with disagreements, but a common strive towards growth and equality may unite them and bring them towards a compromise. Focusing on gender equality goes beyond United States borders, at an international level Laverde 2 UN Women seeks to strengthen equality and the empowerment of women from a worldwide approach as detailed in their mission statement (unwomen.org/en). Serving as the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, the organization works on establishing agreements that address concerns that are vital to moving forward in gender equality. UN Women works with countries to tackle inequality, focusing on matters that they find essential towards growth. The organization approaches feminism with intentions to earn respect in leadership, education, employment, safety, and inclusion in the development of nations for women worldwide. They provide not only awareness but assistance financially to tackle concerns in various countries, working closely with the United Nations gives them the opportunity to be notified of what is taking place globally. UN Women works to an environment in which every women and girl can exercise her human right and live up to her full (unwomen.org/en). Their approach to feminism is that women should be at the same level of respect of men, that they should not face discrepancies based on their gender. The organization wants to leave an impact internationally addressing not only first world concerns but third world conflicts. Their motivation to intervene in the affairs of other nations can lead to opposition, but there are those that disapprove of international organizations, such as the Concerned Women for America. Beyond experience, education, and awareness, religion oftentimes influences the values of an individual or an organization, in this case, an approach to feminism. The Concerned Women for America are an established organization striving to implement their belief in the Bible and will in determining the issues they believe should be addressed. Striving to influence public policy in the American government the Concerned Women for America aim Laverde 3 to not only influence the government but all people, educating them about their concerns by making connections to important principles in the Bible. These values form their approach to feminism; they agree that women should be viewed equally as men in a family setting and that women should not be abused (concernedwomen.org). Being established as an organization lead by women that addresses American issues demonstrates their effort and approach towards feminism. Even with their religious background, they touch on current issues that impact women whether it be abortion, abuse, or another form of discrimination. Along with this, they see fit that men should take part in managing the imbalance between men and women equality, to eliminate natural distinctions between men and (concernedwomen.org). Their focus is primarily on issues within the United States, CWA believes neither the United Nations nor any other international organization should have authority over the United States in any (concernedwomen.org). This stance originates not only from principles in the Bible but the United States Constitution; allowing external forces to intrude on the national sovereignty and independence of the United States goes against the esteemed principles of the United States Constitution. The concerns they possess align with those of other organizations, but they also contradict the purpose of those like UN Women who work at an international level. Feminism is a topic that several individuals and organizations address through promoting its issues and initiating in activism (Kelly). Organizations such as UN Women and Concerned Women for America each have their values and reasons behind the initiatives they follow. These two organizations though in particular quite see eye to eye on some matters. Concerned Women for America is an organization within the United States that holds national sovereignty as one of its core issues to address. This is where UN Women falls into conflict with them, as an Laverde 4 international organization that strives to achieve gender equality worldwide. The CWA would not approve of their participation in American affairs. This disagreement may be able to be overlooked, if in a common effort to resolve or minimize one of their common concerns within American borders allows them to accomplish their mission, meeting half way through a compromise. In a potential compromise between UN Women and Concerned Women for America, even with opposing beliefs, they can agree that women should be respected, just as their male counterparts are. Both want to raise awareness in the harassment and abuse of women, agreeing that it is not justified that women should be mistreated in a verbal or physical way. Disregarding their disapproval of international organizations intervening in American affairs, both organizations could come to establish an awareness campaign or movement that addresses violence on women. UN Women offers financial efforts that can provide the assistance; Concerned Women for America could use to create an event, fundraiser, campaign, or any awareness initiative that will aid in the growth of women in society. Working together would potentially increase the success of the goals they pursue as individual organizations. There are several organizations that hold their own beliefs towards the topic of feminism, each addressing their respective issues. What matters though is that in retrospect to any approach towards feminism, the issue of gender inequality is being addressed. important that whether within United States borders, first world countries, third world countries, or any other nation, they should be aware of current events regarding the topic. From a vast population, there is variety when understanding a concern, no one approach or belief can exist, a common outlook though can blur out the differences, shaping what we know to be the feminist movement. Laverde 5 Works Cited Concerned Women for America , concernedwomen.org/. Accessed 22 January 2017. Cornwall, Andrea, and Althea-Maria Rivas. From Equality And To Global Justice: Reclaiming A Transformative Agenda For Gender And  World Quarterly 36.2 (2015): 396. Provided Full Text Searching File . Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Kelly, Maura. Feminist Identity, Collective Action, And Individual Resistance Among Contemporary U.S.  Studies International Forum 48.(2015): 81-92. . Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Swirsky, Jill M., and D. J. Angelone. Equality, Empowerment, And Choice: What Does Feminism Mean To Contemporary  Of Gender Studies 25.4 (2016): 445-460. . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women. Women , Accessed 22 January 2017.