Garcia 1 Ashley Garcia Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.012 15 February 2017 Deforestation: No Tree Left Behind a tree falls in a forest and no one is around to hear it, does it make a This timeless philosophical question normally associated with general thought and reality can be linked to deforestation. Since the Industrial Revolution era, people have greatly impacted forests in mainly two distinct ways. Some companies effect deforestation through agriculture, logging, urbanization, construction, or product production. While others have transformed the forests through the promotion of eco-friendly agriculture practices, recycled materials, and replanting trees. Greenpeace and WTK Group of Companies are two examples of stakeholders that embody distinctive ideas regards deforestation. Greenpeace is an eco-friendly organization that inspires to protect the world through awareness and the creation of nonviolent solutions to environmental concerns. WTK Group of Companies is a leading forest industry business that specializes in the world-wide production of agribusiness, manufacturing, trade, land development, and timber harvesting. While Greenpeace and WTK Group of Companies have different views on deforestation, both globalized stakeholders share a common desire to prevent trees from going extinct and thus a compromise between them could be to transition companies from the forest industry into using genetically-modified trees that are grown on farms. While there are many stakeholders that are concerned with deforestation, Greenpeace is one of the most involved eco-friendly organizations. Founded in 1971 by a small group of Garcia 2 environmental activists, the goal of this stakeholder is to global environmental problems and to promote solutions that are essential to a green and peaceful (Greenpeace par. 1). According to environmentalist organizations like Greenpeace, deforestation is one of several important global concerns and they oppose the rate at which non-environmentalist companies are removing trees from forests worldwide. In of Economic Dynamics and Adriana Piazza -an assistant professor at the Universidad Tecnica Federico Santa Maria- implied, are however somewhat different from many other renewable resources in that regeneration is largely dependent on the availability of land and on decisions regarding land use... the multi-age structure and the age dependent timber content of This quotes explains the complications humans face in restoring the large trees that have been lost to deforestation due to the lengthy circumstances that it takes trees to grow. It also assists in supporting perception that deforestation is not going to be solved easily and that stakeholders must be involved in the process of ending deforestation. Although environmentalist organization are very relevant in global concerns like deforestation, industries like WTK Group of Companies are also very involved. Founded in 1941 as a swamp logging contractor, this stakeholder is a leading contributor of timber harvesting, manufacturing, trading, land development, and other services worldwide (WTK Group of Companies par. 2). Assumedly, the goal of the stakeholder would be to find the most effective way to expand profit in tree production. This organization would not consider deforestation a global concern and therefore believes that no extremes need to be taken that would lead to making the use of trees for profit illegal. In the journal Senior data analyst Patrick Doupe proclaimed, of these assumptions [historical deforestation rates and inaccurate forecast lead to a higher forecast and are not necessarily the best Garcia 3 predictor of future agricultural land This article argues that there are several factors that make the future predictions of deforestation rates impossible to determine accurately and therefore the rate of deforestation is not necessarily as dire as environmentalist companies describe it to be. WTK Group of Companies would agree that the disastrous predictions of deforestation are not accurate and that there is plenty of time for stakeholders to come up with a commonality that everyone will be happy with. Even though Greenpeace and WTK Group of Companies have completely different views on deforestation, they have common ground concerning global impact and not wanting the trees to disappear permanently. Since the foundation of each organization, both claim to have spread across the world. Greenpeace described how the organization changed the through ending nuclear testing, outlawing whaling, and several other global accomplishments (Greenpeace par. 3). The WTK Group of Companies stated that they have business globally destinations like Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, The Republic of China, India, Thailand, Pakistan, The United States of America, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, and (WTK Group of Companies par. 1). With this evidence, it is true that both organizations have effected a multitude of countries across the planet. Similarly, the fluctuation of the rate of deforestation in each country has led to both stakeholders not wanting the forests to disappear forever. As an environmentalist organization, one of main goals is to prevent the disappearance of trees in forests across the globe. The WTK Group of Companies depend on trees as their main source of profit for all the sectors of production in the company. Both globalized organizations rely heavily on the continued existence of trees and thus a compromise will be needed to improve the quality of life for the forests. Garcia 4 As long as the stakeholders, Greenpeace and WTK Group of Companies, have common ground when it comes to deforestation, a compromise between the two would be to shift non- environmentalist organizations into using only genetically-altered trees that are grown in farms. This compromise may seem to benefit one stakeholder more than the other, but both have factors that are going to either be given up or gained. Greenpeace might be opposed to the use of genetically modified organisms for consumption, but the trees will only be used for production and could stop deforestation. The WTK Group of Companies would eventually lose all sales in natural wood, but the stakeholder would be able to use the genetically altered trees as their major source of profit. In the journal Torgny Nasholm, from the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, explained, and stand growth have been studied within (and across) the fields of ecophysiology, ecology, silviculture and forest management. This work has resulted in statistical and process-based models that relate tree growth to availability of various This quote describes how researching genetics can be used to open new doors for global concerns, like deforestation. If the two stakeholders assist in funding agricultural crop production research, then genetics scientist would be able to study the genes of modified crops to better understand the factors and strategies that will to suggestions for tree (Nasholm par. 7). The trees will then be planted in controlled areas where their progress will be carefully monitored before they are grown in tree farms where they can be harvested for a profit. Ideally, the genetically-altered trees will grow abnormally fast, be grown in controlled environments, and the WTK Group of Companies will only be able use these trees and not the ones growing naturally in the forest. The creation of these new trees will benefit everyone who is involved in deforestation because the new species should assist in solving the problem and maybe lead to answering other environmental concerns. Garcia 5 For this to happen, both stakeholders will need to set aside their oppositions towards each other and work together alongside other organizations to create a genetically-altered tree that will change the forest industry forever. In summation, the elimination of trees have caused deforestation to become a global concern. The conservationist organization, Greenpeace, has made several attempts at trying to prevent the rate of deforestation from increasing. WTK Group of Companies, a leading producer in the forest industry, uses trees as a main source of profit. Despite the differences between the two stakeholders, both are global icons that never want the trees to completely disappear. To prevent deforestation from running course, the two stakeholders must collaborate to invent a genetically-altered tree or trees that will replace the use of natural forests. In the end, it is up to people to solve the problem of deforestation. After all, if we do not prevent the last tree from falling in the forest, there will be nobody around to stop it. Garcia 6 Works Cited Greenpeace USA, www.greenpeace.org/usa/about/. Accessed 27 January 2017. WTK Group of Companies, www.wtk.com.my/main.htm. Accessed 27 January 2017. Doupe, Patrick. Costs of Error in Setting Reference Rates for Reduced Land Economics, vol. 91, no. 4, Nov. 2015, p. 723. http://le.uwpress.org/content/91/4/723.full.pdf+html. Accessed 28 January 2017. Nasholm, Torgny, Palmroth, Sari, Ganeteg, Ulrika, Moshelion, Menachem, Hurry, Vaughan, Fraanklin, Oskar. of Superior Growth Traits in Trees are Being Mapped but Will the Faster-growing Risk-takers Make it in the Tree Physiology, vol. 34, no. 11, Nov. 2014, p. 1141-1148. https://academic.oup.com/treephys/article-lookup/doi/10.1093/treephys/tpu112. Accessed 27 January 2017. Piazza, Adriana, and Santanu Roy. and Optimal Journal of Enconomic Dynamics and Control, vol. 53, Apr. 2015, pp. www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165188915000056. Accesssed 28 January 2017.