Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 29 Jan. 2017 Trees Save The Children Africa is home to the harshest environments that can result in barren fields, which leads to difficulties for the inhabitants. The rural societies that have been the forefront of every non- profit campaigns need a continuous source of food, not the bags of food that are being sent to them occasionally. A Chinese proverb reads, a man a fish and he eats for a day; Teach a man to fish and he eats for a This is what Trees For The Future is about. Not just providing bags of food for poor tribes but providing opportunity to become self- sufficient. This organization plants trees to aid the sustainability of poor communities in Africa. This stakeholder plants crops, fire fuel wood, and livestock food. In order to persuade people to donate to their cause, they use a website as a gateway into their world. It features pictures that depict native people and their association with trees. Two pictures will be discussed through visual and rhetorical analysis. The pictures use several cues like the subject, the background of the photograph, and the words incorporated on the image. Rhetorically this picture uses logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos to persuade the audience. Since both images are from the same website, they have the same intended audience: people who want to better a nation rather than allowing them to stay dependent on others. The first image has several elements that contribute to reaction. The purpose of this image is to show the audience what their donations can do for the less fortunate. In this case, about how planting trees can provide essentials to rural tribes. The man in the image is Student 2 wearing a sun-shielding hat and is sweating a lot. Africa is home to some of the hottest areas in the world, including the Sahara Desert and its surrounding areas. This explains the harsh conditions that this man is living in, which evokes a sense of sympathy from the audience. Additionally, the bananas in the background of the photo give a physical representation of how this organization is helping: providing food. Trees For The Future plants crops to aid sustainability in these tribal communities. This aspect of the photo emphasizes the goal of the organization. The last thing that demands attention in this photo is the writing that reads you plant trees: You permanently increase the income of the poor farmers. You help families to feed themselves. You provide permanent and seasonal (Trees for the Future, Trees.org). The writing in this image speaks strongly and tells the audience exactly what their donation is doing. The visual cues convey a message, but the rhetorical elements reach into the mind of the audience to convince them of Trees For The purpose. The rhetorical elements begin with the appeal to logic. These are in the form of an if-then statement that is casual (Hoffman and Wiggs 24). The writing appeals to the logic of the audience by telling them that with their donation, jobs are created and food is provided. Money and food are two essential things in this life and it only makes sense that if one were to donate to a cause, it would be to provide for those things. The appeal to ethos is actually the quality of the picture itself. Since the picture is of an actual person in an actual situation, it shows that this organization has taken the time to go and investigate how they have impacted the people with their provisions. The hands-on fieldwork gives credibility to workers and researchers. The appeal to pathos is the sympathy drawn from the harsh conditions as indicated above. The harsh conditions make one think, he needs help and I should be the one to do The timing of the photo, or kairos, is very good. It is Student 3 a call to action type, explained as to kairos in written form try to make use of the particular to capture in words what will be immediately applicable, appropriate, and engaging for a particular (Branham, Cagle, and Davidson 50). Anytime is a good time to donate, so this photo is appropriate. The Trees For The Future organization uses multiple pictures to convey their purpose and results. The next picture used depicts a group of younger, extremely happy children. Using them as the main subject is a strong pathos technique. Children are a soft spot for everyone, in any emotional state. They draw a strong empathetic reaction from the audience because, coupled with the writing on the image, it makes the audience want to donate. The background of the photo is of rural lands and huts made of straw. This displays the barren environment that these people live in, which evokes more sympathy from the audience. The writing on the image captures the main purpose of the stakeholder while telling the audience that they can change the life of these people by getting involved. It reads you plant trees: You change lives for the better. (Trees For The Future, Tress.org). The image draws the eye to the children first. It alludes to the fact that this organization is making these people happy. The eye lingers to the background, which can make the audience sad and feel a dutiful pride to help because the children live in poor conditions. This is encompassed in the line used on their website, donation not only sustains and empowers them, but also changes their lives Furthermore, the second imagine uses rhetorical appeals to capture the attention of the audience. The appeal to logic is simple; making people happy is good, so make people happy. The appeal to credibility is the same as the previous picture. The fact that these people went into the field and physically observed and endured the living conditions means that they are dedicated Student 4 to the cause. As an audience, people want dedicated organizations to donate to and print photos show this. The appeal to emotion is completely in the face. The joy touches the heart of every individual that looks at the picture. This ties into the kairos too. Now more than ever people care about those around them and have more accessible resources to help. Some people may not donate because they think their money is not going to provisions for the people in trouble. But this company puts trees where they can help, not just saying so the audience feels more trusting than it may have in the past. These two images were created to draw the attention of an audience that can donate to a cause that makes a difference. These images pull at the heartstrings of all people, giving this organization a wide range of audience demographic. Both images use their main subject, the background of the photo, and the writing to send their message. The appeals to logic, credibility, emotion, and timing determine how these images are received. They have strong emotional draws that sells the purpose of collecting money to plants trees and produce to change the lives for those that live in poor areas. (WC: 1180) Student 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Branham, Cassandra. Cagle, L.E. Davidson, Wilma. Professional & Technical Communication Program in the Department of English at the University of South Florida. A Rhetorical Approach to Workplace Writing. Vol. 3rd. N.p.: U of South Florida, 2016. Print. Trees For The Future. Why Trees Sustainable  Trees For the Future. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Student 6