Jiwani 1 Rizwan Jiwani Martha Heiser ENC 1102.068 12 February 2017 To Mars and Beyond Over the last few decades, a number of companies and organizations have spent billions of dollars on building projectiles like rockets and satellites, then preceding to launch them into space. Two examples of such companies and organizations are NASA and SpaceX. Privately funded SpaceX spends its money on manufacturing anything from miniscule satellites to colossal space stations. Humanity has gained a plethora of knowledge from government funded projects such as The Hubble Telescope and missions like Apollo 11, but there is still infinitely more to learn from traveling through the vastness of space. The topic of discussion is whether or not that infinite knowledge is worth the cost of obtaining it. Is it justifiable for the government to spend billions of dollars funding NASA to learn more about the universe? Should that money be spent somewhere else or is there a healthy compromise between the two sides? The National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or NASA for short, was established in the late fifties by president Dwight D. Eisenhower response to the Soviet launch of the first artificial satellite the previous (NASA.gov). Their vision is to reach for new heights and reveal the unknown for the benefit of humankind. So far, their vision seems to be becoming a reality. In a little over a decade of existence, the first of a dozen individuals walked on the moon. NASA is not just focused on the exploration of space, they also specialize in aeronautics, science, and space technology. In 1981, NASA launched a reusable ship called Jiwani 2 The Space Shuttle for regular trips to and from space. It was finally retired in 2011 but before then space shuttle flew more than 130 successful (NASA.gov). Then in 1997 the Mars rover, Pathfinder, was the first to explore the surface of Mars. These are just a few of the incredible things NASA has been able to do in the decades been government funded. They have envisioned that mankind is ready to take the next step forward for the future, sending a man to Mars. NASA wants to send people to Mars because doing so uncover evidence of past life, answering one of the fundamental mysteries of the cosmos: Does life exist beyond (NASA.gov). There is one giant speedbump standing in the way of visions for the future, the federal budget. The federal budget is a hurdle for them because NASA is government funded. This means that the taxes are what help directly pay for their expensive projects. The United States federal budget was billion representing 1.75% of a $17,649.6 trillion Gross Domestic Product (GDP) as of April 30, (Chapman 13). NASA Fiscal Year budget that year was a little less than eighteen billion dollars or about six percent of the federal budget. One can make the argument that eighteen billion dollars is money the federal government can spend on other things. Someone can also argue that, in the grand scheme of things, six percent of the federal budget enough to even make a dent in the national debt which $17.472 trillion as of May 12, (Chapman 13). Continuing to fund NASA so they can make strides in the fields of science and technology sounds like a better idea. This conclusion is justified because in a Gallup Poll that took place in May 2013 that 32% of respondents had a good opinion of NASA; 32% had a fair opinion of NASA; and 10% had a poor opinion of (Chapman 13). Jiwani 3 On the other hand, SpaceX is a much newer, privately funded company. They have similar motives and do much of the same things that NASA does, but their goals are a little different. Their vision is to space technology, with the ultimate goal of enabling people to live on other (SpaceX.com). The company was founded in 2002 by Elon Musk. Musk used his own money, about 100 million dollars of it, to get the company going (Cornell 1126). Ever since then, latest project has just kept flourishing. SpaceX was awarded contracts ranging from $100 million dollars to $1.6 billion dollars from the U.S. Air Force and NASA (Cornell 1126). SpaceX has used this money successfully and they now have quite a few accomplishments of their own to boast about. In December 2010, they became the first and only private company to return a spacecraft from low earth orbit. Their Dragon spacecraft regularly makes cargo delivery trips to and from the International Space Station (SpaceX.com). So, it seems that SpaceX and NASA are already familiar with each other and have worked together in the past. There seems to be a compromise here. If both NASA and SpaceX were to work together, hand in hand, on the Mission to Mars, it would be in best interests. If both companies work together, they can reduce the workforce of each of their respective organizations. The Federal Government can then reduce budget because there are no longer as many employees to pay. Normally letting go of workers means a decrease in efficiency and production. However, if SpaceX is there to pick up the slack, then a decrease in efficiency and production is out of the question. This way, the government is spending less but without compromising the acquirement of knowledge for the betterment of human kind. If the Mission to Mars is successful, NASA and SpaceX will be even closer to achieving their goals and values. NASA Jiwani 4 will use the knowledge gained from a successful mission for the betterment of mankind and SpaceX can use that knowledge to help enable humans to live on other planets. This argument is very important for the average individual to be interested in. The day both parties come to an agreement and accept the compromise, that would be a momentous day indeed. Since NASA is government funded, a reduction of their budget could mean that Americans might be able to pocket some extra cash and not give it up to taxes in the short term. In the long term, the compromise could lead to something previously only seen in the genre of science fiction. Humans might be able to live on another planet. Even if Mars is deemed uninhabitable by humans, the knowledge gained from going there can help when trying to colonize other planets in the distant future. A compromise here literally means a world of difference in the future. Jiwani 5 Works Cited Chapman, Bert. Waste and Duplication in NASA Programs: The Need to Enhance U.S. Space Program  Space Policy 31 (2015): 13-20. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  SpaceX. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Cornell, Ariane. Five Key Turning Points in the American Space Industry in the past 20 Years: Structure, Innovation, and Globalization Shifts in the Space  Acta Astronautica 69.11-12 (2011): 1123-131. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mahler, Julianne. NASA Contracting and the Direction of Space  Administration & Society 48.6 (2016): 711-35. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. What Does NASA  NASA. Ed. Jim Wilson. NASA, 13 Nov. 2015. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.