Kang 1 Michael Kang Professor Gocinski ENC1102.102 30 January 2017 American / Bring in Anymore Illegal Immigrants All throughout history, the United States has been coined as the safe haven for immigrants from countries all around the world that escape their country from oppression and political issues including poverty, armed conflict, political turmoil, and economic hardships. People have congregated to the coasts, to be on the lookout for the freedoms that our country promises and for the economic opportunities that America displays. In the past few dozen of years, the increasing presence of illegal immigrants, to some, has been troubling economically and politically. The top scholars have debated on whether illegal immigrants contribute positively or negatively to the United States, and the government has tried to figure out on how to deal successfully with this controversial issue. There are many organizations that both disagree and support illegal immigration in the United States, and the two specific stakeholders, who have strong beliefs from both ends of the spectrum regarding this topic, are the American Immigration Council and the American Immigration Control. The American Immigration Council sides with illegal immigrants, and claims that they have the right to be in this country and overall display a positive influence on America in the long run, but The American Immigration Control thinks otherwise. This stakeholder claims that than 10 million undocumented aliens currently reside in the U.S., and that the population is growing by 700,000 per which causes problems with the economy, and that they Kang 2 also away value by weakening the legal and national security (Kane 133). Even though both stakeholders have different views regarding this heated issue, an ultimatum should be taken place in order to have both collaborators satisfied. With that being said, in order to settle the dispute between these organizations, the United States government should expedite the process of citizenship to those that applied to become law-abiding citizens in the United States. This decision can be beneficial to both stakeholders in the economic and political aspect. The stakeholder American Immigration Council believes that illegal immigrants coming into the United States overall have a positive influence on the labor market and consumerism (Goodman). According to their mission statement, they proudly claim that they are about our immigrant past, shaping our immigrant In order to espouse their beliefs regarding illegal immigration, they the facts to educate the public on the important and enduring contributions that immigrants make to Through the scholarly article, immigration: a positive economic contribution to the United Nadadur, strongly agrees that immigration is good for America by stating immigrants positively benefit the economy by increasing demand, spurring investment, and by keep receiving-country industries competitive through enhancing capital (Nadadur 1041). Nadadur states within his article that illegal aliens are specifically helpful for the consumerism aspect of this country. To solidify this claim, Nadadur also claims that it is estimated 90 per cent of the wages that the undocumented population earns are currently spent inside the US. As a result, the total consumptive capacity of illegal immigrants remaining in the US is around $450 (Nadadur 1041). This statistic is helpful for wellbeing because this Kang 3 increases the consumerism within the United States. According to Nadadur, deporting illegals within the United States would be detrimental because a high percentage of them do the hard work that no one else would want to do. For example, only 4.3 per cent of workers in the entire working force are undocumented within the United States, 20 per cent of farming occupations, 17 per cent of cleaning occupations, 12 per cent of construction and 11 per cent of food preparation occupations are held by undocumented (Nadadur 1042-1043). These jobs keep foundation and are needed to keep the country together. On the other hand, the stakeholder American Immigration Control believes that illegal aliens should not be residing in the United States because their existence causes a detrimental affect to economy. Those that agree that immigrants are a bad influence to the United States commonly claim that they to America predominately for better opportunities and in the process add value to the U.S. economy. However, they also take away value by weakening the legal and national security (Kane 134). To advocate this statement and to solidify the negativity immigrants have on America, Pia Orrenius, a research officer and senior economist at the federal reserve bank of Dallas, states that, amnesty entails losing the benefits of having a relatively cheap, flexible workforce; there may be a negative labor market impact on competing workers; and government transfers to the legalized population may (Orennius) This brings up the argument that unfair that legal Americans go through the process of legalization legally and get their occupations taken by immigrants that illegally came into the United States. Immigrants that come into America illegally not only take the jobs from those who legally went through the whole process of Kang 4 legalization, but also puts a bigger dent into the unemployment rate in America. Lastly, not only are immigrants bad for the job market within the United States, but also their unemployment rates are lower than the national average in the U.S (Kane 136). To sum up all of the detrimental effects, the American Immigration Control is not fond of immigrants coming to America illegally. Those who come to this country illegally are constantly taking jobs that many citizens find unfair, the security within the United States is weakened, and finally the unemployment problem is catalyzed due to the immigrants pouring exponentially into the country. Although there are many that declare that immigrants are practical for future, there is also evidence to support that illegal aliens are rather inimical to the United States. Although the American Immigration Council and the American Immigration Control both have opposing viewpoints to this controversial issue, both stakeholders recognize that illegal immigration is an issue that America is trying to safely approach. Both stakeholders also openly know that immigrants are coming into the United States illegally in huge numbers, but have different ways of approaching the issue. The American Immigration Council justifies this problem and says immigrants coming into the country have a positive influence to the economic growth and future of America, while the American Immigration Control says the problem needs to be halted and fixed. In order to fix the issue in a way where both stakeholders can be satisfied is to create a legal pact to speed path to citizenship for illegals that are currently residing in the United States. This compromise is a viable and realistic approach to this issue because it already happened in select cities within America. Some of these cities include Los Angeles, Santa Ana, and San Bernardino. According to Susan Abram, the staff writer to Kang 5 the Daily News in Los Angeles, CA, the legal pact created put an end to delays caused by routine FBI name checks of applicants for citizenship, according to attorneys for the plaintiffs. It also gives the USCIS six months to process hundreds of citizenship applications from people [living in specific areas in (Illegal Immigration Council.) The compromise is essential to America in order to speed up the process of citizenship in the United States, so the proliferation of illegal immigration within this country so much of an issue. This compromise will also be beneficial to the economy, due to the fact that legalizing more citizens within American can boost tax revenue. The scholarly source pact to speed path to citizenship IMMIGRATION: U.S. has six months to process applications in supports this compromise by claiming that the amount of citizens would be beneficial to the economy due to the fact that more taxes would be collected within the United States, which would help the economy in some way shape or form. Deporting each illegal immigrant costs the government (American Immigration Council) Due to the fact that deporting each illegal immigrant can be expensive, speeding up the citizenship process would be a more realistic and safe approach to the well being of America. To conclude, it is evident that illegal immigration within the United States is a controversial topic that still needs to be dealt with for future. A realistic compromise that can be created in order to satisfy both stakeholders with their wants, is to create a legal pact to catalyze the citizenship process for all illegal immigrants within the United States. Both stakeholders gain from this situation; The American Immigration Council will be satisfied from the sped up process of the citizenship within the United States, and the American Immigration Control will have less illegals to deal with. The Kang 6 compromise is realistic, and has happened in the United States already within many cities. Additionally, the compromise could be a successful solution to this issue, due to the fact that everyone is affected by this controversial topic because all of us were at one- point illegal immigrants coming into the United States for a better future. Works Cited Kang 7 Abram, Susan. Legal pact to speed path to citizenship IMMIGRATION: U.S. has six months to process applications in  GaleGroup. N.p., 2009. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. American Immigration  American Immigration Council. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Goodman, H. A. Illegal immigrants benefit the U.S.  TheHill. N.p., 04 Feb. 2016. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Kane, Tim. The Real Problem with Immigration... and the Real  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., 1 Mar. 2006. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Nadadur, Ramanujan. Illegal Immigration: A Positive Economic Contribution to the United  Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies 35.6 (2009): 1037-052. Taylor & Francis Online. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Orennius, Pia. The Economic Consequences of Amnesty for Unauthorized  ResearchGate. N.p., Dec. 2012. Web. 15 Feb. 2017.