Lee 1 Analisa Lee Professor Karen Hanson Composition 1102 9 February 2017 Government Surveillance To keep America safe people have attempted to discover countless different solutions but have yet to find an answer that works for everyone and gets the job done. A big factor that gets in the way is government surveillance and infringing upon the Fourth Amendment and privacy. It is an intense debate on whether or not we should allow government access to our personal phone calls and messages or not. One side believes that the only way to put an end to terrorism today is to go below the surface and obtain information from phone calls and messages. Meanwhile, the other believes that the government digging into our personal lives is demolishing the Fourth Amendment and the government should not be allowed access to citizens personal lives like that. The National Security Association (NSA) is a government organization that is responsible for controlling and monitoring government surveillance and obtaining information to achieve security for our country. The Stand Against Spying (SAS) is an organization that is against government surveillance and is in the works of getting something passed to ensure our privacy. Their goal is to shut down the NSA. Although, these two may conflict with each other they each have a goal to ensure the safety is prioritized. To satisfy the urgent need for both organizations to put a stop to terrorism, a fulfilling compromise would be, an independent third party must find a sufficient amount of suspicious evidence to allow access to private data. Lee 2 Stand Against Spying is an organization that believes, is contrary to freedom and We Stand The SAS strongly stands by the idea that the government having access to our personal records and collects our conversations undermines the US Constitution. The goal is to let the public know what the government is up to and increase persuasion on congress to take away or restrict the National Security Association. They strive to stop any bill that could help increase surveillance. According to their website, they propose that the government should, strong legislative reform to outlaw mass surveillance (including phone record surveillance and Internet surveillance), reform the FISA court (the secret court that signs off on the secret surveillance), prohibit the NSA from undermining international encryption technologies and standards and hacking into technology companies, and promote We Stand They do not trust the NSA follows the rules. The strongest claim is that goes against the Fourth Amendment. Their ultimate goal, however, like most Americans, is to put a stop to terrorism. The SAS wants this country safe just as much as anyone else, they just want to give up their freedoms with it. Contradicting the SAS is the National Security Association (NSA). This government controlled organization is intact to monitor and collect information through technology. The goal and reasoning behind surveillance is, order to gain a decision advantage for the Nation and our allies under all and Their main mission to surveil private records (E-Mail, phone calls, text messages, etc.) through technology is to make decisions based on the information recorded to keep the country safe. The NSA believe what they are doing is right. They are aware many people are skeptical and weary of what they do but they maintain core values in everything they do. The NSA intend to ensure honesty, they Lee 3 understand the people have a lot of faith and trust in them so they want to do anything to lose that bond. They also intend to promise respect for the law, everything they say they do is in guidance with the US Constitution. Their goal is to ensure integrity and promise to have good judgement in what they do. They also say they guarantee transparency and aim to make certain the citizens are safe, secure, and free. The NSA stands by all of this but there has been controversy on how honest they are, which caused the SAS and others to make a stand. The two may be at odds with how to stop terrorism but, they both agree that we need to keep the American people protected and free. In recent years, there has been a lot of stress put on terrorism, for example, ISIS, and how we should stop them. However, there has also been more controversy and doubt on the government to find a solution. Author, Neil M. Richard says, protect our intellectual freedom to think without state over-sight or interference, we need what I have elsewhere called (Richards). This is what the SAS are afraid of. They do not want to lose the freedom to essentially Author for The Washington Post, Marc A. Thiessen says, the critics think the NSA should be collecting this information, perhaps they would like to explain just how they would have us stop new terrorist attacks. Terrorists have armies or navies we can track with (Thiessen). He says that the only three ways to stop the terrorist is interrogation, penetration, and signals intelligence (monitoring the phone calls and Internet communications). The first two options work anymore which leaves us with our last option government surveillance. The National Security Association and Stand Against Spying may seem to dispute on everything, but both desire one thing US safety. A satisfying compromise for the two would have to be an independent third party review any suspicious evidence and give a warrant to allow surveillance. Lee 4 The goal is to not allow the government access to on anyone they want but only those who have solid reasons. For instance, it would not be acceptable to allow the government access to spy on an innocent man who has no contact with anyone skeptical but, it would be reasonable to surveil someone who has been contacting someone related to ISIS. If a person is giving reasonable and heavy support to potentially be a threat to the safety then it is reasonable to spy on such person. According to a Pew Research poll, 45% of Americans say the government should have access to more of our lives if it means stopping terrorism, however, majority of 52% of Americans say they need to stop (Lee and Madden). It is a close call on what the people want, so this would be a good compromise for not only the NSA and SAS, but the American citizens, as well. Giving up freedom can be a terrifying thing to do and it is a big debate on whether we should give it up for our safety. Many people do not know the consequences that can come with allowing the government access to our personal records, but there is just as many downfalls to just sitting back and standing by to the terrorists trying to attack our country. It is hard to ask either one of the sides to give up one or the other. However much we can give to the government does not always guarantee us D. says, you want total security, go to prison. There fed, clothed, given medical care and so on. The only thing lacking... is why I believe that a good common ground for the two organization would be an independent third party to analyze any suspicious activity and approve of the evidence to allow the NSA to surveil. Lee 5 Works Cited Lee, Rainie and Madden, Mary. Views On Government Surveillance Pew Research Center. 16 March. 2015. 8 Feb. 2017. http://www.pewinternet.org/2015/03/16/americans-views-on-government-surveillance-pr ograms/ And Security Association. 3 May. 2016. 29 Jan. 2017. https://www.nsa.gov/about/mission-strategy/ Goals For This Against Spying . N.d. 29 Jan. 2017. https://standagainstspying.org/about/ Against Spying . N.d. 29 Jan. 2017. https://standagainstspying.org/about/ Richards, Neil M. Dangers Of Law Review. 20 May. 2013. 29 Jan. 2017. http://harvardlawreview.org/2013/05/the-dangers-of-surveillance/ Thiessen, Marc A. Thiessen: Leaks, Not The NSA Programs, Deserve The Washington Post. 10 June. 2013. 29 Jan. 2017. https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/marc-thiessen-leaks-not-the-nsa-programs-des We Stand Against Spying . N.d. 29 Jan. 2017. https://standagainstspying.org/about/