Jarvis 1 Jelani Jarvis Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder is a condition that involves difficulty in maintaining attention, hyperactivity, and impulsive behavior. Over the years, there has been questioning about whether ADHD is a real mental disorder or just the result of bad parenting. A recent study indicates that bad parenting is merely the cause of their observed bad behavior and inattentiveness which are symptoms of ADHD and that pills should not be prescribed to children in an attempt to cure this unofficial mental condition bad parenting the cause of ADHD among On the other hand, studies show that it may be a legit mental disorder as it proves that when left unattended, it results in depression and drug use in the later years of the affected individual A systematic review and analysis of long-term outcomes in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: effects of treatment and ). Psychiatrists in turn would prescribe the use of stimulants that they insist would cure the individual and slow down mental activity. According to the National Institute of Health (NIH) there is no real, valid government approved tests for the diagnosis of ADHD and there is no certified data to prove that ADHD is due to a brain malfunction Institutes of On the other hand, Children and Adults with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (CHADD) stresses that ADHD is a very real behavioral condition affecting both children and adults and has resulted in unhappy lives when left untreated - The National Resource on The Jarvis 2 compromise between these two organizations would be to bring forth a group that focuses on treating individuals with symptoms of ADHD whether it be a real condition or not by using another method of treatment that refrains from the use of medications. The National Institute of Health is an organization with the mission statement seek fundamental knowledge about the nature and behavior of humans and the application of that knowledge to enhance health, lengthen life and reduce Institutes of According to the institute many parents are concerned about their behavior and emotional instability which is a said symptom of ADHD (McGough 29). However, having these symptoms psychiatrists are quick to label the children of having a mental disorder and direct them towards purchasing stimulants such as Ritalin, which like drugs such as cocaine, ecstasy and methamphetamine have a proven pattern of misuse and abuse (McGough 101-105). Studies has shown that for children ages 0-17, there is a total of over 8 million of them on psychiatric drugs, and out of that 8 million, over 4 million of those drugs are for ADHD treatment Get the Facts Know Your Along with that, it has been recorded that about 30% of college student use ADHD medications for recreational purposes, that is, to get high, while 20% fake ADHD symptoms to obtain these medications (McGough 104-105). The NIH believes that although children may experience these symptoms, the diagnosis of ADHD does not utilize any valid means of testing such as would be done for other medical conditions, so children should not be put at risk of becoming dependent upon these stimulants for their happiness Institutes of Children and Adults with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (CHADD), in contrast, is an organization that is determined to the lives of people affected by - The National Resource on This organization, although they Jarvis 3 employ non-stimulant treatments as well, realizes ADHD as a serious medical condition and the further troubles that could arise as a long-term effect if left unidentified and untreated. They state difficulties such as potential drug abuse, family stress, depression, and school failure - The National Resource on Therefore, they utilize various medications proven to aid individuals who may be suffering from this condition. CHADD however understands that the use of medications will not in turn cure ADHD but that it will ease the symptoms during the time of which it is taken. They state that it such a medication like an antibiotic, which when taken cures the infection - The National Resource on They refer to the medication as like eyeglasses which only improves the vision during the time in which it is being worn - The National Resource on Studies have shown that over 90% of patients have satisfactory clinical improvements by use of stimulants (McGough 68). It has been proven of the self-esteem and social function deficit by individuals who are left untreated of ADHD. Studies show that of individuals with untreated ADHD, 57% have a self-esteem deficit and 73% possess a social function deficit (Harpin et al 298). In comparison to the 43% and 27% respectively of individuals that are not affected by ADHD (Harpin et al 298). In concluding, CHADD recognizes the harmful psychological effects of ADHD and the effects that could occur in the future if left unattended and believes that the controlled use of medications would assist greatly in liberating them from this condition - The National Resource on Both these organizations share a common concern about the psychological health of individuals and both strive to improve their health by employing various methods. The compromise between CHADD and NIH would have to be them bringing forth a group or organization that would focus on treating individuals who possess the harmful symptoms of ADHD through a process called Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT). This process, used by Jarvis 4 many psychiatrists in place of medications, in turn reduces risks and develops personal mental strength of individuals as they seek their inward potential and stray away from becoming dependent upon drugs. CBT entails teaching the patient to monitor his negative, automatic thoughts and realize the relationship between his or her behavior or feelings as a result of these thoughts (Beck 4). The patient would then gradually recognize that the difficulties they encounter originate from these negative thoughts, and in turn be taught new helpful thought patterns that would cure their symptoms without use of medications. This compromise would require the NIH to change their perception on ADHD and realize it as a difficulty in many individuals that if left without help could cause major issues in professional and personal life. CHADD would on the other hand have to eliminate the use of medications for treatment and direct their attention to their present non-stimulant way of treatment. Doing this, both these organizations could come together and work towards bringing forth an organization that specializes in Cognitive Behavioral Therapy and develop these individuals, even from a young age who may be experiencing these symptoms and direct them to have better, positive thought processes which results in positive outcomes. In concluding the debate of whether ADHD is a real mental disorder or not and whether or not medications should in turn be used to treat this disorder, both these stakeholders share a common goal of interest which is to help improve the lives of individuals. Therefore, the use of this new approach would satisfy both organizations as they would both be helping and improving lives of many persons without running the risk of them developing another serious problem of addiction. Jarvis 5 Works Cited Beck, Judith S. Cognitive-behavioral  Primary Psychiatry, vol.13, no.4, 2006, pp. 31- 34. The National Resource on CHADD The National Resource on ADHD. N.p, n.d. Web. 12. Feb. 2017. Harpin, V; Mazzone; L; Raynaud, J. P; Kahle, J; Hodgkins, P. Outcomes of ADHD: A Systematic Review of Self-Esteem and Social Journal of Attention Disorders, vol .20, no. 4, 2013, pp. 295-305. Is Bad Parenting the Cause of ADHD among  Parent. N.p., 18 June 2013. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. McGough, James. ADHD. Oxford University Press, USA, 2014. 29 January 2017. Institutes of Health National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d Web, 12 Feb. 2017.