Reinhardt !1 Morgan Reinhardt Martha Heiser Composition II 1 February 2017 Death With Dignity or Suicide Every life eventually comes to an end; tragedies, cancer, malpractice, terminal illness, suicide. A days are numbered and traditionally death is uncontrollable and not apart of plan. Alternatively death can be in the hands of the victim, suicide victims determine their time of death and so can the terminally ill. Commonly referred to physician assisted suicide, euthanasia, is a medical dose that ends the life of the patient. Final Exit Network is an organization mission is to pass a bill legalizing euthanasia in America. This would allow the terminally ill an option to die with dignity. But Christians stand strong by scripture and define euthanasia as a sin of suicide. They believe God is the creator of man and ending the life of man should only be up to the creator. Euthanasia could be looked at in two different ways; as unjustifiable suicide, an unnatural way of death or as an ending to suffering, a death with dignity. Both organizations value life and want the victim to suffer, but the moral justification of euthanasia opposes the two. The two seem to have no middle ground but a compromise is possible in order to allow people to die the way they chose. Final Exit Network believes euthanasia is a right by nature implies that the ending of life is the choice ( finalexitnetwork.org 3) . Their mission is to allow a victim of terminal illness to exit in peace and at their own time. In no way is the Final Exit Network a suicide hotline, they justifying euthanasia for the depressed, mentally ill or Reinhardt !2 people with a personal crisis. They are strictly dedicated to the terminally ill patients, or irreversible physical illness that cause pain and suffering. The suffering of terminal patients has a large impact on the patient and an equally significant impact on the families and loved ones. Fran Spchindler, a Final Exit Network member, shared her story that was the turning point in her beliefs on the mode of death. She watched her mother die a long death where she slowly degraded to nothing until she finally passed away. Fran vowed after her suffering she would never let her own children watch her die a slow and miserable death. She wants her death to be painless and on her own terms. Because of experience she became an which are people who are apart of Final Exit Network who travel and help people end their lives through euthanasia. As an exit guide Fran gets to see the beauty of euthanasia, people get to choose to end their own suffering and to allow their families to say their goodbyes and be with the victim in their last moments (Majhrowicz 1). While Majhrowicz explores the beauty of euthanasia Otani, a researcher of the college of social sciences at Ritsumeikan University defines it. Otani explains that because the process of euthanasia is not it is looked at as or (50). when a death is represented as it no longer requires a legal or ethical justification without (Otani 50), this explains why there is so much controversy over euthanasia. Physician assisted suicide is not a natural process of dying but that mean the end result is any different. The people who Final Exit Network is working to gain rights to administer euthanasia are people who are going to die regardless they are just choosing to die and skip the suffering of themselves and their loved ones. In the minds of the Final Exit Network, euthanasia is completely justified, the of it does not contribute to the ethical reasons of the process. Reinhardt !3 Opposing euthanasia is the religion of Christianity and their strong stand on the scripture of the Bible and their morals. Dr. Gushee, a Christian ethicist and public intellectual stated that it matters little if we do the deed ourselves, give our loved ones the means to do the deed, or pay the doctor to do it. In any case, we are involved in an act that directly brings about the death of another human (1). Christians strongly back their morals, killing and suicide is greatly disagreed with in the religion. In this case not only is the victim of euthanasia guilty of suicide but anyone involved in the process is considered responsible. Along with their morals the scripture of the Bible guides their beliefs of euthanasia greatly. Multiple scriptures from the Bible suggest a stance against euthanasia for example Genesis 3:19: Illness and death are a tragic part of life in a sin-sick world and we must fight them Jesus fought them hard. Not only is Physician assisted suicide considered murderous but it is looked at by christians as giving up a fight on the life Jesus gave us (Gushee 1). In another context euthanasia is looked at as interventions deliberately designed to alter the life (Richmond 26), when human life spans are not to be determined by humans but rather to be trusted in the hands of God. The Bible encourages healing the sick and comforting the dying but never condemns controlling when a person dies. Euthanasia breaks the sixth commandment shall not these commandments are guarded by the christian faith. What is the difference from putting a gun to your head and swallowing or getting a shot of a lethal does of medication that the victim is knowledgable will kill them. In both instances the victim is aware what they are doing will end their life and they go through with it. It was never taught in the bible that death was preferable to (Richmond 27) that up to the human race. Human life is supposed to Reinhardt !4 be respected from beginning to end not thrown away when life becomes to hard or painful, in the christian point of view every minute of life should be cherish up until the very last breath. So is euthanasia a dignified death or a murderous act of suicide? The only way to find common ground in this dilemma is for both sides to look at the process in different terms. Euthanasia should not be looked at as but rather controlling the direction of ones life. It should also not be viewed as a dead end but a possibility. In context of christianity has given men and women freedom and responsibility for their lives 2). The responsibility of life should also not be in the hands of the church, or the doctor but between the person and their beliefs. People should view euthanasia as a choice of how to die and not when to die. what distinguishes it from suicide or murder, victims are not choosing the result of death they have already been dealt that card, they are deciding to die on their own terms if their dying is inevitable. For euthanasia to be legalized there would have to be laws and regulations in the process, with many documents to sign. The patient would have to be competent, terminally ill with no other medical options for survival and in agreement with the decision to euthanize. And the process of euthanizing should not be a day process but a week to two week process so the patient has time to prepared and think about their decision, further more at any time of the process the patient is aloud to withdraw their decision. For Christians, Dr. Andrew Dutney, the president of the assembly of Uniting Church, offers a thought for christians to think; would their God who allows his people free will agree with a suffering death? Euthanasia if passed as legal would just be an option for terminally ill patients, people of the christian faith who do not agree do not have to choose that mode of dying it is completely up to the patient. Reinhardt !5 Euthanasia offers patients the ability to have control over a situation which usually is completely out of their control. So many times patients are given a sentence of death and are forced to wait for the time to come without ever knowing when it will come. Imagine if instead of giving a patient dead end news the patient could have the option to choose when they die. Medical professionals are taught to make the patient feel in control at all times, giving them every option and explaining exactly what is happening to them so they can choose. But when they have exhausted all the options and death is the undeniable truth, euthanasia could still allow them to give the patient one last option. Euthanasia could transform the way death is looked at, patients could decide to throw a party and make sure that they get to end their life with happy memories with family. The families could be at peace knowing this is exactly what their loved one wanted and knowing it was completely painless. Reinhardt !6 Work Cited Dutney, Andrew, Dr. Christians Supporting Choice for Voluntary  Christians Supporting Choice for Voluntary Euthanasia. Monash Bioethics Review, Apr. 1997. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Home Page 2. N.p., 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Gushee, Answered By David P. Killing with  ChristianityToday.com. Christian Today, 1 Dec. 2004. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Richmond, David. How Should Christians Respond To Proposals To Legalise Euthanasia And Assisted  Stimulus: The New Zealand Journal Of Christian Thought & Practice 21.1 (2014): 20-28. Academic Search Premier. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Majchrowicj, Micheal. The Volunteers Who Help People End Their Own  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 6 July 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Otani, Izumi. Manner Of As A Normative Concept: And Discussions On Euthanasia/Death With Dignity In Japan Izumi Otani Manner Of As A Normative  International Journal Of Japanese Sociology 19.1(2010): 49-63. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 1 Feb. 2017.