Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Visual Rhetoric Used by the American Wind Energy Association Wind power remains a controversial issue in the United States due to many factors, including cost, land-use, and environmental impact. Various stakeholders, or organizations that espouse a specific viewpoint, take a position on an issue and try to persuade others to understand their viewpoint (Browning and Rea 371). One such example is the American Wind Energy Association, or AWEA. This organization uses information via text and imagery to educate viewers on the benefits of wind energy. By using visual rhetoric on their website, the AWEA works towards convincing viewers of the benefits of wind power in the United States The AWEA was formed as a that operates as a nonprofit organization and uses lobbyists to influence congressional actions, whose intended audience are large corporations that can join and pay member dues. Additionally, their website may be directed towards individuals learning about wind power Throughout the AWEA website, they claim that wind power is a renewable resource that has great cost-saving potential and an environmentally friendly impact The AWEA website uses visual and the four rhetorical appeals kairos, logos, pathos, and ethos to successfully persuade their audience that wind energy is beneficial through a combination of text and imagery. An image from the AWEA website (Fig. 1), uses many visual cues, including pathos, which is a rhetorical appeal that is used to elicit an emotional response, to persuade an audience to agree with their viewpoint (Lane et al. 22). The first aspect that is easily noticed is the text Student 2 present in the image. The statement, does wind power mean for America? / Wind takes U.S. connects the idea of wind power to a necessary use in the United States Additionally, the second line is play on words that could be interpreted as takes . . . This statement helps connect the idea of wind power to national pride and to the individual person. By creating a statement that includes the viewer, the AWEA includes the individual in the goal of wind energy to improve the energy infrastructure of the United States. Overall, the image uses a lot of red, white, and blue to inspire patriotism in the viewer that will connect wind power with a source of pride. Because the colors of the American flag are emblazoned from a young age into the minds of children and that the United States is the best place on Earth, the AWEA is using this learned pride associated with being an American to make wind energy an American concept, which allows wind power to become more widely accepted. Additionally, the close distance between the technicians and the truck emblazoned with the American flag, with the windmill in the middle, shows the close relationship depicted by the AWEA between the workers and the country. The organization uses this to try to relate itself to the United States, which it uses to contribute to the idea that it is official and credible. This layout is meant to inspire people to regard wind power with high esteem. While the imagery used by the AWEA has many readily seen visual appeals, the AWEA also uses many forms of rhetorical appeals in order to convince the audience of the benefits of wind energy through imagery (see Fig. 1). One such example is the use of ethos, or the credibility of the argument that the author creates (Lane et al. 20). This credibility is established in this image through the AWEA logo in the lower-right hand corner as the organization uses its name and status to prove its trustworthiness. Furthermore, kairos, which is the use of timeliness in persuasion, is used by establishing a goal of innovating and developing more wind turbines Student 3 (Lane et al. 25). Through the use of the text present, does wind power mean for America? / Wind takes U.S. the creator of the image establishes that it is a fact and that there is no doubt of its truthfulness Even though there are not any statistics present, proposing a question and then answering it, creates an idea of infallible logic for the viewer. The AWEA uses logos, or logic, to aid the viewer in coming to this conclusion. In addition to Figure 1, the AWEA uses other forms of imagery to persuade their intended audience that wind power is beneficial by strategically using rhetorical appeals on their website. Another example (see Fig. 2) uses a photograph to convey their message. The image depicts the power and immensity of wind energy, which is assisted by the fact that the windmills are located in a desert landscape. This shows the viewers that wind power is not used where people or animals live; thus, wind energy refrains from heavily impacting the environment. The depiction of the low impact of wind energy is more metaphorical than not having a population of animals present in the image. The visually reduced effect on the environment reflects and creates the assumption that even if wind turbines were installed near people and other animals, they would be more sustainable and efficient over time than fossil fuels, which would lead to a decreased harmful effect on the Earth. Moreover, the low number of wind turbines reduces the environmental impact compared to that of traditional energy sources, such as oil or coal. Additionally, there are no carbon emissions present in the photo, as opposed to those emitted by fossil fuels. Due to the dark colors and hues present in the photos, the viewer can see that wind will be created by the upcoming storm; therefore, the reader can develop an idea of how wind might power the turbines. Additionally, the rain brings a sense of hope to the waterless desert, which is dry and barren. As it is a new technology that has not gained full acceptance in modern- day society, this sense of hope may also apply to the optimistic expectations of wind power as a Student 4 renewable resource that will eventually replace nonrenewable resources, which will one day become as dried out as the desert. The visual elements created by the AWEA in Figure 2 are supported by rhetorical appeals that amplify the persuasive power of the image. The image uses a form of ethos called, which refers to the original source of the photo. The author uses logos by referencing an outside source that is generally known as credible, which allows viewer to connect the image with a sense of trustworthiness (McKee and McIntyre 29). The original source is cited in the caption as a governmental organization; therefore, providing immediate credibility of the organization and the image An emotional response, or pathos, is created through the use of a burned edge around the photo, which makes the center look brighter and draws attention towards the windmills, which lie in the middle of the photo. This technique creates a negative presence on the outside borders of the photo; however, the bright center elicits a hopeful response as the brightness is usually associated with positivity. By providing a looming presence of the windmills over the landscape, it acts as a source for the reader to understand the importance to develop better windmills and see it as a hopeful future technology. The use of rhetorical appeals and visual rhetoric to persuade an audience are clearly present in Figure 1 and Figure 2 and through the website. They use various rhetorical appeals, such as kairos, logos, ethos, and pathos, to convince the audience that their viewpoint is correct. The images work in tandem to cover various aspects of the importance of windmill usage. Figure 1 uses a catchy phrase and patriotism, while Figure 2 uses a slightly edited photo that depicts the small impact that windmills have on the environment. The images provide the AWEA with a tool to utilize in order to convince individuals and corporations of the need for wind energy. Individuals alone cannot influence change, but the more support the Student 5 AWEA gains from individual people, the more companies that may become a member and pay dues (WC: 1332). . Student 6 Works Cited AWEA, American Wind Energy Association, www.awea.org. Browning, Ella and Joshua M. Rea. Understanding Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 371-4. E-text. Lane, Emily, et al. The Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-6. E-text. McKee, Jessica and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. E-text. Takes U.S. AWEA, AWEA, www.awea.org/news-and-media. AWEA, American Wind Energy Association, www.awea.org/MediaCenter/content.aspx?ItemNumber=7244. Student 7 Figure 1. http://www.awea.org/news-and-media Student 8 Figure 2. http://www.awea.org/MediaCenter/content.aspx?ItemNumber=7244