DeLisle 1 Lexi DeLisle Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 1.27.17 Use of Genetically Modified Organisms Genetically Modified Organisms, are organisms with modified genetics that cannot be found naturally in nature (GMO Facts). The use of has been under debate as discussions arise on the dangers and benefits of using these modified crops. American company, General Mills, actively uses in their foods as they believe it helps the environment, farmers, and world hunger problems. Contrasting the ideas from General Mills, the Non-GMO Project is against the use of being used and believes in providing safer, less modified foods to the consumers (Powell). These two groups both want to help their communities and consumers, while helping the farmers providing these plants. They can meet at a compromise of requiring labeling of GMO foods and lower the standard of GMO contamination percentage in GMO foods. General Mills is a company with a mission statement of the world by making food people As a company, they follow the values of doing the right thing, acting as team, helping the community, and protecting animals. According to General Mills Chairman, Ken Powell, creating a healthier planet, helping farmers, and advancing the welfare of community is essential to their business mission (Powell). General Mills openly uses genetically modified ingredients in their foods with explanations behind it. To explain their use of the genetically modified (GM) ingredients, they state that using the GM ingredients allows for less DeLisle 2 insecticide in the plants which ultimately helps farmers and the environment (On A few benefits from less insecticide being used is less energy needing to be used by farmers, improved water quality, and strengthened crops. Along with helping the environment, using has led to an increase in food availability and quantity, which helped deal with growing populations and climate changes (Baragona). By using genetically modified organisms on plants, the plants are able to withstand adverse conditions and ultimately grow larger and bigger quantities, producing more food. Based on the larger quantity of food available, more people are able to receive food, aiding in the growing issue of world hunger. As General Mills strives to better the community and help those in need by providing food and aiding farmers, they argue that their use of is beneficial and is helping the world as a whole. The Non-GMO Project is a nonprofit organization that aims to increase and protect non- GMO food supply with a mission statement of being to preserving and building sources of non-GMO products, educating consumers and providing verified non- GMO According to this organization, should not be used as GMO use is leading to a more dangerous food supply for future generations as contamination is spread in the seeds Herbicides are pesticides used to kill specific targets and plant material and have been used through food production and GMO use the herbicides are used on the plants, super weeds and super bugs emerge as they are resistant to the herbicide. As a negative consequence from these super weeds and super bugs emerging, poisons must be used on the plants we harvest to kill these poisonous weeds and This ultimate goal is to have a non-GMO seed supply and limit the amounts of foods throughout the nation that have used the chemicals (Mission). Throughout the US, labeling of foods containing is not mandatory, but in the eyes of the Non-GMO project, there should DeLisle 3 be mandatory labeling so consumers are able to make their own informed choices on what they are consuming (Langer). These two companies both aim to benefit those buying the products, and aid farmers providing the crops. According to General Mills, when GM crops are planted, they are able to generate higher yields and protect them against weeds or disease. General Mills wants to help the farmers planting the crops by providing a way for them to use less energy and make more product (On On the same type of mission, the Non-GMO Project states that they want to give farmers back the right to choose what they grow and restore the traditional seed. Both of these groups have the best intentions for consumers at heart, with differing ideas on what should or can be used in relation to Sharing a common goal of helping farmers and protecting consumers, a compromise between General Mills and the Non-GMO Project can be lowering standards of what is acceptable GMO percentage in GMO foods, along with required labeling of GMO products. Currently, the standard for human food products is at .9%, and it could be lowered in light of finding a compromise of allowing the General Mills uses and following the mission of the Non-GMO project By lowering these standards, it will allow for General Mills to continue their production and increase in food growth. Requiring labeling is a compromise that needs to be made between these two groups as it follows along the mission of the Non-GMO project of providing consumers with knowledge and personal choice, but does not stop or change General Mills production too much. By simply requiring labeling, can be used, but it gives consumers the ability to decide if they want the products or not because of their ability to see which products contain the A large part of the population want to know what the processes used on their food are and labeling is the first step to creating this clear line of DeLisle 4 information between producer and consumer. Labeling will be an opportunity for companies to thrive in the future (Caswell). In conclusion, the use of is a controversial topic that groups are split on the benefits from the use of these technologies or wanting to not be used anymore. General Mills believes that by using on their products, they are helping the farmers who provide the crops, along with increasing food supply as we need it. On the other hand, The Non-GMO Project believes that using these on our seeds now will hurt future generations food or seed supply and we should give the power back to farmers by allowing them to plant what they wish. To find a perfect middle ground, standard limits of GMO percentage amount should be lowered so companies, such as General Mills, can use the on their product still, but will also follow along with the goal of The Non-GMO Project of limiting GMO use. Another compromise between these two groups would be mandatory labeling of GMO products. By creating this compromise, it will give the decision to the consumers instead of just the companies. Labeling will allow General Mills to continue GMO use, but will give the Non-GMO Project peace of mind as they know that consumers will see what they are intaking and may choose to not go with GMO products. DeLisle 5 Works Cited Baragona, Steve. Pioneers Win World Food VOA News. 19 June 2013. Web. 27. Jan. 2017. Caswell, Julie A. Should use of genetically modified organisms be  AG Bio Forum. (1998). Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Non- GMO Project. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. ScienceDaily. 2016. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. General Mills Inc.. 2014. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Langer, Gary. Poll: Skepticism of genetically modified  ABC News (2013). Web. 27 Jan. 2017. The Non-GMO Project. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Powell, Ken. Global Responsibility General Mills. 2016. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Purpose. General Mills. 2014. Web. 9 Feb. 2017.