Mao, 1 Ying Mao ENC 1102 Project 1 02/12/2017 Climate Chang is a Topic Should be Discussed According to the climate change, most of the people gradually realize the changes of the world which caused by the climate change. For example, the ice of two polar areas is melting which causes a lot of animals lost their habitat or died for hunger. Also, the fishing industry have less and less harvest, because of the Mania and fewer fishes can be survival in the warmer water, and some cold areas are too dry to agriculture, and so on. Global warming becomes an environment problem that never can be ignored anymore by humans. Smith introduced in his article that: change is real, anthropogenic in origin, and irreversible and dangerous (United Nations). The effects are being felt already in the most vulnerable ecosystems and human (Smith 443) His sayings was telling people that climate change is happening which will influence life increasingly. More and more difficulties and troubles will be caused by climate change if human never think highly of climate change. However, not all the people in the world are worried about climate change, some of the people think climate change is a part of the natural process, it happened in the history of which should not be concerned that much. There are two main opinions of what cause climate change; one side considers that global warming is an environmental problem which is caused by human activities. Mao, 2 Those people or organizations who support this idea think human activities have made a huge amount of carbon dioxide, which is the main cause of global warming. The increasing temperate of the earth is caused by the heat of all different activities can not be radiated. Those people and organizations also agree that if humans can decreasing the amount of carbon dioxide, global warming can be reduced. However, not all the people agree with that, another stakeholder thinks global warming is not only caused by human activities, but also the natural process. Those organizations and people point out that according to the history, the earth indeed had climate change and climate change is a cycle, and the earth is in the cons. It is interesting to compare two different ideas of global warming; one thinks it caused by human activities only while another one think global warming is caused by human activities and natural change. To begin with the opinion that people or organizations consider climate change is caused by human activities. People believe that climate change is caused by output too much carbon dioxide. In the report for climate change which published in 2017, it claims that: social cost of carbon (SC-CO 2) is an economic metric intended to provide a comprehensive estimate of the net damages - that is, the monetized value of the net impacts, both negative and positive - from the global climate change that results from a small increase in carbon-dioxide (CO 2 ) (3). According to this saying, it is not difficult to find out that some of the experts think global warming is caused by the economic activities which caused a lot of carbon dioxide and increase the temperate of the earth. The report also claims that because of the human always would like to earn more money and have a lot of making process which makes the Mao, 3 environment and the climate change problem more and more serious. Moreover, a observation which did by Kong, Miao, and Wu also show that climate change is caused by human activity. Those researchers study the data of the Yellow flow. The found that activities indeed influence the climate, because those activities change the water recycle process and influence the climate. Author stated in the article: change directly affects the hydrologic and thermal regimes of rivers, with a direct impact on freshwater ecosystems, water quality, and human water (Kong, Miao, & Wu 566). Although they did not mention the relationship between human activity and climate change directly, it is not difficult to find that climate change and human activity influence each other. However, not all the people agree that human living activities is the main cause of climate change. Some of the organizations and people think climate change is a part of the natural process and expression, because the earth does have some change inside of it and it will show up on the surface where humans are living now. And there are more and more people and organization trusts this saying. According to the organization ProCons.Org, it stated that: than one thousand scientists disagree that human activity is primarily responsible for global climate change. In 2010 Climate Depot released a report featuring more than 1,000 scientists, several of them former UN IPCC scientists, who disagreed that humans are primarily responsible for global climate From those words, it is not difficult to find out more an more people and organization are trying to understand climate change in another way to think Mao, 4 about the causes by history more. The data also shows that a large amount of scientists disagree with the idea cause global which shows that cause global is not true because it never be proved and needs ti be doubted. In the article of Gresham which tried to understand the causes of climate change, the author listed several pieces of evidence and study results to that human activities do not cause the climate change. For example, a study product for understand the relationship between environment change and the increase of carbon dioxide, the result is opposite to the exception: the temperate is increasing which cause the increase of carbon dioxide. The author concludes the study like this: changes caused the changes in carbon dioxide levels, not the (Gresham 23). Moreover, he also claimed that: carbon dioxide does not cause global warming! This is heresy of the highest (Gresham 23). Although the study did not have the final conclusion for what cause global warming, it is not hard to understand the relationship between human activity and climate change still need more time to study and no conclusion for which causes which yet. In conclusion, both two sides do have their opinion, evidence, and studies for what causes climate change. One side insists that climate change is caused by human activity, the human need to take the responsibility of causing so many problems such as animals living are disappearing. Another side of organization and people agree that climate change is a natural process which also happened before on the earth. For example, dinosaurs are died out because of the extremely cold weather. They think the Mao, 5 earth can adjust and change back to the suitable temperature by itself, and human can not do anything for it and should not be blamed for it. (Word Count: 1218) Work Cited Carter, Robert M. Knock: Where is the Evidence for Dangerous Human-Caused Global Economic Analysis & Policy, vol. 38 no. 2, September 2008, pp. 177-202. Gresham, Robert M. Came Tribology & Lubrication Technology, August 2016, pp. 22- 23. Human Activity Primarily Responsible for Global Climate ProCons. Org. Reserved from http://climatechange.procon.org/ Climate Damages: Updating Estimation of the Social Cost of Carbon National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. 2017. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press. doi:https://doi.org/10.17226/24651. Kong, Dongxian, Chiyuan Miao, Jingwen Wu, and Qingyun Duan. Assessment of Climate Change and Human Activities on Net-Runoff in the Yellow River Basin From 1951 to Ecological Engineering, vol. 91, 2016, pp. Mao, 6