Garcia 1 Haley Garcia Professor Gocinski ENC1102-012 30 January 2017 Exact Replications and False Representations. As you grow in our society remember to never get too comfortable, you will always be replaceable, especially in a world where cloning is possible. Although this process is difficult, there are companies that are capable of making this process possible. One company that is involved in this practice includes a company called Clonaid: Pioneers in Human Cloning. They successfully cloned the first child on December 26 th , 2002 and since then this company has helped a variety of families that had difficulty producing their own children to have babies. Their goal is to help those parents who are sterile, homosexual, have an STD or just simply want children with identical DNA to have the ability to have their own babies. On the other hand organizations like the Organic Consumers Association are against human cloning and have had several movements to stop the development of this science. They believe that the cloning of individuals is a crime against human dignity and humanity. The unethical and general manipulation of genes is seen as disruptive to the natural functions of the world. Looking at the arguments given, it is easy to see that both stakeholders are just looking for the appropriate decision for all individuals. Establishing a compromise could be difficult because of the differences between these two, however their drive to help those in need and concern about the decrease of genetic diversity could be just enough to convince them to work together. That being said, in order to settle the dispute between Clonaid and the Organic Consumers Association they Garcia 2 should focus more on the cloning of stem cells, which can lead to the regeneration of body parts on individuals who have gone through events in life that have led to needing a transplant. Cloning is not a topic that is discussed very frequently, especially not the actual success that has been established over the course of the last two hundred years. In 1885, a man named Hans Adolf Edward Dreisch took two cells of a fully grown sea urchin and separated them, which led to the embryos growing into two more sea urchins. This created the foundation of what is now called human cloning, a process involving the extraction of the nucleus of the unfertilized egg, replacing it with the nucleus from the species that is intended to be cloned, then putting it into a womb for it to mature and develop. This process, although rather difficult, has been incorporated into science and has become successful for a variety of different purposes. Some other species that have been cloned sense then is the salamander, frogs, rabbits, sheeps, cows and monkeys. All of this research and experimentation led to the ability to clone humans. Clonaid: Pioneers in Human Cloning is a company that has developed a process that allows hundreds of families to have their own children that share their DNA. Replicating DNA and  individuals has allowed many people the ability to have children that resemble them, or if it comes from one individual, clones them. The development of this science allows them to learn the limits of cloning and how they could use it for a variety of other reasons. This company also works with stem cells and replicating other body parts as well. Nussbaum stated in the book Clones and Clones, Human cloning is a means of reproduction and so the most plausible moral right at (Nussbaum 143). This quote establishes the idea that although it is everyones choice, people are still reproducing, just in a less natural form then through sexual behaviors. Who are we to disregard beliefs in a society based on freedom of speech. The ability for people who are infertile to reproduce gives a whole new method of procreating. Garcia 3 Another service this company provides is the use of stems cells, they have discovered ways to help with aging and a variety of issues that restore the body. Injecting stem cells into the locations on the body that need healing leads to a faster regeneration of cells. This opens up a whole new field of science that is just beginning. This company truly believes in the best options for people, no matter what the specific reason is for cloning individuals. Even though there is benefits to using stem cells to regenerate and cloning for those who cannot produce children, there will always be people who completely disagree with the statements above. Our individuality has always been a value held highly for people worldwide. The ability to differentiate from each other as a whole and feel unique in a world of people is incredible, and exactly why so many organizations are revolting against the ability to clone others. The Organic Consumers Association has established a movement against the replication of people, they believe that this destroys human dignity and the concept of humanity. The destruction of diversity and the general manipulation of genes leads to a disruption of the functions that are normally assumed for people, leading to potential health problems. The decrease in genetic makeup variation could lead to an increase in susceptibility of a variety of diseases. Another topic they touch on is the lack of research on human cloning. In many places, including the United States, have created laws against the replication of people. This has decreased the amount of scientists who are actually developing the ability to clone humans to limited numbers. The lack of communication and funding going into this has made it more difficult for scientists to get established. Also it could become possible for criminals to replicate themselves, leading to difficulties for the law enforcement when evaluating crimes. Stated in the book Afraid of Human Cloning?, Cloning could violate a right to our own individual genetic identity which he claimed all humans (Pence 32). As different people create children with identical identities Garcia 4 as they do, they destroy the uniqueness and diversity that all humans crave. It is easy for people to assume that cloning could only cause negative responses, however that may not really be the case. The Organic Consumers Association is against the general concept of cloning, especially regarding the lives of people, yet is there a way to establish a common ground that will both companies would be willing to agree too? Clonaid: Pioneers in Human Cloning and The Organic Consumers Association both have varied opinions on the idea of human cloning. The first company mentioned wants to help individuals who struggle with infertility, STDs, or homosexual families who can not produce their own offspring with the ability to produce a child with their DNA. However, they also work with stem cells and regenerating skin or other organs to help people stay healthy and operatable for longer. Stating that everything they do is to help people worldwide live healthy, happy, and capable of living as long as possible. On the other hand the Organic Consumers Association focuses on the general population and the rights of the cloned individuals, hoping to do what is right for people overall. A way to develop an agreement between the two differentiating companies would be to focus on a similar but equally important matter. Their drive to help those who are in need and the desire to keep genetic diversity should be enough to influence them to start focusing and working together to provide what is best for everyone. The differing opinions seems to be more of a miscommunication or misunderstanding of what cloning really is. Coming together and establishing a way to clone organs, body parts, skin and other sections of the body so people who have deteriorating bodies can live a more fulfilling life. If companies who can clone individuals established a communication between others who are looking for the good of all they could develop actual information that would help everyone in our society. When people need new organs they are placed on a list and wait months, even years Garcia 5 until one comes. Instead of cloning individuals, we could use the process of cloning and stem cells to allow families to become fertile again. Altering the cloning process by combining DNA from multiple individuals would allow for genetic diversity to continue and the ability for people to produce offspring. Both companies could help fund this research through donations and company funding. All the people worldwide that are missing or need new organs would benefit from this development. Many major diseases that occur in the lungs, kidneys, liver and heart could be diminished through replacing these organs with stem cells that regenerate the faulty ones. Those who have suffered from a stroke or brain injury could have the ability to talk or walk again by regenerating the parts of the brain that were destroyed. Altering the nucleus of an egg to replace it with the DNA from the  would no longer be necessary for the Clonaid company because they could instead regenerate the ovaries or combine DNA for a baby that has genetic diversity. The Organic Consumers Association would have to accept that replicating body parts with stem cells is going to be necessary for this development, and overall allow people to live fulfilling, healthy lives. Cloning, the ability to replicate the DNA of an individual and growing another who resembles the host, is a highly debatable concept that has been discussed in the past two hundred years. Clonaid: Pioneers in Human Cloning has been successful throughout the past years with cloning children and developing stem cell research. This has given hundreds of people opportunities to live the lives they deserve. Other organizations like the Organic Consumers Association are against human cloning and have created movements regarding this dispute. Considering the arguments, both stakeholders are just looking for the appropriate decision for all individuals at hand. So in order to settle the dispute, they should focus more on the cloning of stem cells, which can lead to the regeneration of body parts on individuals. Garcia 6 Works Cited 1. Nussbaum, Martha Craven, and Cass R. Sunstein. Clones and Clones: Facts and Fantasies about Human Cloning. New York: Norton, 1998. Print. 2. Unknown Author.  Services - Clonaid.com. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <https://www.clonaid.com/page.php?8>. 3. Unknown Author. US Citizens Movement Against Human  US Citizens Movement Against Human Cloning. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. 4. Pence, Gregory E. Afraid of Human Cloning. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield., Print.