Donovan 1 John Donovan Noah Pearlstone Composition 2 2/12/17 Project 1: Final Draft Since our country was founded, we have always had men and woman risking their lives to defend us. When these peoples time serving is up, they come home to us as veterans and it is our duty to take care of them the same way they took care of us. For decades, the Democratic representatives of our Country have been striving to perfect a Universal Healthcare System that can effectively take care of our veterans. Their method to achieving this was by setting up a government organization called the Veterans Administration (VA) that set up many hospitals around the country where veterans can receive free care. On the other side of the isle, the Republican representatives of our country have a different method to providing health care for veterans. They believe that the Veterans Administration is too slow and not the most efficient way to provide healthcare to veterans. They are working to privatize care so that veterans can choose any hospital or doctor near them to receive the care they need and then have the bill be paid by the government. What these two parties need to do to come to a resolution is drop their own personal agendas and find a common ground that satisfies both their common goals of providing the best healthcare possible to veterans. To get this done, they need to keep the VA in place but also add the option for veterans to choose any other hospital they want. The Democrats have been invested in the topic of Veterans care through their work to get the VA system to top performance. There are 152 VA medical centers in the United States and an additional 1400 community based clinics The VA was created in 1930 by the Hoover administration. This organization was working to develop a method to take care of the Donovan 2 people coming home injured or mentally ill due to battle. In current politics, the democrats are the front line for fighting to insure that the VA is kept in place and to just make some changes to help it improve. According to a study published in the Military Times, 20 veterans commit suicide every day and the suicide rate has increased 32% over the past decade (Shane). This is evidence that the health care system is declining and not efficient enough. Too many veterans are attempting to seek care and are being put on waiting lists at the VA. This prolonged period of time leads to a lack of care and many Veterans end up killing themselves before even being seen by a medical professional. The veteran suicide rate is one of the key reasons why changes need to be made to make Veteran care more effective. The republicans have interest in the topic of care because they have been pushing for a more privatized form of care where the veterans can choose where to get their care from. For the second time in 86 years, republicans now control all three branches of government. This means they will be able to pass legislation that they want with few obstructions. This should help them in one of their key goals of doing away with all the government control and power over the VA system. They are seeking to privatize the care so that vets can choose their own hospitals and own doctors. This way it is more convenient for them and they do not have to wait to be served by the VA. The republican in the highest office, Donald J. Trump, has his plan in place that he is trying to invoke into law. He wants to keep the VA in place to deal with the financial aspects of the health care, but avoid the use of all hospitals and clinics (Kesling). He wants to privatize the care so instead of being on waiting lists to go to specific VA hospitals, veterans will now be able to go to the same doctor as say their wife and kids. This will mean they will not have to be inconvenienced to travel to a specific facility and wait as long. Donovan 3 While the VA as a whole does not seem to be going anywhere, the argument at hand is whether or not to change the VA to have better facilities to take care of the Vets in a more efficient way, or to disband of the hospitals and clinics and just allow the vets to see a doctor of their choice. Democrats and republicans have been arguing over this topic while veterans are committing suicide at alarming rates. It is time to come up with a solution that will be suitable for both the democrats and the republicans, but more importantly, one that will take care of our veterans. The solution to finding common ground is simple and is taking ideas from both the democrats and republicans agenda. What needs to be done is to leave the VA as is with all its hospitals and clinics, while also opening up the option of seeking doctors of choice. This will lighten the load for all VA facilities which needs to be done to decrease waiting times which currently can take months (Slack). It will be better off for the veterans this way because it then presents the option for them to choose what they want to do weather it is to see a doctor of their own or to go see a specific VA certified doctor. Their choice may vary based off of their injury or their mental problem, but it is better off letting them make this decision on their own then the government controlling what they must do. The Democrats and Republicans are the two main parties who develop the stature of how policies are enforced in America. When issues arise, they are the all-powerful in deciding how to provide a solution. When it comes to the VA they have not agreed on the best way it should be done and it has costed many veterans the care they needed. It is time to put their personal agendas aside and come together to develop a method that will work most efficiently for the veterans of our nation. This can be accomplished by maintaining the current VA healthcare system, while also providing the option of allowing the veterans to seek health care privately. Donovan 4 Work Cited: About  US Department of Veterans Affairs. VA I CARE Program, 22 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kesling, Ben. Donald Trump Considers Moving VA Toward  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 28 Dec. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Shane, Leo, III, and Patricia Kime. New VA Study Finds 20 Veterans Commit Suicide Each  Military Times. N.p., 7 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Slack, Donovan. See the Results of VA Wait-time Probes in Your  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 08 Apr. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Zinberg, Contributor Joel. Path to Privatizing VA Hospitals - by the  TheHill. N.p., 09 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.