McCullough1 Taylor McCullough Professor Phillips January 29, 2017 ENC 1102 Coastal Construction Construction along coastline has been a very controversial issue for quite some time. With one side striving on coastal construction in order to keep their businesses afloat, and the other dedicating their lives to make sure our coastlines are preserved and remain untouched, a question then arises. Where do we draw the line? Two corporations, Coastal Systems Development and The Florida Department of Environment Protection, have found themselves in this position. However, this is not to say that a compromise cannot be made. By Coastal Systems Development having a regulated amount of building opportunity in specific areas selected by The Florida Department of Environment Protection, in accordance of keeping the land unpolluted, we will see a significant increase in clean Florida coasts. Coastal Systems Development is a multidisciplinary development firm based in Coral Gables, (Coastal Systems Development). They focus primarily on developing on waterfront environments because they feel they provide development Coastal Systems also has values that they uphold and have built their company upon. They claim they have built their reputation on their work product and their relationships with their (Coastal Systems Development). A perfect example of another company similar to Coastal Systems Development is Seagate Development Group who has recently began construction for a new community called Hill Tide Estates. The name Tide was created based on their one of a kind location, Boca Grande, Florida. Many can argue that Boca McCullough2 Grande, FL is the tarpon fishing capital of the world. Thousands of fisherman from all over the world travel to this location to get a taste of landing a tarpon, this is why it is a prime location for a new development. Hill Tide Estates is being built upon 9.98 acres of land and will have a total of 19 lots available for sale (Hill Tide Estates). The most expensive lot on the property is going for $3,950,000, with the cheapest at $1,400,000 (Ginsberg). The goal of developing these properties is obviously to make profit just as any goal is but, unfortunately one easy way to achieve this is to develop these communities with amazing views of coast. The Florida Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) protects, conserves, and manages natural resources and enforces the environmental laws (Florida Department of Environmental Protection). The Florida Coastal Office (FCO) is one department within the DEP which specializes in coastal management. The FCO manages more than 4 million acres of valuable submerged lands and select coastal uplands in Florida (Florida Department of Environmental Protection). Through the DEP and FCO, Costal Management Program has emerged. The goal of this program is to coordinate local, state, and federal agency activities using existing laws to ensure that coast is as valuable to future generations as it is today (Florida Department of Environmental Protection). Another plan of action to limit construction along coastline is The Beach and Shore Preservation Act. The Beach and Shore Preservation Act focuses primarily on coastal construction regulation which has two primary goals. The first being to protect beaches form erosion, and the second to protect structures (Spahn). Spahn says three-fourths of Floridians live in counties bordering the ocean, and projections indicate that over eighty percent of the population growth will be in the coastal (Spahn). With this alarming rate of coastal population growth, our current issues are only going to get worse. McCullough3 Coastal Systems Development and the FCO are clearly at odds with one another. Considering the real estate market in Florida is as sensitive as it is, nearly impossible to put a complete halt to costal development. Real estate companies such as Coastal Systems Development who strive on building waterfront properties cannot afford to stop completely because that is where the majority of their profit comes from. FCO just wants what is best for the environment as well as for us later down the road. Even though there are many differences between these two stakeholders, there are also many things they have in common that they may not realize. For example, Coastal Systems Development says they warrant special consideration by developers regarding waterfront environments in terms of aesthetic quality, environmental sustainability, and provision of maximum economic yield (Coastal Systems Development). This can be done in a multitude of ways including one done by the Gold Coast Builder Association. The Gold Coast Builders Association safeguards environmental issues affecting the construction industry in Florida (Riley). They have done so by promoting the use of recycled materials within the industry (Riley), something that other companies such as Coastal Systems Development is capable of doing. Many of these components also correspond with the goals that the DEP aim to achieve. These include ensuring wise use of the water and biological resources, minimizing the vulnerability to coastal hazards, ensuring orderly managed growth, and to sustain a vital economy (Florida Department of Environmental Protection). If both stakeholders considered how one another works to achieve these goals, they may be able to alter their current process and implement one that will benefit them both. By investigating what both of these stakeholders have to offer, it is reasonable to say they can come to a compromise that will benefit them both. By Coastal Systems Development having a regulated amount of building opportunity in specific areas selected by The Florida Department McCullough4 of Environment Protection, in accordance of keeping the land unpolluted, we will see a significant increase in clean Florida coasts. This idea is similar to one that Katherine Yates has written about called Ocean Zoning. Ocean zoning is the process of dividing a marine region into zones and within those zones, regulating uses to achieve specific purposes (Yates). Ocean goal is to be able to accommodate multiple conflicting and compatible uses of the ocean (Yates). This is similar to the compromise I am proposing in that the DEP will be able to strategically map out what areas are more vulnerable than others and which areas would be best to build on. An article in Ocean and Coastal Management expresses that the limited control of coastal construction has become a major issue (Ariza). However, this is what my compromise will fix by having construction along the coast regulated. Contracts and possibly laws will need to be put in place to ensure that each stakeholder respects the other and upholds their end of the deal. This compromise will be fair to each stakeholder because Coastal Systems Development is still getting to build while the DEP gets to regulate what areas are being built on. Also, Coastal Systems Development has to assure that there is no pollution and the land being built on is kept clean. As you can see, coastal construction along coast has become a very controversial issue. Coastal Systems Development and the DEP are two stakeholders that have been affected by this issue, however there is nothing to say that a resolution be made. By investigating what each of these stakeholders have to offer, they actually have a lot in common. The goals that they each have correspond with each other in ways that go further than just what meets the eye. The compromise that Coastal Systems Development can have a limited amount of building opportunity in specific areas selected by The Florida Department of Environment Protection in accordance of keeping the land clean and unpolluted will overtime save McCullough5 coasts and provide future generations with the opportunity to experience what hidden treasures Florida has to offer. McCullough6 Works Cited Coastal Systems Development. Coastal Systems Development. 2015. 29 January 2016. <http://www.coastalsystemsdev.com/index.html>. Florida Department of Environmental Protection. Florida Coastal Management Program. 07 December 2016. 29 January 2017. <http://www.dep.state.fl.us/cmp/>. Florida Costal Management Program  16 September 2016. Florida Department of Environmental Protection. 29 January 2017. Ginsberg, Graham. Lot 9 Hill Tide Ln, Boca Grande, Fl, 33921 Hill Tide Estates. 06 January 2017. 29 January 2017. <http://www.enaplesflorida.com/real-estate/boca-grande/mls- 216077079-lot-9-hill-tide-ln.html>. Hill Tide Estates. Hill Tide Estates. 2016. 29 January 2017. <http://hilltideestates.com>. Spahn, Kenneth E. The Beach and Shore Preservation  Regulating Coastal Construction in Florida XXIV (1995): 359. Yates, Katherine. Ocean Zoning for Conservation, Fisheries and Marine Renewable Energy: Assessing Trade-Offs and Co-Location  Journal of Environmental Management 152 (2015): 201-209. Ariza, Eduard, et al. Beach Management In Florida: Assessing Stakeholder Perceptions On  Ocean And Coastal Management 96.(2014): 82-93. ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. McCullough7 Riley, Trish. Builders Association Works To Protect  Business Journal Serving South Florida (Miami-Dade Edition) 20.37 (2000): 63. Supplemental Index. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.