1 Richard Marin Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Against Zoos vs. For Zoos Over the recent years, animals have been acquiring the attention of the American citizens in terms of how they should be treated. Some believe that humans do not have the right to keep animals away from their natural habitats regardless of the reasons. Others believe that it is ethical to keep animals in zoos/sanctuaries so long as it is for research purposes. The evident conflict is that these groups have different approaches in terms of providing care for wild animals. According to PETA, zoos should be closed down due to the unethical practice of keeping animals in artificial environments. In contrast, the Saint Louis Zoo believes that zoos/sanctuaries are important given how they are able to provide protection towards endangered species. The compromise between the two groups would be a restructure of the system. The two groups would have to agree that those animals that are being kept can be only be animals that are considered an endangered species. The ultimate goal for those animals would be to work towards the restoration of their species. As an animal rights organization, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) was created with the goal of drawing attention towards animals that are being kept in zoos rather than their natural habitats in the wild. As an organization that is against keeping animals in captivity, zoos are often the main establishments that are targeted due to how said animals are deprived of everything that is considered natural for their species. By living in the artificial habitats created by the zoos, the animals are unable to roam free like they do in nature. As a 2 result from this deprivation, the animals tend to develop an abnormal condition called The condition often leads the animals to exhibit abnormal repetitive behaviors such as constant pacing, swaying, and/or biting bars (BornFree). As a result, animal activists have begun to rise and protest against the very idea of animal captivity claiming that everything the zoos stand for can be better achieved by simply watching nature documentaries or by observing the animals in their natural habitats rather than in cages (Rumbaugh). An important claim amongst animal activists is that keeping animals within artificial environments is the equivalent of imprisonment that often lead to the development of debilitating physical conditions. For instance, three of four seals died while being transported to the Saint Louis Zoo after being moved out from Storybook Gardens in London. The death of these seals raised some concerns over how well the Saint Louis Zoo takes care of their animals, especially when taking into account how the zoo was in charge of their relocation (Zoocheck Canada). PETA believes that the general public should begin to boycott zoos/animal sanctuaries and demand freedom for the animals locked up in captivity. On the opposite side of the spectrum, the Saint Louis Zoo means to convey how zoos aspire to conserve and care for their animals so that the public can enjoy rich first-hand experiences from nature. Their goal is to conserve species that are facing extinction and to conduct research that allows the better conservation of wildlife through programs such as Species Survival Plans. As a program, Species Survival Plans was developed with the purpose of creating optimal breeding conditions for animals that are endangered in hope of restoring their species (Saint Louis Zoo). As a more optimal method of promoting the conservation of wildlife, the Saint Louis Zoo actively works with conservation hotspots all over the world by providing assistance in the maintenance or restoration of the ecosystems that the animals depend on. With 3 such a goal, the zoo established the WildCare Institute in 2004, an institute that has been able to reintroduce endangered species such as the American Burying Beetle back into its old habitat in Missouri, establish protected environments for the survival of the Armenian vipers (Saint Louis Zoo). Aside from being part of programs that promote conservation and restoration of wildlife, the Saint Louis Zoo is able to provide means that the public can use to learn about the animals. Through Camp KangaZoo, a valued program in the Saint Louis Zoo, approximately attracts 450,000 children and adults that get to acquire educational experiences from the wildlife from educational interpreters or zookeepers (Saint Louis Zoo). Through their conservation and education programs, zoos have had great achievements in the conservation of the biodiversity of nature. At a glance, these groups appear to be on opposite ends on the issue of keeping animals out of their natural environments. However, it is evident that both groups share the goal of conserving the species of wildlife in the best way possible. Both the activists and the zookeepers can essentially agree that every animal deserves to be treated as fair and just as a human would be usually treated. Furthermore, both groups hope to educate the public on how they can enjoy the wildlife that surrounds their globe. Since PETA and Saint Louis Zoo share the goal of ensuring that the species of wildlife lead a fair and natural life, a good compromise between the two would be to turn zoos into establishments which only harbor animals that are considered to be endangered species. More than often, animal rights activists generalize all zoos under the notion that they all mistreat their animals and tend to ignore how useful the conservation work that zoos do are for the restoration of the different species (Pickrell). By creating such a restriction on zoos, the animals would not be held in captivity for their entire lives and researchers would still be able to come up with ways 4 to promote the conservation of those species that are on the brink of extinction within their establishments. Furthermore, PETA would have to refrain from depicting zoos as establishments that only care about making money off their animals but instead support their conservation programs. As a mass organization that has the power to greatly influence the opinion of the public, PETA can easily change the way people feel about zoos by creating an emphasis on the restrictions that zoos have in terms of what kind of animals can be kept in captivity. Instead of promoting the idea of boycotting zoos as a whole, PETA should encourage people to visit zoos so that the establishments acquire bigger funds that would be used to better the care and the restoration efforts towards their animals. Under such compromises, zoos such as the Saint Louis Zoo would be able to thrive in their efforts for conservation by receiving direct support from important animal rights organizations such as PETA. In conclusion, the argument of whether zoos are important or not should come to a peaceful halt. Although these two groups have different ideologies on how zoos actually treat their animals, they both mean to achieve the same thing; to preserve and fairly treat the different species of wildlife. Zoos such as the Saint Louis Zoo would have to be restricted on simply having animals that are endangered and would have to release them back to the wild once their species has been restored within nature. PETA would have to refrain from placing zoos under a negative light due to the actions of the zoos that do not meet the right standards for animal treatment. Under such compromises, both PETA and establishments such as the Saint Louis Zoo should work together towards the betterment of animal treatment around the zoos of the world. 5 Works Cited Carr, Michelle. The Reality of  PETA. 2013. Web. 22 January 2017 Pickrell, John. How zoos are saving our  ABC Environment. 3 August 2010. Web. 22 January 2016 Rumbaugh, Andrea C. Do We Need  Animal Rights Articles. n.d. Web. 22 January 2017 Saint Louis Zoo. Why Zoos  Saint Louis  2003. Web. 22 January 2017 Travers, Bill. Abnormal and Stereotypical Behaviour in Captive Born Free Foundation. n.d. Web. 28 January 2017 Zoocheck Canada. Deaths and the End of the Storybook Zoo Zoocheck Perspectives. 20 June 2012. Web. 10 February 2017.