ALNASER 1 Student: Alnaser Alrasbi Instructor: MS, Anastasia J. Khawaja Class: ENC 1101 Date: 02/11/2017 Cosmetic surgery Why do people try to figure out the physical defects when they look at the mirror? Cosmetic surgery gives people the chance to improve their physical defects and look more beauty. Cosmetic surgery has positives and negatives affects, and the negative effect is unsuccessful surgeries, also the result of that is a disfigurement, but plastic surgery still improving, and discovers new ways. In addition, the positive effect is successful surgeries. However, cosmetic surgery has been used during world war one when some soldiers had deformed in their bodies because the war. Nowadays, there are many reasons make people do cosmetic surgery the first reason is due to birth defects for example (Polydactyly). Moreover, skin distortion is one of the reason make people do cosmetic surgery, and there are many reasons cause this distortion like a car accident, burning, chemicals, and allergy. In addition, improve the attractions, and most people who do this surgery because they want to model, so how has the perception of cosmetic surgery shifted over the past 20 years? Cosmetic surgery is very useful and has a positive and negative impact on people who have done cosmetic surgery, but it depends on how people use it. ALNASER 2 1- Jones, Meredith Rachael. An anatomy of cosmetic Berg Publishers, 2008. The author argues that cosmetic surgery is practiced everywhere. It can be comprehended amongst the skinny, altered, stretched, and even enhanced celebrities in an overvalued media society with the focus on refining body beauty. While it has become a cultural and aesthetic norm amongst the rich with an effort to expose real identity, cosmetic surgery has validated a repulsion of punishing surgical modifications. The article is relevant because it has explored the broad range of modern culture case studies that include the Internet, magazines, architecture, and television. The piece has also demonstrated the controversial aspects of the makeover culture by referring to the celebrities such as Jocelyn Wildenstein and Michael case studies. 2-Rohrich, Rod J., and Joel E. Pessa. The fat compartments of the face: anatomy and clinical implications for cosmetic  Plastic and reconstructive surgery 119.7 (2007): 2219-2227. The authors argue that the hypodermic face fat is apportioned as divergent anatomical cubicles. Face ageing is as a result of the degree of change of these compartments. The article concludes that face does not age due to composite or confluent mass since the fat compartments are separate. Additionally, the shearing between contiguous partitions could be another tenet for the soft-tissue etiology malposition. Understanding the anatomy behind preoperative analysis and surgical methodology can lead to effective aging face treatment. ALNASER 3 The article is important because it covers the factors that lead to face ageing. Once the knowledge behind this is acknowledged, cosmetic surgery can be conducted successfully. The piece support cosmetic surgery but once the anatomy behind it is scientifically proven. 3-Alsarraf, Ramsey, et al. Measuring cosmetic facial plastic surgery outcomes: a pilot  Archives of Facial Plastic Surgery 3.3 (2001): 198-201. The author discusses four instruments of assessing the cosmetic surgical outcomes. These tests include the Blepharoplasty Outcomes Evaluation, the Facelift Outcomes Evaluation, the Skin Rejuvenation Outcomes Evaluation, and the Rhinoplasty Outcomes Evaluation. The main objective of this article is to prove the validity and reliability of these instruments. The article is incredible because the design used to test the reliability and validity of the instrument support rhinoplasty, skin rejuvenation, the 100 facelift, and blepharoplasty techniques that are necessary for determining the successful cosmetic surgery. The questionnaire and quantitative used to carry out this research have applied purely qualitative and subjective tools that are recommended in facial anatomy. 4-Davis, Kathy. the female body: The dilemma of cosmetic Routledge, 2013. The book covers the accounts of the decisions women make regarding the cosmetic surgery. The author has discussed the experiences, decisions, and the view female counterparts have towards the surgical alterations they undergo. The writer also gives a personal story regarding the inequities that comes along with medical encounters. The book covers the profound puzzlement as a result of the urge by women to alter their bodies by surgical means. ALNASER 4 The book is important because it gives the historical view of cosmetic surgery. The call for beauty amongst women is the reason why cosmetic surgery is practiced. The horror outcomes that come out of cheap body modifications through medical encounters explain the reason why cosmetic surgery should be a major concern in the health sector.