Abdulrahman Alharbi 2/11/2017 ENC1101 Annotated Bibliography Human & Environment The future is what concerned a lot of people in this world some of them have positive look and some of them A lot of invention has created thro the time to make our life easier but does it make our environment better? quantities chemicals have been released into the environment since World War since then and human are trying to search for alternatives to save their planet like reducing the use of chemicals productions. We need to insure for our selfe a better future with a better technology that is helpful for environment not the Unfortunately many of our invention do massive harm to the environment. environmental environmental modifications might become a greater cause of global species Some companies tried to change their way of production to be more helpful for the environment, so they start to produce a green things helpful for the environment but for some reasons not a lot of people are interested in. Maybe because of these products are expensive or people just care if helpful or not to the environment as long as they happy about it. We have to think carefully about what is good or bad for the environment. Like if we use a plastic bags is going to be hard and expensive to recycle it and if we use a paper bag we are just killing more trees instead of saving it. To insure a better future we have to know first how to get there without causing any harm to the environment. Colborn, T, F S vom Saal, and A M Soto. Effects of Endocrine-Disrupting Chemicals in Wildlife and Health Perspectives 101.5 (1993): Print. In the article Effects of Endocrine-Disrupting Chemicals in Wildlife and it describe the how much amount of chemical had been on earth since war world II and how these chemical effect us until this day. It describe how these chemicals affects not just us but even the next generation. The article is related to the topic because is show how the development in that time was affecting us now like in War World II, when US developed a nuclear bomb and dropped it on Japanese, there some sign still appear until today. Mayrand, Karel. The Environment in 2025: News Flash, Direct from the  Huffington Post . TheHuffingtonPost.com, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. In This article the author Karel Mayrand is talking about how the environment would be in 2025 future and how people are concerned about the environment and how the world would change to better after some countries are switching now to clean energy. Scientist through the time are looking for other kinds of energy and inviting more things, by looking to the history we could predict how or future will be. This article is show how people are concerned about environment and try to make some changes in their life. Unlike the previous article this one is have positive site. it is shown that some countries are working to have a clean environment. Tilman, David, and Clarence Lehman. Human-caused environmental change: impacts on plant diversity and  of the National Academy of Sciences 98.10 (2001): 5433-5440. The article environmental it talks about how humans are the reason for all the changes that happen to the environment and it depend on them if they want to these changes cause any extinction to any living creatures. In addition this article explaining to us that the changes that humans cussed it take long time to affect us, so if we feel it our children will. This article is similar to the first article. They both blamed humans for the changes that happen to the environment and both agree that the changes that we do take long time to affect us. The article explain to us how humans are responsible for the changes that happen to the environment also the risk the could happen if we act to this changes. Vogl, Gregory J. Information Technology, Science and  Future of the World: Positive or Negative? Information technology, science and education for a better world - Gregory J. Vogl (www.gregvogl.net) . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. The author Gregory J in his article talks about the positive and the negatives things about what changes happened in environment and technology since 1960 until now like the development of cars, homes, technology and the way peoples think. By gathering the information we could see how the world developed and brought with it pollution. This article is related to all the previous ones. it show some inventions that are not helpful and helpful to the environment. also In this article it show how some invention that the people created since 1960 are the reason for the reason for earth changes and also the article is showing to us a timeline when the changes start until this day and when people are started to work to reduce these changes.