Andre Polk Introduction People of the United States debate on whether or not the drinking age should be lowered from the age of 21 or stay the same. This is a question that be answered. It is just a decision that has to be made. No matter what research can be shown, this will still be a hard decision that has to be made. There are pros and cons from both sides of this decision. The drinking age has changed over the decades. The drinking age has changed due to the outcomes of crimes and traffic fatalities. For people who believe that the drinking age should be lowered, their argument is that by introducing people to drinking at an earlier age, it reduces crime and injuries that occur while people are drinking. They believe that if drinking at an early age is hidden, it will do nothing but heighten the risk for fatal actions to occur. From the other side, people who believe that the drinking age should be raised, would argue that by not drinking at an early age, this also reduces crime and drunk driving from the ages of 21 and under. This topic has been debated about over a great deal of years. It is a great concern today because of the consequences behind the drinking age. Which brings about the question of, the drinking age be raised or Wechsler, Henry, and Toben F. Nelson. Will Increasing Alcohol Availability By Lowering The Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking And Related Consequences Among  The American Journal Of Public Health 6 (2010): 986. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Wechsler questions that if increasing alcohol availability by lowering the minimum legal drinking age, will that decrease drinking and related consequences among youths. According to research and also studies from other people, since the drinking age has raised there has been fewer traffic fatalities. Wechsler also did studies on the improvements of cars and believe that the reduction of traffic fatalities has been reduced because of technology improvements. Therefor this analysis blows out all previous research of drunk driving incidents. He also conducted studies which would argue that the young adults of 18-20 in Western Europe, where the minimum legal drinking age is lower, drink more responsibly. He feels that the same could be transferred over to the U.S considering that the U.S is already fixed with underage drinkers. This information could be pretty persuading for a person who wants the drinking age to be lowered, or a person who is totally biased. The research in article fights for the minimum legal drinking age to be lower. He states plenty information informing you that some consequences behind drinking really from drinking. This ties in perfect with my research question because it helps give me an argument from both sides of the topic. Toomey, Traci L., Toben F. Nelson, and Kathleen M. Lenk. The Age-21 Minimum Legal Drinking Age: A Case Study Linking Past And Current  Addiction 12 (2009): 1958. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Like many others, Traci L. Toomey is totally biased and supports both sides of the minimum legal drinking age. Information shows pros and cons from both sides of the argument so common for many to be biased. With research she realizes that drinking in college is a pretty popular trend, also she realizes that the average age in college ranges from 17-23. Also she realizes that the age of a grown up starts at 18. This is where Toomey is biased because its either you lower the minimum legal drinking age or you keep it the same. thoughts show that with the minimum legal drinking age staying the same, that keeps under aged drinking at a high rate. Yet if the minimum legal drinking age is lowered then that cuts under aged drinking out. For this reason, this is why Toomey is completely biased on her decision on whether the age should be raised or lowered. Toomey know whether she wants to raise or lower the minimum legal drinking age because either choice could be helpful for the U.S. She is arguing from both sides on should it be raised or not which relates her article to my topic question.