Crane 1 Shara Crane Bianca Hernandez English Composition II 27 January 2017 Gas and Electric Power Since the spark of the industrial revolution, gas and electric power have remained the topic of significant environmental and economic debates. There are many stakeholders at the source of these debates, but two in particular have contributed the most significant research and evidence to support their arguments. Union of Concerned Scientists is an organization that speaks out against natural gas and its effects on the environment. The United States Environmental Protection Agency communicates the dangers of carbon release in the production of all kinds of power plants, particularly electric power plants. Although these two stakeholders hold different opinions of which method of energy is the most harmful, both see the importance of preserving the environment a main priority. If each stakeholder can change their energy production practices in a way that puts little to no stress on the environment, the common goal of the two can be met. Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) is an organization that is interested in global warming, agriculture, nuclear power, and ways to stop global stresses. The UCS is comprised of experienced scientists that consistently research, experiment, and write blogs/articles to inform the public of concerning issues that are kept behind the scenes. According to the UCS website, The drilling and extraction of natural gas from wells and its transportation in pipelines results in the leakage of methane, primary component of natural gas that is 34 times stronger than CO2 at trapping heat over a 100-year period and 86 times stronger over 20 years Environmental Impacts of Natural ). This information shows that the use of natural gas is dangerous due to the environmental cost of Crane 2 extraction. If carbon dioxide continues to increase at the rate from the provided data, the atmosphere will smother in heat and cause global temperatures to rise. The effect of a rise in global temperatures will rise the sea levels from the melting of glaciers. As seen from sea levels that are already rising around the globe, flooding is occurring among coastal habitats. Also, changes in the global temperatures are causing the death of temperature-sensitive microorganisms throughout the oceans. This disruption is causing a collapse in the food web, which can ultimately limit access to food for all organisms in the near future. If the extraction of gas can be stopped and replaced by natural forms of energy production, these conditions continue to worsen. Another side to this debate is the reliance of the economy on gas and other fossil fuels. Gas is used to power vehicles and other appliances. Also, the business of gas extraction and the business of selling gas employs a large percentage of the population. Gas has become a large portion of international exports and imports since the emergence of the first motor vehicles and factories. In 2015, $25.8 billion was spent in the U.S. to construct 6,028 miles of new natural gas transmission pipelines, resulting in the temporary addition of 347,788 jobs, with 59,874 in the manufacturing sector alone. Similarly, pipeline construction spending contributed an estimated $34 billion to the national GDP and $21.9 billion to labor income in 2015. Looking forward, industry players have invested almost $30 billion in further additions to pipeline capacity (Vitale, 2016). Basically, there is no way to end the gas industry without causing a crash in the economy. But, if there are other forms of production that are found to be cheaper in the long run, the impact of changing energy sources be significant enough to discredit this transition. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is a government subsidized agency that regulates the effects of chemical and biological factors on drinking water, habitats, ecosystems, the Crane 3 Basically, this organization is the watchdog for violators of all environmental laws. To protect the atmosphere, EPA commits their time to research all kinds of sources of carbon emission, whether it be from factories, the hustle and bustle of everyday life, or even the natural processes of nature. According to the EPA website, the largest percentage of carbon pollutants come from electricity-producing factories, even more than transportation emissions! The electric power sector accounted for 32% of U.S. total greenhouse gas emissions in 2012. Greenhouse gas emissions from electricity have increased by about 11% since 1990 as electricity demand has grown and fossil fuels have remained the dominant source for generation Learn About Carbon Pollution From Power The EPA argues that switching to electric power would be even more devastating to the environment given that the electric industry uses more fossil fuels than any other usages of natural gas. The electricity industry can prove to be more environmentally friendly than the natural gas industry if it chooses other forms of electricity production, such as hydroelectric, wind energy, and solar energy solutions. Electricity is becoming a part of the economy more and more with time. In fact, the electricity industry is now associated with economic growth for many countries. Narayan and Prasad (2008) showed unidirectional causal relation from electricity consumption to economic growth for Australia, the Czech Republic, Iceland, Italy, Portugal and the Slovak Republic . . . (Abdoli, Ghahreman, Farahani, and Dastan, 2015). Removing electricity factories from the map will have devastating effects. Just like a disruption in the gas industry, a disruption in the electricity industry can cause a crash in the economy. If construction of natural energy-producing factories can be completed before the switch in production methods, there be any disruption in the electricity industry or its corner of the economy. Crane 4 Both stakeholders can come to a compromise if both industries can change their practices. Given that the issue at hand is so significant for the atmosphere of our whole planet and the entire economy, changes for both sides of this issue must be drastic in order to produce drastic results. For the electricity industry, the factories that produce electricity must be switched from gas-powered to natural-powered, such as solar, hydro, and wind energy. For the gas industry, gas can be substituted for electric power. Workers in the extraction of natural gas and selling of gas can be transferred for employment in different areas of the electricity industry. Car companies, companies of other types of transportation, and companies of gas-burning appliances can switch their machinery to strictly electricity. The electricity for these changes must also be drawn from strictly natural practices that disrupt the environment. Three of these main sources of natural energy are solar panels, wind power plants, and hydroelectric plants. Unfortunately, just like for gas and electric power, there are also drawbacks and concerns: hydroelectric power safe or resourceful unless it is used in areas with access to water in mass quantities with few aquatic species; wind power plants safe or resourceful unless located in windy areas with few flying species; and solar panels safe or resourceful unless located in sunny locations that are humid enough to prevent the risk of wildfires. Though hydroelectric plants and windmills will be expensive to build, the price of production is what must be sacrificed from both sides. On the bright side, price of solar electric systems has fallen significantly over the past few (Leidel, 2015). But, given that the maintenance costs of these systems are significantly lower than those of other industries, it be difficult for electricity companies to regain their profits whilst maintaining the goal of keeping the planet healthy. The changes that can be made by both sides may be quite drastic, but so are the amazing outcomes. Our atmosphere be contaminated further by any more industry-affiliated carbon emissions. This will ultimately save the plant and all its species from natural disasters caused by Crane 5 greenhouse gases. Though at first the effects of these changes may be negative on the economy, stabilization can be met due to the cheaper methods of natural electricity production. In fact, the profits from this new mega-business can in time surpass the profits of the previous two separate industries combined. If the gas industry converts to electric power, this can produce more profit than the gas industry previously produced alone. Combining companies and businesses by sharing common work space and double the workers for a common job means double the production. If both gas and electric energy companies choose to accept this solution, the access to electric energy will increase, the energy reliant parts of the economy will grow stronger, and the cleanliness of our atmosphere will not continue to decline. Crane 6 Works Cited: Abdoli, Ghahreman, Yazdan Gudarzi Farahani, and Seyedmasood Dastan. Electricity Consumption And Economic Growth In OPEC Countries: A Cointegrated Panel  OPEC Energy Review 39.1 (2015): 1-16. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 . Environmental Impacts of Natural  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Learn About Carbon Pollution From Power  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 27 July 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Leidel, James. Maximum Solar Energy Utilization In The Built Environment: An Evaluation Of Energy Capture And Conversion Technologies For Maximum Practical Use In  ASHRAE Transactions 121.1 (2015): 1-8. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Vitale, Steve. How domestic natural gas production bolsters  Pipeline & Gas Journal 2016: 26. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.