Hendel, 1 Rachel Hendel Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 7 February 2017 Stance on Euthanasia As the years go by, the number of organizations concerned with assisted suicide for those who are ill, better known as euthanasia, has skyrocketed. Even with the number of organizations regarding euthanasia increasing, the majority stance on the matter is still difficult to determine. Two specific ones are Death with Dignity and Choice is an Illusion. The Death with Dignity mission is to laws that provide an option for dying individuals and to stimulate nationwide improvements in end-of-life (Death with Dignity). The Choice is an Illusion purpose is to euthanasia out of your state, and out of your (The Choice is an Illusion). With both of these organizations attempting to create opposing laws about euthanasia, no progress on the matter will be made. Thus, a compromise is needed where both Death with Dignity and Choice is an Illusion, should agree to not attempt to create any laws regarding the issue, but to simply educate the public on the matter of euthanasia and allow them to decide on their own. The Death with Dignity Organization is a organization that expands the freedom of all qualified terminally ill Americans to make their own end-of-life decisions. As an organization, they provide information, education, and support about Death with Dignity as an end-of-life option to patients, family members, legislators, advocates, healthcare and end-of-life care professionals, media, and the interested (Death with Dignity). Another important Hendel, 2 aspect regarding the support of euthanasia is Patient Autonomy, which is the right for patients to make their own decisions regarding healthcare without the influence of their physicians (Medicine Net). While Patient Autonomy is typically influenced in all healthcare facilities, it is not necessarily always followed. Physicians may provide such patients with options regarding their treatment and without blatantly telling the patient which option to choose, they may show favoritism towards a specific treatment (National Center for Biotechnology Information). with Dignity promotes the choice of euthanasia and also mount legal defense of physician- assisted dying legislation. The Death with Dignity political arm is funded through laws based on the Oregon model. This funding allows for campaigns, lobbies, and advocates for Death with Dignity legislation in the states that lack them. They work directly with legislators to create the most ideal bills possible and put them through the legislative process by providing political guidance and (Death with Dignity). The Choice is an Illusion purpose is to euthanasia out of your state, and out of your life. They view themselves as a take off on the suicide/euthanasia advocacy group, Compassion & Choices, whose materials are sometimes considered to be (Choice is an Illusion). Along with believing that assisted suicide is ethically wrong, Choice is an Illusion concludes that the people, who may feel useless in their conditions, do not actually want to die. With people being so vulnerable, they believe that having the option of assisted suicide only creates more of a problem, leading to people ending their lives when it was not necessary (Choice is an Illusion). The American Psychological Association has similar beliefs regarding the vulnerability of such patients. They have conducted studies about the legality of euthanasia and the effects it would have on the mortality rate of patients that have been introduced to the idea of euthanasia. Through their studies, they have seen results that indicate that with the Hendel, 3 legalization of euthanasia, the rates of patients wanting such help of assisted suicide has significantly increased. Professional psychologists find this path to be a poor one, considering the fact that before euthanasia legalization was brought up, many of the patients were willing to keep seeking treatment, even if their diseases were defeating them. Now with talk of such opportunity, some patients find themselves giving up on life, especially during their most vulnerable times (The American Psychological Association). With such belief, The Choice is an Illusion organization has been attempting to repeal the law that makes euthanasia legal in some states- and are pushing to make it illegal across America. While the Death with Dignity organization and the Choice is an Illusion organization have completely different views on assisted suicide for those who are ill, they both are very passionate about their beliefs. Both organizations fight for what they believe through nonviolent informative seminars. Not only that, but both organizations are looking out for people by fighting for what they believe is best for them. With both organizations attempting to create laws that allow for or prohibit assisted suicide for those who are ill, no progress is being made on the matter. In order to make any progress, each organization should step back from all of the protests and debates for a short time in order to think about the conflicting aspects. Perhaps enforcing a type of checks and balances system could aid in beginning to abide by a compromise between the two opposing organizations (Euthanasia, Ethics, and the Law: From Conflict to Compromise). As a compromise, each of these organizations should agree to ease up on the strength of their views. This can be established by agreeing to not propose any laws, or attempt to repeal any laws regarding euthanasia. Rather than involving any type of legislation in the matter, each organization should agree to stick to educating society on the matter. Death with Dignity and Choice is an Illusion Hendel, 4 could simply stick to what they are already doing, but avoid making laws about it. Each of the organizations would work separately, considering the fact that the process would probably become hectic and hostile if they were to work together. As the organizations work independently of each other, they could each continue to run their websites that promote what they believe on the topic of euthanasia. Not only would Death with Dignity and Choice is an Illusion continue to run their websites, but they could continue to hold seminars that inform the public on their stance of euthanasia. By doing this, it benefits each organization in that they are still able to promote what they believe on the topic, in an attempt to persuade people to either partake or not to partake in euthanasia. On the other hand, by doing this, Death with Dignity and Choice is an Illusion have to give up creating laws enforcing their beliefs. This may not seem as if it is a big deal, but this takes away from each organization being able to have control over the matter. This would not cost them to give up what they believe on euthanasia, but rather give the public an opportunity to decide for themselves how they feel about such matter. In a world where people value being able to make their own decisions and having their own opinions, the topic of euthanasia can be a sensitive one. With many existing organizations regarding euthanasia, it is easy for people to get other opinions pushed on them. With Death with Dignity and Choice is an Illusion attempting to make laws regarding euthanasia, it does not allow for society to make their own decisions. If organizations would agree to educate people on the matter without involving legislation, then it would give people of society the freedom to make their own choice, hopefully making it a less sensitive matter. Word Count: 1216 Hendel, 5 Works Cited Bentz, Dr. Charles .  Is An   Is An Illusion. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Death with Dignity  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Entwistle, Vikki A., Stacy M. Carter, Alan Cribb, and Kirsten McCaffery. Supporting Patient Autonomy: The Importance of Clinician-patient  Journal of General Internal Medicine. Springer-Verlag, July 2010. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Huxtable , Richard . Euthanasia, Ethics and the  Google Books. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Medical Definition of Patient  MedicineNet. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wilson , Keith G. The Euthanasia Debate  Pardon Our Interruption. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.