Jafri 1 Syed Maisam Jafri TJ Murray ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Cover Letter My thought process in choosing an absurd topic to cover was that I should pick a topic which may seem absurd in the present time but will be a legitimate concern in the future. For this reason, I chose voting online as my topic. The supporting arguments were, for the most part, obvious due to the reasons that make anything on the internet more convenient than in real life. Finding scholarly, peer reviewed support for my arguments was a little bit more difficult. Sifting through the plethora of sources which had no credibility was tedious but allowed me to find appropriate sources. I chose to include the sources I did for a variety of reasons. The sources I chose were credible due to the sites they were published in and the credentials. Various US government departments were used as sources as they are the authority on voting laws and regulations. The other sources were chosen for their statistical information regarding US voting patterns. Five comprehensive sources were sufficient in providing support for all my arguments in the paper. I chose to use an anecdotal hook in order to draw the readers in and realize that this is affecting them without them even being aware of it. I wrote the introduction in such a way to demonstrate the issues with the current voting process. I realize now that my thesis is only absurd because it already been implemented by the US government. Jafri 2 My background knowledge on the US government, polling practices, and voter trends was taught to me by my high school AP Government teacher. She provided me with the knowledge and skills necessary to critically assess governmental programs. I was also taught to think deeply, check sources, and not to unconditionally trust the word of the government. It is our job as citizens to keep our government in check and push them towards progress and away from stagnation. Jafri 3 Syed Maisam Jafri TJ Murray ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Internet Polling Imagine that the date is November 7 th , 2017, you wake up tired and prepare for your daily 9-5 job. As you check your phone you realize that today is election day and you did not request work off. At first it bothers you but then the realization that your one vote does not matter washes over you. There are very few elections each year and this is just another missed opportunity. Voter apathy is an incredibly common feeling among American voters. The US Government needs to give citizens a secure method to vote using the internet on a greater number of issues than they are able to currently. Giving American citizens the opportunity to vote securely anywhere in the world over the internet would increase the abysmal voting percentages. The United States currently trails the developed world by fluctuating between 40% and 60% voter turnout (Wallace). The youngest demographic of voters, ages 18-25, have the lowest voting contribution. The ability to cast ballots on presidential elections and city or state laws would increase voter turnout significantly. Not only from the youngest voting demographic but also for all ages. Also, power would be equalized for groups who traditionally do not vote as often as others since this idea gives no one the excuse not to vote. Almost 1/3 of all votes cast in the country of Estonia are cast online (Warner). Their system utilizes national ID cards with embedded encrypted chips to secure their channels of voting. A card reader plugged into a computer is used to verify the identity of voters. Jafri 4 Though the population of Estonia is considerably smaller than the United States, the percentage of votes occurring online should sway naysayers. If US citizens get the opportunity to vote online, they may use the internet to educate themselves further. ELearning is an industry based around education using the internet. The eLearning market revenue was at $49.9 billion dollars in the year of 2015 (Pappas). If an individual is attempting to vote on the internet and does not understand the implications of a certain voting choice, he or she can easily do research and self educate themselves on the subject. Increased voter education only has positive results because knowledge is power and power influences change. The efficiency and convenience for voters and vote counters would skyrocket if ballots could be cast online. Voters unable to take work off, stuck in class, bedridden, or sick could quickly and easily cast their votes over the internet. Even though polling stations are required by law to be disability accessible not all stations are. The US Government Accountability Office stated that in 2008 only 27% of polling stations had zero impediments to disability access (Accountability). The ability to vote online would remove many voting barriers for multiple groups. Voting online in the comfort of the home is significantly more convenient than waiting in a line at a polling station. Not only would this change make it considerably easier for voters, it would also speed up the vote counting process. Computers can do simple tasks, like counting, at a much faster pace than humans. This would cut down on time spent counting ballots, potential sources of human error during the counting process, and would provide a lot of data for voter analytics and statistics. This data and the analytics for it could be used to remedy the multitude of issues present in our current voting system. Jafri 5 Some people may make the argument that the website or system which houses the online voting center could be compromised due to the work of hackers. The US Government, more specifically Homeland Security, has some of the strongest cyber security in the world (Homeland). The Department of Homeland Security would undoubtedly incorporate the best of the best in terms of cybersecurity in order to keep the polls from being hacked. Voting online is not a new idea. President Clinton made a suggestion to look into online voting at the turn of the century in 1999 (Warner). A program was launched by the US military which allowed active duty personnel stationed in various countries to vote in US elections. The project was halted due to potential security threats. The US Government has the ability to properly secure online channels of voting if this matter was given serious consideration. There would be innumerable benefits and little to no drawbacks if American voters were allowed to cast ballots over the internet. Not only would this increase voter contribution and reduce voter apathy, it would also encourage voters to educate themselves on the subjects they are voting on. There are currently innumerable issues with our voting system ranging from a lack of disability access to uneducated voters. The youngest demographic of voters who have been around the internet for a larger part of their lives than any other group would see leaps and bounds in terms of increased voter participation. The efficiency and convenience for everyone involved would also increase significantly. Not only would we gain the ability to analyze polling data in real time, the media could live broadcast the results as people were voting. If this idea is taken seriously by the US government there are no downsides to this change in American voting tradition. you vote online if given the opportunity? Jafri 6 Works Cited Accountability Office of the US Government. Voters with Disabilities: Challenges to Voting  U.S. Government Accountability Office (U.S. GAO). US Government, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Homeland Security.  Cybersecurity Homeland Security. US Department of Homeland Security, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pappas, Christopher. The Top ELearning Statistics And Facts For 2015 You Need To  ELearning Industry. ELearning Industry, 10 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wallace, Gregory. Voter Turnout at 20-year Low in  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Warner, John. - MILITARY VOTING AND THE FEDERAL VOTING ASSISTANCE  Military Voting. US Government Printing Office, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.