Bryan Martin Instructor Rouisse Enc 1102 12 February 2016 Using Embryonic Cells in Stem Cell Research There are many varying reasons why people do and support the use of embryonic cells for stem cell research. There are those people who believe that the embryos are living and therefore should not be killed and used in the stem cell research, and there are those who believe that the stem cell research is necessary to advance medicine. The two stakeholders are the catholic church and The Alliance for Regenerative Medicine. The way that these two organizations can come to a compromise that benefits both groups is to allow the researchers to only use embryonic stem cells from embryos that have died naturally or were aborted by the choice. To begin with, what is a stem cell? A stem cell is an cell that is able to differentiate into specialized cell (Medicalnewstoday.com) These cells can be found in a few different places. They can be found in embryos formed during the blastocyst phase of embryological development or they can be found in adult tissue in the form of adult stem cells. The adult stem cells are believed to be more limited in their regenerative powers than the embryonic stem cells because they can only differentiate into whatever part of the body they may happen to be in, while the embryonic stem cells can differentiate into whatever part of the body they are injected into. Most of the stem cells used for research are used from embryos made by in vitro fertilization. The Catholic church is in opposition to the embryonic stem cell research because they believe in the deliberate killing of innocent human life. However, the church does believe in the Bryan Martin Instructor Rouisse Enc 1102 12 February 2016 conducting of stem cell research, just not from the embryos. They only prefer to use either umbilical cord cells or adult stem cells. The problem with this is that there are not as many cells in these things as there are in the embryos. The church believes that human life begins at the moment of conception, this is the reason why they are so against abortion and the use of embryonic stem cells. They believe that all human life is sacred and that each life needs to be treated with respect and dignity. A direct quote from the website of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops states that loves each human from the instant of conception and entrusts this gift to the protection of a mother and father. Abortion ends the life of the child and offends God. (United States Conference of Catholic Bishops) This would explain why so many Catholic people and members of the church are against abortion. The Alliance for Regenerative Medicine is for the use of embryonic stem cells. The believe that regenerative medicine has potential to resolve unmet medical needs by addressing the underlying causes of (alliancerm.org/page/about-us) They would be treating the underlying causes of diseases rather than the disease itself. Also, they believe that the regenerative medicine can replace or regenerate damaged and diseased organs and tissues. This could be the next big break in the field of medicine. This would mean that diseases and problems that be solved or treated for before could get new treatments. People who are paralyzed could have the chance to walk again, people with debilitating diseases such as ALS or could regain abilities that they have lost due to their diseases. They think stem cells have potential to transform (alliancerm.org/page/about-us) Bryan Martin Instructor Rouisse Enc 1102 12 February 2016 The stakeholders yet come to a resolution yet because the catholic church feels strongly about the issue of using embryonic stem cells due to the fact that they believe that life is sacred and be ended. The Alliance is working around this by using the umbilical cord and adult stem cells but with the embryonic cells, the research would advance much quicker since the embryonic cells are much more able to differentiate into any cell type that may be needed for the research. The church want any embryos to be used in the research of stem cells and for the researchers the easiest way to make great advances would be by using the embryonic stem cells. A fair compromise for both sides is that the researchers cannot use the embryos from in vitro fertilization but would be able to use the embryos of babies that have either died naturally in the womb or were aborted by their mothers. This way the researchers are getting the embryonic stem cells that they would need and the church still is anti-abortion and protecting the life that they deem so sacred. The researchers want to be able to do their research and help out the human race, in the long run, the Catholic Church wants to protect all life no matter how young. One solution that was proposed in the past was to only allow the researchers to use the stem cells from embryos that had already died. Another solution that was proposed was to turn off a gene that directs the formation of the placenta just long enough for the cells to still be able to divide but still early enough that they can still create stem cells. This solution is feasible because it is all based on the choice of the mother or natural causes. If the mother wants to have an abortion, then she should be able to donate the embryo to a stem cell research facility and if the child dies Bryan Martin Instructor Rouisse Enc 1102 12 February 2016 naturally in the womb then she should also be able to donate it to the facility. With this compromise, no babies are being harmed in labs anywhere, but they would already have died of their choice or naturally. This is reasonable because both sides get a little bit of what they want while still giving some things away. In conclusion, the best way for each of the sides to get some of what they want is through compromise. The Catholic Church would need to give up some abortions that are based on the choice so that they may be donated to the stem cell research facilities and the Alliance would have to give up the use of in vitro fertilization because those embryos have nobody to speak for them, they are just used. This is a complex issue that will take many years to completely resolve but this compromise may be the start of something great and who knows, may be the beginning of finding the cures to many diseases that have evaded us for years. Wc:1087 Bryan Martin Instructor Rouisse Enc 1102 12 February 2016 Works Cited States Conference of Catholic Bishops, http://www.usccb.org/issues-and-action/human- life-and-dignity/abortion/index.cfm#basic. Accessed States Conference of Catholic Bishops, http://www.usccb.org/issues-and-action/human- life-and-dignity/abortion/respect-for-unborn-human-life.cfm. Accessed 1-29-2017 Alliance for Regenerative Medicine, http://alliancerm.org/page/about-us. Accessed 1-29-2017 Wiley Online Library. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1365- 2184.2004.00298.x/full. Accessed 1-29-2017 Medical news today. Accessed 1-29-2017 Bryan Martin Instructor Rouisse Enc 1102 12 February 2016