Lee 1 Yejin Lee Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 26 January 2017 Legalizing Marijuana in the United States The distribution, prescription, possession or sale of marijuana violates the federal law however, marijuana has been the most commonly used illegal drug in the United States (Keehbauch and Rensberry 1; Pearson et al. 1). Since the legalization of marijuana in California in 1996, 24 states and the District of Columbia have legalized marijuana for medicinal purposes and seven states and the District of Columbia have legalized the use of recreational marijuana (Schmidt et al. 1). National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) is an organization that supports the legalization of marijuana use and removal of all criminal penalties for marijuana use, which has been the most representative and influential organization for legalizing marijuana since its foundation However, there also have been public opinions that are against the legalization of marijuana due to the risk of public health and social impacts. Smart Approaches to Marijuana (SAM) is one of the organizations that object to the legalization, commercialization and normalization of marijuana use. The difference with the other anti-marijuana organizations is that it is also opposed to demonizing marijuana. It is at a slightly moderate opposing stance that pursues to approach marijuana use and its policies based on health-first scientific understandings. Even though NORML and SAM have conflicts on legalization, commercialization and normalization of marijuana use, they both pursue the safety and public health as their priorities for legalizing marijuana & Furthermore, Lee 2 NORML advocates the legal and responsible use of medical marijuana while SAM approaches the legalization of marijuana as science-based drug policy that has potential medical effects & Based on this common ground, NORML and SAM should both set a compromise concerning the legalization of medical marijuana use based on scientific understandings to build a healthier and safer community. National Organization of the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) is a non-profit organization that advocates the decriminalization and legalization of marijuana production. It was founded in 1970 and had achievements in decriminalizing marijuana offenses and alleviating marijuana penalties. Decriminalization of marijuana in NORML is defined as removing all the criminal penalties that are caused by the possession, cultivation, non-profit transfer due to responsible personal use of marijuana. It also defines the legalization of marijuana as designing and developing the marijuana market under the control of law enforcement to prevent the spread of corrupted black market and to assure the distribution and consumption of safe and high-quality marijuana It mostly emphasizes the responsible medical or recreational use of marijuana only by adults and pursues high-quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and affordable Mission These days, NORML advocates the legalization of responsible marijuana use based on some principles which are: adults only, no driving, set and setting, resist abuse, respect rights of others of Responsible Cannabis To realize its goals involving these principles, it lobbies the Congress, legislatures, and law enforcements to reform the current legislation including federal law and state law that are against the legalization of marijuana use - Its mission statements and principles proved that it considers the public health and safety as its priority above all. Even though they Lee 3 consistently set their priority as safe and healthy use of marijuana for public health, there are still opposing voices that worry about the side effects and abuse of marijuana use. Smart Approaches to Marijuana (SAM) is one of the representative organizations that are opposed to the legalization, commercialization, normalization and decriminalization of marijuana use. It is a coalition of organizations and individuals that are against marijuana commercialization and normalization. They introduce themselves as bipartisan, medical workers, teachers, legislators, law enforcement officers who agonize between incarceration and legalization & However, unlike the most anti-marijuana organizations which are focused on the social effect of marijuana legalization, SAM prioritized the public health as their basis for anti-marijuana legalization. Due to this priority, they approach the issue of legalizing marijuana with objective and scientific perspectives. Based on their scientific understandings about marijuana, they educate the legislators, law enforcement officers and the public to warn the harms and commercialization of marijuana use & They also emphasize the importance of scientific drug policy to protect public health and do research about the potential characteristics of marijuana. Furthermore, they acknowledge that the overflowing incarcerations become one of main social problems while insisting that incarceration would not be the right way to treat drug abuse and addiction and to look for alternatives. To legalize the marijuana that can assure the freedom and public health safety, NORML and SAM should set a compromise that restricts the legalization of marijuana to medical purposes. The medical effect of marijuana has been experimented and concluded in academic journal articles. Gruber, the director of MIND (Medical Investigations of Neurodevelopmental Disorders), conducted an experiment with patients who had have bipolar disorder and borderline personality disorder and used marijuana before to check how marijuana affects the Lee 4 mood, pain, PTSD, fibromyalgia and the other diseases. She found out that the use of medical marijuana had positive impacts on the executive functioning, performance, and impulsivity. Furthermore, she also found out that the patients who used marijuana without fully formed prefrontal cortex had worse executive functioning and performance. She insists that patient not only show alleviations in pain and seizure, but also think and sleep better. Furthermore, there are also potential possibilities that the medical marijuana has an impact on different, but related health problems like opioid addiction and overdose since the doctors prescribed less for opioid painkillers in the states of legalized marijuana for medical purposes (Boerner 29). Due to these medical effects of marijuana, the legalization of medical marijuana should be passed and implemented after proving its safety and medical effects under the strict law system to prevent the illegal drug abuse and its addiction. To safely realize this, SAM and NORML should take part in different aspects of legalizing medical marijuana. Since SAM pursues the scientific understandings of marijuana as its priority, SAM can provide the scientific information about the medical effects and safety of marijuana use to the government to help them design the law that restricts marijuana to medical purposes. Also, SAM can train the medical professionals about the positive and negative effects of medical marijuana and its addiction to prevent the marijuana abuse and its addiction. For NORML, since it supports the production of safe and high-quality marijuana use, it can provide information to the government about how to produce safe and high-quality marijuana and how to supervise them. Furthermore, since commercializing marijuana under the pharmaceutical companies has lots of risks of illegal drug market and drug abuse, the cultivation, distribution, and sale of medical marijuana should be controlled and be overseen by the federal government with the help of NORML. Lee 5 Therefore, NORML and SAM should cooperate to have a safer marijuana legalization in the United States. NORML has influenced the legalization of medical and recreational use of marijuana while SAM was mostly focused on researching and spreading the scientific understandings of marijuana to the public. By combining the strong will of legalizing the responsible and safe use of marijuana with the scientific understanding and education of marijuana use, the United States can meet the will of marijuana legalization while protecting the public health. Furthermore, nations can expect new effective treatments for disorders and addictions by passing medical marijuana laws. However, this legalization of medical marijuana use should be done under the strict law system, the administration and supervision of federal government towards the cultivation and distribution or medical marijuana, and with help of NORML, SAM and well-trained medical workers. By designing these safety regulations for public health based on the advice of NORML and SAM and implementing these under the supervision of government, the legalization of medical marijuana can result social and medical benefits safely while alleviating the conflicts between the stakeholders. Word Count = 1318 Lee 6 Works Cited Boerner, Heather. Cannabis: From Legal Illegal to (Sometimes) Legal Physician Leadership Journal, vol. 3, no. 6, 2016, pp. 29-30. - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML. http://norml.org/faq. Accessed 26 January 2017. Keehbauch, Jennifer, and Rensberry, Matthew. Effectiveness, Adverse Effects, and Safety of Medical  American Family Physician, vol. 92, no. 10, 2015, pp. 861-63. & Smart Approaches to Marijuana SAM. https://learnaboutsam.org/who-we- are/mission-vision/. Accessed 26 January 2017. Mission Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML. http://norml.org/about/intro/item/norml-mission-statement-2. Accessed 26 January 2017. Pearson, Matthew R., Liese, Bruce S., and Dvorak, Robert D. College Student Marijuana Involvement: Perceptions, Use, and Consequences across 11 College  Addictive Behaviors, vol. 66, 2017, pp. 83-89. of Responsible Cannabis Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML. http://norml.org/principles. Accessed 26 January 2017. Schmidt, Laura A., Jacobs, Laurie M., and Spetz, Joanne. Young More Permissive Views about Marijuana: Local Impact of State Laws or National  American Journal of Public Health, vol. 106, no. 8, 2016, pp. 1498-1503.