Aldhubaiban 1 Abdulrahman Aldhubaiban Professor Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Immigrants Stakeholders in the United States The United States has enjoyed decades of economic progress, public security, and democracy, which has attracted immigrants from poor and politically unstable countries from all around the world. Over the past few years, the enormous increase of immigrants has been a major concern for many American stakeholders. Immigration Voice and NumbersUSA are some of the most vocal of these American stakeholders. While Immigration Voice advocates for the amendment of immigration laws to attract skilled foreigners, NumbersUSA strongly opposes current immigration laws because they believe that the immigration laws do not sufficiently regulate immigration into the United States. NumbersUSA believes that immigrants are an imminent threat to socio-economic in the United States. The most important part of any immigration policy is that it should allow a reasonable number of legal and productive immigrants to be able to enter the country. On that note, the two stakeholders should unify on immigrant laws by allowing exclusive amount of immigrants to enter the U.S in order to provide future generations with a better economy in the United States. Immigration Voice is a non-profit organization that works to alleviate problems and challenges that face or could potentially face legal highly skilled immigrants in the United States. The organization acts as a mediator between skilled immigrants and the American authorities. Immigration Voice is composed of high-ranking individuals, who are assisted by prominent lawyers and experts in labor policies. The mission of Immigration Voice is to help solve the challenges faced by skilled immigrants as a result of Labor Certification backlog to assist with the employment based green card process, and to support amendments to immigration law (ImmigrationVoice). The commitment to promote immigration Aldhubaiban 2 laws that are less strict for skilled laborers is supported by their belief that skilled immigrants strengthen the American economy by boosting American technological superiority and capacity to innovate. NumbersUSA is an organization that aims to reduce the amount of immigrants coming into the U.S., and hopes that immigration levels will be as low as how they were in 1960. In the the number of immigrants rose from hundreds of thousands to millions of immigrants in the United States (Orrenius, Zavodny 86). Furthermore, NumbersUSA wants to educate the public on the long-term socio-economic impacts of mass immigration in order to reduce immigration levels in the United States. The organization lobbies the executive and legislative branches of the government to strengthen anti-mass immigration policies through several different ways. Firstly, the agency works directly with the Congress to inform them about the impacts of migration through the NumbersUSA Education & Research Foundation (NumbersUSA). Secondly, it encourages the people of the United States to send customizable faxes to government officials through NumbersUSA Action Incorporation. Thirdly, the organization encourages their members to voice their concerns over the growing threat posed by mass immigrants through their elected representatives. There are two key recommendations proposed by NumbersUSA. Firstly, the organization has raised concerns over the economy fairness to Americans. The factor was a key concern for the congressional/presidential Commission on Immigration Reforms and was strongly supported by NumbersUSA (NumbersUSA.) The organization expresses very firm concern that illegal immigration may challenge the capacity for Americans to economic fairness in terms of social and economic justice. Secondly, NumbersUSA has voiced strong concerns over the life quality for future American generations. Roy Beck, NumbersUSA Founder & President stated that: Every government in the world has an obligation to decide what immigration number is right for the community in its care. My greatest concern is how the number that is chosen will affect our grandchildren. Will we condemn them to live packed in a Aldhubaiban 3 highly regimented country approaching a billion people? Or will we make it possible for them to enjoy the qualities of life we today hold thedearest? (NumbersUSA). On the other hand, Immigration Voice argues that the acquisition of skilled foreigners remains very critical to United States competitiveness on various fields. Firstly, the organization cites that the technological superiority of the United States is a result of the acquisition of skilled immigrants. Additionally, the organization argues that a legal entry into the United States is hardened by strict and complex regulations, which forces many productive and skilled immigrants into temporary labor when they could be doing more important jobs that require more skill (Levy, Wright, and Citrin 660). Restricting the abilities of legal skilled immigrants is harmful for America because these skilled immigrants could be contributing more to society by being doctors, engineers, or professors at universities for example, and could help stabilize the economy for future generations. Both organizations share the concern that there is need to secure the country for the sake of the future generations. In this respect, ImmigrationVoice notes that the acquisition of skilled immigrants will maintain the United competitiveness in technological and innovative fronts. Similarly, NumbersUSA asserts that there is an urgent need to regulate the flow of immigrants into the country so that the economy is secured for future generations. The common ground between the policies includes the need to ensure sustainable development. It is a widely shared opinion that technology and innovation are the drivers of sustainable development and subsequent economic progress. Therefore, the stakeholders can compromise to create a system that encourage acquisition of skilled labor while at the same time regulating the flow of unproductive immigrants who may take advantage of the resources, and make it harder for future generations to have comfortable and affordable lives. It should be noted that while the policies suggested by the two stakeholders are different, both stakeholders want to secure the sustainability of the socioeconomic for Aldhubaiban 4 future generations. The main difference between the two stakeholders on immigration policy is the number of immigrants that they want the government to allow into the United States. NumbersUSA, which mainly consists of American conservatives, who have expressed strong concerns over how the future generations of Americans could be negatively affected by the immigrants. On the other hand, Immigrant Voice strongly opposes immigration laws that would make the country have to reject needed foreign skilled labor, which has been the source of technological superiority and subsequent economic stability in the United Combining the two immigration policy would create a system that allows the country to acquire necessary skilled labor, while denying unproductive foreigners entry into the country. It would be unrealistic to only allow skilled immigrants to enter the country. On the other hand, it would also be impossible for the United States to allow everyone in the world entry into the United States. Considering the fact that the population of skilled immigrants remains very low (Meissner, Doris, et al.), the United States can afford to allow skilled immigrants to enter the country with their families, and a portion of unskilled immigrants like refugees. It would be completely unethical for the United States to allow a skilled immigrant entry into the country without his/her family. This compromise solution would be advantageous to both stakeholders because the general flow of immigrants into the United States would decrease. The immigrants that do legally manage to enter the country will be skilled, and add to technological superiority. Considering the threat of immigrants taking advantage of resources and eventually overpopulation, it is absolutely necessary to make policies that will regulate immigration. However, the regulations should not restrict immigration of people who could positively influence American economy. Therefore, the collection of skilled immigrants that are in line with Immigration policy would help to create a secure future that is advocated by NumbersUSA. Aldhubaiban 5 Works Cited Numbersusa.com, https://www.numbersusa.com/about. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Immigration Voice. Immigrationvoice.Org, 2017, https://immigrationvoice.org/index.php Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Levy, Morris, Matthew Wright, and Jack Citrin. Mass Opinion and Immigration Policy in the United States: Re-Assessing Clientelist and Elitist  Perspectives on Politics, vol. 14, no. 03, 2016, pp. 660-680. Meissner, Doris, et al. Immigration Enforcement in the United States: The Rise of a Formidable Machinery. Migration Policy Institute, 2013. Orrenius, Pia M.1, and Madeline Zavodny. The Economic Consequences Of Amnesty For Unauthorized  CATO Journal 32.1 (2012): 85-106. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 18 Sept. 2016.