Potter 1 Harry Potter ENC 1102 Kristen Rouisse 27 January, 2017 Changing the Drinking Age The drinking age in America is twenty-one, and many people believe it should be raised or lowered. The reason that the law has set the drinking age to twenty-one is due to maturity and safety. The National Youth Rights Association explains that lowering the drinking age would be appropriate because the legal adult age is eighteen which allows people to vote, join the military, and buy tobacco (National Youth Rights Association). In contrast, Mothers against Drunk Driving explain that if the drinking age was raised it would be more appropriate because they believe, maturity increases with age (Mothers against Drunk Driving). In addition, multiple countries have the legal drinking age lower than twenty-one, so that proposes the question, should the drinking age be changed? The National Youth Rights Association and Mothers against Drunk Driving are two stakeholders that need to come to a compromise, so that the correct drinking age is a safe drinking age. The National Youth Rights (NYRA) mission statement advocates that they want to be able to defend the human rights of the young people in America. The NYRA hopes to let elders and other people know about the importance of youth rights (National Youth Rights Association). An article by Alex Koroknay-Palicz states, how the drinking age in some states used to be eighteen but was changed because of older generations like the baby boomers (National Youth Rights Association). Lowering the drinking age is fully supported by the NYRA. In fact, the NYRA explains that multiple European countries set the drinking age to Potter 2 eighteen and a majority of young people learned how to drink responsibly and moderately. countries have very little drinking problems and because they learned it at such a young age, do not view it as a poison substance, and agree to not abuse the (National Youth Rights Association). Many students in college drink because they finally are out of their parents house, and do not have them hovering over their shoulder. An article by Ruth C. Engs explains college drinking, it analyzes that the drinking age should be changed because when college students drink it is seen as rebellious, and changing the age could change the way college drink (Why the drinking age should be changed). The NYRA has made steps to lowering the drinking age, by having protests and getting the word out. The NYRA protested so much that during the election in 2016, Massachusetts residents were allowed to vote on if the drinking age should be changed (National Youth Rights Association). Although, every state in the United States has yet to change their drinking age lower than twenty-one, the NYRA are making steps to changing the age. MADD advocates to stopping underage drinking and preventing drunk driving. MADD was founded by a woman whose daughter was killed by a drunk driver. MADD has sponsors like the NFL, State farm, Uber and much more to help support the foundation. MADD explains why the drinking age is twenty-one and why teenagers should not drink. According to MADD there are different age groups for different reasons, including sixteen to drive, eighteen to be an adult, and thirty five to be the president of the United States. The reason the drinking age is twenty-one is due to research that shows how teens react differently to the alcohol (Mothers against Drunk Driving). Also the MADD explains that because of the drinking age being twenty one it has saved 25,000 lives in the U.S. According to Joyce Alcantara, people who Potter 3 begin drinking before ages 15 are four times more likely to develop alcoholism than those who begin drinking at (Drinking Age Debate: The drinking age should stay at 21 to protect teens). Many countries have the drinking age set at eighteen but the MADD explains that this is not always good and studies show it. show that Europe has more underage drunkenness, injury, rape, and school problems due to (Mothers against Drunk Driving). The MADD hopes to keep the drinking age the same to protect the young lives in America. MADD and the NYRA may have many differences when it comes to changing the drinking age but they also have their similarities. Both of the stakeholders want to agree on a correct drinking age so that drinking is safer for the youth. The NYRA hopes that lowering the drinking age will help get rid of the forbidden fruit that college students have and will make drinking not as dangerous, because as stated, greater acceptance of moderate amounts of drinking for younger people will reduce the (National Youth Rights Association). MADD hope that keeping the drinking age and even raising the drinking age will keep teenagers from dangerous diseases or situations. As stated, waiting until the legal age of 21 to start drinking, your teen protects his or her health and reduces risk from certain (Mothers against Drunk Driving). Both of the stakeholders have their similarities, so they should be able to come to a compromise to make the drinking age a safe drinking age. Furthermore, the NYRA and MADD need to come together and change the drinking age, but only for low percentage alcohol and not high percentage or hard liquor. By lowering the drinking age for only alcohol like beer and wine, it could be a safer way for youth to adjust to the alcohol before the age of twenty-one. At the age of twenty-one, any alcohol will be available to drink but from the ages of eighteen to twenty, only beer and wine is allowed. The NYRA will Potter 4 have to give up the hard alcohol until the age of twenty-one, but the NYRA should be okay with it because the drinking age is being lowered. MADD will have to allow young adults to drink at the age eighteen, but if the young adults are not drinking hard alcohol then it should be okay with the MADD. The reason these two stakeholders will be okay with this compromise is because drinking at a young age will become safer. The article by Mary Kate Cary explains that if the age was lowered, than college students would have less binge drinking, and only drinking beer would be much better than taking shots while in college (Time to lower the drinking age). All things considered, the National Youth Rights Association and the Mothers against Drunk Driving want to make drinking at a young age safe, and by lowering the drinking age for just beer and wine could be a fair compromise. Both stakeholders will have to give up something to come to the compromise, but both will understand because it can hopefully make the drinking age safer. At the age of eighteen the law allows many things such as, gambling, becoming an independent, going off to war and drinking, if the law changes the drinking age. Although the majority would still say that keeping the drinking age the same would be best because at the age of twenty-one, the age is considered more mature and responsible. Whether the drinking age is lowered or raised, the correct drinking age needs to be a safe drinking age. Words: 1,211 Potter 5 Work Cited Alcantara, Joyce Drinking age debate: The drinking age should stay at 21 to protect  Contra Costa Times [Walnut Creek, 7 July 2011. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cary, Mary Kate. Time to Lower the Drinking  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, 7 May 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Engs, Ruth C. Why the Drinking Age Should Be Lowered: An Opinion Base on  Why the Drinking Age Should Be Lowered: An Opion Based Research ((1997, 2014)): n. pag. Print. MADD. MADD - Underage  MADD - Underage Drinking. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. NYRA.  National Youth Rights Association. NYRA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.