Ashkon Chamani Chamani 1 Kristen Gocinski Enc 1102.012 February 15 2017 The marijuana struggle Over seven million people were detained due to marijuana related arrests from 2001 to 2010. For nearly 40 years now, there have been many organizations attempting to do away with strict criminalizing laws that involve the possession and consumption of marijuana. These organizations include the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or And on the other side of the spectrum there are organizations such as citizens against legalizing marijuana, or for short. NORML has been fighting to change the laws governing the imprisonment of individuals that have been caught with possession of marijuana. Whereas CALM has been attempting to stop legislation from legalizing marijuana in the states of California and Ohio. In the most recent election, California legalized marijuana recreationally, and Ohio legalized medical Marijuana. Both organizations stand for opposite goals, but they also share their drive to educate the population about marijuana. Both NORML and CALM can come together to help further educate the population of Ohio when it comes time to vote for marijuana legalization. Chamani 2 Being one of the largest pro marijuana organizations in the nation, NORML has been a leader in initiative in attempts to help legalize marijuana. NORMLS mission statement in direct context is move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (NORML 3) their goals have been closely linked to lessening the laws of crimination involving with possession of cannabis. Having been known as a large benefactor of a lobbyist group, NORML also has support in congress allowing them to extend their views there are several supporting articles to prove the legitimacy of NORMLS cause, like in the article written by as Armentano, Paul Working to Reform Marijuana this shows that NORML is a legitimate representation of most Americans that want to see changes in marijuana laws in the US. The author tells how NORML has helped many research experiments done on marijuana. The mission statement of CALM against legalizing is take the position that Federal laws against the use, cultivation, and transportation of marijuana should be maintained and enforced and should not be relaxed or CALM has two main locations where they handle legal affairs, being Ohio and California. They lost a large battle when California made cannabis recreationally legal. In the article arrested nearly half a Chamani 3 million people for pot over the past There was mention of how due to the number of people not willing to vote on legislation due to their beliefs of CALM, thinking that the drug would not be decriminalized. This shows that people that side with CALM do believe in anti- marijuana rhetoric and therefore their cause is a legitimate one. The article continues by stating the increase in support of legalization in other counties showing the loss of support CALM has had in recent years. Due to their slight decrease in support, this could open for the possibility to make an agreement with an organization that would be willing to help their cause. Both CALM and NORML have their main underlying platforms revolving around marijuana legislation, they just happen to be on opposite sides. The similarities that two organizations have is that they both want to educate the population about marijuana. The main platform that CALM stands for is to make sure that marijuana does not get in the hands of children much as how alcohol finds its way to children. In this sense both organization have that similarity, NORML also is watchful in the legislation ideas to make sure suppliers would be very strict not to sell to minors. Therefore, there is an unseen empathy between the two organizations. This could lead to a discussion between the two, in which case they would see a possible compromise to come from both their cooperation. Chamani 4 Both NORML and CALM have had losses and wins, for NORML California recently recreationally legalized marijuana, and for CALM Ohio repealed to legalize marijuana. But in the larger picture there is a trend of states legalizing marijuana slowly but surely, and CALM can clearly see this as well. The compromise of CALM and NORML to work together to help better educate the public about marijuana and the possible detrimental effects it could carry is very important. Both organizations would agree to work together to help build on their already vast support. This is important for CALM in hopes to keep the communities safe in their beliefs by education the public by handing out fliers and offering programs to help educate school systems such as cool kids on the block, an already very popular program that educates children the possible dangers of drugs.it would also help the process at which legislation could change in other states with the help of NORMLS new campaign, by allowing supporters to see the importance of safety in their eyes. All expense on each side would be paid by each organization privately. Ultimately this would be possible to occur due to the previous attempts of NORML to reach out to organizations that are similar to CALM The way the compromise would take place in the communities would be to first make the public aware that the two organization are now a joint coalition as to make the public listen to what they have to say. The attempts to further educate the public would take place in middle and high schools, with factual evidence that is agreed on by the science community Chamani 5 indefinitely. This would be paid for by both organizations, in proportions to the amounts each has to offer. This would benefit both organizations in the end in different ways, by helping keep the mission statement of CALM intact to the most part. And helping speed the process of legalization for NORML supporters. This would can be seen to have happened in Missouri once information of the medical properties marijuana had for chemo patients, and helped jump start a movement in the area in favor of legalizing medical marijuana, as seen in the article NORML warms up medical pot With much help and support both organization have very different perspectives on how marijuana should be treated, NORML believe in that it is the right to have available marijuana in dispensaries around the country. And CALM which believes that it is better to not allow legalization of the herb. Even through these differences they can come together for the better of their mission statements and reach a larger part of their goals, which is to keep the public aware and informed of all effects of marijuana. They will come together in this compromise that helps inform the public, and to ease the passage of the inevitable legalization of marijuana with increasing support across the nation, in this way, all supporters will be able to say thy helped change their communities for the greater good. Works cited Working to Reform Marijuana  Support. NORML and the NORML Foundation, Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Citizens Against Legalizing  CALM USA. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Ingraham, Christopher. California arrested nearly half a million people for pot over the past  The Washington Post 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. LEE, MARTIN A. Let A Thousand Flowers  Nation 297.20 (2013): 23-28. Academic Search Premier. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. NORML warms up medical pot  Columbia Daily Tribune (Columbia, MO) 2009: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Ingraham, Christopher. Meet the senators and congressmen who support marijuana  The Washington Post 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Rosin, Hanna. THE RETURN OF POT. (Cover  New Republic 216.7 (1997): 18 24. The New Republic Archive. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Citizens Against Legalizing  CALM USA. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Ingraham, Christopher. California arrested nearly half a million people for pot over the past  The Washington Post 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. LEE, MARTIN A. Let A Thousand Flowers  Nation 297.20 (2013): 23-28. Academic Search Premier. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.