Loos 1 Megan Loos Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 2/12/17 Animal Testing Numerous debates have gone on for years over the rights of animals during animal testing and many organizations have fought for the rights of animals while some companies have been the ones doing the harmful testing. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is an organization that stands for rights for lab testing, entertainment, clothing trade and in the food industry. Aveeno, a skin and hair care product company, focuses on being natural and using natural ingredients to develop products that will help customers have healthier hair and skin, but to make these products Aveeno tests them on animals. Although these two organizations have a different perspective on animal believing it is not okay while Aveeno does think it is both share a common goal of making the world a more natural, healthier place. Since they do share this common goal, a suggested compromise between the two would be different testing options for Aveeno so that they do not need to harm animals in the process of testing their products. The organization PETA strongly believes that are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in and people involved in this organization work together to try and figure out ways to make testing safer for animals About They believe that animals do not need to speak, or act the way humans do to be free from animal testing. If the animal can suffer, they deserve to have rights and to be free from the suffering that testing can cause them. In an article by PETA they state that Loos 2 it comes to pain, love, joy, loneliness, and fear, a rat is a pig is a dog is a boy. Each one values his or her life and fights the Animal PETA wants to voice that just because an animal cannot say they feel pain or suffering, does not mean that these animals should have no rights. All animals will fight for their lives just like humans do because they value what it is to have a life. This value and fight the animals have is what leads PETA to feel so strongly about animals having their own rights. This organization works on targeting not only adults, but children too. A website is provided for kids specifically to let kids know the basics of what is happening to animals without showing the gory and disturbing pictures that the main site has. This goal of this site is to help kids learn about how to make a change early on by providing them with interactive games and quizzes. Both sites for PETA have the same goal, lowering the suffering of animals and raising rights of those animals as well. On the other hand, Aveeno produces and sells hair and skin products and believes that has the power to make life nourish, soothe and even They want to discover natural ingredients and develop products that will help customers to have healthier hair and skin but to make these products possible, they first test them on animals to make sure these products are safe for human use. Aveeno claims that they want to give back to the community, so they use recyclable material for some packaging so that the world can be a better place In the article, to know the Knauss states that Aveeno the beneficial qualities of nature and natural ingredients, either in their pure form or technologically which just helps to show that main goal is to make sure that their ingredients are kept natural to help naturally enhance the hair and skin of their customers. To produce these products for their customers they must first test them on the animals and Aveeno ensures their customers that they will never compromise on the Loos 3 quality of their products so they will always make sure they are safe as possible to use Although these companies are completely different, there is some common ground that can be reached between the two. PETA is an organization that stands for the rights of animals and believes there are other ways to test a product besides testing them on animals. To them, it is unfair that an animal must suffer for the safety of a product when there are other options for testing. On the other hand, Aveeno does test on animals to make sure their products are safe. They believe the world should be made a better place by using natural ingredients to help keep customers hair and skin healthy. Since Aveeno believes the world should be natural and become a better place, it would seem correct to believe that they would be for fixing other aspects in our world besides hair and skin. Since PETA wants animals to live naturally and not be tested on, it also seems correct to believe that they would be for natural ingredient use as long as animals are not harmed in the process. Along with that, because Aveeno uses Natural ingredients, a compromise with PETA might actually improve sales because it would show their ingredients are natural and safe. Furthermore, it would prove that goal is to make the world a natural healthier place because they do not harm a major part of nature in the With that being said, a compromise that could be proposed between Aveeno and PETA could be that Aveeno agrees to use an alternative to animal testing. They could either use human tissue to test if a product is toxic which more accurate than the animal to Animals in Toxicity testing on animals forces those animals to ingest whatever the toxic substance is which according to the article to Animals in usually kills about fifty-five percent of the animals. Another option Aveeno could use would be Loos 4 computerized modeling strategies. This method would help to test for product deficiencies like toxicity, poor absorption and organ concentration early within developing the product (Knight 8). One last possible testing option that is safer than testing on animals would be a method called cell culture. This means that Aveeno would grow cells in the lab or cells to grow into 3D structures, such as miniature human organs, which can provide a more realistic way to test new to Animal Cell cultures are believed to be key developers in assisting with cancer, kidney disease and AIDS. All of these methods would require no animal testing and would still just as well testing on the safety of the products. As long as PETA can agree that testing is something that has to happen for the safety of human products, then Aveeno would hopefully agree that there are safer and more natural ways they can test their products besides testing on animals. PETA stands for the rights of animals and believes that there are other ways to test products for the safety of humans. Animals can suffer and they deserve the right to not be tested on, especially when there are other options of testing. Aveeno stands for natural products that make their customers skin and hair naturally healthier. With both companies striving to make the world a more natural, beautiful place, it seems like a compromise between the two would be very possible. Different testing options with pros and cons would need to be discussed between the two but there are many valid options out there like cell culturing, computer modeling, and human tissue that could do just as well as testing on animals or maybe even better. Loos 5 Works Cited Peta PetaKids. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. About Peta. N.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. to Animals in Neavs. N.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. to Animal Cruelty Free International. N.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Knauss, Stefanie. to Know the Unknown: Understanding Religion and Journal of Media and Religion. 25 May, 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Knight, Andrew. to Animal Veterinary Times. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Aveeno. J&JCl, 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.