Magliola 1 Fiorenza (Fio) Magliola Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Gender Equality Emma Watson (the former Hermione Granger from Potter and the current United Nations Goodwill Ambassador) is an adamant believer in gender equality and feminism. In fact, she has been a spokesperson for the HeforShe campaign started by UN Women in 2014 to promote feminism and support human rights Our ). In contrast, National Coalition for Men (NCFM) believes that men are becoming aware that they, as women, have been assigned roles which are demanded to accomplish despite their individual abilities, interests, physical or emotional character or needs. Their philosophy constitutes that men ... face injustices under the law and typically, they have been handicapped by socially defined in expressing themselves in other than stereotypical  NCFM believe that men have been taught that a  man should be strong, courageous, in control, sexually competent without consideration of what they desire or want Both parties seem to think that their gender is oppressed therefore an agreement can be made where both parties will be pleased: both sides need to recognize that the other sex is victimized. Men are socially victimized while women are more likely to be oppressed due to violence. They have to acknowledge that they are Magliola 2 both in a situation where the only way to find gender equality is to support and protect each other instead of blaming and fighting each other. The HeForShe campaign supports and encourages sex equality. People universally understand and support the concept of sex equality. Most people also agree that not just a issue, but that it is also a matter of human rights. what the HeForShe campaign promotes on their website. It was initiated by UN Women and is inviting people all around the world to stand unitedly to create a substantial and positive change on the subject of gender equality. The campaign was on the idea that gender equality is an issue that affected everyone socially, economically and politically. The campaign sought to actively include men in a movement even though it was originally thought as a campaign for a women made by women. Its intention is also to help men fight for the achievement of gender equality and rights, by urging them to take action against inequalities faced by women and girls. Emma Watson asked the world to take action to build a new solidarity movement for gender equality with her speech in 2014 at the United Nation in Washington D.C. Our ). Emma was given the title of the UN Women Goodwill Ambassador in 2014 where she launched the campaign and ...extended a formal invitation to men to participate in the conversation about gender  Our ). While the HeForShe campaign strives to fight for inequality and injustices against women, the National Coalition for Men (NCFM) is a group dedicated to remove harmful gender based stereotypes, especially the ones that impact boys, men, their families and those who love them ). Operating since 1977, they are the oldest organization committed to ending sexual discrimination ). This is an organization which seeks to help people take a Magliola 3 self-motivated step toward independence from sexism ). They believe that have been discriminated against in parenting rights, child custody, criminal sentencing, military conscription, education, domestic and sexual violence laws that neglect male victims and support false accusations, reproductive rights, genital integrity laws, international forced labor laws, public benefits and more, while men and boys face societal misandry and male ). The primary objective of NCFM is to promote awareness of how gender-based expectations limit men legally, socially and psychologically. The way that the campaign tries to accomplish its goals is by promoting discussion and study of relevant issues, disseminating data, and facilitating the growth of new resources ). One of the main issues that NCFM are fighting against are custody rights in a situation of divorce. By this, they mean that fathers have historically been denied equal parenting rights for many years. In one of their mission statements, the NCFM estimated that The 19th Century doctrine, which explicitly gave custody over children ages 13 and younger, was later replaced with the interests of the doctrine, but the gender bias . According to them, in the U.S., fathers usually ask for 50% custody while mothers ask for, and get, 80% custody during a divorce. This is more often called gender byproduct which is the result of having separate roles assigned to the two sexes. Fathers then become visitors and must also pay child support amounts with little involvement in their life. The NCFM believe that taking a child from their father is wrong because a child must have a father just like he has a mother not only for the physiological development of the child, but also as a crucial part of the child development ). Magliola 4 While one of the NCFM main issue focuses on custody rights, the HeForShe campaign, or UN Women, is determined to help stop and raise awareness for violence against women worldwide. estimated that 35% of women have experienced physical and/or sexual violence by a non-partner at some point in their lives and Additionally, some studies show 70% of women have encountered physical or sexual violence from an sexual partner in their life and viewpoint is that violence against women, or girls, is a violation of human rights. Its influence ranges from intermediate to long-term physical, sexual and mental outcomes for women and girls, and even death. UN Women believe that sexual and mental abuse have horrible consequences such as altering a well-being and it preventing her from fully participating in society Our ). Violence not only has adverse outcomes for females but also their relatives, community, and even their country. UN Women believe that violence is a crucial and important issue to address when talking about gender equality. They are currently working towards helping foreign governments in implementing programs to protect women against violence and have also been spreading awareness of violence against women Our ). While both parties are concerned with different issues, NCFM fights for the equal parenting rights and UN Women strive to stop violence against women, both parties fail to realize that these issues partake of a bigger issue which is gender byproduct. When analyzed, both parties are fighting for equality where both genders are free from stereotypes and violence. Ultimately, the only way that they can both achieve true gender equality is if they decide to fight together, not against each other. They have to support and protect each other on those points and stand up for what is right despite of their sex. They both differ certain points, but if they both Magliola 5 acknowledge that both sexes have been deprived of certain rights that both genders should have, they will understand that they are fighting toward the same goal and hopefully, it will be clear to them that they are not each enemy. Works Cited Facts and figures: Ending violence against  Women . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.  National Coalition For Men (NCFM). WordPress, 24 Oct. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.  National Coalition For Men (NCFM). N.p., 02 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Our  HeforShe. UN Women , n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.  National Coalition For Men (NCFM). N.p., 02 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. What we do: Ending violence against  Women . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.