The Controversy Over Hydraulic Fracking 1 The practice of Hydraulic Fracking and the controversy surrounding two stakeholders with vested interests: Earthworks and American Petroleum Institute Ashley Taepakdee University of South Florida The Controversy Over Hydraulic Fracking 2 The practice of Hydraulic Fracking and the controversy surrounding two stakeholders with vested interests: Earthworks and American Petroleum Institute Hydraulic fracking is the process where millions of gallons of water, sand, and chemicals are poured down a well, into the ground. The materials are under a great deal of pressure and create fissures in the ground, where the sand particles deposit and allow the natural gas to escape (The Process of Hydraulic Fracturing). Natural gas has many applications in everyday life. Among some of these applications are electricity, heating, fueling cars, and helping to create plastics and other important organic chemicals (What is Hydraulic Fracturing). The American Petroleum Institute (API) is a national trade association representing all aspects of the oil and natural gas industry. Their mission is to provide Americans with affordable (Who we are) and believes through more natural gas and oil extraction can Americans become energy independent. Earthworks is a nonprofit organization whose mission is to protect the environment and communities from negative effects from energy and mineral development (Hydraulic Fracturing 101). Although these stake holders seem at odds with one another, they both can agree that the health and energy independence is important. They can both agree to move towards a more sustainable and renewable energy resource, which would be affordable to the American public, while still allowing energy companies to profit. Previous methods of retrieving natural gas involved the burning of coal which released copious amounts of carbon dioxide in the air that damaged the ozone layer. The American Petroleum Institute believes that hydraulic fracking has opened up many more energy reservoirs for America and has provided a cleaner and greener method of obtaining fossil fuels. In recent years, hydraulic fracking has been able to extract a lot more natural gas and provides around 40% of energy (Who we are). The goal is to lower American energy The Controversy Over Hydraulic Fracking 3 cost by using hydraulic fracking to extract natural gas in America. They continue to advocate for less strict laws on fracking and provide employment for over 9.8 million U.S. jobs. Earthworks advocates for clean air, water, land and communities. They fight for corporate accountability and create solutions to protect the resources and its communities (Hydraulic Fracturing 101). Earthworks believes that hydraulic fracking damages the environment in many ways. Not only does the water needed for hydraulic fracking amount to over 70-140 billion gallons a year but also, the chemicals added into the fracking fluid can cause serious health risks ( Hydraulic Fracturing 101). Many of the organic chemicals used in the fluid are known carcinogens and pollute groundwater and inevitably drinking water. The fracking chemicals can harm communities and wildlife and the releasing natural gas can pollute the air. As a result air around fracking sites are shown to have higher concentrations of benzene, a known carcinogen (Hydraulic Fracturing 101). Also, fossil fuels (natural gas and oil) are nonrenewable resources and will eventually run out. Earthworks is striving for a more economical, green, and renewable resource to use for energy in America. Even though these two companies seem at odds with one another it can be clearly discerned that both are striving for a better energy source that is environmentally friendly. Both can agree that the environment and communities are important and keeping these safe is integral in moving forward in the energy business. energy independence is also a common interest they both share. Building on this, there are steps that these two companies can take to come to a compromise. First, the API needs to lower dependence on natural gas by investing in renewable resources such as solar, wind, and water. In order for them to do this, both companies can form an alliance and work with other companies, such as construction and power companies, to employ workers to build new wind turbines and solar panels. Earthworks can The Controversy Over Hydraulic Fracking 4 employ their many followers and supporters to spread higher demand for solar and wind energy in order for it to be profitable for the API. With this in place and the wind turbines and solar panels being manufactured, the API can start to slowly shut down many of their fracking sites and start switching them to sites for the energy created by the new renewable resources. In the long run, with these resources, energy dependence on foreign countries would diminish due to the abundance of energy produced by these new means. As this would be a long process, in the meantime, the API can use fracking fluid without the dangerous chemicals. By removing the chemicals from the fluid, the API can reduce the pollution and contamination of the surrounding air and water. This also reduces the health risks for many people and wildlife living near these sites. While the American Petroleum Institute believes fracking is necessary, Earthworks believes it does more harm than good and the environment suffers at its expense. However, by focusing on their similar interests in the environment, the American people and communities, and energy, these stakeholders can come to a solution to fix the gap between their ideologies. In moving forward, with these two adversaries working together, they can accomplish a great deal. They can work to reduce or eliminate chemicals from fracking fluid and they can employ millions of Americans in projects to create solar panels and wind turbines. With more jobs, more people are able to afford to buy solar panels and invest in green energy technologies such as electric cars. With higher demand, the API can lessen its manufacture of fossil fuels through hydraulic fracking, saving the environment and billions of gallons of water each year. Overall, these seemingly opposing views have a lot in common and can work towards an energy solution that works with both of their missions. The Controversy Over Hydraulic Fracking 5 References: Hydraulic Fracturing 101. Retrieved from The Process of Hydraulic Fracturing. Retrieved from https://www.epa.gov/hydraulicfracturing/process-hydraulic-fracturing Who we are. Retrieved from http://www.energytomorrow.org/who-we-are What is Hydraulic Fracturing. Retrieved from https://www.propublica.org/special/hydraulic- fracturing-national