MUNIM Student: Bader Munim Instructor: Anastasia J. Khawaja Class: Composition I Date: Feb 11, 2017 The impact of immigrants on the United States community The United States is the land of the immigrant. This land is the land of all the people who came to make their dreams come true. Currently, next generations of immigrants are residing here who call America their home. Historically, the major wave of immigrants came to the US during the colonial era of the 19th and 20th century. From 17th to 19th-century African slaves arrived in the US against their will. After the end of slavery, they became the part of slavery-free United States as free citizens, and how immigration started in America. After historical perspective, this paper will further focus on the motives behind the immigration, which these reasons change time to time. In the process of immigration not only do immigrants take advantage, but Americans also use these immigrants for economic development as well as culture diversity. Another part of the paper will discuss the positive impacts of immigration on the society of the United States. Lastly, effects of immigration on the US with future perspective will be the point of discussion. The point of inquiry will conclude with some suggestions regarding the betterment of immigration policy in America. Therefore the paper will discuss the impact of immigrants on economic development and culture diversity. Alejandro, Portes and Rumbaut. Immigrant America: A Portrait 4 TH edition. University of California Press, 2014. MUNIM Fourth and updated edition of Immigrant America: A Portrait is a comprehensive and current overview of immigrants all over the America in a single volume. The prominent thing that caused this book to be used for the project is the latest data available. This edition is published in 2014 that is three years back so it can be used to take a detailed look on current facts and figures of immigrants in America. On the other hand, another advantage of this book is that it provides not only the economic aspect like other books referred earlier. It provides economic, religious and linguistic aspects of immigration. The religious aspect is also a prominent part of this book that is why it is chosen for be the part of the paper. This book is linked to the paper in an interesting way; like in introduction it is prominently written that our project will cover all aspects of immigration through facts and figures. This book can help to provide latest data on immigrants. However, it is missing the religious and linguistic point that is not covered by previous books. This book also helps the paper by identifying the ways of how immigration can have a real effect on the U.S community and why it is positive to have immigrants in the United States. Peter, Morton. Toward a Better Life: New Immigrants in Their Own Words from Ellis Island to the Present. Prometheus Books, 2011. It is a known fact that America is the country with the most immigrants. The quarter population of America is of other nations in which 10% are living illegally. Many immigrants from different nations around the world try to enter the US illegally and have failed. This book answers the question as to why so many immigrants tried and are still trying to get into the US. On the other hand, this book provides the oral history of these immigrants in their words. From MUNIM common immigrants to celebrities that chose America as their home this book contains all of their stories era by era. Live interviews are necessary for this paper because this book can help fill the gap of these interviews in this project. Immigrants from all walks of life describe their story from historical background to current situation. This book can be helpful because it provides a significant role in historical perspective and discussion of the foreign people living in America for centuries. Further, it can also help to understand the driving forces for migration from place to a strange land (i.e. America.) In short, this book can provide a significant reference in all its entirely. Charles, Hirschman. The Impact of Immigration on American Society: Looking Backward to the Future Transit Europaische Revue, 2007. This paper has three parts. First is about the history of immigration throughout before the independence. It also discusses how first immigrants came to the United States and how they become the citizens after some time. Further, it elaborates the need for people to choose the United States as their state. The second part is about the lessons from the 20th century. The 20th century was the century when the United States become a real power, and world observed its power in world wars. More people came to the United States in the 20th century. Third and last part is about future of immigrants in the United States. It shows both negative as well as the positive perspective of American society about immigration. This book will make the paper stronger by providing necessary information about the concept America as a new this book will add to the discussion of paper addresses motives are being defined to elaborate the need to choosing America as a country for immigration. It also because provides an insight in the era that has most immigrants than any MUNIM other era. The reference will help build the historical perspective of U.S. The future perspective of the United States in last part of the book will contribute to creating the conclusion for this paper. Lastly, as the book contains both negative and positive aspects of immigration, the analysis will be balanced for the paper. Shapiro, Robert and Jiwon, Vellucci. The Impact of Immigration and Immigration Reform on the Wages of American Workers, 2010. As a publication of research institute related to policy making this book aims to solve issues from both sides of the immigrants and native Americans. It basically focuses on five aspects. First is demographics of immigration population, this part clarifies the ratio of different states from where these immigrants came from. Second is the misconception about the undocumented immigrants. This part will justify the state of total legal and illegal immigrants and their effects on the U.S society. The third is the impact of immigrants on American wages. This part will directly deal with the impact of immigration on American people. Fourth is the pathway that will lead undocumented immigrants to a legal status. Fifth and last is the other effect of immigration on the economy. As the economy is like a backbone in any country so this book will help the paper in identifying the impacts of immigrants on American economy and impact of personal life economically. Further, the issue of illegal immigrants will also be taken into account by this book. With analysis, the impact of these illegal immigrants either positive or negative will also be included. In last, this book will help form an opinion on these economic implications in the conclusion of the paper. MUNIM Fix, Michael.Securing the Future: US Immigrant Integration Policy. Migration Policy Institute, Washington, DC, 2007. Michael Fix is Vice President at Migration Policy Institute and he has written many books on the topic of migration and integration policy in America. During his lifetime, he has worked in a variety of policy institutes. In his book, he is trying to define the concept of integration with the perspective of American policy makers. This book further debates over why integration must be the center of American immigration reforms. The author also provides evidence of ongoing integration process with second generations of immigrants. In last, this book concludes with the key elements of integration and how these elements will help to secure the future of America and immigrants. This book is important because it provides information on how immigrants affect the U.S community into it addresses the American integration policy and how immigrants have mixed with Americans over the time. Immigrants who migrated centuries ago now their next generations are an integral part of the American economy. What lacks in the policies of American government and how they can provide better facilities to both legal and temporary immigrants. This book will also help to build the conclusion of this project by providing future glimpses on immigration and integration process. Zolberg, Aristide. A Nation by Design: Immigration Policy in the Fashioning of America. Harvard University Press, 2006. A Nation by Design by Aristide is a book about immigration policy of America and how this immigration policy has created America in a positive way. According to this book, immigration policy of America has always welcomed foreigners in the time of need. But, the main point in this book is that how economic development and culture diversity have taken MUNIM advantage of this situation. So, most importantly this book has shows that America has free policy for immigrants and at the same time immigrants have a bright role in making America what America is today. book will play a significant part in the paper. On the social Information and economic aspects will be taken from his book but unlike previously referred. This book focuses on the part of the positive impact that immigrants have left in America. The book provides an example for successful immigrants scientists in U.S, and it is very useful because my paper focuses on successful immigrants. The book shows people whose families are living in America for a very long time feel like foreigners, so they work hard for the prosperity of America, and that addresses positive society impact of immigrants on the United States community. This book also will help build the argument of this paper.