Negron 1 Isaiah Negron Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Video Game Violence For the year 2016, the global market for gaming was worth upwards of 90 billion dollars (revealed by Newzoo market research). This statistic alone is a representation of why the video gaming industry is basically immune to having to limit their creativity when it comes to violence because of complaints from parents and larger organizations. The MAVAV (Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence) is a group of parents that want to educate other parents that are thinking about buying their kids a video game by bringing to light the potential exposure to violence it may carry. They are not trying to take down the gaming industry or stop violent games from being produced, however they are against the violence for younger children and they are mainly trying to inform others. On the other hand, the MLG (Major League Gaming) group is an organized league of professional gamers who make money and win prizes for participating in competitive events or tournaments. Many of these young gamers make a career or living off the games that parents from MAVAV find to be violent and inappropriate. The compromise between these two groups falls on MLG officials having to develop a document for all parents considering allowing their children under the age of 18 to participate in MLG events and also parents trusting that their kids are mature enough to handle the content within the game. This way parents are educated of what they are allowing their child to view and all gamers under the age of 18 who want to play video games competitively for potential prize money can do so with the consent of their parents. Negron 2 The Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence is an organization that is looking to bring awareness to all parents of the violence and potential addiction their kids might be facing when confronted with video games. There are many negative effects that can come from playing these games. Author Jia-Kun states that growing number of researchers have revealed that violent video games increase aggressive cognition, hostile feelings, aggressive thoughts, physiological arousal, aggressive behavior, and decrease prosocial (Jia-Kun 1748). This information is a major example of why parents in the MAVAV would much rather avoid allowing their kids to play these games because they think it will cause for the development of a more aggressive person growing up. Barton explains it this way, a multi-billion-dollar industry, parents have an uphill every day to teach their own values to their (Barton 147). Not only do parents have to worry about their kids finding out about these games at school or from their friends, they also have the gaming industry empire constantly advertising their games on major networks and all over the internet. There is no use in ignoring the violent form of entertainment or trying to battle the amount of exposure kids will have to these ads or commercials because it is inevitable that they will eventually see or find out about it. Gaming industries know how to win their pockets and Barton says they advantage of natural inclination to want what they ought not have. Every child wants to grow older and become more (Barton 146). The only rating system parents really have is ESRB but they give fully detailed ratings, usually just generalizations. This is why the MAVAV is so passionate towards making the information regarding the violence available for all parents to see. In contrast to the pursuit of antiviolence in video games, the MLG organization actually plays those same video games and some gamers in the group do it for a Negron 3 living and as a career. There are hundreds of thousands of gamers that participate in the tournaments and events set up by the MLG organization and millions of viewers around the world when these events are broadcasted or live streamed online. The authors of Making of eSports are a group of teammates and best friends who call themselves OpTic Gaming. They have competed together since 2006 and have earned their place at the top of Major League Gaming globally. In the book they trace how their passion became a lucrative business and how they ultimately cashed in on their hobby (Renvall 84). This is arguably something that can be seen as an inspirational example for any upcoming entrepreneurs looking to exploit whatever it is they find as their own passion. Some would argue that having a passion for video games could hold you back mentally and physically, dad calls him lazy for not being able to change a car tire, but he can strip down and rebuild a computer. To Warden, lazy is a relative term. His skills are more technical, more cerebral. His effort is with his generation is applying their skills to an online world still under (Wolff). Matt Dickens is a professional gamer on a team called CompLexity and believes that being a video game player requires its own skills and techniques that only his generation and forward can really develop from the gaming world. He also believes that the skills he developed from playing video games can be useful in real life situations such as his hand-eye coordination and his ability to simulate and dissect real life scenarios. Keeping that in mind there are more doors open to why parents in MAVAV would be open to coming to a Although these two groups have opposing views regarding video game violence, they do share common grounds in the sense that there can absolutely be a sense of cooperation between the two since one group is technically the offspring of the other. Video gamers are all the sons Negron 4 and daughters of parents whether they be pro-video game violence or against it like the parents in MAVAV. This means that within the household, conversations concerning the violence their kids may potentially be getting exposed to can be held regularly. Not only is this a common ground but also parents have bills to pay and things to maintain financially. If their kids are going to play video games that are violent, they can at least bring some extra cash along with them while they are at it. This guarantees a level of responsibility that comes with playing the video games that can result in less negative reaction such as an increase in violent behavior since they know they are doing this partly for fun, but mainly to help get things paid around the house. In continuation, a viable compromise between the two groups regarding the violence in video games can be proposed where it is fair for both sides. There are already regulations where like movies and TV, the gaming industry has a rating system in place. If parents choose to ignore the rating on the box and buy these violent video games for their kids, they are at fault, not game developers or (Bailey 10). In addition to the system already in place, officials in the MLG organization will be required to develop an official document that extensively educates and informs all parents of those gamers who are under the age of 18 about the potential exposure to violence within the video games. Within the document, parents will be required to sign off their consent themselves after being fully made aware of everything that the MAVAV organization believes should be brought to light. This way, all players under the age of 18 are still allowed to play video games competitively for prize money as long as they have their consent and all parents are knowledgeable of the violent content their kids are viewing. Ultimately, gamers who use video games as a means of a career are not going to just give up their passion because it is seen as wrong in the eyes of others, and all parents in the MAVAV are probably not going to be satisfied until there are crazy strict rules set out to manage the Negron 5 violence efficiently. However, they will most likely be able to see eye to eye on the matter if there is an understanding between parents and their kids derived from a collaboration of the MLG officials and what the MAVAV wants to make everyone aware of beforehand. Works Cited Bailey, Michael can police violent video USA Today, April 2010, Opposing Viewpoints in Context, Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Barton, Kevin E. Over! Legal Responses To Video Game Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics & Public Policy, vol. 16, January 2002, pp. 130, LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews, Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Jia-Kun, Zheng and Zhang Qian. Effect of Computer Game Violence On Aggression Social Behavior & Personality: An International Journal, vol. 44, Issue 10, December 2016, pp. 1747-1759, Academic Search Premier, Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Newzoo.com, Crown Copyright, Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Renvall, Brian Gaming: The Making of eSports Library Journal, vol. 141, Issue 9, May 2016, Academic OneFile, Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Wolff, Carlo. FAME IN THE GAME; Game Boys explore the burgeoning popularity of professional video The St. Petersburg Times, July 2008, General OneFile, Web. 28 Jan. 2017