Feaster 1 Matthew Feaster Ms. Hernandez Composition 2 2/12/17 Gun Safety in the US A very controversial topic in the United States today is gun control. Two of the most vocal organizations, when it comes to this topic, are the NRA and the Violence Policy Center. The NRA is against gun control and the Violence Policy Center is for gun control. The NRA tries to protect the second amendment right to bear arms while the Violence Policy Center is looking to create stronger restrictions on guns. Although these organizations have much in common they both look to promote gun safety making it possible to create a compromise where they can come together. These two organizations should come together and create a workshop that promotes gun safety in a way that is best for both organizations. If this compromise is done it would lead to an increase in gun safety and a safer country as well. The NRA is one of the most well-known pro-gun organizations in the country. The organization was founded in 1871 and their goal was to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific (NRA). Now most of the organizations time is spent taking on pro-gun control organizations and trying to protect the 2 nd amendment. Their mission is to preserve the core of American values (NRA). The NRA works tirelessly making sure Americans always have the right to carry guns. The NRA also does a lot for gun safety including holding workshops and going to schools where they explain that guns are not toys and are very dangerous items. The NRA believes that having more guns around would in turn make everyday life more safe. Luigi Feaster 2 Esposito and Laura Finely, two sociology professors at Barry University in Miami Shores, wrote, care about the President, so we protect him with armed Secret Service This goes along with the belief that more guns equal more safety. Here they are talking about how the president gets armed protection but a lot of schools are a gun free zone making it illegal for people to have guns. They bring this point up to have people question whether or not guns should be allowed in schools to stop potential attackers before they take lives. This along with many other gun related issues will continue to be debated for years to come. One of the biggest opponents is the Violence Policy Center. The Violence Policy Center is an organization that is pro gun control and the NRA named them as their toughest competitor. The Violence Policy Center was created in 1988 and they would inform people of the impact of gun violence on their everyday lives (VPC). They believe that there is far too much gun violence in this country and they want to create restrictions on the selling and buying of guns as well as multiple other things to do with guns. Their mission is to stop gun deaths and injuries through education, research, advocacy, and collaboration (VPC). Like the NRA the Violence Policy Center thinks that it is very important to teach people about gun safety. They hold classes where they talk to people about the risks of guns but really talk too much about the benefits like the NRA does. The Violence Policy Center believes that the amount of people purchasing guns are decreasing so gun companies are now targeting women and children (VPC). They think this is wrong because it is easy to make guns seem cool to children and then the kids can find one in their home and kill either themselves or a friend. Also in some cases, they believe women can be pressured into getting a gun by making them feel like it is the only way they can stop an attacker. In the eyes of the Violence Policy Center guns lead to mass killings or unfortunate accidental deaths. Scott Medlock of Texas Journal wrote, close to 30,000 Feaster 3 Americans are killed by gun fire every year, the fire arm industry is one of the least regulated in the That is why the Violence Policy Center has such a big problem. Guns account for many deaths in the US but they are regulated less than industries like the beverage industry. That is why they work so hard to create stronger regulations. They think that by doing what they are doing they can cut down on the number of gun deaths and in turn create a safer country. The NRA and the Violence Policy Center have been going at each other for as long as they have both been around. These organizations have never worked together because their views are totally opposite from one another. The NRA wants the second amendment to be left alone while the Violence Policy Center wants more regulations on the gun industry. One thing they can come together to promote is gun safety which would be their common goal. Both organizations spend a lot of time speaking to people to promote gun safety and to try and cut down the amount of gun related deaths. So if they were to compromise the compromise would be based around gun safety. Both organizations could come together and create a workshop that would teach people about the dangers of guns and also show how to be safe while in possession of one. Both organizations hold gun safety classes but if they join forces they can both promote their common goal while making sure the other pressuring people into thinking a certain way. One problem the Violence Policy Center has with the NRA is their use of Eddie Eagle. Eddie Eagle is a mascot used by the NRA when teaching gun safety to children, but the Violence Policy Center thinks Eddie Eagle is used to recruit young children to eventually becoming pro- gun (VPC). If the NRA and Violence Policy Center were to team up they could make sure that one is shoving their views down throats during these classes. The classes are intended to teach people how to be safe with guns and not to change the ways people view them. With this compromise, nothing can really go wrong. Worst case scenario they just stop working together if Feaster 4 it just seem to be working right and best case scenario they create a safer country. This compromise just be help these two organizations it will help the United States. This compromise would be very effective and could result in saving thousands of lives. The Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence (LCPGV) states, 2005-2010, almost 3,800 people in the US died from unintentional That number is a lot higher than it should be and this compromise can lower that by a substantial amount. Of those 3800 deaths 1300 victims were under 25 years old (LCPGV). If more people were taught how to properly handle firearms, or for younger children how potentially dangerous fire arms are that death count could be cut in half. Although these two organizations currently hold classes and workshops that teach gun safety the positive of them working together is a larger number of people in total. This would allow for more classes, more workshops, and more talks in schools. If more people are taught the dangers of guns and what not to do while holding one, then the amount of unintentional deaths will surely decrease. In turn both organizations will achieve their common goal and the overall gun safety in the US will increase. Feaster 5 Works Cited About the  www.vpc.org/about-the-vpc. Violence Policy Center. N.p., 01 July 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Esposito, Luigi1, lesposito@mail.barry.edu, and Laura L.2 Finley. Beyond Gun Control: Examining Neoliberalism, Pro-Gun Politics And Gun Violence In The United  Theory In Action 7.2 (2014): 74-103. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Medlock, Scott. Nra = No Rational Argument? How The National Rifle Association Exploits Public  Texas Journal On Civil Liberties & Civil Rights 11.1 (2005): 39-63. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. NRA  home.nra.org/about-the-nra. NRA About the NRA. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Statistics on Gun Deaths &  Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://smartgunlaws.org/gun-deaths-and-injuries-statistics/>.