Frank 1 Emma Frank Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 012 15 February 2017 Working for a Better Education Through a Perspective Change on High Stakes Testing According to an academic journal written by Russell T. Warne, the definition of is a test given to with the same and (Russell Warne et al., 570). In short, a standardized test is one that is created to accurately measure an entire population through its universal qualities. In recent years, standardized tests have made headlines due to an act passed by George W. Bush in 2002 called the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001. The article states how No Child Left Behind was responsible for immensely increasing the use of standardized tests within school systems New pbs.org). Two stakeholders, Students for Education Reform and Change the Stakes, are organizations who both serve society by demanding change in the current education system but have opposing viewpoints on standardized tests. Advocates in Students for Education Reform believe standardized tests are necessary benchmarks for students and teachers while advocates in Change the Stakes believe damaging and an improper way to evaluate student success. A compromise made for these organizations could be for the groups to accept both standardized and alternative forms of testing within careers. Students for Education Reform is an organization that has 75 chapters across 22 states in the US. This organization strongly supports implementing diversity, and into schools Latasha Gandy, the main voice Frank 2 for this stakeholder is a director for the Students for Education Reform Minnesota Chapter. Gandy, an advocate of standardized tests wrote an article called Believe the Hype: Standardized Tests are Good for Children, Families and It is argued that standardized tests guide children and their teachers onto a necessary path for success based on their given results. The benefits of these tests include identifying the readiness, revealing the testing environment, and predicting their potential success rate (Gandy). Legitimizing this stakeholder is the Various Interpretations of Test an academic journal co- written by Russell T. Warne. The authors list reasons to why standardized tests benefit the public, such as their accurate measurement of and their nature (Warne et al., 578-579) In regards to standardized tests and their problematic it is claimed that substituting the standardized tests for alternatives such as and would lead to test results that were far more (Warne et al., 579). A GPA vs SAT study documented by: alternative presentation of incremental validity: Discrepant SAT and HSGPA performance; Educational and Psychological is mentioned in this scholarly source. In short, the study revealed that predicting the success students will have in college based solely on their current high school GPA will lead to greater mistakes than by simply using a standardized test alone. (Warne et al. 579, qtd. in Mattern 638-662). This feature provided by Warne goes hand-and-hand with Gandy, who claims that alternative assignments such as cards and teacher cannot progress against a set of standard learning (Gandy). Taking away the information provided by the two sources, there is a belief that a success cannot be measured by subjective forms of assessment. Instead, tests with impartial features and Frank 3 universal guidelines should be distributed because results can help guide teachers and students to fix their areas of needed improvement. Conversely, Change the Stakes is an organization that opposes standardized tests due to its inaccurate measurement on student success. Teachers and educators who make up the group believe good education is not something that can be measured by a test we Thus, Change the Stakes is open to other forms of evaluation that are far more personalized rather than broad. Legitimizing this source is a book called Stop High-Stakes Testing Now: An Appeal to Conscience, written by author Dale Johnson and others. The harmful effects these tests have on students occur because of the unequal evaluation style. For instance, in the book, a positive correlational relationship is established between the socio-economic class students were born into and their future success. Thus, the message delivered is that students who suffer from a lack of resources and financial support tend to score lower than students who have an abundance of materials. Johnson further exemplifies his claim by referencing a fact by Thomas Shapiro which states that percent of family comes from rather than employment alone. (Johnson et al. 56 qtd. Shapiro 2004). In short, the argument is that much of the success on tests occurs because of family intervention. In summary, the book states that tests designed with the exact same format should not be distributed until the gaps at school, home, and in neighborhoods are addressed and actions are taken to close (Johnson et al., 2). It is evident that no life will completely match one another, so to balance out the relationship between test conditions and test forms, opponents of standardized testing argue that new/more personalized forms of evaluation must be implemented immediately. Frank 4 Education is vital for both Students for Education Reform and Change the Stakes. Referencing their website, Students for Education Reform has hosted events and participated in campaigns that are directed to fix and or change current educational policies. A specific example of a campaign by this organization was: Shut Me Down, which was a movement that demanded for in the teacher contract negotiations between Minneapolis Federation of Teachers (MFT) and Minneapolis Public Power, Past Campaigns & studentsforedreform.org). Change the Stakes also has the goal to improve the education system by hosting events that inform audience members of problems that may prohibit student success. Though both organizations strive to ensure students receive a proper education, SFER believes high stakes test serve as a necessary benchmark for students while Change the Stakes views standardized tests as being an obstacle in the road that limits children to succeed adequately. Thus, a compromise needs to be brought about, one that ensures that children can continually receive a well-benefiting education. A compromise for Chang the Stakes and Students for Education Reform would be one that requires an equal acceptance of both current and alternative forms of testing. A compromise that realistically pleases both organizations may only be reached when both stakeholders push aside their differences and work on behalf of their common ground: maximizing a educational career. By using two legitimizing sources, both stakeholders are exposed to the benefits standardized and alternative tests provide. Defending Standardized Tests, edited by Richard P. Phelps, supports the use of standardized tests. Though the book recognizes test opponents by accrediting their concerns, the final consensus is one that supports the use of tests based on its three characteristics: prediction and and (Phelps, et al. xv Introduction). These Frank 5 characteristics are often noted as being beneficial because they help to limit any possibilities of subjective or skewed results. Contrarily, alternative tests given to students would be those that were less universal and more personalized. Examples could include oral presentations, projects surrounding specific subject matter, and short essay questions are Different Forms of Alternative In addition, there could be tests given to students designated to test their field of interest; this would allow for children to become familiar with their future career interests. Instead of having the tests graded by the state, teachers could have the responsibility in evaluating them along with distributing surveys in which children could grade their own academic stance. An equal balance between these two will contribute to a educational success.). Classroom Assessment of Early Reading: Alternatives to Standardized written by Sheila W. Valencia is included. Valencia proposes new forms of testing children, which she referrers to as Authentic Classroom Reading Assessment. The types of tests included in the study where visual and audio assignments exposed to students daily. This slow but consistent process helps students become familiar and knowledgeable with different forms of literature (Valencia 63). By having a mixture of standardized and alternative tests individuals can become adapted to a variety of test types, both objective and personalized. In conclusion, Students for Education Reform and Change the Stakes are two organizations that take pride in serving society by bringing light to problems in the education system. Though these two groups value a proper education for students, they have opposing views on what source limits and interferes with the ability to learn. Advocates for Change the Stakes dislike standardized tests and their characteristics while individuals in Students for Education Reform think the tests are beneficial. An agreement that includes the Frank 6 acceptance of both standardized and alternative forms of evaluation will allow for students to succeed based on the variety incorporated into their daily lives. Frank 7 Citation Page: New Rules- An overview of the testing and accountability provisions of the No Child Left Behind 1995-2014 WGBH educational foundation, www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/schools/nochild/nclb.html. Accessed 28 January 17 Johnson, Dale D. Stop High-Stakes Testing. [Electronic : An Appeal To Conscience. Lanham, Md. : Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2008. Accessed 30 Jan 17. Warne, Russell T., Myeongsun Yoon, and Chris J. Price. Exploring The Various Interpretations Of  Cultural Diversity And Ethnic Minority Psychology Issue 20, no 4, 2014, pp 570- 582. PsycARTICLES. Accessed. 28 Jan. 2017. Gandy, Latasha Believe the Hype: Standardized Tests Are Good for Children, Families and Education Post, www.educationpost.org/dont-believe-the-hype- standardized-tests-are-good-for-children-families-and-schools/. Accessed 20 January 17. Change the Stakes. We we changethestakes.wordpress.com/about- cts/who-we-are/. Accessed 20 January 17. Frank 8 Students for Education Reform. People: Current www.studentsforedreform.org. Accessed 20 January 17 Phelps, Richard P. Defending Standardized Testing. Mahwah, N.J. : L. Erlbaum Associates, c2005., 2005. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Accessed 28 Jan. 17. Valencia, Sheila W. Authentic Classroom Assessment Of Early Reading: Alternatives To Standardized  Preventing School Failure 41.2 (1997): 63. Academic Search Premier. Accessed. 28 Jan. 2017 are the Different Forms of Alternative Eduplace, http://www.eduplace.com/rdg/res/litass/forms.html, Accessed 14 February 15, 2017.