Student 1 Student Professor Wiggs ENC1101 19 February 2017 Project 1 Early Draft Every day, humans add more and more pollution to our planet. It is an exponentially growing problem that U.S. laws and regulations have tried to control. However, we are still able to see the effects of pollution on our environment. I have done background research on three major types of pollution- air, ocean, and land- with the goal of relating them to the environmental laws and conservation efforts. My main question is this: How have the pollution levels in the U.S. been significantly affected by environmental regulations? In evaluating the laws and their effects on pollution levels, I hope to see the extent of influence the government has achieved in recent years. One main example I will be focusing on is the oil industry. I believe that having an individual example to focus on will give better understanding of how regulations are formed and implemented. Topic Question: Have the pollution levels in the U.S. been significantly affected by environmental regulations? Cronshaw, Ian, and R. Quentin Grafton. Economic Benefits, External Costs And The Regulation Of Unconventional Gas In The United  Energy Policy 98.(2016): 180- 186. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Student 2 This article focuses on the production and regulation patterns of natural gas produced using unconventional methods. Unconventional gas (UCG) includes horizontal drilling, hydraulic fracturing, 3-D and 4-D seismic imaging, coiled tubing, measurement while drilling and slimhole drilling. According to Ian Cronshaw and R. Quentin Grafton, hydraulic fracturing gained the most controversy, due to the use of chemicals. As a result, most regulations have been made in relation to this type of drilling. Both Ian Cronshaw and R. Quentin Grafton attended the Crawford School of Public Policy. Grafton had a PhD in economics and is a professor of economics. He is also a recipient of the National Water Commission Professor Peter Cullen Eureka Prize for Water Research and Innovation (2011), the Award for Education, Excellence in Supervision and the ANU Commendation for Outstanding Contribution to Student Learning (2011). Grafton is a chairholder UNESCO chair in water economics and transboundary water governance (The Australian National University, School of Public Thorsell, Devon Emily, and Thomas M. Leschine. An Evaluation Of Oil Pollution Prevention Strategies In The Arctic: A Comparison Of Canadian And U.S.  Marine Policy 72.(2016): 255-262. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.. This article looks into the policies in the arctic region and how commercial shipping threatens the ecosystems in that area. Thorsell and Leschine introduce the topic discussing how oil pollution is the main concern with shipping in the arctic region. They continue this discussion comparing the regulations implemented by the U.S. and Canada. Although this article gives good insight for the different regulations used, it does not go into detail about any data for the effects on the environment that have been collected. However, it helps to see that many of the policies created are in response to pre-existing problems. Student 3 Thomas M. Leschine is a former director of the University of Washington School of Marine and Environmental Affairs. Leschine revieved his PhD in mathematics from the Univeristy of Pittsburgh and is currently a professor of Human Dimensions of the Environment in the University of Washington College of the Environment (University of Washington, of the Spina, Francesca. Environmental Justice And Patterns Of State  Social Science Quarterly (Wiley-Blackwell) 96.2 (2015): 417-429. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Francesca article relates environmental inspections, performed by Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), to the government regulations put in place afterward. The data used is gathered from 2,886 counties nationwide and stretches over a 10-year period. Francesca Spina received her Ph.D. in criminology justice and criminology in 2014. Migliaccio, Emily. The National Ocean Policy: Can It Reduce Marine Pollution And Streamline Our Ocean  Vermont Journal Of Environmental Law 15.3 (2014): 629- 656. Environment Index. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Emily article discusses the role the ocean plays in our economy and the Obama creation of the National Ocean Policy (NOP). The NOP enacted nine objectives: (1) ecosystem-based management; (2) coastal and marine spatial planning; (3) inform decisions and improve understanding; (4) coordinate and support; (5) resiliency and adaptation to climate change and ocean acidification; (6) regional ecosystems protection and restoration; (7) water quality and sustainable practices on land; (8) changing conditions in the Arctic; and (9) Student 4 ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes observations, mapping, and infrastructure (Migliaccio 241). Her conclusion states that more support is needed for the NOP to be effective. This article does well in evaluating the effectiveness of an environmental policy. Emily Migliaccio is a Doctor of Law from the Vermont Law School and achieved the List status. Migliaccio is currently an environmental attorney for Partridge Snow & Hahn LLP in Rhode Island. Selmi, Daniel P. The Promise And Limits Of Negotiated Rulemaking: Evaluating The Negotiation Of A Regional Air Quality  Environmental Law 3 (2005): 415. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Works Cited Quentin  Crawford School of Public Policy. The Australian National University, 24 Feb. 2016. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Thomas  College of the Environment. University of Washington, N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.