Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 19 February 2017 Perceptions of Prostitution: A Public Harm, or an Expression of Agency? Discussions surrounding the topic of prostitution, or what has been sometimes termed, oldest tend to be quite divided over what is perceived to be oppression of women by some, or expressions of sexual autonomy and agency by others. Agency is understood here to refer to social mobility beyond systems of oppression. These ideological divisions can be particularly seen within the realm of feminist discourse. Perhaps no undercurrent or historical period has seen as much division as the present-day, or third-wave feminism. Third-wave, or modern feminism represents a section of feminist history that has only emerged and begun to influence feminist analysis within the past twenty to thirty years. As part of this analysis, an understanding of feminist interpretations will be applied to determine whether or not a coherent position affirming the agency of those who engage in prostitution is a possibility. For the purpose of this examination, an emphasis will be placed on those who work within the field of prostitution, and are still able to maintain their agency. In addition, through this application of feminist theory, the following research question will be ultimately addressed: how have the various emerging strands of feminist research continued to influence perceptions of prostitution over time, with particular emphasis on third-wave feminism? (Word Count: 211 words). Student 2 Anderson, Scott A. and Sexual Autonomy: Making Sense of the Prohibition of , vol. 112, no. 4, 2002, pp. 748-780. Web. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. In this article, Scott Anderson takes a non-biased approach to reporting the modern ethical considerations of prostitution, from both the perspectives of radical and more liberal strands of third-wave feminism. Rather than making a justification on whether or not prostitution should be prohibited, Anderson examines arguments from both sides of the spectrum, including a synthesis of viewpoints. Although, he does display a certain opposition to what he describes as the of prostitution (750). From a radical feminist point of view, which is staunchly opposed to the practice of prostitution in its entirety, Anderson identifies three general claims that are made against the implementation of prostitution: The first, that prostitution involves not simply an exchange of sexual services, but also puts a price to the degradation of the individual involved. Secondly, that prostitution as an institution is indicative of economic and/or social inequalities between prostitutes and their potential clients. Conclusively, the third claim presents the viewpoint that prostitution is responsible for creating and sustaining these inequalities in the first place (752). Similarly, Anderson also notes three reconciliations within the liberal feminist response: Firstly, the fact that prostitution can still provide some economic benefit for the women that engage in it. As a second reconciliation, the diversity of individual identities of those that work as prostitutes is cited, which he relays as a characteristic that refutes the notion of prostitution comprising a singular institution. Finally, he mentions that the harms directed at the women who work as sex workers are not extensions of their voluntary participation, but rather Student 3 extenuating circumstances (756-757). Though this article does not explicitly support this intended analysis: that prostitution, agency, and sexual autonomy can be reconciled with a feminist identity, it was included nevertheless for its all-encompassing yet impartial analysis of contemporary feminist discourse. Scott Anderson is affiliated with the University of Chicago, and his many footnotes in this source attest to his academic credibility. (Word Count: 319 words). Comte, Jacqueline. of sex work: Feminist discourses in light of Sexuality & Culture: An Interdisciplinary Quarterly , vol. 18, no. 1, 2014, pp. 196-217. Web. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. This research essay examines three primary stances that occur towards prostitution, from the perspective of third-wave feminism: abolitionism, sex-positive feminism, and decriminalization. Abolitionism is often associated with the school of radical feminist thought, and as its name suggests, advocates for complete abolition of prostitution as a system of oppression equal to rape. A secondary goal of abolitionism includes the perception of sex workers as victims that are to be aided in escaping this oppression. Sex-positive feminism takes an understandably positive approach towards prostitution, viewing it as a process by which sexuality can be destigmatized. Decriminalization argues that the majority of those who engage in prostitution do so of their own accord, and that further destigmatization is necessary. This essay is unique in that it also includes information from the perspective of male sex workers and argues against an observation Comte noted: that the sexual experiences a woman has have become part of her identity, and furthermore, utilized in the social degradation Student 4 of her. However, Comte concludes that neither sex work nor sexual activity are inherently demeaning, whether those experiences are tied to a identity or not. In response to the previously stated research question, all three categories above could be seen as historical trends towards the perceptions of prostitution over time. This article served as primary motivation for the development of the research question, especially in regard to destigmatization of female sexuality. understanding of the social construction of female sexuality was equally influential, as were the implications that this has for attitudes towards prostitution as a whole. The credibility of arguments is aided by her profession as a Sexologist, as well as her notable work as a Ph.D. student in the Sociology of Sexuality. In addition, her credibility is established by her extensive review of cited academic literature. (Word Count: 302 words). Davidson, Julia Rights and Wrongs of , vol. 17, no. 2, 2002, pp. 84-98. Web. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Julia Davidson takes a similar approach to Scott Anderson, in that she acknowledges a divide in modern feminist theory between sex work, or affirming points of view often taken by liberal feminists, and abolitionism, or radical feminist advocacy for abolishing all forms of prostitution entirely. In her research, which has involved personal interviews with prostitutes themselves as well as their clients from all walks of life, from affluence to poverty, she has deduced a correlation between prostitution and human rights abuses, while still advocating for the rights of sex workers as a whole. Like Anderson, she identifies certain economic reasons that have provided the impetus for the voluntary participation of some of the workers. Despite this, she personally sympathizes with abolitionists in terms of whether or Student 5 not the commodification of sexual commerce should be permitted (84). As part of the ethical considerations behind enabling prostitution as a form of labor, Davidson also argues that in order to examine the debate more fully, one must look beyond mere interpretations and examine prostitution as it occurs in communities, where a division of labor is much more pronounced (96). article was included as a source here because her interpretation provides a much needed extension to Scott text. Specifically, though she has her own personal viewpoints, she examines all sides of modern arguments surrounding prostitution, especially a Marxist/economic interpretation. Many articles or research sources explicitly examine prostitution from the perspective of communities, but she reminds her readers of the necessity of examining the subject in all areas in which it occurs. Davidson received her Ph.D. in Sociology from the University of Bristol, accounting for her credibility, and cites an ample amount of resources in the disclosure of her references. (Word Count: 294 words). Foong, Amanda. Prostitution Debate - Breaking Down Law Journal , vol. 33, no. 4, 2008, pp. 205-208. Web. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Amanda Foong in this article presents a perspective towards prostitution that could be characterized as abolitionist, in reference to the radical feminist theoretical framework discussed in sources such as Anderson or Comte. Foong relays an analysis of prostitution as a tool of oppression, rather than a promoter of sexual autonomy. If it were to be commercialized, she believes that it would lead to further instances of gender inequality and injustice against women. She takes issue here with what she views as a misinterpretation of sexual autonomy within the context of prostitution, believing it to be far too often equated with an understanding of consent, Student 6 rather than sexual coercion. As a contractual agreement, she furthermore argues that prostitution enables the subordination and exploitation of women. She attributes this to the fact that the socioeconomic distinctions between the parties involved can be too great to allow both individuals to exert equal expressions of power or agency. In this regard, her argument reflects a Marxist standpoint that the next source in this bibliography, Kari Kesler, examines more fully. Though it may appear to be antithetical to the research goals behind this paper, a true examination of the possibility for sexual autonomy by those who engage in prostitution could not be established without noting certain opposition. Foong then aids this paper in presenting a more balanced inquiry into all modern perspectives surrounding prostitution as a social system. At the time of writing this article, Foong was a fourth-year student receiving her Bachelor of Arts degree at the University of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia. She was assisted by Drs. Helen Pringle and Anthony Billingsley of the same university, as well as Associate Professor Simon Rice of the Australian National University, who all attest here to her credibility. (Word Count: 294 words). Kesler, Kari. a Feminist Stance in Support of Prostitution Possible? An Exploration of Current , vol. 5, no. 2, 2002, pp. 219-235. Web. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Similar to Jacqueline Comte, this essay examines five theoretical frameworks through which modern feminists critique the practice of prostitution: from an economic/Marxist perspective, in terms of free choice/consent, from an approach, from what is termed an approach, and finally from an perspective. The Marxist/economic perspective views prostitution as one of the only professions in which women Student 7 receive higher pay, and as a whole, this system tends to condemn capitalism as a perpetrator of sexism. Free choice/consent critiques whether or not prostitution is freely chosen. The approach considers prostitution as a form of harm, because it equates sexuality with the self, and prostitution with exerting control over sexuality. The approach is described by Kesler as a theory attributed to Debra Satz in a 1995 article entitled, in Sexual in which Satz argues that the sale of sexual services remains distinct from the sale of other goods. Moreover, Satz views the commodification of sex as one of the worst possible forms of commodification. Finally, the perspective was another theory developed by Satz, which includes the conclusion that prostitution positions women as servants to the sexual desires of men that seek them out. Kesler argues, however, that a feminist stance supporting prostitution is possible, because what certain feminists critique as prostitution does not accurately reflect the realities of prostitution in its totality. Especially since accounts of so-called prostitution tend to emphasize violence and exploitation in their own right. This is succeeded by supplementary argument that the commodification of sex is hardly relegated to prostitution. She suggests that to understand the widespread commodification of sex, one needs to look no further than areas of society such as the advertising industry (233). This source served as the perfect follow-up source to Comte, and was equally influential towards developing the research question. The notion within article that some sex workers simultaneously identify as feminists was likewise a crucial element, as she argues that through their own individual expressions of agency they can even be considered role models. Student 8 Kesler holds a degree in Studies, which gives her arguments credibility through her experience within the field. (Word Count: 364 words). Walkowitz, Judith R. Politics of Prostitution and Sexual Workshop Journal , vol. 82, no. 1, 2016. Web. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Judith Walkowitz relays some of the most recent historical events that have had an impact on prostitution, in her article here. For example, she begins by discussing what is considered to be a model for prostitution policy, based upon the fact that the policy originated in Sweden. This particular policy has implemented the criminalization of the purchase of sex, as opposed to the sale of sex. Although this may be bad for the business of certain sex workers, this policy takes a sterner approach towards consumers, rather than the traditional stigmatization of sex workers themselves. European parliament passed a resolution in 2014 in favor of this policy, though at the time the resolution was non-binding. After this, Northern Ireland became the first area of the United Kingdom to implement a criminalization of the purchase of sex while decriminalizing the sale of sex, in July of 2015. In August of 2015, Amnesty International followed suit, by passing a similar resolution that aimed to decriminalize all forms of sex work that were deemed to be consensual, an extraordinary social breakthrough. Amnesty additionally cautioned at the time to neither equate sex work with human trafficking, nor violence, coercion, or sexual exploitation (188). Walkowitz in response to these events takes what would be considered a decriminalization stance towards prostitution, in line with one of the strands of feminist discourse described by Jacqueline Comte in a previous annotation. She agrees with Amnesty viewpoints, and expands upon the conversation by advocating for improving the Student 9 socioeconomic conditions of all women worldwide. She favors supporting the rights of sex workers, including what she views as them playing their parts in collective expressions of political action. Her overwhelmingly positive reaction is included here as a complement to Amanda abolitionist stance, in order to balance out this analysis of prostitution as an articulation of sexual agency. This source also provides a sense of historical context that other sources were unable to. Judith Walkowitz is Professor Emerita of History at John Hopkins University, which needless to say, accounts for her credibility. (Word count: 344 words).