Shah 1 Riya Shah Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Human Cloning The creation of a genetically identical copy of a human being is known as human cloning. It is the reproduction of human cells and tissues to form an artificial human which does not include natural conception. The possibility of creating an identical copy of a human being has raised so many controversies that in the early years, a successful attempt at cloning was immediately shunned. According to Robertson, 1998, scientists in South Korea claimed to have successfully cloned a human embryo, but said the experiment was interrupted very early when the clone was just a group of four (Robertson 609). Organizations like WHO are completely against human cloning as they consider it to be derogatory to the human race. While, The Council on Bioethics says that just due to ethical concerns, potential benefits of human cloning could be lost. The compromise is to conduct further research into cloning, and see at what scale could it affect humans and the environment, under strict regulations of voluntary consent of the human subject if any and research that results in doing good rather than harm to the mankind so that the human integrity is not disrespected. The United Nations works, build a better world by strengthening and improving the United Nations through the engagement of people who share a global mindset and support international The UN organizations such as WHO oppose human cloning and state it as unethical as it undermines autonomy. WHO believes in protecting the Shah 2 endangered human from human cloning. It urges other states to implicate legal and juridical measures to prohibit human cloning as it is contrary to human dignity and integrity. The New Atlantis Journal states that the most straightforward reason to oppose human cloning is due to the concerns of safety of those involved i.e. the women donating the egg and the child created through cloning. According to the journal, human cloning is not considered to be safe because there could be various physical as well as psychological harms to the cloned human due to which the it eventually would succumb to death as well as, collecting human egg cells for cloning is complicated and ethically problematic. Cloning for biomedical research involves the manufacturing of embryos, which requires collecting oocytes from process that has various medical risks to women. The American Association for the Advancement of Science said that the cloned human would have a lot of physical as well as psychological problems which would eventually result in its failure and death. Critics of cloning humans also argue that cloning could diminish respect for human existence; this is because cloning allows to see human beings as replaceable. On the other hand, the National Bioethics Advisory Commission of the Council on Bioethics tells that the psychological damage that is considered as one of the backdrops in human cloning is a genetic fallacy; which means that a conclusion is put forward for consideration only based on source, history, or origin rather than its current meaning. It explains that the genetic clones have similar looks, people tend to make an assumption of a similar personality, which is not (Morales 43-50). It also states that cloning is a way for individuals to access the right to reproductive freedom as well as a way to Shah 3 solve infertility. It mentions that couples who are at a high risk of having an offspring with a genetic disorder, can decide to clone their child to avoid the risk of a deadly genetic disease getting transmitted, merely due to family history. People who would not be able to reproduce sexually, would not have any genetically-related children to rear. Working on cloning techniques has taken the basic understanding of human biology to a greater level. Just by observing stem cells grow, great insight is provided into the development of the human embryo which otherwise could not be seen. Also, studying about the early human embryo has the capability to provide with answers to various defects and developmental diseases. (The Threat of Human Cloning Ethics, Recent Developments, and the Case for Action). Hence, human cloning is considered to give many answers that the mankind would never be able to know, or probably would not know for many years, and hence National Bioethics Advisory Commission suggests that just due to the ethical concerns, human cloning must not be completely avoided. Both of these parties, WHO and The Council on Bioethics, seem to have a different stake about the practice of human cloning. Even though there are major differences leading to this debate, both the parties have common ties between them- they all are in favor of the welfare of mankind. Those that oppose human cloning (WHO) are concerned about the disgrace to the human race while those that support human cloning (National Bioethics Advisory Commission) are interested to make lives better for humans themselves. Both the groups are concerned regarding the future or the fate of the human kind as for the fact that the first time in history, elderly (more than sixty-five years old) adults outnumber young (less than five Shah 4 years old) (Bednar 217). Hence there can be a compromise that would be acceptable to both the groups that would not harm any humans. Since both the groups are interested in the safety and well-being for the mankind, they both must find a solution mid-way that would benefit both the parties instead of taking extreme measures. They must neither completely legalize nor completely ban human cloning, as important benefits to mankind could be lost. Proper research must be conducted within limitations. These limitations must include the consent of the human subject who is willing to participate in this research. The research should be such that it yields fruitful results for the good of human race, unobtainable by other methods or means of study, and not random and unnecessary in nature. If these limitations or rules are not followed, the research should be shut down immediately before humans have to suffer any harm. The American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) acknowledges the intense debates about the issue of human cloning within our society. Hence, AAAS has engaged the public and various professional communities in debates on the scientific and social issues associated with human cloning as well as stem cell research. In this manner, the public must be made aware of what is going on. Also, both the groups must come together and discuss the pros and cons of human cloning and the impact of human cloning research on the general public. All social, political and psychological factors should be taken into consideration such as the effect of the cloned child on the respective family, the psychological impact to the cloned human, etc. Hence, according the American Association for the Advancement of Science, a good way to provide a solution to this debate is, thorough assessment of existing guidelines and policy, including consideration of possible Shah 5 new regulations specific to this type of research, should be undertaken in light of the concerns surrounding To conclude, according to the above mentioned compromise, the differences between the two groups could be reduced and eventually eliminated, if they make the right call. As the National Academy of the Sciences report states, present opposition to human reproductive cloning is based on science and medicine, irrespective of broader considerations. The panel stresses, however, that a broad ethical debate must be encouraged so that the public can be prepared to make decisions if human reproductive cloning is someday considered medically safe for mothers and (Human Cloning And Human Dignity: An Ethical Inquiry). One group must listen to the other group about the possible outcomes and vice versa. Organizations like WHO must take their opinion about banning human cloning into consideration and National Bioethics Advisory Commission must look at all the negative impacts that human cloning could have and then carry on with the research with supervision along with the help of resources. Although it will be a long journey, in this manner, no human could be harmed in the process and the world could expect to achieve another milestone. Shah 6 Works Cited Bednar, Martin M. Endogenous Tissue Regeneration And Restoration, Maximizing Our Human Potential: An Ethical Alternative To Human Embryonic Stem  Issues In Law & Medicine 31.2 (2016): 217-220. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. De Inmaculada. On Cloning Human  Bioethics 16.3 (2002): 246. Academic Search Premier. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Dewey, Joseph, PhD. American Association For The Advancement Of Science  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Researcher Discusses Ethics Of Human Cloning. n.p.: National Public Radio, 2006. Literature Resource Center. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Morales, NM. Article: Psychological Aspects Of Human Cloning And Genetic Manipulation: The Identity And Uniqueness Of Human  Reproductive Biomedicine Online 19. Supplement 2 (2009): 43-50. ScienceDirect. Web. 8 Feb. 2017. Special Issue: The Threat of Human Cloning Ethics, Recent Developments, and the Case for  The New Atlantis 2015: 9. JSTOR Journals. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. The Council On Bioethics: Human Cloning And Human Dignity: An Ethical Inquiry--Executive  Issues In Law & Medicine 18.2 (2002): 167. Business Source Premier. Web. 8 Feb. 2017.