Alyssa Pelose Student 1 Instructor: Kimber Wiggs 19 February 2017 Education is the key to success and without it, there is no foundation to become successful. Special needs education is very important, but different from regular education. Special needs education is a type of education that is set up to help students with disabilities. When people think of disabilities there are many things that come to mind. Special needs education can help kids who are dyslexic or have more serious disabilities. There are special needs schools that personally deal with kids who have disabilities and are equipped with unique tools to help the kids who have learning disabilities. The problem is, there is not a lot of these schools. Personally, I have lived in the same area my entire life and have never heard of a specific special needs school that is in my area. Another problem is the lack of special needs teachers. Without special needs teachers, there anyone who can help these students succeed. What can happen to make sure special needs children get the right education? Student 2 Works Cited Teaching Students with Special Needs: Advice for Teachers (Grades  Advice for Teachers (Grades K-12) - TeacherVision. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This source talks about how teachers should help students with special needs. Obviously this relates to my topic very well, since my topic is special needs education. The article discusses some characteristics of students who have a learning disability, including children who are easily distractible or have a high frustration level. This is important because some kids may not even have been diagnosed with a disability yet, but the teachers can help figure if the kids have a disability or not. This source is credible because it comes from the Disabilities Association of which is an organization made up of people with learning disabilities. Disabilities - My Special Needs - Parents -  Disabilities - My Special Needs - Parents - ED.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This article has many different subjects you can read about, but I chose to look at the resources for families with special needs kids. The U.S. Department of Office of Special Education Programs deals with specific projects that obtain information and assistance to the families that have children with disabilities. Each of these projects discuss different topics that deal with disabilities and try to make a solution. This article relates to my topic because it talks about what resources there are to help children with disabilities. This source is credible because it is written by the U.S. department of Education. Student 3 What Is Special  What Is Special Education? N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This article talks about what special needs education is and it also talks about special needs teachers. It states that any teacher with a bachelors degree in education can become a special needs educator. This obviously relates to my article because it talks about my topic. It talks about how special needs teachers work with children with disabilities and the different techniques they use to help the children with disabilities. This is a credible source because it comes from a newspaper about special education.  PhDinSpecialEducationcom. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This article discusses how to support special needs students. It talks about what an inclusive classroom is, which has one normal teacher and one special needs teacher, so it has special needs students and regular students. This article also gives tips on creating a good environment for the students.This source relates to my topic because my topic is special needs and it talks about different classrooms and how to support the special needs students. This is a credible source because this is a special education article.