Salehin Rahman Mohian Oana cimpean Composition II Project I Intermediate Draft February 2 2017 Gun control in America The debate on gun control in America has been going for many years. Even though many laws have passed and changed however, death rate due to gun violence still remains high which is one of the biggest problems that America faces. Beginning with the Brady Act in 1993, the first gun control law that America made which is to conduct a general background check of individuals for gun purchase (Price, 2010). Even though there are many people who agree with a stricter gun control law, there are still some people who are against it, as they believe that firearms should be allowed to keep in households for self-defense (Bogus, 2008). The National Association for Gun Rights represents these people who are against of the banning of firearms as well as stricter background checks. Due to this disagreement, the topic of gun control has remained unsolved to this day. Despite both of these stakeholders seem to be completely at odds with one another, however they both have a common ground or shared interest, which is safety of civilians. Therefore, even though both the Brady Campaign as well as the National Association for Gun Rights may seem very different as they both have their respective goal, they can work to establish a lasting compromise, which will benefit the country in the long run as long as both are willing to compromise which may be used for the good of all. An estimate of 32,000 people dies every year in America (bradycampaign). Brady campaign was implemented to make a safer America by controlling the sales of guns and checking background of the sales that will lead to the reduction in gun deaths and injuries. It has a clear mission which is to a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (bradycampaign). It will make its mission successful by creating a policy which focuses on background checks to all gun sales, which will stop the gun dealers that supply all crime guns as well as to change social norms of guns at homes, to prevent homicides and suicides that happens in daily life (brady campaign). According to statistics America had the highest homicides by guns in 2012 (BBC, 2016) compared to other neighboring countries. Brady at believes this was due to the viability of guns to civilians without proper checking and some people are able to access firearms illegally from their friends or families (bogus 2008). The national rifle association for gun rights which vigorously opposed any gun laws implied by Brady campaign. This association has a different mission which is to allow people the right to carry gun and bear arms to their right for self defense (national gun rights). Majority of America are against and disagree with a stricter background check policy and gun control laws as they believe they are taking their rights away of carrying gun. Americans view Gun ownership is most cherished right of citizenship (koesis,2015). Despite its critics, several credible polls have shown that many Americans have held positive opinions of the NRA since the early 1990s. According to a Gallup Poll from 2015, 58 percent of Americans viewed the NRA favorably (Nationalrifffleassociation). However, because many people have access to open arms, the risk of homicide, suicide and unintentional shootings increase. Both sides believes they are in the right and other is in wrong but they have the same common ground which is safety for civilians and improvement. The National Rifle Association believes that civilians should be given the right to own guns for self defense under the Second Amendments. On the other hand Brady campaign believes that to reduce the death due to mass shooting, killing, violence,firearms needs to be eliminated especially in households where suicides and homicides is most common. Brady Law required a five-day waiting period and background check on people attempting to buy handguns and placed the responsibility of conducting the checks on state and local law-enforcement (Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act). Many Americans belive that keeping a loaded gun helps them feel safe and keeps them ready for any kind of crime under any circumstances. But statistics shows that people who keep gun in the house are 90% more likely to die by homicides as well as commit crimes than the people who From 1982 to 2012, its said that US had roughly 62 mass shootings. In that 49 were done using legal weapons according to a research done by Mother Jones (Follman, Aronsen, Pan, 2016). In the light of such tragedies these two stakeholders can be in the debate of gun control but still hope of compromise. They can come to a compromise since both the stakeholders want betterment and safety of their citizens. The compromise will still let people have the right to own guns just in a safer way. First of all, if both stakeholders agrees to eliminate all the gun dealers who supply to the customers illegaly it would create a difference and an efficient way to cut the death rate caused by incidents like mass shooting. If the laws of checking background of the customers was strict so many mass shooting occur in the past few decades. There was even an attempt in assassination of President Reagan. James. This suggests that people still have access to buy guns illegally. Therefore if the both stakeholders agrres and compromise, they could establish a policy. A complete check of gun sales records from each arm dealers. This will lead to identify and ban the gun dealers who are involved in illegal activity of selling guns without proper documentation. Another way to reduce death by suicides is if both the stakeholders agree that firearms are the leading cause of it. Then they can compromise and conduct classes to educate the civil on gun safety rules. They can request the department of education to create new education program of gun safety to be taught in middle school. Along with the first amendment which tells the danger, impacts of guns as well as what to do when present in an environment where guns are present. This will not only educate people but will also decrease death in the long run. To conclude, both stakeholders: the Brady Campaign and the National Association of Gun Rights, have different views on the debate gun control. However, due to the common grounds that they both carry, there is hope for a compromise if both are willing to. Due to this shared interest and their compromise, new policies can be implied such as to conduct a complete check of gun sales record of the gun dealers in the country as well as to create a new education program of gun safety, mass shootings, homicide rates as well as suicide rates would decrease which would also decrease death rate in the long run. Sources Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun About Gun Violence Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Campbell, Josephine. Brady Handgun Violence Prevention  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Kocsis, M. (2015). Gun Ownership and Gun Culture in the United States of America. Essays In Philosophy, 16(2), 154. Doi:10.7710/1526-0569.1530 Price, M., & Norris, D. M. (2010). Firearm Laws: A Primer for Psychiatrists. Harvard Review Of Psychiatry (Taylor & Francis Ltd), 18(6), 326. doi:10.3109/10673229.2010.52750 The truth about guns and The Week - All you need to know about everything that matters. N.p., 01 Nov. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.