Hnaing Ma Kha Enc 1120 Dr Onna Sources of Energy That Fuels the World While technology continue to rises the demands no electricity continues to skyrockets. Lots of energy is needed to generate enough electricity to meets these demands for electricity. There are many sources in which mankind has found a way to tap into to produce such kind of energy. Two of such are the sources for most of the energy powering many major cities across the world are Wind and natural gas. Two stakeholders of these are American Energy Works which is keenly interested in natural gas and Wind Energy Foundation rooting for wind energy. This sound awesome however these two stakeholders have so many odds against each other. If they were chosen to work together to power up a country, they will have so many disagreements. For starter AEW only deals with natural gas and crude oil while WEF only deals with wind energy. There are many advantages and major flaws in using these two source of energy, however these advantages and flaws could help decide to find a common ground and sort all the odds these two massive stakeholders have against each other. Wind energy is one of the sources of energy that is the easiest to harness and produce electricity. WEF have acknowledge this and decided to raise awareness of using wind energy on a global scale. According to the WEF they aim to do this by educating decision makers all over the world as well as telling the media and general public about the economy and environment benefit from using wind energy. WEF is a dedicated non profitable organization, but this means their resources and connection are limited. Many renewable energy companies agreed with them and are on their side. Not only that they also trained leaders of these companies to raise their knowledge and skills on large scale investments and jobs for dealing with wind energy. Not only that wind energy greatly reduces greenhouse gases which many scientist believes is the major cause of global warming. On a paper written by Amy C generation and emissions reduction of CO2, NOx, and SO2, and values these reductions to determine the impact of the siting location for a 300 MW offshore wind farm in Lake Michigan And on that same paper it stated that March, and December consistently had the highest electricity generation and emissions reduction benefits. Summer months such as July and August had the lowest emissions reduction benefits And take note that these were analyzed for a 20-year time period, one using marginal damages of pollution and another using market prices for pollution allowances.(Amy C,1). Not only that wind energy benefits a lot economically by reducing cost from the emission reduction of greenhouse gases such as CO2, NOx, and SO2. And since WEF are not only trying to raising awareness, they are also researching and build upgraded wind turbine to increase efficiency. Wind energy may sound nice and all but there are a lot of disadvantages using them. Wind may be the easiest accessible source of energy, it is also the most damaging method and least efficient method among the natural source of energy. It is a known fact that wind turbine last a surprising short amount of time at 20-25 years. However the problem does not lie in duration but in ways to remove a worn out wind turbine. Wind turbines not only expensive to build, they are also expensive to remove. Unlike their cousin solar panels which can be simply moved, wind turbines have to be disassemble. As it is almost impossible to disassemble such a huge wind turbine which are usually 116-ft blades atop a 212-ft tower for a total height of 328 feet, they are usually left abandoned. In the United State abandoned turbines remain in place in California . This cause lots of problem cause if left alone they may collapse and damage nearby area including living beings. Even when functioning they cause lots of problem. First of all they use lots of space forcing builders to cut down trees, and they generally make lots of noise as well as killing tons of birds. Not only that wind energy is the least efficient source of energy among the renewable energy. Comparing it with solar energy, Nookurea noted that solar energy is much more efficient as well as reach higher than 50% reliability, the recommended renewable alternative is solar PV with 1). Another source of energy that mankind can tap into is natural gas. These gases are generally found in the bottom of the deepest sea and oceans in the world. This alone means it is super expensive to get them. However all of it is worth it as natural gas is super efficient. AEW has two major campine American Petroleum Institude, which deals with and support 9.8 million U.S jobs and 8% of the US total economy, and Energy which deals with communication to the public and companies all over the states. API conducts or sponsors research ranging from economic analyses to toxicological testing. They have also let the development of converting natural gas and crude oil to fuels and as well as developing the equipment to get them such as mining drills. gas plays an important role in the future development of electricity markets, as it is the least emission-intensive fossil generation option and additionally provides the needed plant operating flexibility to deal with intermittent renewable ,1) As stated by Abrell natural gas already one of the lead source of energy giving the world the energy needed to advance to the future. Not only that it also help the world economically. both the electricity and the natural gas market rely on networks, congestion in one market may lead to changes in the other. In addition, investment in one market impacts investment in the other market to the extent that these investments may even become substitutes for each (Abrell ,1) Many researchers and scientist have agreed that natural gas is one of the top source of energy that is damaging our planet. Natural gas alone the problem. As natural gases are found underwater, mining drills have to be literally build in the middle of the sea. As these area are usually far from land, these gases and oil have to be transported over huge distance. One such ways is through pipeline system. However it is known that if natural gas come into contact with other material or gas it may cause lots of trouble such as explosion or huge emission of green house gases. One of such gas is hydrogen injection of hydrogen into natural gas pipeline grid will engender different hazards that are neither all known nor 1) There are countermeasures such as choke valve, One of the main components in oil and gas production system is choke valve. The choke valve role is maintaining sufficient back pressure to prevent water gas coning and formation damage and also stabilizing fluid flow to reach the optimum production (Naseri, 1) Not only that natural gas are also know to damage the human bodies. Having these 2 colossal work together to supply and power up some state may seem impossible but is possible. Despite their different ways, these 2 organization aim to supply energy to their customers efficiently and educate them on it. One of such ways for the to work together is to share their resources and connections and use them to their advantage. For example building wind turbine uses a lot of space and needs to be replace every 20 years. AWE owns many coastal areas as they need them to build pipe to transport the gas and oils. And WEF can help AWE to develop, research and upgrade their sea drills and pipe lines to prevent leakages as natural gas alone itself cannot damage anything. With the rising demand for more energy and help develop cities, some companies or even organization may need to remodify their ways to be both efficient and to not damage the environment during the process of supplying and using the energy to advance mankind to the future. Work Cited Tustin, between Unconventional Natural Gas Development and Nasal and Sinus, Migraine Headache, and Fatigue Symptoms in Feb 2017. Abrell, in a Combined Energy Network Model: Substitution between Natural Gas and Oct 2016. Chiang, Reduction Benefits of Siting an Offshore Wind Farm: A Temporal and Spatial Analysis of Lake Oct 2016. Nookeua, of Solar PV and Wind Alternatives for Self Renewable Energy Supply: Case Study of Shrimp 2016. Naseri, of an accurate method to prognosticate choke flow coefficients for natural gas flow through nozzle and orifice type Oct 2016. Messaoudani Article: Hazards, safety and knowledge gaps on hydrogen transmission via natural gas grid: A critical Oct 2016. Washim, gas effect on separation after exposing a facilitated transport membrane to hydrogen sulfide and higher OCT 2016.