Madison McFarlane McFarlane 1 ENC 1102 Dr. Oana Cimpean 29 January 2017 Keeping Exotic Animals as Pets National Geographic has stated that exotic animals live in American homes than are cared for in American (Slater 1). Exotic pets have become increasingly more popular in the last two decades. Born Free USA and the National Animal Interest Alliance are two of the many stakeholders at odds about the topic. Born Free USA is severely against the idea of keeping any exotic animals as pets. The NAIA is all for being unique, and giving every animal equal care. These stakeholders are at opposite ends of the spectrum when it comes to a compromise. The compromise that makes the most sense and is fair to both sides, would be to have certain breeds or species banned from being kept as pets. The Humane Society of the United States established that, states have no laws on keeping dangerous wild animals as pets: Alabama, Nevada, North Carolina, South Carolina, and (Di Paola 1). Keeping certain exotic animal breeds can be dire for both humans, and the animals by causing diseases and potential for deadly situation. The National Animal Interest Alliance believes that exotic animals make great pets, and if they are properly taken care of they make excellent pets. Dr. Molnar, a highly trusted exotic animal veterinarian, has said, lot of exotic pets are alive today due to private (Hess 1). There is a list of pros to having an exotic animal as a pet. They are unique, interesting, and beautiful creatures. There is a fully developed website that lists and sells exotic animals all over the country, and the world. This online market covers the entire United States, and has a vast selection of breeds. From the smallest finger monkey to giraffes, they can be found on the McFarlane 2 website. Dr. Laurie Hess, and exotic veterinarian stated, pets are so different from cats and dogs that owning one can be an incredible learning (Hess 1). Exotic pet owners tend to have a passion for these animals, typically they want to help them live better lives. Melissa Smith, an avid exotic animal owner, has said, actuality the same conflicts that exist for exotic pets also exist for domesticated (1). The argument that every animal that is kept as a pet poses as much of an issue to the owner. The NAIA believes in equal opportunities to all animals, especially if it is helping to keep some species alive. Born Free USA is an organization that is opposed to keeping exotic animals as pets. The CEO of Born Free USA, Adam Roberts, has decided that, animals lions, tigers, wolves, bears, reptiles, non-human primates belong in their natural habitat and not in the hands of private individuals as (Roberts 1). The cons of keeping exotic animals as pets, per the Born Free USA site, are issues of illegal trading, public safety, and public health risks. One of the largest issues in the exotic animal world is illegal trading. Born Free USA brought up the legal aspects of having exotic animals with, the Endangered Species Act (ESA) it is illegal to possess, sell, or buy an endangered species regardless to whether over the Internet or (Roberts 1). In quite a few countries in the Middle East it is sign of wealth and nobility to own an exotic cat, such as a Cheetah. Born Free goal is to abolish this type of status. Owning and caring for exotic animals raises the risk of getting infected with animal carried diseases. Adam Roberts reported that, exotic animals are carriers of zoonotic diseases, such as Herpes B, Monkey Pox, and Salmonellosis, all of which are communicable to (Roberts 1). Born Free USA has a goal to keep all wild animals in the wild. McFarlane 3 Thinking of a reasonable compromise for both side was difficult, but in the end the best solution seemed to be to ban certain exotic breeds from being kept as pets. Dr. Hess voiced her opinion that, fact is, when owned responsibly by people who take to the time to provide for their special dietary, environmental, and social needs, exotic pets of all kinds can make loving, interactive, fascinating (Hess 1). The reality of owning any pet, but especially an exotic, is that they require specialized care and attention. In the United Arab Emirates, last month created a law that, has banned residents from owning cheetahs, lions, tigers and other wild animals as domestic (Actman 1). People have started to see that not all animals do well being kept as pets. Both sides would accept the compromise because unlike the UAE, this does not ban all animals, just specific breeds. Born Free USA would see that it is a step in the right direction, and the NAIA would not completely lose what they believe is appropriate and suitable pets. Examples of breeds that should be banned include such as lions, tigers, wolves, certain monkeys, and endangered animals. These breeds could be decided on by a board of exotic animal experts. In final analysis, the two sides to the fight are very set in their beliefs. They both make valuable points, but a compromise should be met. Keeping certain animals as pets should not be permitted due to the wellbeing of both the animals and humans. This paper explained both sides of the discussions views, and supports their points. Both sides should always have the best interest of the animals in mind, and to make sure they are never miss treated. Works Cited Actman, Jani. Pet Ban May Mean Fewer Cheetahs Posing with Fancy National Geographic. National Geographic Society, 6 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Di Paola, Michael, and Ruthanne Johnson. Which Cat Is Living Next  RSS. N.p., 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Hess, Laurie. Animals: Appropriately Owned Pets or Inappropriately Kept Avian Medicine and Surgery 25.1 (2011): 50-56. Web. Hess, Laurie. Why Choose an Exotic Pet,  Pet Health Network. N.p., 15 Dec. 2014. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Roberts, Adam M. Get The  The Dangers of Keeping Exotic . N.p., 2003. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://www.bornfreeusa.org/facts.php?p=187&more=1>. Slater, Lauren. Exotic Pets. N.p., Apr. 204. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Smith, Melissa A. 5 Irrefutable Arguments That Support Exotic Pet  PetHelpful. PetHelpful, 22 Apr. 2015. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <https://pethelpful.com/exotic- pets/argument-exotic-pet>.