Lauren Berns ENC1102 Composition II Casey Clague 2016 February 12 Project 2 Final Draft Gun Control Few would disagree that the second amendment is deeply entrenched in American culture, and matters a great deal to many people. It is, after all, second only to the right to freedom of speech, press, and religion when it comes to constitutional amendments. Ask just about any non-American to describe an American stereotype, and likely to cite general decadence, an arrogance towards the rest of the civilized world, and an affinity for guns. And at first glance, the stereotype appear to be wrong. The oldest continuously operating civil rights organization in the country is the National Rifle Association (Shally-Jensen, 2011, p. 506), a pro-gun, anti-regulation association dedicated to protecting the second amendment. The country united on this issue, however. There exist a large number of anti-gun organizations in the united states who seek to limit the ownership and abuse of some kinds of guns, most notably of which is is the Coalition to Stop Gun violence, a nonprofit organization advocating for gun control. These are two organizations which are undeniably at odds with each other, but with any luck can find common ground. Given their shared interest in gun education, the NRA (National Rifle Association) And CSGV (Coalition to Stop Gun Violence) likely can both agree to increase gun education within the United States. Before delving into this compromise, though, it is important to first understand the positions and backgrounds of these two stakeholder organizations who are invested in this topic. Firstly, the NRA. It was formed in 1871 for the purpose of improving the marksmanship skills of members of the military, and since then its goal has gradually evolved, from the teaching of weaponry skills to the general advocacy for and promotion of gun ownership in the US, while retaining an emphasis on gun education. Currently they sponsor gun events, engage in lobbying, lawsuits, and politics. It is one of the most influential lobbyists in the US. This is a group that has a clear investment in the education of the public on firearms, as it could help prevent a negative perception by the public of gun ownership, and therefore perpetuate the existence of the second amendment. It is because of this common ground with anti-gun entities that the NRA is likely to be open to compromise with the CSGV and promote more gun education. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence is significantly younger than the NRA. It was created in 1974 under the name Coalition to Ban but later changed its name to its current one, something less overtly anti-gun and more willing to compromise. According to their website, they currently have a three-point strategy to end gun violence. Firstly, they want to hold pro-gun legislators accountable when gun violence occurs through ad campaigns. Secondly, they want to build relationships with legislators and challenge them to become advocates for anti-gun laws. Thirdly, they want to discredit the NRA by exposing their insurrectionist, anti-government interpretation of the second amendment. The goal of this is to dismantle the idea that pro-gun activists are only concerned about their rights, and not of the belief that they will need to overthrow the government in the future. While the CSGV explicitly state an interest in gun education (perhaps because less education could lead to a more negative perception and therefore banning of guns), if they truly care about preventing deaths by gun violence they are likely to be open to the idea of educating the public on gun safety, and therefore would be interested in a compromise with the NRA. These two organizations have a history that at first gives an impression of animosity between the two groups. The CGSV has made countless references to the NRA in their blog posts, articles, and website updates, often with a disparaging connotation. Their articles range from accusing the NRA of arming criminals by opposing background checks, to accusing them of being a private interest group swindling their way to a tax-exempt status. Rarely is a positive word spoken about the NRA by the CGSV. This goes both ways, though, as the NRA began to become more outwardly confrontational around 2015, as exemplified by an article published September of that year. an editorial posted on the news section of the website of the branch for legislative action of the NRA. a direct attack on the CSGV, and comes off as aggressive. Such interactions, of course, serve only to widen the divide between these two groups, and by extension their supporters, and does nothing to foster cooperation or encourage compromise. Given the bleak outlook towards a potential for compromise between these two groups, why even propose one? The answer to that lies in one key fact: These two groups have a shared interest in proliferating further gun knowledge. As cited from both of these respective websites, they both want to encourage the public to learn more about guns. It is through this common ground that a compromise can be made. So, if gun education is to become more widespread through legislation or other means, what kind of education should it be? This is an extremely important question when it comes to making this compromise a reality. Something which complicates this issue further is the fact that the NRA already advocates for and works towards increased gun education. They advocated for fish and game departments to teach gun safety courses in the 70s (and succeeded), helping to drastically increase the safety of the sport of hunting. They also created a certification program for teaching police officers gun safety. And, of course, they offer civilian training programs Given all this emphasis on education, it could be difficult to convince the CSGV to go along with this compromise, since they would have to take greater strides from what they currently do than the NRA would have to do to enact this education. However, the NRA would still have some concessions to make. Primarily, the NRA would have to change the tone of their gun education somewhat. As it stands, the various gun seminars and training programs have a heavy emphasis on simply instructing people on the various technical skills and memorization knowledge associated with effective and proper usage of firearms. This, of course, only promotes the positive image among the public of firearms, and only teaches the dangers of firearms to those who actually own them. It does nothing, however, to educate the public on what to do when they are in a dangerous situation involving gun violence, or to teach the public of the dangers of firearms and how they be taken lightly. The CSGV would also participate in this, hosting seminars and gun safety classes. Both groups would have to work together on pushing legislation through the government. Both have pull in Washington and are powerful lobbying groups (Though the NRA more so). The two groups would have to agree on a bill for more gun education (the specific tone of which must be agreed upon between them), and they would both lobby for it. Given their combined power, it would be a simple task to get such a bill signed into law. Such a compromise would improve the lives of Americans by increasing gun safety knowledge and therefore reducing gun accidents, and would forward the interests of both groups. The NRA would be likely to be on board with this as it would teach the public that guns necessarily killing machines that should be feared, and the decrease in gun accidents would improve the image of firearms. The CSGV would be likely to be on board with this as increased education would prevent further harm and deaths due to gun violence, and, after all, stopping gun violence is their very purpose. Additionally, the increase in public understanding that guns are dangerous and require safety training to use could show Americans how dangerous firearms are in the wrong hands. This is only one such compromise, and there are many ways of finding common ground that can be undertaken by pro-gun and anti-gun groups, lobbyists, and voters. unfortunate that Americans find time to so aggressively debate these issues and antagonize one another when they should be working towards a compromise, as gun violence is currently a massive, and very relevant issue in the United States. References About CSGV. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from http://csgv.org/about-us/ About Us. (n.d.). Retrieved January 28, 2017, from https://home.nra.org/about-the-nra/ FORTUNE Releases Annual Survey of Most Powerful Lobbying Organizations. [Press Time Warner. 1999-11-15. Retrieved from http://www.timewarner.com/newsroom/press- releases/1999/11/15/fortune-releases-annual-survey-of-most-powerful-lobbying N. (n.d.). Unhinged: Antigun Group Seeking to Provoke Confrontations Between Police, Lawful Carriers? Retrieved January 29, 2017, from https://www.nraila.org/articles/20150904/unhinged-antigun-group-seeking-to-provoke- confrontations-between-police-lawful-carriers Shally-Jensen, M. (2011). Encyclopedia of contemporary American social issues. Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO.