Sadsad 1 Chrissy Sadsad Professor Rouisse ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Less Deforestation and more Sustainable Palm Oil The process to make products, along with the effects such processes have on the environment, does not even cross majority of the mind. One very popular and commonly used product is palm oil. Palm oil ranks first amongst other oils in trade and generally costs less than other imported oils (Gunstone 156). On the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) page regarding sustainable palm oil, it points out that this particular oil is prevalent because not only is it used as a cooking oil but it is heavily used in many other products such as chocolate, margarine, ice cream, cosmetics, soaps, and also in car fuel. However, with the many advantages palm oil has to offer, there are also disadvantages that come with it such as deforestation. The RSPO page clarifies in order to produce palm oil, lands occupied by forests must be cleared for palm oil plantations. Of course, there are those who support this procedure such as Wilmar International-because this is the main part of their business-and there are those who do not support this such as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) who focus on preserving the environment. Although Wilmar and WWF surely have different views on how the land should be used, there can certainly be a way for finding a compromise, and therefore a system to create sustainable palm oil needs to be established. Wilmar International is the leading agriculture company in Asia. This organization is based in Singapore and offers various businesses such as, palm cultivation, oilseed crushing, edible oils refining, sugar milling and refining, manufacturing of consumer products, specialty Sadsad 2 fats, oleochemicals, biodiesel and fertilisers as well as flour and rice (Wilmar International). This business is a leading group in many of these products, especially in palm oil. Moreover, Wilmar is currently the owner of many processing plants all around the world, one of the largest palm oil plantations, the largest palm oil refinery, and various palm oil mills (Wilmar International). Wilmar also contributes and produces many edible palm oil products along with foods containing palm oil (Wilmar International). From its industry to its workforce, this is surely a global business that is clearly successful all around. The World Wildlife Fund is the conservation that works in a hundred countries (World Wildlife Fund). WWF started with aiming to protect the natural landscapes along with their inhabitants; then grew universally by reaching out to people around the world in order to help raise awareness and reduce global threats. WWF has six main focuses: marine, freshwater, wildlife, food and (World Wildlife Fund). This organization concentrates on these six areas because this allows WWF to protect mostly every aspect of every community around the world. Focusing on the forest aspect of this group, WWF argues that forests are important because the population merely depends on it for oxygen, natural resources such as water or wood, medicine, food, and is also a home to many inhabitants. Moreover, WWF says, the trees, the ecosystem that supports the human population can fall WWF is doing many things to protect forests, such as, creating influencing funding and policies, stopping illegal and unsustainable acts such as logging, motivating the marketplace to invest in FSC-certified products, guiding the population on where it is and acceptable to build infrastructure, and helping people become more aware of eating proportions to avoid overconsumption (World Wildlife Fund). Being existent for fifty years, it is Sadsad 3 evident WWF is a nonviolent organization that simply aims to protect the earth, its resources, and the people. Wilmar International and WWF both have different goals in mind and it is clear they are not relatable. In order to make palm oil, land is needed, and in order to have land, forests must be cleared and replaced (Pin Koh and Wilcove 62). However, both organizations do relate with each other when it comes to forests. Wilmar tears down forests to make room for cleared land for palm oil plantations, whereas WWF strives to prevent deforestation. A solution for both Wilmar and WWF is to develop palm oil through sustainable methods. In order to achieve sustainable palm oil, Pin Koh and Wilcove trust that Wilmar should provide clear, open, and transparent access to data based on their work and such acts for the development of palm oil should not take place on cropland or degraded (60). Pin Koh and Wilcove are suggesting that Wimar should freely open their practices to the world so anyone can monitor how much forest is being used up and whether or not they are working more ecologically friendly. Additionally, to create Certified Sustainable Palm Oil (CFPO), the environment must be preserved through stopping the clearing of major forests that consists of a concentrations of biodiversity (e.g. endangered species) or fragile ecosystems, or areas which are fundamental to meeting basic or traditional cultural needs of local communities (high conservation value (RSPO). If such areas of the forests were to be cleared, then this could further endanger the lives of many species, possibly affect various ecosystems due to the loss of life, and could eventually cause future issues for humans. Basiron declares Malaysia is a great example of sustainable palm oil practices. land use pattern reflects a balance between the need for agricultural development and preservation of forest areas for conservation of biodiversity. Of the total land area of almost 33 million hectares, Sadsad 4 65% is under forest cover. Agriculture occupies 19%, of which two thirds or 12%, equivalent to 4.05 million hectares, are under oil palm. In contrast, agricultural land accounts for 70% of total land area in developed countries, while forest cover comprises between 10 and (Basiron 293). Here, Basiron is clearly demonstrating sustainable palm oil is without a doubt doable while still meeting the needs of its consumers. However, in order for this compromise to be successful, both parties must be willing to make one or more sacrifices. While Wilmar should give up their data, mass usage of land, and result in sustainable methods for the production of palm oil, WWF must be up for negotiations with not only Wilmar but members within their organization, find an agreement towards a standard that must be met in order for palm oil to be recognized as sustainable palm oil, and give up not all, but an adequate portion of forest land. Sustainable palm oil will create a greener, cleaner, and safer environment for not only humans but also the many species that inhabit forests. In conclusion, deforestation has been a significant problem for many years and for many reasons; palm oil is just one. However, if forests were to continue to disappear then there is a possibility that all ecosystems would die out. A compromise of creating and developing sustainable palm oil between the leading palm oil company, Wilmar, and the leading preservation group, WWF, would surely do justice for everyone. With such a setup in place, both Wilmar and WWF would be mostly content because not only would both their needs be met but RSPO indicates that by following such sustainable actions, this will help reduce the negative impacts on the environment but still be able to develop palm oil just in a more efficient way. Word Count: 1218 Sadsad 5 Works Cited Basiron, Yusof. oil production through sustainable European Journal of Lipid Science and Techology, vol. 109, no. 4, 2007, http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ejlt.200600223/epdf. Accessed 12 February 2017. Gunstone, Frank. The importance of palm  Inform, vol. 15, no. 3, March. 2004, pp. 156. Google scholar, http://aocs.files.cms-plus.com/inform/2004/3/palmoil.pdf. Accessed 12 February 2017. Pin Koh, Lian and S. Wilcove, David. oil palm agriculture really destroying tropical Blackwell, vol. 1, 2008, http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1755- 263X.2008.00011.x/epdf. Accessed 12 February 2017. palm RSPO, https://www.rspo.org/about/sustainable-palm-oil. Accessed 12 February 2017. Wilmar International. http://www.wilmar-international.com/. Accessed 12 February 2017. World Wildlife Fund. http://www.worldwildlife.org/. Accessed 12 February 2017.