Fukuda 1 Mayo Fukuda Professor Luce ENC1101 Composition I 28 January, 2017 The Impacts of Water Scarcity on Food Production Water has helped developing every creature on the Earth dramatically. Human beings use water every single day for survival and the future development; however, they are now facing water scarcity because of the over usage of water. The global population is growing and the demand of food is increasing simultaneously. People take advantage of having enough water every day, but this is the time to think about that water is limited and people need to use this limited recourse wisely for their descendant. Because of the increase of population, there would be more needs of food. What they need for the food production is the water. Usually people just see the food and they do not realise how much water was used in the process. Therefore, it is significant to know about what could happen on food production in the future caused by water scarcity. Noemi, Mancosu, et al. Water Scarcity and Future Challenges for Food  Water, Vol 7, Iss 3, Pp 975-992 (2015) 3 (2015): 975. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Noemi et al discussed how the water scarcity can affect the food production in the future. They also mentioned about 90% of water is used for agriculture in the world. From this fact, it is impossible to keep running the food consumption without water. Some researchers figured out that during 1996 to 2005 is 1385 m3 per year per capita. 92% of them is relating to the consumption of agricultural product. This source is showing how much people use water and how influential the water is in our life. Moreover, there are some ways developed use in food production. Knowing about it will help understanding how can we solve this issue. Fukuda 2 Mancosu Noemi, a specialist on impacts on agriculture, forests and ecosystem services. She has worked for some projects called CLIMAFRICA and GEMINA as a postdoctoral. Moreover, she has Ph. D. in the field of Agrometeorology and Ecophysiology of Agricultural and Forest Systems at the University of Sassari located in Italy. Gordon, Line J., C. Max Finlayson, and Malin Falkenmark. Managing Water In Agriculture For Food Production And Other Ecosystem  Agricultural Water Management 97. Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture (2010): 512-519. ScienceDirect. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. This paper is focusing on how we can reduce the negatives from the consumptions of water for agriculture. There are three ways to reduce the negatives which are developing water management, making better relationship with aquatic systems, and focusing on how we can improve water management in order to create multifunctional agro-ecosystem. By looking into this paper, we will be able to know some part of solutions to water scarcity caused by food production. Line Gordon, a deputy science director & associate professor in Stockholm Resilience Center. She earned a doctorate in natural resources management from Stockholm University in Sweden. Furthermore, she has done her postdoctoral work at the international Water Management located in Sri Lanka. Ran, Y., et al. Review Article: Assessing Water Resource Use In Livestock Production: A Review Of  Livestock Science 187.(2016): 68-79. ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. By 2050, there will be the double amount of the needs of animal-source foods. This paper will focus on identifying the differences, strengths, and weaknesses of the pleasant way of using water in livestock production. It is obvious that we need to recognise the needs of re Fukuda 3 considering the methods we use now in order to avoid the severe water scarcity. To do that, we first need to separate the usage between blue and green water. The green water is what we need to save for the future use. Same as gray water should not be mixed up with other kinds of water. Making sure that these assessments can be easily understood by everyone. These are the improvements suggested in this paper. Ylva Ran graduated from Gothenburg University with a major in environmental sciences. She works for SEI Stockholm which is an international research institute focuses on environmental and relating issues not only locally but also internationally. Murphy, E., et al. Water Footprinting Of Dairy Farming In  Journal Of Cleaner Production 140.Part 2 (2017): 547-555. ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Murphy focuses on how much people use water in dairy farming in Ireland. This article shows the statistics on the amount of water used for milking. Taking 690L/kg of milk requires 684L/kg of green water and 6L/kg of blue water. This is about 0.4L/kg of water footprint which indicates that the production of each litre of milk can affect the issue of water scarcity. Furthermore, the study showed the future needs for feeding animals non water related foods to reduce the usage of freshwater. Eleanor Murphy works for Animal and Grassland Research and Innovation Center located in Ireland. She is also a part of Animal Production System group which Wageningen University. The group look for the unrevealed things about livestock production in order to make more sustainable future. Fukuda 3