Sophia Thai 1 Sophia Thai Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Legalizing Marijuana Marijuana has always been a controversial topic for dozens of years and still remains debatable today. Marijuana has found to be beneficial to the sickness and can be used to treat pains and relieve symptoms, however marijuana is addictive and can also be used as a gateway drug. Marijuana can be used as a type of medicine, but it comes with a cost. Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana (CALM) is an organization that is against any marijuana use and brings awareness on how harmful and dangerous marijuana can be. National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) is another organization that promotes the use of marijuana, both medical and recreational use. Although their reasons for legalizing marijuana are completely different, they both believe their choice of reasoning is saving lives and whatever they promote is to help the people. Thus, if they come up with a compromise that can keep marijuana from being a recreational drug but allow access to medical uses, as well as creating stricter laws on marijuana use, then both parties are fulfilling their ultimate goal: to help the general public. NORML is a non-profit organization based in Washington, DC, and was founded by Keith Stroup in 1970. Since then, they have been advocates for the legalization of marijuana. While they as a marijuana-law reform and want removal of all criminal penalties for the private possession and responsible use of their purpose is to have Sophia Thai 2 high quality marijuana that is safe and inexpensive for all consumers, whether for medical or recreational purposes. They state that cannabis, or marijuana, is a valuable aid that treats relief such as neuropathic pain, nausea, spasticity, glaucoma, and movement (NORML). Although still in its research stage, marijuana may protect the body against malignant tumors. According to NORML, immediate legal access to medical marijuana under a supervision is given and supported by more than sixty health organizations in the United States. In their fight against anti-marijuana propaganda, they inform the public that marijuana is much less dangerous than alcohol and tobacco, stating that 50,000 people die each year from alcohol poisoning more than 400,000 deaths each year are attributed to tobacco (NORML). Other research reveals that there has yet been a death of marijuana overdose (Huffington Post, 2015). NORML has claims that marijuana is not a gateway drug, that it is misunderstood and is believed that causes users to try harder drugs. NORML says not the case and that the prohibition which forces users to associate with the illicit drug black market rather than the use of marijuana itself, often serves as a doorway to the world of hard On website, it gives a lot of mind-opening facts on marijuana, so by informing the media and taking action in legal-settings, NORML is making a change in legalized marijuana. CALM is an all-volunteer committee based in California and Ohio and is made up of parents, business owners, medical professionals, crime and safety officials, young and old all working to defeat the legalization of (CALM). They strongly believe that marijuana should not be used, transported, or cultivated in any way and that the federal laws on marijuana should not be softened. In an article posted on website, it said that marijuana can cause permanent brain damage, health problems such as cancer, and mental Sophia Thai 3 illnesses that can lead to crime and violence. CALM also believes that marijuana is not a type of medicine because the FDA, the Food and Drug Administration, has yet to approve it and considers marijuana as an unsafe and ineffective drug. Marijuana can also potentially harm or even kill a fetus and cause DNA damage according to article. Marijuana is widely used by youth and adults and may cause addiction, making its users physiological dependent to the substance. To have physiological dependence is to become dependent upon a substance and that without the substance in this case marijuana the body may fail to function and cause unpleasant symptoms. Marijuana is also said to coordination, decision-making, and (DFAF), which the risk of traffic (CALM). To add onto affected coordination, the National Institute of Drug Abuse states that marijuana is the second most abused drug that is linked to drugged driving, after alcohol. Because of these many dangerous and unsafe reasons, CALM believes that marijuana should be kept out of reach. With two strongly-opposing organizations, each with their different opinions on marijuana, how can there be a compromise? NORML wants to see marijuana legalized whereas CALM wants marijuana to stay illegal. Both disagree with each other as a whole but agree on one ultimate thing: best for the people. There can be some negotiation with medical marijuana, this way marijuana can still be illegal on the streets and be banned from recreational uses. Legalized medical marijuana does not mean it will be an drug. Medical marijuana can be obtained with a prescription or a license card. Right now it is really easy to purchase a medical marijuana recommendation in California and it only costs $39 to do so (NuggMD). On website, there is no need for an appointment and the questionnaire is only 30 seconds long. This is not enough information on the consumer and may give access to marijuana to the wrong person with the wrong reasons. NuggMD also calls the access an Sophia Thai 4 online A med card gives the consumer easy access to marijuana immediate deliveries the access to marijuana cultivation, and the protection from arrest for possession of medical marijuana for personal use. Cards must be difficult to get and the consumer must have a legitimate medical reason in order to use medical marijuana. CALM and NORML will have to team up with health systems and legal forces in order to find background information on the consumer and use records and questionnaires to determine whether the consumer qualifies for a prescription. Both the organizations can use their donations and charities to help pay the costly research as well. The process to get a card may be long, but for the best. Making stricter regulations can keep marijuana safe while it provides the access to marijuana to those who need it for medical reasons. This can be achieved by eliminating the black market and making stricter penalties for those who are found with illegal marijuana. NORML will still get access to medical marijuana, but they will lose their recreational use and their removal of marijuana penalties. CALM will have to accept medical marijuana use, but still have recreational marijuana banned as well as have stricter marijuana laws. This compromise is for the benefit of the health and safety. CALM and NORML are two organizations that are at odds with each other. CALM wishes marijuana to be illegal and banned, whereas NORML wants marijuana to be used regularly by medical and recreational users. Neither one can win if the other group wins, but both can get their way if they negotiate and make a compromise. CALM and NORML is doing what they think best in order to help the general public, so by firmly making marijuana a medical drug with the access of a prescription or a card as well as enforcing stricter laws on marijuana, they are helping each other out. This keeps marijuana out of the hands of the abusive recreational users but still allow patients and medical users the treatment they need. Sophia Thai 5 Word Count: 1255 Sophia Thai 6 Works Cited About  CALM USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Drugged  DrugFacts: Drugged Driving National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). NIDA, June 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Get Your Medical Marijuana Card  420 Doctors. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bellware, Kim. How Many People Fatally Overdosed On Marijuana Last  The Huffington Post. The Huffington Post, 28 Dec. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Do You Buy Marijuana in California Now That  Online Medical Marijuana Handbook. N.p., 09 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Top Ten Reasons Not to Legalize   Home Drug Free America Foundation, Inc. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Working to Reform Marijuana  NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.