Zariczny1 Jordan Zariczny Professor Rouisse ENC1102.103S17 1/29/2017 Music Recording, File Sharing, and a Compromise Between Them Music piracy has been an issue that has been around since the creation of the internet and hard copy music. Music piracy is the copying and distributing of copies of a piece of music for which the composer, recording artist, or if the copyright-holding record company did not give consent. There are many stakeholders in the argument for or against music piracy. The major groups that combat music piracy are the RIAA, BSA, and the IFPI. The RIAA is the recording industry association that seeks the financial bolster of the music industry (RIAA), the BSA combats music piracy in many countries (BSA), and the IFPIs goal is to expand the commercial use of music (IFPI). Because music piracy is already illegal, the number of stakeholders that support the legalization of piracy are limited. Most notable of these stakeholders are torrenting and file-sharing websites such as Piratebay.org. Websites such as piratebay and the RIAA are constantly at odds with the RIAA consistently filing lawsuits to take down file sharing websites. File sharing websites maintain hundreds of downloads per day and claim that their websites actually help the music artists because record labels get the most money out of the music sales (Techdirt). Because artists make most of their money from merchandise and concert sales, distributing their media to the public (although illegally) would in the end increase their revenue. Because of this conflict of interest between major music labels, the RIAA, file sharing websites and through them, consumers, a compromise must be made that relatively helps both parties. A Zariczny2 good compromise is that there should be expiring copyrights on music and all music whose copyrights have expired should be cleared for distribution online. The two stakeholders that should be taken into context in this argument are the music labels and file sharing websites, with respect to musicians. Music labels are represented by the RIAA (Recording Industry Association of America) and claim that they represent music, meaning both the music labels and musicians. Their motto is are and claim that investing in great artists and protecting their creative freedom is the of their work (RIAA). Because their interest lies in the financial gains of music sales, they believe that music file sharing is detrimental. On the other side of the spectrum lies the file sharing industry. File sharing goes on websites such as piratebay.org, where users upload cracked files that contain illegal media. They claim because music artists make most their money from concert sales, that they are doing the artists a favor by distributing their music and increasing the popularity (Camacho Murillo 113). So it can be determined that the RIAA and music labels fight for increased restrictions on piracy while file sharing websites fight for the legalization of it for very simple reasons, increased revenue over getting the money to those whose deserve it. Although there is very little common ground between these stakeholders, there are some similarities in their arguments: they both claim that they have the interests of musicians at heart. Because of this claim, it can be concluded that both parties would want to help the musicians more. Although this claim could be used only as a tactic to garner sympathy for their cause, it could be metamorphosed into a solution that benefits the group of people both stakeholders claim to support (the musicians) and takes away from both stakeholders minimally. Zariczny3 With both stakeholders claim that they support the musician in mind, a compromise to the conflict can be gathered rather easily. A law should be put in place limiting the time a copyright could be put on effect, whether it is one year or five years. After the copyright on a piece of media has expired, it is fair game to be shared online. Another tenant of the law is that the risk of being caught and punished for online media pirating be increased. The final tenant of the law is that the artists whose music sales received a RIAA certification receive the majority of the profits. This compromise allows both parties to continue to function while not majorly effecting the sales of major music labels. This new law takes into account all the benefits of both stakeholders. There is a timeline on the copyright because most songs that gain popularity gain the RIAA certification of platinum in about a year, giving the majority of sales to the music labels. After the copyright expires the benefits of file sharing kicks in, allowing users of torrenting websites to share the music increasing its popularity and therefore giving the artists more concert and merchandise sales. It is important to note that file sharing does decrease the sales of music for recording companies. That is why in the proposed law file sharing copyrighted material is still very illegal. Because of the limited copyright, the enforcing of this law should be increased so that overall music sales will increase. In a study done in Sweden with Norway and Finland as control groups, it is shown that when the copyright laws where enforced even more that a thirty-six percent increase of music sales in the first six months resulted (Adermon 91). This is why if this compromise should be put into effect that piracy should be more closely monitored. Each statute of this law could be argued in a variety of ways. There should be a limited copyright on music so that music labels are allowed to make the majority of sales while also increasing popularity of songs through file sharing. But why should there be more penalties for Zariczny4 pirating music? This is because although there is a small gap in time where it is illegal, this small gap also accounts for the majority of sales. Therefore, if one pirates during this time, they are effecting music sales dramatically. One might feel that the statute regarding the majority of sales going to the artists if their media reached a gold RIAA certification is unfair to the recording company. This is untrue due to a number of reasons. The first reason this is fair is the distribution of revenue now in the music media market. According to Techdirt, for every $1000 made from music sales, the average musician makes $23.40 (Techdirt). As well as this, an average music band receives only 13% of the total music revenue. Although the percentage is low, the amount revenue is still large if millions of dollars are taken into account. But the revenue split still finished with the band. Depending on the number of members, a traditional band member (consisting of a singer, guitar, bass, and drummer) receives on average 18% of the previous 13% of profit. There are stories of bands such as 30 seconds to Mars who go platinum and sell 2 million copies but receive a dime from profits because of loans, payments, ect (Techdirt). Another reason the facet of the law is fair is the profit percentage that most record companies receive from record sales. Sony Music third quarter earnings state that music download revenue was only 18.5 percent of their total revenue (Christman), meaning they have other sources of heavy income. Due to the nature of both organizations, the music recording industry and file sharing websites are constantly at odds with each other. Although both stakeholders do not show it, they both claim that they have the interests of musicians at heart. The RIAA claim that they are protecting musicians from file sharers who are stealing their music sales and the file sharing industry claim that they are gathering popularity for the artists by distributing their music to the internet, therefore increasing their concert and merchandise sales exponentially increasing Zariczny5 revenue. Because of the differences between the stakeholders and similar want to help the actual music creators a multi-faceted compromise must be developed. If a limited copyright system is devised, penalties for piracy be increased, and smaller artists receive the majority of profits for sales, both parties should be satisfied. With the time restriction on copyrights allowing for both a profit from sales and file sharing, both parties get to function as they were and with the penalties for piracy increased and an increased percentage of the revenue from sales, music interests would finally be upheld. Zariczny6 Works Cited Adermon, Adrian, and Che-Yuan Liang. Piracy and Music Sales: The Effects of an Anti-piracy  Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization 105 (2014): 90-106. Web. BSA The Software  BSA The Software Alliance. BSA, 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.bsa.org/>. Camacho Murillo, Music Piracy and Illegal Sharing: Are Artists Being  Revisto Criterio Libre 2013, 11th ed., sec. 18: 113-24. Print. Christman, Ed. Music Earnings: Overall Revenue Up; Physical Sales, Publishing  Billboard. Billboard Music, 1 Aug. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Going-behind-the-veil. RIAA Accounting: Why Even Major Label Musicians Rarely Make Money From Album  Techdirt. Floor64, 13 July 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  IFPI - Representing the Recording Industry Worldwide. IFPI, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ifpi.org/>. Pogue, David. No Easy Answers in the Copyright  The New York Times. The New York Times, 07 July 2010. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  RIAA. RIAA, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.riaa.com/>. Zariczny7