1 PLASTIC POLLUTION Plastic Pollution David Enix ENC 1102 2 PLASTIC POLLUTION Abstract This paper is a look into the problem of plastic pollution. Although not realized by many, it is a growing problem around the world. Two opposing stakeholders with different end goals are analyzed to find a sense of common ground. Additionally, a compromise is proposed to try and defuse the situation. Information for this paper is taken from scholarly academic journals related to this topic as well as information from the websites. Reasons are found as to why a resolution has not yet been implemented. The two major stakeholders that will be assessed are the naturalists/environmentalists and the plastic producers. These organizations are at odds because plastic is generally harmful towards the environment but is the only way the production companies make their money. A possible compromise is to encourage the population to recycle and implement waste to energy plants. 3 PLASTIC POLLUTION Plastic Pollution The pollution of the environment is a global issue that has been up for discussion for a long time. Different groups such as environmentalists, citizens, lawmakers, and the producers all have different perspectives and goals. Special attention is paid to the opposing views on plastic pollution between the environmentalists and the plastic producers. easy to see why these groups are opposed to each other. The environmentalists want to start largest cleanup in (The Ocean Cleanup, 2017), while the production companies want to success to our (Intertech Plastics, 2017). A possible compromise is to start a recycling revolution, as they have done in Sweden, Denmark, and Belgium (Cucchiella, Gastaldi, 2017). Joanna Vince and Britta Denise Hardesty discuss the issue of plastic pollution, with a focus on its effects on marine life. The authors mention that this becomes a complex problem when the government and its lawmakers are involved. It would be impossible for the ocean to return to its original state before plastic was produced and used daily. However, the more people that actively try to restore the earth, the easier the restoration process will become. Their ideas state that a collective effort is needed to make a difference. The author describes it as holistic, integrated approach that utilizes scientific expertise, community participation, and market based (Vince and Hardesty, 2016). The biggest thing to take away from this article is that the only way to restore our worlds ocean and save them from destruction is full participation from everyday people. Additionally, the project cannot start unless big companies endorse this movement. The authors take the position of trying save the environment, representative of the naturalists/environmentalists. Their main goal is to have a significant reduction in the amount of plastic in the oceans. The easiest way to make direct change is to have laws in place to reduce 4 PLASTIC POLLUTION pollution. An organization that represents the environmentalists is The Ocean Cleanup. First founded in 2013, they plan to launch their project called in late 2017. This will include a series of operations where huge objects move with our ocean currents to set up a trap that concentrates the debris into a V shaped net-like structure. This is a promising solution, but will take many years to make any difference in our oceans. Nancy D Lamontagne takes a more positive view on plastic production. She states that is the 3 rd largest industry in the United States, employing almost 900,000 (Lamontagne, 2015). Due to the economic impact plastics have, the increasing shortage in workers for the plastics industry is problematic. Companies want to attract students into the plastic industry because this generation of students is tech-minded. Some of the benefits of the plastic industry include a well-paying job, quick advancement, and opportunities for development. The author states that plastics is a skill trade, which gets less attention because of the college focused education system. Plastic is described as something that employs many people and brings in a lot of revenue for companies. Instead of trying to reduce the plastic industry, they are trying to expand it. The author thinks that the plastic industry is an integral part of the economy and very important for growth. While the environmentalists take a global perspective on plastic pollution, the producers only look at the economic effects of plastics in their country. An organization that represents the plastic producers as a stakeholder is Intertech Plastics. Founded in 1980, they began as a small manufacturer in Denver, Colorado making small plastic containers. Today, they are competitive in the market of plastics and are highly respected in the Rocky Mountain region. This company is mainly focused on the customer, making quality products and making one time customers, customers for life. Their mission is to an innovative leader in turn-key manufacturing, providing superior service and value for our customers in an atmosphere of 5 PLASTIC POLLUTION (Our Mission, 2017). Although they have made some strides to be efficient with their energy to reduce their environmental impact, at the end of the day, they will use as much resources as necessary to create the best product they can create to maintain happy customers. Common ground between these two stakeholders is that they both want everyday citizens to be happy. The environmentalists want to preserve the environment because many people enjoy the beauty of our oceans. They also want to keep the oceans clean because it benefits the marine ecosystems. Many scientists, biologists, and tourists can agree that marine life is important for work and enjoyment. These same people, your everyday citizens that enjoy the outdoors are also consumers of plastic. Plastic bags, bottles, and silverware are items commonly used by everybody. Plastic customers are citizens that own companies and sell products. Lip balm, makeup, and lawn chairs are all common items that incorporate plastic. If these two stakeholders can come together, and put everyday citizens first, compromise is easy. A compromise that satisfies both stakeholders is start a recycling revolution using advertising and waste to energy plants. Advertising is used to encourage all people recycle on a larger scale. The waste to energy plants would diminish the need for landfills and mindless ocean dumping. Lawmakers would have to get involved to create funding for this project. Plastic production is not reduced dramatically, however the amount of plastic thrown into the oceans is. Production companies have to be smarter about the products they create to ensure that it can be reused or broken down into energy. If everyday citizens are enthusiastic about recycling, they will be inclined to use recycled products. Production companies are able to keep their customers happy while not losing business and helping the environment at the same time. Some countries are already use this method of recycling, with Sweden and Denmark incinerating over 50% of their waste and only having 1% of their waste sitting in a landfill (Cucchiella et al., 2017). 6 PLASTIC POLLUTION To recap, the hot discussion of plastic pollution is one that deserves the attention of the public. Environmentalists are looking for ways to clean up our worlds ocean one step at a time. Plastic production companies will continue to turn a blind eye to the issue and focus on company growth and happy customers. These two stakeholders need to put their own goals aside and focus on their common ground: their want for a generally happy mankind. With this proposed compromise, these two groups can make the lives of everyday citizens, a lot better. 7 PLASTIC POLLUTION References Cleanup, W. T. (n.d.). Technology. Retrieved January 29, 2017, from https://www.theoceancleanup.com/technology Cucchiella, F., I., & Gastaldi, M. (2017). Sustainable waste management: Waste to energy plant as an alternative to landfill. Energy Conversion And Management, 13118- 31. doi:10.1016/j.enconman.2016.11.012 Lamontagne, N. D. (2015). Creative Approaches Attract Students to Plastics. Ground Water Monitoring & Remediation, 35(4), 30-32. Our Core Values Molding with Integrity. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from https://www.intertechplastics.com/who-we-are/values Vince, J., & Hardesty, B. D. (2017). Plastic pollution challenges in marine and coastal environments: from local to global governance. Restoration Ecology, (1), 123. doi:10.1111/rec.12388