Weber 1 Olivia Weber Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Payment of College Athletes Imagine having to ask yourself how far you are willing to go to play a sport you are passionate about? This is what college athletes who play for Division 1 schools are having to do. A major debate inside the college sports world is whether or not they should receive payment for playing. One side of the argument made by the National College Athletic Association(NCAA) is that giving students scholarships is enough and that they should not get paid because they are Amateurs. The NCAA believes that students should focus on excelling in both sports and Official Site of The the other side, the College Athletes Players Association (CAPA) believe that student athletes are employees and therefore deserve proper treatment and payments. They formed a union that is led by past college athletes to protect their To have a compromise, the NCAA would have to modify rules and CAPA would have to be willing to not want to eliminate all NCAA rules. A good compromise for these two would be somewhere in the middle ground of payment that goes towards their tuition plus an extra payment based off of video games or merchandise sales but still focusing on the student education. According to the Official NCAA website, the NCAA is The National Collegiate Athletic Association which is in charge of college athletics including the most popular, Football and Basketball. The NCAA has a strict policy on no payment to athletes. Within this Weber 2 organization there are three divisions. The division that is going to be focused on is the most well known, Division 1. Division 1 has the big name schools with the big student bodies that bring in the majority of the revenue for the NCAA, and Division 1 is also known for giving out the most Official Site of The The main core values of The NCAA are to have a high level of integrity, to always pursue excellence for academics and leadership for athletics at all Official Site of The According to the NCAA Official website, The NCAA has a focus on Amateurism. They emphasize that all student athletes are students first and athletes second. A major component of amateurism is that athletes do not receive pay, if payment was received then they would no longer be considered amateurs. Two of the amateurism requirements deal with athletes getting paid. They state, for participating in and money above actual and necessary are not allowed. Amateurism is the main reason stated by the NCAA in why they pay their student Official Site of The According to the Pay to Play article, the NCAA emphasizes that they educate their athletes and of them with scholarships. Every year about 150,000 students receive about $2.7 billion worth of to The NCAA feels that by providing an education and free college for the students is as good as paying them. Another claim for not paying student athletes is that if colleges were to pay athletes it would take too much money away from the college and then the college would have to make cutbacks on staff, research and other essentials. Due to the college already putting in so much money to athletics, if they had to pay each student athlete on top of that many other areas would feel budget to amateurism, scholarships and funding of other sports Weber 3 programs are often stated by the supporters of no payments for student athletes as the main reasons for not paying them. The College Athletes Players Association(CAPA) was founded by three former college athletes, Ramogi Huma, Luke Bonner and Kain Colter. They are labor organization established to assert college status as employees with the right to collectively bargain for basic The first founder, Ramogi Huma, decided to found this association when he saw his own teammates getting punished for accepting groceries when they are hungry or not having their medical bills paid for when they sustained an injury due to the sport. The Second founder, Luke Bonner, was a college basketball player who during his whole time playing division 1 sports felt a need and often advocated for better player protection. The last founder is Kain Colter who was a college football player turned professional. He advocated to the media about the players need for a voice in NCAA main goals include aiming to improve the graduation rates of athletes, allowing compensation for sponsorships, increasing scholarships and improving due process of students rights. As an association, they hope to advocate for players rights as an employee. They believe players should have the right to bargain for their rights as most employees do. CAPA believes players like employees deserve to be On top of that, they also like to put out information to falsify the reasoning for not paying athletes. As shown above, the NCAA says that if student athletes had to receive pay then they would have to cut other programs. Yet CAPA says that this is not true and says that non revenue sports are too valuable to colleges and therefore would not be According to Schneider, another reason for the payment of players is the amount coaches are paid. Most football and Weber 4 basketball coaches get paid above 100,000 dollars each year. Often times, coaches are not paid only their normal salary. They can receive endorsement deals meaning they can be paid thousands or even millions of dollars to have their players wear a certain brand. Therefore many supporters of payment for player believe that if the coaches can get paid that much then there must be some money for students(Schneider). Overall, the feelings of those advocating for payment of students athletes believe it should be done due to them being similar to employees, needing proper treatment and unfairness based on coaches salary. Looking at both stakeholders, they look as if they are in complete disagreement. Yet, when a closer look is taken you can see the similarities they have. The main similarities that both stakeholders share are their care for the student athletes. The CAPA has a goal and mission to do whatever they can to protect the student athletes. Their offical website says, will ultimately secure basic protections for college Although, the NCAA might not look like they are protecting the students by not letting them receive payment, they are looking out for them and want the best for them during their time at school. The NCAA website says, NCAA is committed to keeping college athletes safe, healthy and ready to Official Site of the By having these common threads the stakeholders can more easily come together to make a compromise. Since both stakeholders have a commonality in the protection and best interest of their students athlete, this is what the compromise should be based off of. The compromise should be that the initial of the student athlete should be their tuition. Payment should come in terms of practice hours and playing hours. The colleges could set up a system such as wages and have the players get payed for the amount of playing and practicing they do but instead of the Weber 5 wages going into a paycheck it overtime will pay off their tuition. This way they are seen as employees by having their amount of work recognized but also as students with having their tuition as a priority(Groves,104). To add to the compromise, any players that has personal merchandise sold or is in any type of video games should receive correct compensation for that. To end the compromise, it could be a possibility to give the student athletes a small weekly or biweekly wage so that they have money to buy groceries or other necessities they often go without. Since almost all athletes do not have time to have a job to earn money, by receiving a weekly or biweekly stipend for being on the team, they could then pay for other expenses that are not covered by the school(Groves,105). By having this compromise, it recognizes both stakeholders views. It keeps the student athletes, students by having their focus on their tuition and also amatuer by not getting directly paid for their hourly work. Yet it also recognizes the idea that the players are worthy and employees and gets them compensated in the correct manner. Often times, the NCAA and CAPA do not agree. The NCAA sticks strongly to their idea of amateurism while CAPA has a stronghold in student athletes being employees. Yet this debate could affect the future of college sports so both organizations must come together to compromise. A strong compromise that they could make would be student athletes getting paid by the hour when playing or practicing similar to an employee but all of that money going directly towards their tuition. The only extra money they would receive is based off of video game or other merchandise sales and a possible small stipend to help with living expenses. Once an agreement is made, likely the students athletes and the collegiate sports world will be more joint because of it. Weber 6 Work Cited Groves, Roger M. A Solution For The Pay For Play Dilemma Of College Athletes: A Novel Compensation Structure Tethered To Amateurism And  Review Of Entertainment & Sports Law 17.2 (2016): 101-143. Search Premier . Web. 28 Jan. 2017. More  Athletes Players Association (CAPA) . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Pay To  Events 111.13 (2012): 7. Guide Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson) . Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Schneider, Raymond G. College Perceptions On The Payment Of Intercollegiate  Student Journal 35 .2 (2001): 232. Source . Web. 26 Jan. 2017. The Official Site of the  - The Official Site of the NCAA . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.