Rothkopf 1 Mac Rothkopf Final Draft ENC 1102 Legalization of Marijuana The ongoing battle between the legalization of marijuana and government affairs has heated up over the last few years. The overall conversation, confliction, and controversy on this topic has been studied year after year. Although having to overcome obstacles and much criticism, there are significant signs that this ideology is coming into place now and continuing to grow in the soon future. This ideology is that medical marijuana should be legalized for the benefit of health and freedom. Two of the biggest stakeholders greatly invested in this topic, the Marijuana Policy Project (MPP) followed by the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies (MAPS) are very real and have been fighting from day one, but not specifically for the same reasons. The Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies differentiates itself from the competition by, using medical marijuana simply for research purposes. On the other hand, the Marijuana Policy Project advocates for the recreational and medical use of this subject. The progress these organizations have shown, which has gotten nearly half of the United States to legalizing it for medical purposes is unbelievable and these stakeholders will not stop flooring the gas until their voices have been heard. A compromise of these two different sides would be relatively easy as they fall under the same roof. One organization wants it legalized for research purposes, the other wants it legalized for everyone. Legalizing medical marijuana indefinitely would be the only way to bring these two organization to an arrangement, as the result will extremely benefit both organizations. The reason why this is the only alternative, is because Rothkopf 2 people are already getting this drug illegally with zero knowledge of what other drugs and chemicals are added into it, so why not run it through the government which will be much more safe and provide them with financial support. To start off with, one interest thing in the Marijuana Policy Project mission statement, state laws to reduce or eliminate penalties for the medical or non-medical use of (MPP). One thing these organizations share among many is the severity of eliminating the unfair punishment resulted from marijuana. People of all ages, are getting locked up in jail for a little bit of cannabis. Not only is this have a real impact on government spending by having to operate with so many people in their cells, but the fact at the sentences these people are getting. It is taking people out of work which can all and all come back to the global economy. The Marijuana Policy Project currently relies in the capital Washington, DC. and MPP Foundation envision a nation where marijuana is legally regulated similarly to alcohol, marijuana education is honest and realistic, and treatment for problem marijuana users is non- coercive and geared toward reducing (MPP). Being as it may, this as it was classified in the past has had a huge negative impact on the overall view of marijuana. Today, we now have the resources to test marijuana, and it is scientifically proven to cure numerous illnesses such as glaucoma, anxiety, epidemic seizures, (loss of appetite) with the Chemotherapy process and much more. The results have shown time after time that this drug saves lives at an almost minimal risk. On top of that, researching with different subjects goes without saying, the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies has envisions for the future. Testing things, no other person or organization would dare to explore. 1999, MAPS was involved in legal struggles against the DEA to end this situation. On August 11, 2016, the DEA Rothkopf 3 announced their intention to grant licenses to additional marijuana growers for research, thereby ending the DEA-imposed 48-year monopoly on federally legal (MAPS). This leeway will not only prevent numerous obstacles from coming this organizations way but also give them clearance to experiment and explore further. This organization does not rely on, or conflict on the fact of marijuana having to be legalized, as that is the other organizations ultimate goal. March 14, 2014, the U.S. Public Health Service approved our study of smoked whole plant (botanical) marijuana for symptoms of PTSD in U.S. veterans. MAPS worked for over 22 years to obtain marijuana for medical marijuana drug development research, and the approval is a historic shift in federal (MAPS). This organization in fact is tightly involved with other ways to consume or benefit from marijuana, a few examples, edibles which is the safest way to consume the component (THC) which changes your perception (high feeling), prescribed ointments with some ingredients from the plant to relieve, satisfy, and elevate such as severe back pains. The next point, the marketing regarding the overall potential of this industry is indescribable. The American Marketing Association states though the drug is legal in Colorado, marijuana marketers must abide by stringent advertising rules set by the state of Colorado and other marijuana enforcement agencies. Cannabis brands must prove that at least 70% of the audience for each outlet in which like to advertise is 21 years old or older. Facebook accept marijuana-related ads, and outdoor advertising is not (AMA). To show that even states that have voted and approved of this are still bucking down and taking this issue serious. For every agreement each side must give up something, the first stakeholder (MAPS) is giving up invincibility to keep studying what really fully legal yet, whereas the other stakeholder the Marijuana Policy Project is really giving up helping the people who need this for Rothkopf 4 medical purposes instead of relying on the whole population. The compromising suited for both these organizations, by legalizing marijuana you are not only giving individuals the freedom to do as they may, but it has a greater reason which is giving a hand to the global economy. More jobs are created from this, but one for one, there is also a higher risk of it falling into the wrong hands which are adolescence. Whether you are for or against this strongly controversial topic is irrelevant, it is saving lives but the other way people are going to jail for it. example, the American Medical Association has rejected attempts to convince them to endorse marijuana as medicine, and instead has urged that marijuana remain as a prohibited, controlled substance; the American Cancer Society does not advocate inhaling smoke, nor the legalization of (Lewis 66). In conclusion during negotiations with both my stakeholders The Marijuana Policy Project and the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies the only possible compromise would be the permission to fully legalize marijuana. As known, fighting for their own reasons, one to legalize it while as the other uses it to research and experiment the different uses and effect for the drug. Both organizations will agree that this topic is currently happening and the potential for this field is endless. Rothkopf 5 Works cited: Harper, Kevin, kharper@kevinharpercpa.com. Medical Marijuana Emerges From The  Public Management (00333611) 97.6 (2015): 20-23. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. LEWIS, PAUL1. A Gateway To Future Problems: Concerns About The Stateby- State Legalization Of Medical  University Of New Hampshire Law Review 13.1 (2015): 49-97. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mission and  The National Cannabis Industry Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Project, Marijuana Policy. Marijuana Policy Project We Change  MPP. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Medical  MAPS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.