Trevor Sands Kristopher Luce ENC 1101 01/25/2017 Soccer in America For quite some time soccer has been in the background of baseball, football, and basketball in America. Although the sport has had a strong presence among American Universities since the late the breakthrough in professional level would come much later. The first American league, the NASL (North American Soccer League) was not founded until March of 1985. This came after some of the top European Football teams started traveling to America to play in tournaments or friendly matches. The appearances of these stars in American stadiums may have been a crucial point in the evolution of American Soccer. However, the NASL ratings began to slip after ABC Network declined to renew their current contract and they were forced to disband just seventeen years after starting. (Scott 2) The question returned, is it that America has failed to adopt the most popular Americans thought the answer to this question would be the 1994 world cup which was hosted in several popular cities throughout the USA. Major League Soccer, or MLS, was founded in 1993 after the 1994 world cup location was announced. It was believed that the most viewed sporting event in history would draw the proper amount of attention to the sport. (Scott 4) Although this was a foot in the door, MLS teams were still composed of poor quality players and tv ratings were negative. The solution came from learning to adopt the culture of the games legends in Europe and South America. The adoption of the favorite playing style started to attract players who might be in the last few years of their european career to come to America and play in the MLS for more money. (Scott 6) For example, David Beckham made himself a household name when he transferred to the LA Galaxy in 2007. This has become a pattern and America has now seen the likes of European legends such as Ricardo Kaka, Frank Lampard, and Andrea Pirlo play on local grounds. The main attraction came from the national team winning the 2015 World Cup. The team has now gained more exposure than the and still get paid much less. This has created a huge problem with gender equality in the MLS, NWSL, and United States National teams that must be solved for the continued success of soccer in America. Nonetheless, America has officially established a permanent presence in the soccer world. Scott, Ian. From NASL to MLS: Transnational Culture, Exceptionalism and Part in American Coming of  The Journal of Popular Culture 44.4 (2011): 831-53. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This journal from 2011 was an excellent source on the history of American Soccer. Ian Scott was able to provide a lot of the influential factors involved in the expansion of soccer in the USA. Scott gave an informative article from an American soccer fans perspective of how the sport was brought to the light in America. This article is important to help understand why soccer became so popular and why it is so crucial. As Scott explained, soccer is the most popular sport. As stated a few years ago by Sportscenter on ESPN, the 2014 World Cup attracted more televised viewers than the 2012 winter olympics and the 2010 summer olympics. The fact that this sport was not more sought after in America was confusing. According to Ian Scott, the key to making America a soccer country was adopting the already existent culture rather than trying to impose our own values and traditions on the beautiful game. For example, America made the MLS have two separate divisions like the other American sports leagues. (Scott 2) They have made playoff style tournaments while Europe has always held tournaments that start with a group stage. The group stage divides teams into groups and then the top two teams from each group advance to the knockout round. Failing to accept the already existing ways of Europe caused an issue by not attracting quality players to the league. It became a vicious cycle where there were no fans to pay the salary of great players but no great players to attract the fans. Scott says that the 1994 world cup exposed America to some of the European qualities that make the game so exciting. After all, the most popular sport be too bad. This journal will be relevant to the rest of the research because it provides a background knowledge on the evolution of American soccer which helps to emphasize the importance of all the pieces in this movement. Ian Scott is a professor at the University of Manchester. He is best known for his writings on American Studies. His work has been noted by Comparative American Studies, Literature/Film Quarterly, The European Journal of American Studies, and several other publishers. Rowe, William J., and James E. Zemanek, Jr. Chevrolet and Manchester United: a transformational sponsorship in a traditional industry  Innovative Marketing 10.1 (2014): n. pag. EconLit. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This journal from 2014 attempts to understand how and why Manchester United struck such a big deal with Chevrolet back in 2012. The two signed a deal worth $560 million in 7 years. (Rowe 6) incredibly smart business decision is probably paying off since Paul Pogba and Zlatan Ibrahimovic were purchased in the summer transfer market. The reason this article is relevant however, has nothing to do with business. It has to do with America once again making a name for itself in the soccer world. Chevrolet is owned by General Motors and is a trademark of America . The fact that they decided to sponsor one of the biggest soccer teams in Europe s clearly a business move to spread their business further internationally. At the same time, these two organizations run deep in their culture and the mix of the two in 2012 definitely brought some Americans attention to soccer. The fact that a company in America would invest so much money and resources into a team in another country shows the faith that they have in soccer. They now depend on the jersey and ticket sales as well as the results of Manchester United. Not to mention the fact that an American company pursuited and successfully negotiated one of the biggest sports sponsorship deals in history. Rowe and Zemanek believe this is a groundbreaking deal because other companies will strive to land long term, highly profitable deals with sports teams. (Rowe 1) James E. Zemanek Jr is a professor of marketing at East Carolina University. In addition, he directed the Undergraduate Curriculum Program and Coordinated the Industrial Distribution Program for engineering at Texas A&M University. Dr William J. Rowe is certified by the American board of internal medicine and has written several other articles with James Zemanek all about marketing. Koller, Dionne L. Soccer Shows How Far Come Since Title IX - and What Battles  The Conversation (April 8, 2016): n. pag. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://theconversation.com/womens- soccer-shows-how-far-weve-come-since-title-ix-and-what-battles-remain-57396>. This article by Dionne Koller was found in which is a website that reports news found in academic and research related stories. In this case, Koller wrote about the undeniable success of the national team. They have won three world cups and four olympic gold medals so far, completing a feat seven times that the men have never done. (Koller 7) The reason behind the success of the women in American soccer is natural talent as they find themselves among the top of power rankings internationally. The issue brought up in this article is how the women, who have been so influential on integrating soccer into society and making it a subject to talk about, are paid less than their male counterparts who have achieved far less. The statistics back up the argument as well. The nation article claims the USWNT (United States National Team) generated $20 million more than the men last year. Nevertheless, the men earn nearly four times more compensation. (Zirin 4) The relevance of this article is that equal pay, which has long been a fight for women, has been introduced in the American soccer industry. To gain equal pay for women footballers in America would be extremely influential on the women in our society and would dig the roots of soccer deeper into our country. Dionne Koller is a professor of Law at the University of Baltimore. She is also the director of the, for Sport and the program. Elliott, Richard, and John Harris. CROSSING THE ATLANTIC FROM FOOTBALL TO SOCCER: PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS ON THE MIGRATIONS OF ENGLISH PLAYERS AND THE INTERNATIONALIZATION OF MAJOR LEAGUE  Elliott - 2011 - WorkingUSA - Wiley Online Library. N.p., 7 Dec. 2011. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. This article is about how players decide to migrate from Europe to America in order to play in the MLS. Richard Elliott and John Harris look at the MLS just four years after David Beckham joined LA Galaxy to see how the league has continued to strengthen since then. They found that studies on the typical athlete show that they will leave their nation in order to play in a more competitive league or for more money. (Elliott and Harris 8) They found that unlike all other leagues in America, which are the top leagues in their respected sport, the MLS was not a top league. As a matter of fact the MLS is not even a top five league as England, Spain, Italy, France, and Germany hold the big five leagues with Portugal, Denmark, Turkey, and other European leagues falling behind. In fact, many players who make the American National Team find themselves receiving offers from foreign teams to play at the club level. For example, American teenager Christian Pulisic is playing for one of the best teams in Germany. This is backwards compared to the MLB, NFL, NHL, or the NBA where foreign players come to seek higher pay and because their country is not competitive enough. David Beckham is the highest awarded player to ever step foot on an American team and he has paved the way for others. This article is relevant because the future of the MLS depends on whether or not the league can continue to land big name European Players. Richard Elliott is a professor at Solent University in South Hampton and John Harris works in the department of management at Glasgow Caledonian University.