Mellissa Lyn Lecturer: Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 5 February 2017 Internet Censorship Free speech online or taming of the internet? All Americans expresses their fundamental right to freedom of speech. However, some may express this right without affection and censorship regardless of the platform, including the internet and some may argue that this has cause political instability. Although this relates to democracy, there are citizens that dismiss this right when it greatly affects their children or loved ones negatively. The internet, a revolutionary platform for exchange that most Americans cannot live without. Its unlimited access and competition to no other, makes it undeniable independent and dependable. The choice of free speech online or taming the internet is consequently left to the users, whether to communicate without interferences or censor or control the indecencies. In this debate, the public advocate group, is and the widely accessible search engine, Google both expresses freedom of speech, though Google is just a medium for it. However, in this context regarding the young children, the unspoken words have been spoken. Enough is Enough is an organization that advocates on behalf of the families and loved ones of children with the mission of making the internet safer for them to use. Google on the other hand makes their cause a more demanding and timely one. In the name of internet censorship, both stakeholders, who are potentially large influencers to society, should state their willingness to work together to fully enact and implement a cost-effective compromise so that the children can benefit and be safe online. America needs to exercise responsibility to be part of the solution to keep children and families safe while using public Wi-Fi (Donna Rice Hughes, EIE CEO). Since 1992 Enough is Enough (EIE) has been an organization dedicated to raising public awareness about the dangers of internet pornography, sexual predators and cyberbullying among other dangers. They strive to protect the innocence of the children, for a healthy sexuality and to build a society free from the sexual exploitation, (enough.org, EIE has been a beacon for many families at the floodgate for the distribution of pornography. The sexual dangers are great and the EIE organization has successfully demonstrated the need for federal legislation to take corrective action to protect children and families from the dangers online. Such examples are the CIPA; Internet Protection Act of 2000 and the Communication Decency Act of 1996, (enough.org, of In an article written by Dian Schaffhauser from The Journal, students from grades K to 12 are to be educated on online behavior, online safety and cyberbullying. This kind of awareness causes a direct impact on the children; they learn the importance of internet safety, and they also learn it in a safe and familiar environment among their peers. This outreach has been noticeable as the President, Donald Trump has signed the Internet Safety Presidential Pledge as he thinks this is a critical step in making America great again, (Kaitlyn Schallhorn, the blaze). There is a need for a compromise to protect the children since it goes hand in hand in making America great again. After all the children are the future. Google is a technological search engine, founded September 4, 1998, (google company.com, Over the years, Google became innovative with its collective entrepreneurs, bloggers, advertisers and viewers. Google is a deep sea of information and evidently everyone is riding its wave. This digital powerhouse constantly improves its practice and increases its contents by introducing new features people would want to use and fully utilize every day, such as the Google Chrome Browser, Gmail, Calendar, Google Docs, Google Drive, Hangouts, Google Maps, Google Search and so on. With all its pleasantries, many have argued if Google is protected by the First Amendment; freedom of speech. According to Mark Joseph Stern, a writer for Slate, covered first amendment defense in court in 2014. He wrote that the court asserted that information is speech and that the computers are participating in constitutionally protected free speech activity. The content published on the web can be found by Google, including the online dangers; pornography, online and dating chatting forums and social media. All these contents are found by search algorithms designed by Google. It filters searches by the unique queries or phrases entered in the search box. A Google Trends analysis indicates that searches for have more than tripled from Total searches for related porn reached an estimated 500,000 daily in March 2013 of total daily searches for pornographic web sites, (enough.org, Like all else, there are advantages and disadvantages to using Google when young children are involved. Google can aid with the research, to watch educational videos or even to play educational games. It is essentially easy to use and navigate. But, can this advantage also be its disadvantage? When researching relevant as well as irrelevant content pops up, and in this case explicit imagery and/or content can be in the sight of the child, which causes them to stray. So therefore, to get rid of this disadvantage, Google can move toward the action of building a compromise with EIE to simply meet the cyber need of all young children. The two stakeholders both has a different stance from the other. Ultimately, this debate is about the young children and their well-being. advocacy existed four years before Google was started, and ever since they have called forth the help of the public, the state, law enforcement and the technological industry to be a part of the society they are trying to build. Google meets the needs of users everyday as it relates to conducting a search, using the browser, maps or anything else. However, safe search is put into question when issues are raised on whether it is censored enough for the children. The two stakeholders have no previous ties. Both stakeholders support and carries the freedom of speech, however, the grounds on which they support it are different. EIE supports it for a culture where all people are respected and valued and the innocence for a childhood is protected, while Google shows the world the emotions and expressions of others with or without indecencies. This compromise will need the equal efforts of both stakeholders to effectively discuss and implement means of the compromise. Both stakeholders can compromise on creating a filtered web browser for the children. This browser would be like Google Chrome but encompasses the websites recommended for children from grades K to 12. This type of compromise would need the software engineering expertise of Google and the funding, legal, marketing and advertising aspects of both parties. The EIE would appoint the recommended sites for the children, such as, 2 SMRT 4 U Campaign, The Exploratorium, Internet Public Library Youth Division and lots more, (enough.org, and To help support the maintenance of the browser, there would be an installation fee along with regular updates to keep the browser up to date with new and improved sites. Another compromising factor would be that 25% of the profit would go to Charity, (google.org) with young children while spreading the EIE advocacy and introducing the safe browser. Free speech online or taming of the internet? Despite the arguments of internet censorship, freedom of speech is a right, and though it may be controversial, it is fundamental. The compromise presented can cause a lot of children lives to change whether at home or at school. This kind of movement would tremendously minimize the problem of internet censorship for children. Also, this action can cause a chain reaction to outside parties, such as, the families and loved ones, the schools, the law enforcement, the tech industry etc. The compromise signifies defending the innocence and dignity of the American children. Works Cited Schaffhauser, Dian. New CIPA The Journal, 16 May. 2012, www.thejournal.com/articles/2012/05/16/the-new-cipa-deadline.aspx. Schallhorn, Kaitlyn. Candidates Asked to Sign Pledge to Protect Children from Sexual Exploitation How They The Blaze, 6 Aug. 2016, http://www.theblaze.com/news/2016/08/06/presidential-candidates-asked-to-sign-pledge- to-protect-children-from-sexual-exploitation-heres-how-they-responded/ Stern, J. Mark. Google search results protected by the First Slate, 20 Nov. 2014, Google Inside Search, Google, https://www.google.com/insidesearch/howsearchworks/algorithms.html Better World, Google.org, Google, https://www.google.org/ Sites and Resources for Research and Resources, Enough is Enough,