McGovern 1 Matthew McGovern Professor Spencer Bennington Composition 1102 12 February 2017 Is your food all natural? The National Farmers Union, or NFU, stands to protect all farmers that are part of their union, or about 200,000 families. On the topic of Genetically Modified Organisms or GMOs they take no stance as some of the families that stand for them use GMOs while some of them do not. But they do take a stance on GMO labelling. They believe that GMOs should be labelled in a way that is not confusing to the general public. The Food and Drug Administration stands by the belief that GMOs are completely healthy and there is no need to label them which opposes the NFU. I believe that the two groups can go together and make a compromise that could meet in the middle ground such as creating greater knowledge through education of GMOs and labelling in a way that tells the consumer what in the product is made of GMOs and what in it are not made of GMOs. Such as stating that the apples in the apple sauce use a strand of genetically modified material that allows them to grow in a wider range of climates. The NFU has been around since 1902 and was originally created by ten farmers and now supports fishers, and ranchers across the country, with formally organized divisions in 33 (NFU) . The NFU stands by three main principles, Cooperation between members to reach common goals, Legislation to represent their lobbying efforts, and at the base education as they believe that all members should be educated and being educated will lead to success in the other principles. Their main mission is advocate for the economic and social wellbeing, and McGovern 2 quality of life of family farmers, ranchers, fisherman, and consumers and their communities through education, cooperation, and legislation. NFU advocates sustainable production of food, fiber, feed, and The FDA began in 1862 as just single chemist in the U.S. Department of Agriculture in 1862 to a staff of approximately 15,000 employees and a budget of $4.4 billion in (FDA). In the Field of foods, the FDA regulates everything from bottles waters to food products of all kinds. They stand to act as a regulator for foods and test to see if it is healthy or not, for example, they will never call anything that contains tobacco in it FDA approved, but they do test things such as additives put in food to see if they have any negative side effects. (FDA) The FDA has come out and stated that Genetically modified organisms have no negative side effects to the consumer and that they are perfectly healthy, in the past they have stated that there is no need to label GMOs as they are perfectly safe. (Food and Drug) More recently they have stated that it is now voluntary if you want to label GMOs as long as you lie about it, for example you cannot usually say GMO free as there is no way to know if the product truly has to traces of GMOs in it as it could be there unintentionally through the natural reproduction of plants. (Food and Drug). Both of these groups look out for the greater good and health of the people, the NFU of their people and the FDA of the consumers. In the past, the FDA has not cared for the labelling of GMOs as they believe that there is no harm in GMOs and that they are equivalent in nutrients as the non-GMO foods. (Fox) The reason a compromise has not been reached in the past has been due to other groups such as Monsanto and Tyson standing against the labelling while the smaller farmers have no real say in the matter as they make enough for them to live on and most of the time that is it. McGovern 3 A good compromise between the two groups would be the FDA to make it a requirement to label GMO and non-GMO products, the rest will be up to the producer, they label the products as if they have GMOs and what the purpose of the GMOs are in an effort to educate the consumer on what they are consuming and whether or not it has been tested in the past. The FDA would not have full control over the process but rather be a slight regulator making sure the producers are not lying. This QR code would be on easily viewed part of the label of the product so that it cannot be hidden, it would serve as the purpose to allow the people who care about GMOs to learn about them and to see what is in their food in a way that will not confuse them. The FDA can release an app that would serve to read the QR codes on the products while the companies would state in it and word it in ways that could educate on the GMOs if they are truly not harmful to the people they can even have different studies linked and cited in the page that the QR code links to. To summarize, the labelling of GMOs through a system of QR codes that allow people to become educated on the topic and determine if they want to consume it would serve in the best interests of both of the groups. The NFU gets its wish of labelling GMOs while the FDAs main argument was that they were perfectly healthy, well they can state that in the QR codes and make it knows everything that they have studied. McGovern 4 Food and Drug Administration. Guidance for Industry: Voluntary Labeling Indicating Whether Foods Have or Have Not Been Derived from Genetically Engineered FDA. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 24 Nov. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Packman, Hannah. Access to Markets: Organic  National Farmers Union. NFU, 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. NFU. About  National Farmers Union. NFU, 05 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://nfu.org/about/>. FDA. What We  What We Do. FDA, 24 Oct. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.fda.gov/AboutFDA/WhatWeDo/default.htm>. Fox, Maggie. No Need to Label GMO Plants, FDA  NBCNews.com. NBCUniversal News Group, 23 Nov. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.nbcnews.com/health/health-news/theres-no-need-label-gmo-plants-fda-says- n468301>.