Krems 1 Nicklaus Krems Bennington English Composition 2 2/12/2017 Mars Home or Foreign Space: the final frontier to some, the new beginning to others. Despite the side of the fence you find yourself on, there are people challenging the idea that mankind is restricted to just earth. Many are fixated on the ideas of colonizing and exploring mars. Among these groups there are two specific groups planning on sending missions to colonize mars. These two groups consist of SpaceX and Mars One. SpaceX which is widely known as a private company that has heavily funded research toward space faring technology. Mars One on the other hand is a lesser known entity; they are working on gathering a team together to send to colonize mars. Mars One feels that colonizing mars is the next big step for mankind, by colonizing mars they intend to make exploring the solar system a feasible task that can unite humanity and re-ignite interest ins space travel for the next generations. (Mars One) These two groups have focused on different aspects on mars colonization with Mars One predominantly on how to go about colonizing mars and SpaceX on how will humanity reach mars to colonize. Since both groups have focused on these different aspects, if they were to come together they should be able to hasten the speed of planning and going to colonize mars. SpaceX has been known to have pioneered space exploration and when it comes to devising a plan for interplanetary space travel they have succeeded. The Krems 2 system they have designed for interplanetary travel is a multi-step process of lifting a payload into orbit around earth, sending up a refueling rocket to refuel the initial payload, then to have the payload leave orbit around earth into a flight path that will allow for interception, and landing onto any celestial body. (SpaceX Mars) While SpaceX has shown and exhibited its rocketry they have yet to show to keep people alive on the ride to Mars and on the surface. There was no discussion of habitats, food, water, plumbing, or breathable (Rachel Becker) Even though SpaceX has shown that they might have the ability to reach mars they shown that they have any focus on the life sustaining capabilities of colonizing mars this being a big issue as half of the problem of colonizing mars I getting to mars, the other half colonizing it. This is where Mars One can help. Mars One has spent their time focusing on how to go about setting up a permanent colony on mars. Their current plan is to start training the team they intend to have colonize mars. Preparing the group for traveling and colonizing mars is the next big blockade that needs to be accomplished with colonizing mars. Within the next year, Mars One intends on starting full time training of their prospective groups. The training that they have planned includes to repair components of the habitat and rover, train in medical procedures, and learn to grow food in the along with training ability to deal with prolonged periods of time while sequestered in a remote (Mars One). While Mars One has been focusing on how they would be able to set up a colony on mars, (this being one of the big things SpaceX has been missing) Mars One shown that they have any focus on personally setting up a rocket often stating that they would likely be buying rockets for their journeys, even mentioning that it Krems 3 might be a rocket from SpaceX. (Andrew Smith) This showing where SpaceX can help Mars One While the thought of colonizing mars is being tossed around by groups but every group is still years from their missions to colonize mars due to a mixture of traveling to mars, designing the colony/life sustaining tools, and prepping the crew for living on mars. With these challenges, Mars One and SpaceX should work together. Since each group has something to bring to the table that the other and have goals overlap. By working together, they will sacrifice a bit of independence, but at the same time they will generate a partner they can depend on. This has been done in the past when two companies realize that they have the same issues, they work together so they both reach the conclusion they desire. One of these collaborations was between Coca-Cola and Heinz, both companies were looking to create bottles that were made up of more plant-derived material and less fossil fueled based plastics, Coca-Cola has been striving to create this bottle and pinpoint the recipe and working with Heinz who has invested heavily in the machinery to create and test the bottles. (Teresa Turiera & Susanna Cros) This being one example of two companies coming together but not merging and losing all independence to each other. One of the major reasons these two groups mentioned about working with others is that all plans about going to mars lead to the first rocket being launched in 2030 with crew to colonize with supply missions to get resources on mars only a year earlier. (Mars One) Due to any attempt about going to mars being more than 10 years away both companies have any urgency to collaborate. Krems 4 Since SpaceX and Mars One both have overlapping goals but have approached the issues from two separate direction allowing for them to continue working on their current and then combining them together to finalize their goals, it seems to reason that they should work together to hasten their project and efficiently work together to complete their goals. Krems 5 Works cited Mars One, www.mars-one.com/. SpaceX, www.spacex.com/mars. Turiea, Teresa, and Susanna Cros. Business 50 examples of business Feb. 2013, www.co-society.com/wp- Smith, Andrew. Mars One colonise the red The Guardian, Guardian News and Media, 30 May 2015, www.theguardian.com/science/2015/may/30/can-mars- one-colonise-red-planet. Becker, Rachel. race to Mars: how SpaceX ranks against the The Verge, The Verge, 30 Sept. 2016, www.theverge.com/2016/9/30/13114704/spacex-elon-musk-vs-mars-one-nasa- mission-timeline.