Weiner 1 Emily Weiner Kristian Gocinski ENC1102.12 30 January 2017 A Big Difference Recently rates of mental illness among teenagers has been rising; however, most teenagers continue to go untreated. According to the National Alliance on Mental Illness, 1 in 5 youth aged (21.4%) experiences a severe mental disorder at some point during their (About NAMI). This means that a large percentage of struggle with problems concerning their mental health. Until recent times, mental illness has been a topic of controversy resulting in varying policies all over the world. For example, The School Board of Broward County and the National Alliance on Mental Illness have differing opinions about what constitutes an for the purposes of an excused absence. The School Board of Broward County believes that an illness is defined by the physical health of an individual, NAMI believes that it should be defined as both physical and mental health of an individual and while their views on this topic conflict, they both have best interests at heart and can come together to create a compromise. The School Board of Broward County is dedicated to providing the best possible education for elementary, middle, and high school students in order for them to succeed in their futures (Learn More About Broward County Public Schools). With this goal in mind, they create policies that shape the way their education system works. These policies range from dress codes to teacher evaluations. Ultimately the School goal is to create an environment that motivates students to do well academically in order for them to do well in their Weiner 2 futures. In making these decisions the School Board considers all sorts of data, including truancy. The School Board faces is the enormous problem of excessive student absences. In the article 10 percent of students miss too much school written by Alison DeNisco the term is defined as who miss 18 or more days of (DeNisco 28). This term includes excused absences. The article discusses the risks associated with lack of attendance, largely falling behind in school and receiving poor grades (DeNisco 28). Consequentially, the School Board maintains a strict policy on student absence. This policy defines sick days only as days when a student is too physically ill to come to school. While the School Board must do everything in their power to make sure students attend school regularly and broadening the definition of a sick day to include mental health conditions could discourage students from coming to school, ignoring student mental health may also contribute to lower student outcomes. The National Alliance on Mental Illness is dedicated to providing any resources necessary to improve the lives of those affected by mental illness (About NAMI). They do this many ways: listening to problems, providing support, educating the public, and advocating for policy change. Nonetheless, the average person is still largely ignorant about mental health. Through education, NAMI enlightens people about mental illness and teaches people the ways they can provide support to those suffering (About NAMI). It is very important to be proactively helping teenagers get the treatment they need and giving them the tools they need to be successful. At 21.4%, adolescents have the highest rate of mental illness in America (About NAMI). This is not just an issue in the United States, you can see the parallels all over the world. For example, in the article entitled School Perceptions About Mental written by Amanda Soares, Gustavo Estanislau, Elisa Brietzke, Fernando Weiner 3 Rodrigo, and Affonseca Bressan notes the vast number of children are dealing with mental illnesses in Brazil. Although most teachers consider mental wellbeing as part of being healthy, very few relate mental illnesses to mental health (Soares et al. 942). Most the teachers do want to learn more about mental health as a means of helping their students (Soares et al. 942). This is precisely what NAMI wants to do: educate about mental illness. Given the large number of teens confronting mental illnesses, improving mental illness education in schools is particularly important. School Board of Broward County and NAMI in fact have a common goal, the School goal is to help students receive the best education possible to ensure students have successful futures (Learn More About Broward County Public Schools) and goal is to help people who suffer from mental illness in any way possible (About NAMI). In the end, they both want the same thing: a good future for youth. If the School Board and NAMI worked together to achieve their common goal, it would greatly impact the lives of the students suffering from major mental health problems. This partnership could help students who suffer from mental illness achieve their highest potential. NAMI is dedicated to educating the population on mental health; focusing their efforts on schools like those in Broward County can help to achieve both entities goals. In this way, NAMI would be giving the School Board the tools they need to create a policy surrounding excused absences that promotes all students to succeed. Both the School Board of Broward County and NAMI have students best interest at heart, therefore they would likely endorse this compromise. The people who make up the School Board are not specially trained to understand mental illness and how it effects the youth. However, NAMI is qualified to teach the Board of Education what mental illness is and how it in turn Weiner 4 affects their students. NAMI could help the Board of Education in amending their terms of what an excused absence for a sick day is to include mental illness. This amendment will provide the students who suffer from mental illness the time they need to work through their bad days without the pressures of school compounding on top. The same problems occur in the workplace. In an article entitled Accommodations and Natural Supports for Employees with Severe Mental Illness in Social Businesses: An International written by Patrizia Villottir, Marc Ellie Fossey, Franco Fraccaroli, Tania Lecomte, and Carol Harvey, the authors discuss how people who suffer from mental illness have a higher unemployment rate than people with other disabilities. The conclusions drawn in this study about mental illness in the workplace can be applied to mental illness in schools. The study shows that with a few simple accommodations, such as flexible hours, people with severe mental illnesses can thrive in a workplace. People with severe mental illnesses do not do quality work when they must come in on days that their illnesses have flared up (Villotti 3). The same could be said for public schools. Children and adolescents underperform academically when their mental illnesses flare up. When a person who has a preexisting major mental health condition has a day where their symptoms are particularly strong it is often know as a flare up or simply a Many people with severe mental illnesses struggle every day to do simple tasks, such as getting out of bed. It is understandable why their work quality would suffer during these outbursts. You expect a runner to be on the top of the game when he sprains his ankle, nor a student to excel during a flare up. School is the students job, and like the real-world students with mental illnesses may need some accommodations to thrive. NAMI can help the School Board write policies that balance need for mental illness days with the schools need to avoid chronic absences. One such example of a policy Weiner 5 would require students to show proof of a preexisting condition or a note from a psychologist. This will include chronic conditions such as anxiety disorders, bipolar disorder, and depression. It will not include non-psychologist documented cases of school induced anxiety. Another example of a policy that can be put into place to prevent mental illness days from being abused is the limitation the number of days a student can be out of school due to a mental illness. Although NAMI would probably like to have an open-ended policy that allows teenagers to take their mental health into their own hands, the School interest in preventing chronic absence suggest that a compromise is warranted. Overall, both organizations believe that the student comes first and this compromise would be doing just that, putting students first. Mental illness has been a lingering issue all over the world for a long time. With the Nation Alliance on Mental and the Broward County School help, student who suffer from mental illness achieve their highest potential educationally. Amending the definition of a sick day to include mental illness can address some of these lingering issues. Although there is the risk of students abusing such a policy, restrictions can be placed so this is limited. In the end this compromise would prove to be essential in helping mental ill students do their best in public schools, while balancing the School interest in preventing chronic absence. Weiner 6 Work Cited National Alliance on Mental Illness, www.nami.org/About-NAMI. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. DeNisco, Alison. percent of students miss too much District Administration, Vol. 49 NO 11, 2013. pp. 28. eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=d8ec6cbc-64df-4c47-86fc- 1a80f8d5f4d3%40sessionmgr101&vid=2&hid=122. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. More About Broward County Public Schools Broward Schools. www.browardschools.com/About-BCPS. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Soares, Amanda Gustavo Estanislau, et al. Perceptions About Mental Revista de Issue 48 NO 6. Paulo: Faculdade de da Universidade de Paulo, Dec. 2014, pps. 940-948. scielo.br/pdf/rsp/v48n6/0034-8910-rsp-48-6-0940.pdf. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Villotti, Patrizia, Marc et al. Accommodations and Natural Supports for Employees with Severe Mental Illness in Social Businesses: An International Community Mental Health Journal, 2016. Springer www.link.springer.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/article/10.1007/s10597-016-0068-5. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017.