Lopez 1 Marcos Lopez Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102-012 15 February 2017 Together on a United Front Guns have always been an integral part of American culture and politics and, like any other issue, the argument surrounding legislation around guns is heated. With dozens of shootings coming into public view every year, it is to be expected that people take sides. Some feel that more restrictions and legislation on guns will reduce gun violence, and some feel that restricting access to guns will be futile or even detrimental to the goal of eliminating gun violence. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence (CSGV) feels that stricter regulation of firearms will reduce gun violence. By voicing support for universal background checks for anyone who wants to purchase a gun, and proposing a ban on assault weapons in communities, the CSGV aims to reduce and eventually eliminate gun violence by reducing overall access to guns. The National Rifle Association feels that stricter regulation of firearms will do the exact opposite of reducing gun violence. It voices support in favor of gun rights and believes that armed, educated, and responsible civilians is the best way to stop gun violence. However, these two seemingly incompatible groups do have common beliefs. Both feel that gun safety and educating people about the dangers and benefits of gun ownership is crucial to creating responsible gun owners in America. Finding a middle ground, these two groups can agree that guns are valuable tools for self-defense, and that gun ownership is a big responsibility. The NRA and the CSGV could state together that they support universal background checks for those purchasing guns, comprehensive gun safety training, and the protection of right to own assault weapons. Lopez 2 The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, founded in 1973, seeks secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy The two main legal propositions that the group advocates are universal background checks and a ban on civilians purchasing and owning assault weapons. According to the website, 40% of gun purchases in the United States of America happen without a background check, as current federal law does not require private gun sellers, like those at gun shows, to do background checks on buyers According to Clare Guse, Peter Layde, and Steven Sumner in their piece titled Death Rates and Association with Level of Firearm Purchase Background when background checks for those purchasing guns are done on a more local level, by local police departments and smaller agencies that only work in small areas, homicide rates among all age groups are significantly less than when background checks are done by larger national agencies (Guse et al. 3-4). These findings show that the call for universal background checks for both licensed and private gun sales would not only reduce overall homicide rates, but would also significantly reduce suicide rates, especially among the older demographics encompassed by the findings. Looking at the findings put forth in this article, it is apparent that these statistical findings support the claim that more thorough and universal background checks would be an effective step toward reducing gun violence. The National Rifle Association exists protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, especially with reference to the inalienable right of the individual American citizen guaranteed by such Constitution to acquire, possess, collect, exhibit, transport, carry, transfer ownership of, and enjoy the right to use The NRA has since its founding in 1871 encouraged the responsible ownership and use of firearms. In contradiction to the CSGV, the NRA feels that more the putting in place of more legislation to restrict access to Lopez 3 guns will not reduce gun violence, but conversely increase gun violence. Specifically, in regards to an assault weapons ban, the NRA feels that such a ban would have little to no success in reducing gun violence. With statistical evidence, Christopher Koper and Jeffrey Roth, in their article titled Impact of the 1994 Federal Assault Weapon Ban on Gun Violence Outcomes: An Assessment of Multiple Outcome Measures and Some Lessons for Policy use statistical evidence to point out that the assault weapons ban had little to no effect in reducing gun violence overall (Koper and Roth 44). Furthermore, before the assault weapons ban, between 1- 8% of violent gun crimes were committed with assault weapons, and this percentage only went down slightly during and after the ban (Koper and Roth 44). Continuing to disprove that the ban was not effective, Koper and Roth go on to explain that 9-10% of that small reduction in assault weapon crime after the ban can be accounted for by the use of handguns and other firearms as a substitute for assault weapons (45). This evidence, as presented by Koper and Roth, clearly shows that the assault weapons ban of 1994 had little to no positive effect on reducing gun violence. Also, Gary Kleck, Tomislav Kovandzic, and Jon Bellows, in Gun Control Reduce Violent find that reduced gun ownership due to increased gun control has little to no impact on reducing violent crime (503). Even though these two stakeholders seem to be diametrically opposed, they do share areas of common ground. Both the NRA and the CSGV feel that educating the public on responsible gun ownership and on the dangers that guns present are effective ways to reduce gun violence. Both organizations share the common goal of informing the American people about the risks and benefits of responsible gun ownership. They both believing in helping to create a country free from gun violence, but they disagree about the most effective method to achieve such a lofty and virtuous goal. Looking at the two shared goals, it is now easy to Lopez 4 see the common ground they share: ground that can be built upon. However, to come together in a compromise means that each group will have to give something up to the other side. While such concessions may be difficult, it is imperative that these two stakeholders come together to address the daunting issue that our country faces when it comes to guns. Having established that certain views of both the NRA and the CSGV are credible and supported by statistical evidence, they can come together for a compromise that gives each group something that they want. The NRA could concede to the CSGV that thorough universal background checks that look for a history of violent crime, mental disorders, or any other serious red flags would do a great deal of good in reducing gun violence by ensuring that anyone who wants to purchase a gun is evaluated to make sure that he or she can be a responsible gun owner. In return, the CSGV could concede to the NRA that banning assault weapons does very little, if any good, in reducing gun violence, and that taking assault weapons away from civilians at such little gain would be a violation of the second amendment. With these two concessions in mind, the NRA and the CSGV could very easily state together that they support universal background checks and at the same time support right to purchase and own assault weapons. Furthermore, both groups could express a desire for all gun owners to attend extensive gun safety courses that aim to educate people about the benefits and the dangers of gun ownership. Bundled into this compromise is one thing that both organizations support, each organization would have to take a hard look at what the numbers say and realize that some of the other views are supported by cold hard facts. Funding for such thorough background checks and gun safety classes would be paid for by the people who intend to purchase firearms. This increased cost would encourage and remind people that gun ownership is an important responsibility that takes a commitment of both time and money. Lopez 5 The two stakeholders, despite obvious conflict, are capable of meeting halfway to create a compromise that leaves both parties working together on a plan to tackle the polarizing issue of gun control. They might disagree on how to achieve a society free from gun violence, but this compromise would be an important first step in working together to reduce gun violence. Funding for the universal background checks would come out of the gun pockets, as gun ownership is an important investment of time, care, and money. To put this compromise into place, the CSGV would rally and voice support for the right to own assault weapons, and the NRA would voice support for universal background checks. Furthermore, each group would support the other in this joint operation to reduce and possibly eliminate the plague of gun violence in order to create a safer America. Lopez 6 Works Cited Bellows, Jon, Gary Kleck, and Tomislav Kovandzic. Gun Control Reduce Violent Criminal Justice Review, vol. 41, no. 4, 2013, pp. 489-513. 10.1177/0734016816670457. Accessed 30 January 2017. to Stop Gun Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. CSGV, 2016. http://csgv.org/. Accessed 30 January 2017. Guse, Clare E., Peter M. Layde, and Steven A. Sumner. and Death Rates and Association with Firearm Purchase Background American Journal of Preventive Medicine, vol. 35, no. 1, 2008, pp. 1-6. 10.1016/j.amepre.2008.03.023. Accessed 30 January 2017. Koper, Christopher S., and Jeffrey A. Roth. Impact of the 1994 Federal Assault Weapon Ban on Gun Violence Outcomes: An Assessment of Multiple Outcome Measures and Some Lessons for Policy Journal of Quantitative Criminology, vol. 17, no. 1, 2001, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/23366772. Accessed 30 January 2017. National Rifle Association of America Home National Rifle Association NRA Website Gateway. NRA, 2009. www.nra.org/home.aspx. Accessed 30 January 2017.