Bazan 1 Valeria Bazan Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 12 February 2017 A Change In Awareness Laws are continuously being challenged by one of the biggest emotional debates, the right to die. Tackled on many sides, physician-assisted suicide has become a societal, ethical and constitutional issue. Opponents to the right to die such as the disability group, Not Dead Yet, believe that suicide and euthanasia are forms of and have more of a moral perspective on the issue Dead Yet ). In contrast, there are non-profit organizations such as Compassion and Choices, to improving care and expanding choice at the end of life & Choices Although these two groups have opposite views on topics such as euthanasia and the right to die, they also share other common values. Yet Dead and Compassion & Choices should join forces to form a compromise that will insure everyone with a lifelong, substantial health-care plan while also still acknowledging, but not promoting, an willingness to choose an earlier death. = Most people are not willing to but Compassion & Choices, believe death should definitely be an available option for those who are terminally ill. They legally push to create programs that will provide patients with a well-rounded health care plan personalized to their values & Choices) . They assist and provide resources to patients who choose to end their life in any state where assisted suicide and euthanasia is legal & Choices ). Compassion & Choices also involve themselves federally by supporting bipartisan legislation in Bazan 2 Congress & Choices ). Recently, their New York outreach manager, Amanda Cavanaugh along with others, have been pushing for law, death with dignity, to be established in New York through a bill called the Medical Aid in Dying Act for 2017 right to  The act would make New York the seventh state to allow assisted suicide to be an option for those who are terminally ill and mentally stable to make such a decision. As a large organization, Compassion & Choices has also created Medicare and Medicaid service centers that promote their mission of expanding option and improving care. Opposing the legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia, the disability rights group, Not Dead Yet (The Resistance), believes these are forms of discrimination towards the elderly, ill and disabled Dead Yet ). They have devised strategies such as writing articles, engaging in public presentations and have put forth legislative efforts to increase awareness on why assisted suicide is not the answer. They have come to conclusions through the Oregon Report that most patients who are diagnosed as terminally ill have a false diagnosis Dead Yet ). They hate to see with severe disabilities get from Medicaid programs that provide basic help Dead Yet such as Not Dead Yet are wary about support for assisted suicide since, 30 percent of Medicare expenditures are for patients in the last six months of life and about 16 percent of patients die in, or soon after leaving, intensive care units Is It Ethical to Affirm a Right to  as one of their main goals, Not Dead Yet, also wants to ensure that any life-sustaining medical treatment whether it is the decision to continue or not, will be voluntary. From the information provided, these two organizations seem to be in discordance with one another due to their opposite primary supports right to die, while the other one does Bazan 3 not. When dealing with such an emotional issue there will be different perspectives to view it from. People are wary about the societal issues, referred to as the that the legalization of the right to die might bring. This includes the belief that could become confiscation, police could become instruments of oppression, public education could become indoctrination, Is It Ethical to Affirm a Right to However, the National Review includes a report by The Economist that concluded that one third of those medically prescribed with lethal drugs do not end up using them but feel secure enough with having the option. Ethical and moral issues come into hand when the perspective of choosing to die is seen upon Many people are diagnosed as terminally ill, and proponents for the right to die believe it is the right to dictate whether they want to keep pushing through the remaining possible painful weeks of their death, or choose to be assisted to a professional, painless suicide through a assistance. The proponents believe it is unconstitutional for the government to be able to override our right to death as everyone has the right to with This belief however is refuted by Not Dead Yet, as they view it as a negative stereotype insinuates people with disabilities lack dignity Dead Yet ). As explored, this is a huge ping pong issue with different perspectives and ideologies being thrown back and forth refuting and proving both sides to the argument. This is why there must be action taken to set forth a compromise. An awareness campaign with Compassion & Choices that will promote life will stick up to both of their mission and statements. A compromise with Not Dead Yet and Compassions & Choices, would involve some more of an open-minded involvement by Not Dead Yet but the importance is that a lot of their other common values would be held upon. Compassion & Choices, is frankly quite larger and has been Bazan 4 more persuasive with their motives over the many years it has been established. The option of the right to die should be left on the table as a choice but not embraced. This means that it is awareness and the push for better medical services that should be embraced by these two groups instead of focusing on whether choosing death is right or not. With such legal impact that Compassion & Choices has shown, they should be pushing forward policies for a better life-long health care plan. They should keep up their centers that advise on Medicare and Medicaid, and Not Dead Yet should bring awareness to these centers as one of their core values is to ensure a righteous treatment to all patients. Compassion & Choices should also keep up their guides in case that is the route some patients want to go. However, the key compromise here is not to advertise or embrace this idea. Both advertising campaigns could appeal to the religious audience by supporting the idea that life is indeed a precious gift worth keeping and that these better health care plans will ensure this. This will be seen as an embracement of life positivity by those who do not have a religious stance on the subject. The right to die continues to be an emotional issue concerning people at a societal, ethical and constitutional level. It is for their own best for two opposing organizations such as Not Dead Yet, who is against the right to die, and Compassion & Choices, who are proponents for the legalization of assisted suicides and euthanasia, to work together in bringing a positive life awareness. It is not death in which they should be focusing on but instead those common core values they both share where they believe everybody has the right for a proper life-long health care. Bazan 5 Work Cited Compassion &  & Choices . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Not Dead  Dead Yet . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The right to  Economist . The Economist Newspaper, 27 June 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Press-Republican, Robi Caudell. A right to  . N.p., 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Will, George. Is It Ethical to Affirm a Right to  Review . N.p., 31 Aug. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.