McMahon 1 Jennifer McMahon Adam Phillips ENC1102.026 12 February 2017 A Fashion Revolution Plays into Action Fast fashion retailers, such as Forever 21, are known to quickly transform the constantly changing runway trends from bold and expensive to casual and cheap. Consumers are drawn into fast fashion retailers because of their affordable prices. Most consumers do not realize that the inexpensive clothing pieces sold by these retailers are significantly lower due to the cheap materials and labor used to produce them. This strategy is not only terrible for the workers who get placed in poor conditions, but the environment takes a toll as well. There are some organizations, such as Fashion Revolution, who are fighting against these retailers. Although fast fashion retailers have noticed the consequences taken on the environment, it is still hard for them to completely stop their methods since they are benefitting from them. In order to help the environment through this dilemma, there would have to be a donation center that accepts and uses any and all kinds of textiles. This has not happened yet because there are already existing thrift stores that have a similar purpose. However, thrift stores are known to resell only a small fraction of the clothes and throw away the rest into the landfills. Though each stakeholder will have to give up a particular aspect with this compromise, it will not only save Forever 21 from switching material that could hinder their success, but will also help the environment by reducing the amount of pollution that comes from un-used or worn clothes. Though Forever 21 tackles fast fashion consequences like labor laws, they still do not face aspects that Fashion Revolution disagrees with. The main goal is become an $8 McMahon 2 billion company by 2017 and open 600 stores in the next three (Forever 21). By reaching their goal, Forever 21 would not particularly want to change their supply chain because that would lead into a decrease in their consumers since Forever 21 would have to use materials other than genetically modified cotton and polyester, which is more costly. In a study about fashion branding, Larry Meyer mentions, want the customer to feel there is always going to be something new and exciting (Comunale 8). This aspect of fast fashion will never change because there are too many retailers with an abundant amount of consumers that gravitate to this aspect of fast fashion. People do not realize the extent fast fashion takes on the environment because they do not think about where their old or unworn clothes end up once thrown out. Since the cheap materials used by these retailers are not considered to be biodegradable, they will pollute the environment (The True Cost). Forever 21 has taken notice of how poorly the fashion industry treats the Earth and wants to find different ways to help, while still successful. A non-profit organization that will go the distance just to show consumers how poor the fashion industry treats our planet and the people in it is Fashion Revolution. Their mission statement is believe in an industry that values people, the environment, creativity and profit in equal (Moore 19). To fulfill their mission, Fashion Revolution not only advertises for everyone to the fashion and to ask made my but they also conducted a study on how many retailers are unaware of a few aspects of their company. This includes their standards are for the protection of workers and the environment, how well the company knows its supply chain, how the company deals with suppliers who fail to meet the standards, how the company presents this information to their consumers, and what checks and balances the company (Moore 5). This study shows consumers the transparency of fast fashion retailers and how their make their products. According to a study conducted by Grete McMahon 3 Birtwsitle, were unaware of the need for clothing recycling, however, they did agree that there was a general lack of knowledge of how and where clothing was disposed of, or even how it was (214). Fashion Revolution wants to show both consumers and retailers how the fashion industry should reconsider the techniques and materials used that is negatively affecting the environment enormously. Despite Forever 21 and Fashion differences, they both can agree on one thing: the fashion industry is destroying the environment tremendously. Both stakeholders are focused on how to help the environment through the fashion industry. Forever 21 has made the effort in showing their consumers that Fashion Revolution wants to occur. In fact, Fashion Revolution gave Forever 21 a low rating that represented that they are making to no evidence that the company has more than a Code of Conduct in (Moore 6). Both of these stakeholders are at complete odds with each other, but they show a mutual agreement that can connect into a compromise. A compromise that would have a balance on what both stakeholders want would be a donation center that will collect and use all textiles donated. The goal of this donation center would be to reduce the amount of wasted textiles that are getting tossed into landfills. Opening a donation center that collects 100% of the clothes and materials would be feasible because it would just be a matter of promoting the center to anyone who decides to get rid of their clothes. If the advertisement presented the reasons behind the creation of it, there is a good chance that people will choose these donation centers over thrift stores. The reason why this compromise has not been used yet is because thrift stores are supposed to work similarly. However, they are known to only resell a small percentage of their clothing and throw out the rest that will not sell. In a study led by Yvonne Steinbring about second-hand clothes, she mentions that McMahon 4 of clothing and textiles is an important consideration in both thrift stores and yard (37). Most thrift stores base their donated textiles off of how clean they are; in which they know that there is a chance the pieces will be resold. With the donation center, they will find a way to use the material that will not be able to get re-sold. Some of these ideas may include blankets, recycled bags, and much more usable items. By re-using the worn out textiles, the amount of material getting thrown into the landfills will decrease, therefore helping the environment. The following compromise that reaches middle ground between the two stakeholders will force both parties to lose one thing in order to gain the other. It will work for Forever 21 because they would not have to give up using the materials that keeps their retail prices at a minimum. Whereas this compromise also helps the environment, like Fashion Revolution wants to occur. Both stakeholders will have to make sacrifices to gain the benefits of aiding the environment. Some of these sacrifices include Forever 21 possibly losing customers since the donation centers will promote the negative aspects of fast fashion, and Fashion Revolution will have to face the fact that big retailers will not switch their supply chain completely. Nonetheless, this donation center will assist the environment by decreasing the amount of pollution. The fashion industry is hurting the environment through fast fashion in many aspects. Forever 21, one of the main retailers participating in this dilemma, has attempted to become more sustainable for the sake of the environment. However, there are many things they are still performing that impact the consequences of fast fashion, such as the materials being used that Fashion Revolution is against. The common ground between the two stakeholders is that they care about the environment. Therefore, in order to make an improvement in this situation, opening up a donation center that used every piece of textile would reduce the amount of waste thrown into landfills. This compromise could not only potentially decrease the amount of McMahon 5 pollution in the environment, but also not having to blame the fashion industry for the pollution difficulty the world is facing today. McMahon 6 Works Cited Birtwsitle, Grete, and Christopher M. Moore. Does it All End International Journal of Retail & Distribution Management, vol. 35, no. 3, 2007, pp. 210-216. Accessed 10 February 2017. Comunale, Amanda. Are Who You Wear: A Conceptual Study of the Fashion Branding Practices of H&M, Forever 21, and Urban Journal of the Re-tail Image, 2008, pp. 1-12. Accessed 10 February 2017. Forever21. Careers Forever 21. Accessed 10 February 2017. Moore, Bryony. Transparency FASHION REVOLUTION FASHION TRANSPARENCY INDEX, April 2016, pp. 1-19. Accessed 10 February 2017. Steinbring, Yvonne, and Margaret Rucker. of Post-Consumer Textiles and Journal of Family and Consumer Sciences, vol. 95, no. 2, 2003, p. 33. Accessed 10 February 2017. The True Cost. Directed by Andrew Morgan, performances by Livia Giuggioli, Stella McCartney, and Vandana Shiva, Life is My Movie Entertainment Company, and Untold Creative, 29 May 2015.