Smith 1 Storm Smith Professor Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 012 15 February 2017 Female College Athletes Fighting for Gold and Profits Female athletes ranking in the top 100, get paid $13 to $23 million in endorsements while a male athlete can make from $28 up to $58 million in endorsements and promotions (Richards). Recent controversies involving the Title IX rule, with the gender breakdown of collegiate athletes have caused colleges to look into these cases that are involving sex discrimination, and endorsement contracts. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) is the main attribute when it comes to athletes in college, whether you are division I, II, or III, you are linked to the NCAA and must follow the contract which has regulations and commitments. Entertainment and Sports Programming Networks (ESPN), is a main contributor to endorsements with athletes both professional and collegiate as well as male and female athletes. While the NCAA mainly deals with college athletes and maintaining their goals; ESPN involves professional athletes among collegiate and the fans that follow the sports. NCAA and main goals are to keep sports entertaining for fans while providing the athletes involved an opportunity to make a name for themselves as well as expanding their future in sports. College athletics have many regulations regarding their profile and their portrayal towards the public; endorsements from ESPN allow for athletes to jumpstart their careers as well as a franchise, this promotion does not impact female athletes most the time. The NCAA and ESPN should come together to create new regulations and contracts to allow endorsements for both Smith 2 male and female athletes in college to be able to be sponsored before entering the professional world. The mission statement is purpose is to govern competition in a fair, safe, equitable and sportsmanlike manner, and to integrate intercollegiate athletics into higher education so that the educational experience of the student-athlete is (NCAA Core Values). The equality based in the collegiate sports continues to be a cause for many issues involving; cutting of athletes from teams to keep the gender breakdown at an equal minimum creating cases of sex discrimination. Even with the Title IX coming into existence, athletes still only account for thirty-five percent of college athletes and garner less than a quarter of annual athletic operating and recruiting (Lynch). The statistics show even when rules are set, female athletes continue to be a lower count in the overall percentage of collegiate athletes. This puts female athletes at a disadvantage for endorsements and opportunities in making money and going professional because their name is not out in the eye. Many advocates for female athletes recognize problems with cutting men athletes to maintain participation rates but know that sports get more recognition than female sports. The Title IX law itself speaks nothing of athletics but just in maintaining equality between men and women and hinders discrimination based on sex in federal programs. The issue of Title IX may be resolved by creating the same number of teams for females as there are for males. There continues to be an increase in male sports participation than in female sports which can cause universities to defund certain athletics to save money. While participation numbers cause problems the real issue in athletics are the endorsements. goals are serve sports fans wherever sports are watched, listened to, discussed, debated, read about, or (ESPN Mission Statement). Using athletes to endorse Smith 3 products is widespread because athletes who are top in their game can derive significant income from these promotions. Both the endorser and the athlete must be cautious when it comes to endorsements to protect their image from being negatively affected. image is particularly at risk if the product is one that is linked to health (Till). Athletes have a lot riding on their careers so they must stay in safe promotions so their athletic careers are not jeopardized. Athletes such as; Michael Jordan, Mark McGuire, Ken Griffey, Jr., and Jeff Jordan [who are all male have given their name out to be used as promotions and endorsements which have led them to have brands based around their sports career. When asked which athletes are given endorsements they are typically male athletes so the issue that can be brought up is why are female athletes not as endorsed or promoted as male athletes. Endorsements have even branched out to extreme sports, Tony Hawke, and has gained a lot of publicity and popularity in the promotions field. Endorsement companies want to promote those athletes who bring in the most money so they can branch off into more sub companies to keep their audience engaged. ESPN hosts many athletes on their shows to conduct interviews about their past or upcoming season, discuss topics that have been brought up within the life or to debate about something that has come up within the sports family. Female sports have been pushed to the bottom of the discussion topics even though recently female athletes have been making headlines. While the NCAA and ESPN are top supporters for athletes in different ways they still have common attributes to benefit athletes. While both companies, NCAA and ESPN, try to maintain their perfect image they have similar values that would allow them to be able to come together to work out an agreement. Since sports are their main source of profit, they want to keep them entertaining to watch for the fans as well as the athletes themselves. When issues pertaining to sex discrimination arise Smith 4 thoughts are based on one thing- getting the issue handled and to find way how to lower these incidents. When the athletes are happy, they perform better which makes fans happy and then they continue to watch sports and spend money on the sports franchise. The NCAA and ESPN want to create inviting environments so athletes come to them which then brings in more advertisements and profits. With similar values relating to both companies the ability to create agreements can come with ease. The male-dominant sports world it is shown that male athletes have made more money in endorsements than any female athlete could imagine. But since the rise of female in sports, the marketing industry has been leaning towards female promoters and giving the money to female athletes than just male athletes. Female sports have never ranked in the contracts with top brands due to the competition with male athletes, recent lit of the highest- paid athletes, Maria Sharapove and Serena Williams, were the only women to crack the top one (Richards). Even with top female athletes making up to $23 million male athletes break that making $28 to $58 million and even higher depending on the sport. An agreement that can be made is the revision of the NCAA contracts for college athletes to allow for more opportunities with endorsements with ESPN or other agencies such as Nike or UnderArmour. This can allow for both male and female athletes to give their name out to sponsor companies which can benefit them if they pursue the professional level. Female athletes work just as hard and bring many fans to watch them especially, the U.S National Soccer Team, and yet female athletes are not as promoted like that of male athletes. Katie Richards stated that since recently, athletes like Serna Williams and Ronda Rousey have begun to campaign with sponsors like Gatorade, Beats by Dre, Reebok and many other top brands to get their names out for female athletes to want to too. By bringing more female athletes into the endorsement ring along beside Smith 5 the male athletes, companies like ESPN, Nike, UnderArmour, etc. will continue to bring in profits and keep a positive image. Bringing more female athletes into the world of endorsements and promotions will benefit not only athletes but also companies sponsoring them because they will be making money. The NCAA will be able to supervise their athletes making sure they are doing the proper thing and following the rules; ESPN can bring in more viewers. Both goal is to keep discrimination out of the colleges and the press, they want the athletes to be safe and have their only stress be who wins the national championship. Smith 6 Works Cited Mission Storify.com, https://storify.com/apstarnes/espn-mission-statement Core NCAA.org The Official Site of the NCAA, www.ncaa.org/about/ncaa-core-values Lynch, Michael W. TITLE PYRRHIC VICTORY. (Cover  Reason, vol. 32, no. 11, 2001, pp. 28. Richards, Katie. Why Brands Are Finally Choosing More Female Athletes For Big Endorsement  Adweek, 2015, pp. 1. Till, Brian D. Managing Athlete Endorser Image: The Effect Of Endorsed  Sport Marketing Quarterly, vol. 10, no. 1, 2001, pp. 35-42.