Perley 1 Monica Perley Kristopher Luce ENC1101 January 21, 2017 Social equality is a wonderful concept, something Star Trek has set an unobtainable standard for, considering this day and age. While the civil rights act is very inclusive and it mirrors the standards set by Star Trek, our society falls short of living and believing in these standards. US history has had waves of social progress and dips of civil regression in social equality but the definition of social equality can be murky. First, we should define social equality, identify what it includes and does not include. Achieving steady progress in social equality requires a steady definition. The ups and downs on this journey causes one to ask, is the rollercoaster ride a result of innate characteristics? Is it a lack of basic human decency? Could it be the result of effective rhetoric? We will examine these issues and attempt to answer these questions. Fourie, Carina, fourie@philos.uzh.ch. What Is Social Equality? An Analysis of Status Equality As A Strongly Egalitarian  Res Publica (13564765) 18.2 (2012): 107-126. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 20 Jan. 2017. This article defines what social equality in true meaning is. It aims to separate issues that most people associate with social equality which are quite different, such as social distribution, or a concern of deprivation for those who are worst off and emphasizes this is not an issue covered by social equality. The article also includes the role perception plays in social equality while some consider a title to indicate social hierarchy others view as a tool to indicate Perley 2 profession and expertise. The article also discusses the negative impact social inequalities have on society and while most would assume the negative impacts only affect the worst off, that is not the case. The Author of the article Carina Fourie is the Assistant Professor in Medical Ethics at the Philosophy Department of the University of Washington. I plan to use the information in her article to help create an understanding of what social equality is and is not. I would also like to include studies she referenced with negative effects of social hierarchy. History, Art & Archives, U.S. House of Representatives, House and Civil http://history.house.gov/exhibitions-and-publications/civil-rights/ Web (January 19, 2017) The piece on the civil rights website discussed the history of civil rights in America, it documents early America, before the government recognized equality among its citizens. History shows some liberties we practice/celebrate today were hard fraught. However, after all the turmoil the desired outcome was achieved, on a legal basis. The original civil rights act has been expanded and now is more inclusive. I intend to use the information from the history house to show that for something to be made legal there is an undertone that it was morally unethical. I also intend to point out how it is both a positive and a negative thing to have an inclusive law created to protect the civil liberties of all Americans no matter color, race, sexual orientation, disability, familial status, etc. The website is credible because it contains well documented history. Abrutyn, Seth, and Michael J. Carter. The Decline in Shared Collective Conscience as Found in Perley 3 the Shifting Norms and Values of Etiquette  Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour 3 (2015): 352. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. This article examines the changes in etiquette over the years and theorizes why these changes may have taken place. The authors assert Emile theory that becomes more generalized and abstract in a society as it becomes more complex and As a part of their research they review several books on etiquette and most frequently refer to Emily Etiquette and noted volumes from 1922, 1937 and Post, et al., 2011. They point out the difference between the specific vs. generalization, demanding vs. encouraging and extreme vs. moderate sanctions for etiquette violators. One of the major differences is what they define as etiquette; the original version of first volume was quite harsh but by her 18 th edition her definition had softened and was inclusive of all members of modern society. In the conclusion, they propose different reasoning but come full circle to Emile theory and while they acknowledge based on the method of their research they cannot come to a solid conclusion they feel enough evidence supports the theory. Seth Abrutyn is an Assistant professor at the University of Memphis. Seth has a PhD in Sociology with a specialty in general sociological theory. Michael Carter is a professor at California State University, Northridge. Michael has a PhD in Sociology and researches social psychology. I plan to use their article to examine the changes in etiquette over the years and further review the possible reasons for the changes they identified and investigate the role of etiquette within the frame of social equality. McLeod, Saul Simply Psychology 2015 web. Jan 28, 2017 http://www.simplypsychology.org/piaget.html Perley 4 The page discusses developmental psychology according to Jean Piaget, more specifically the process of learning in children. It talks about the history of work and what inspired him to further study learning in children. The building blocks of learning, or schemata, as termed by notable developmental psychologist Piaget and represented in his cognitive theory are reviewed and the process of learning is explained based on studies. The stages of development are reviewed. The author notes implications in modern education. The page also lists criticism of work (per other researchers), not all people ever achieve the full spectrum of cognitive theory and that later researchers found differences amongst cultures. Saul McLeod is a Psychology Tutor at the University of Manchester with a BSc in Psychology, Masters in Research, Post Graduate Certificate in teaching and pursuing PhD. While the website does not indicate peer review, the works of Jean Piaget and summary on this site can be cross referenced with other notable sites, articles and textbooks. This article will be used to consider social equality and/or lack thereof. It is important to consider how and what people learn as children and how it affects the person they become, to include their view on social equality. These are especially important factors in understanding human behaviors.