Cruz 1 Alan Cruz Mrs. Hanson Section 013 13 February 2017 Television broadcasting The television is in the corner of the room, while the mother is holding the baby in her arms. Right out of the womb the television is one out of the many objects that humans technically see first and it also plays a tremendous role in their lives. Whether someone is watching animal planet or MTV they are gaining some type of information and exerting it in some way. Nowadays, the question that is being brought to the table is whether or not the television broadcastings are becoming too violent and graphic, showing things that are not for television. For instance, the fact that violence and some type of nudity is being shown on television, a tremendous amount of people believe that this affects the mind of children and many teenagers. For instance, the Television Council(PTC) is a non- partisan education organization that advocates responsible entertainment. Their website contains many tabs in which parents and others can get help with choosing the channels they want on their cable, tips for parents, and TV picks of the week. To add on, the opposing organization is the Federal Communications Commission(FCC) and instead of broadcasting things that will only benefit the youth, they monitor what the people want to watch as a whole. Both Television Council and the Federal Communications Commission stand for two different objects. Even though this is true the PTC is showing parents what their kids could and should be watching, while FCC is broadcasting the shows everyone wants to see Cruz 2 including the ones for children. Many put the blame on those who get to choose what is being chosen for broadcasting. Despite the fact that those who monitor the broadcastings play a slight role, whoever is against the violence that is being shown on television such as the Television Council can come together with the Federal Communication Commission and rate, give suggestions and new ideas that can make it easier for viewers to watch what they want. There is plenty of information in which validates that broadcasters are showing things that would not have been shown five years ago. It is said that what is being shown has effects that are complex and people will act out emotionally depending on what they are watching (Johnson 1). For example, if a child watches a show that has to do with ninjas and they are constantly fighting it is said that the thoughts will act on aggression. This not only affects the thoughts but what he or she does too. Furthermore, television is showing different stereotypes that deals with toughness and aggression. It shows Aggression being a characteristic that is often associated with the masculine. (Fine 154) The word aggression is not supposed to have a gender but people tend to align different kinds of aggression with gender. This also adds on to gender inequality and that is just being shown from what type of genre being shown on television. Due to all of the information being shown above the Television Council is trying to prevent all of this from happening. They try to make sure that all these shows being broadcasted are not manipulating the mind of the youth. However, the youth nowadays loves playing video games and making sure there are no enemies alive. Videos games are being broadcasted on televisions and trying to get kids to always buy the new upcoming game. Both video games and television Cruz 3 broadcastings show attributes of violence. It was shown that video games have become more widespread over the decades and yet the youth violence has dropped. (Ferguson 390) The video games being played and the drop of youth violence may not have a direct correlation. The fact that video games are becoming more complex, and more graphic the violence rate is still dropping. Now how is one to put the blame on the way say society acts on what is being viewed if video games are not playing a major role in altering mindset. Clearly what is being watched or played is not going to be completely portrayed by a child or young adult. It is also detected to be spotty with the long terms affect. (Ferguson 389) If study shows video games are not contributing to the violence in the society, how could those monitoring television do any harm if they are the ones finding what the majority of the population wants to watch and not forcing any one to do any harm. Due to the controversy, there are government officials wanting to do further research on the correlation with games and television broadcasting because they both are a source of entertainment. This also applies to what the Federal Communications Commission does., which is to broadcast the interest and wanting to please society. Both sides of these two organizations have validity. The catastrophe of corrupting can be dealt by both of the organizations. There are other aspects that can play a role to a Childs behavior. For instance, a child or teen that has aggressive traits and is in a bad mood are more prone to behaviors of bullying. (Kutner and Beresins 1) Knowing this, one could assume that the child is attracted to playing video games and watching shows or movies that have violence in them. This does not mean that his or her Cruz 4 life is predicted by playing games in real life. The games, shows and movies are just correlated to what kids want to play and watch. Next, both the Television Council and the Federal Communications Commission are trying to make television viewing accessible for viewers. The Television Council is mostly looking out to help adults with kids. To add on, the Federal Communications Commission broadcasts shows and movies depending on the ratings. These ratings could be altered by the organizations as long as they give their opinions and rate what they want to watch. The Federal communication commission has different tools on their website that can help viewers with any problems they are having. Also having the rating set in categories will help with the accuracy of what particular age groups should watch. The Television Council and the Federal Communications Commission are on two separate sides of the podium trying to argue their point across but in reality they are both helping and reaching out to the public. Even though they are not completely on the same page, the PTC trying to help monitor what kids are watching and the FCC cares more about what everyone would like to watch. In all, they can come together and the least they can do is listen to each opinions and make watching television appropriate for all ages. Cruz 5 Works Cited Fine, Kerry. She Hits Like A Man, But She Kisses Like A Girl: TV Heroines, Femininity, Violence, And  Western American Literature 2 (2012): 152. Project MUSE. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ferguson, Christopher J. Video Games And Youth Violence: A Prospective Analysis In  Journal Of Youth And Adolescence 40.4 (2011): 377-391. ERIC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Johnson, Roger N. Bad News Revisited: The Portrayal Of Violence, Conflict, And Suffering On Television  Peace And Conflict: Journal Of Peace Psychology 2.3 (1996): 201-216. PsycARTICLES. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Eggerton, John. Senators push to study TV, video-game  Multichannel News 2013: 3. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Olson, CK, L Kutner, and EV Beresin. Children And Video Games: How Much Do We  Psychiatric Times 24.12 (2007): 41-45. CINAHL. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.