West 1 Jillian West Prof. Gocinski ENC 1102-012 15 February 2017 Sexual Objectification of Women a woman is embodied, so is she (E. Kaschak, 1992). The same features we choose to idolize about a woman are the same features used to ridicule their value. The media sexually objectifies women for the appeasement of a male audience. Women are continuously used in advertisements to sell many products such as Chanel, Budweiser and certain fast food restaurants. The way they are modeled is by their body parts, as objects, to sell to the public what the product provides. Companies like Collective Shout are against these types of marketers because they provide distorted perceptions of women and sex. Dolce & Gabbana designs aesthetic fashion appealed across the world, but their advertisements question their respect for women. The commonality between both stakeholders is that they have respect for the body of women and young girls. Through a compromise of sacrifice and understanding these two will come to agreeance. Dolce & Gabbana advertises their alluring fashion to capture a eye. Apart from their mission to create, design, produce and distribute high-end clothing, Dolce & Gabbana values everyone and prohibits discrimination. According to Dolce & Codice of Ethics, form of discrimination and harassment must be prohibited, paying constant attention to creating and maintaining a safe, healthy and adequate working environment, in which all Employees and Co-workers are protected. These are the essential conditions which ensure for the participating in the pursuit of the corporate of West 2 They provide an environment in which everyone is respected. In this article it describes fashion as an aesthetic; that fashion is structured by stylization, glamorous, and sexualization. Through research it is found that fashion across nations does not vary by much. With this in consideration, the way women are advertised across the world is similar and appreciated as remarkable art. argue that (cultural) sociologists should take aesthetics seriously, as aesthetics forms partly independent dimension that cannot be reduced to structural factors or field (van der Laan and Giselinde). The aesthetics represented in fashion cannot be boxed into other ideas because they do not compare. Researchers found that fashion images can represent a multitude of elements and that the true meaning depends on the context of each element and how it is interpreted. Dolce & Gabbana do not choose to objectify women through their fashion, only to express their remarkable aesthetic. Women are objectified to look a certain shape, small waists, long legs, lighter skin tone, within their advertisements and are provided as sex symbols. In a particular advertisement, one woman was surrounded by four men. She had less clothes on compared to the men in the photoshoot and was restrained to the floor by one of the men & Gabbana - Photos - Most controversial banned With their lack of diversity in women models and projected insinuation of sexual assault it promotes a false idea of women in the media. The way their advertisements are interpreted shows that their voice on the topic of objectification is underrepresented. Collective Shout is an organization that shames and exposes corporations, advertisers, marketers and media engaging in practices which are offensive and harmful, especially to women and girls, and also to men and Collective Advertisements that reinforce dishonest ideas about girls, sexuality and relationships are the marketers Collective Shout actively exposes. This article discusses a White House Council West 3 Report on Women and Girls and how sexual assault has become prevalent on college campuses. It is assumed by feminist scholars that since the media sexually objectifies women it promotes the idea of sexual assault; that women and girls like being touched and looked at a certain way in the media so society accepts the same behavior in everyday life, study proposed that the more men are exposed to objectifying depictions, the more they will think of women as entities that exist for sexual gratification (specific sexual scripting), and that this dehumanized perspective on women may then be used to inform attitudes regarding sexual violence against (Wright and Tokunaga). As men witness objectification of women they believe that the existence of women is for their gratification and that women are less than human, so their act of sexual violence against them is valid. Collective Shout believes that with the acceptance of objectifying media, women and young girls suffer mistreatment. It can seem comical or a political tactic to others, but to women it harms their security. It teaches young girls that their competence, security and appreciation is dependent on how they look and they are compared to those women lusted after in the media. The common ground between stakeholders is their appreciation of women and young girls. During their 30 th anniversary fall collection, Dolce & Gabbana served to provide a look and chose to highlight the most valuable job in the world, motherhood. on two powerful ingredients, love and memory, the collection showed prints of drawings (done by eight nieces and nephews), classic Sicilian black, and roses strewn everywhere, because, Dolce explains, the flower you give to the person you (Persivale). Dolce & Gabbana serves to uplift women and in this particular collection, celebrate the beauty of life provided by mothers. Dolce & merchandise displays the confidence of women, to inquire ideas of an elegant, beautiful, and competent woman. Collective Shout serves to respect West 4 women and their securities, to alienate the perception of women as sexual objects with no sufficient purpose and to prevent the practices of harmful and offensive acts against women and young girls Collective Collective Shout addresses media across all realms as music artist Tyler, The Creator received confrontation when he was on tour in Australia back in 2015. Collective Shout was campaigning against his lyrics that referenced rape and violence against women. Because of who he is as a celebrity, Collective Shout wanted him to acknowledge the fault in his words and that he have to rely on the exploitation of women to generate The Creator Once it is acknowledged that what is provided in the media is influenced by everyone then there will be gender justice within our society. More marketers will adhere to diversity of their audience and how advertisements can be interpreted and misconstrued that is why perhaps the best form of resistance is, first of all, the simple awareness that the female body is a gazed-upon body and secondly, the unrelenting conviction and steadfast commitment to reject that condition. Only by turning into a as Braidotti (2011b) has advocated, and by harnessing that strength for the enterprise of empowerment, can society move ahead more steadily towards gender (Ponterotto). In order for society to come to agreeance there has to be recognition of a body as a beautiful thing, and by using their differences as strength for a source of empowerment instead of decreasing their strength to a weakness used only for the appeasement of men. Dolce & Gabbana have to acknowledge that though their intentions in their advertisements is not to promote sexual violence nor to offend any women, certain media they project does present dishonest perceptions of sex and women. This is not to disrespect their aesthetic fashion, but to propose an alternative that challenges their marketing to campaign against sexual violence and promote women individuality. In this West 5 instance, Dolce & Gabbana would be introducing all types of women in to their advertisements and acknowledge their differences. They would highlight certain women seen in everyday life, like construction etc., to enlighten the world of how powerful women are and their body parts would not be objectified. Collective Shout would comply by accepting that this process will take some time considering that Dolce & Gabbana have been in business for more than 30 years and a change in marketing takes a minimum of 5 years to take effect. Dolce & Gabbana have acquired a certain type of audience during their years of existence so if they were to change their advertisements so abruptly, it would be detrimental to their brand. Also, in order for the idea of change to be accepted entirely by their buyers there has to be multiple trials for Dolce & Gabbana to find what is the most efficient way to enlighten their audience of diversity without losing their desirable aesthetic fashion that skyrocketed their sales years ago. Collective Shout would also help fund a predicted fashion show against sexual violence that models Dolce & clothing. In summation, nobody sets out to objectify women. Advertisements in the media are subject to appease society but they fail to consider who might be offended. It causes other companies to form and combat against marketers. Dolce & Gabbana provides aesthetic designs and advertisements that are controversial to the eye but has no intentions to fragmentize a body. Collective Shout is concerned with how mainstream society has become distorted alike to porn and targets those who sexualize women. Through a compromise, Dolce & Gabbana would be more considerate of their advertising and market against sexual violence and promote women individuality while Collective Shout provides their time and help fund for Dolce & future events relating to sexual violence and harassment. West 6 Works Cited Collective Collective Shout, www.collectiveshout.org/about. Accessed 28 January 2017. OF Dolce&Gabbana: Code of Ethics, www.dolcegabbana.com/corporate/en/group/code-of-ethics.html. Accessed 28 January 2017. & Gabbana - Photos - Most controversial banned NY Daily News, 3 June 2015, www.nydailynews.com/entertainment/controversial-banned-ads-gallery- 1.2245644?pmSlide=1.2245631. Accessed 15 February 2017 Persivale, Matteo. La vita Dolce: on the grand occasion of their 30th anniversary year, Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana are celebrating with a fall collection devoted to all things  Marie Claire, Sept. 2015, p. 382+. General OneFile, go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=ITOF&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&it =r&id=GALE%7CA430715163&asid=1dbb90ff38ac88335b944a16881fb701. Accessed 15 February 2017. Ponterotto, Diane. Resisting The Male Gaze: Feminist Responses To The Of The Female Body In Western  Journal Of International Studies 1 (2016): 133. Academic OneFile. Accessed 28 January 2017. West 7 Tyler, the Creator threatens to into Australia after feminist outcry; New track labelled to by feminist organization Collective Shout whose campaign led to cancellation of Australian  The Guardian (London, England) 2015: Academic OneFile. Accessed 15 February 2017. van der Laan, Elise, and Giselinde Kuipers. How Aesthetic Logics Shape A Cultural Field: Differentiation And Consolidation In The Transnational Field Of Fashion Images,  Poetics 56.(2016): 64-84. ScienceDirect. Accessed 28 January 2017. Wright, Paul J., and Robert S. Tokunaga. Objectifying Media Consumption, Objectification Of Women, And Attitudes Supportive Of Violence Against  Archives Of Sexual Behavior 4 (2016): 955. Academic OneFile. Accessed 28 January 2017.