Alkhamali 1 Abdullah Zayed K Alkhamali Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.910 15 February 2017 Gun Control is not the Answer, Education is Gun control has been a hot-button issue for many years in the United States. According to the NRA, the second amendment of the U.S. Constitution states, A well- regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be (The NRA). Some Americans want more regulations and laws that restrict using and distribution of guns in the United States. On the other hand, people who support gun rights say that having a gun to protect yourself is your constitutional right. Anti-gun organizations such as Coalition to Stop Gun Violence has many gun control supporters in the United States. In contrast, National Rifle supporters seek more freedom of trading and using guns among Americans. Regardless of the differences, how to make society safe is a common value between these organizations, so educating people about the benefits and risks of guns is a great compromise between the CSGV and NRA. Some Americans consider guns the reason number one behind the atrocious mass shootings which have happened all around the United States. According to the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, explaining their mission We seek to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy (Coalition to Stop Gun Violence). Over the past 20 years, however, gun violence has taken on a new form: we have seen the evolution, and increasing frequency, of attempted mass shootings which appear to have as their main objective the intent to hurt as many people as possible. No regard seems to be given to the individual traits of the victims; they are victims merely because they were in Alkhamali 2 that location at that (Taxman 1). For instance, many people know the tragic Sandy Hook Newtown, of December 2012, in th which occurred on 14 chool shooting s lementary e Connecticut. This mass shooting happened when a young male shot 20 children and six adult school members by Bushmaster XM15-E2S rifle. This was one of the most deadliest mass shooting in the United history. After this accident, the Newtown Action Alliance established to assist the victims from this horrible nightmare. Even the gun control opponents have denounced the Sandy shooting. On the other hand, gun supporters have declared that guns are not the reason behind American atrocities of mass shootings. According to the National Rifle Association, commenting on the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting Guns kill people, people (The NRA). This is a clear and strong statement that defend the gun rights and denounces the horrible act from the Sandy perpetrator. The NRA mission states NRA protect and defend the constitution of the United States, especially with reference to the inalienable right of the individual American citizen guaranteed by such constitution to acquire, possess, collect, exhibit, transport, carry, transfer ownership of, and enjoy the right to use  (The NRA). The National Rifle Association is one of the biggest organizations which defends the second amendment of the U.S. constitution. Indeed, the Second underwhelming impact in litigation is largely reflective of its own success: because invocations of the Amendment have been so politically powerful, there is simply not as much left for it to do, legally speaking, as some might (Blocher 1). The power of the Second Amendment has stopped many guns ban claims from gun-control supporters. Besides the differences between the NRA and CSGV, there is a common value shared between these organizations. Alkhamali 3 safety is the priority number one for the National Rifle Association and Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. CSGV wants to stop the distribution and buying guns among Americans in order to decrease gun violence and make the society safe. For example, if a criminal tried to do an illegal activity, he/she will find a difficulty of getting a gun because of the restricted gun regulations. As a result, people will feel safer more than ever. Similarly, the NRA ask people to have guns and defend their constitutional right which lead to a safe and strong society. To illustrate, many Americans in the southern states have a gun in their houses and cars, so if any danger happened, they will have the ability to defend themselves and their properties. It also helps to create a fear inside criminals because they will think twice of attacking a man possessed a gun. The CSGV and NRA are trying to achieve their goals for the sake of people, regardless of the different point of view about gun control. Gun education is a powerful tool that can be used to create a better and safe society by defining guns and what you would do when you see a one. Teaching students how dangerous assault weapons are, is an important matter because assault weapons were often used in mass shootings. According to Cody Jacobs,  This rise in with the use of assault weapons in many high profile mass put these guns in the crosshairs of legislators, setting up a clash in the courts to settle whether (and/or to what extent) assault weapons are protected by the Second (238). The characteristics of assault weapons, which are mostly unknown to many people, are telescopic or stock, a pistol grip protruding unusually far beneath the action of the weapon, or a barrel capable of accepting a flash (Jacobs 238). Knowing all these information about assault weapons can increase the awareness about its risks. Moreover, educating students the proper actions when they see a gun is highly important, especially in elementary schools. To illustrate, there is actually a program called Eddie Eagle, which has taught in Alkhamali 4 some schools such as Michigan elementary and Wisconsin elementary, that have a great important content. The Eddie Eagle GunSafe program is a gun accident prevention program that seeks to help parents, law enforcement, community groups and educators navigate a topic paramount to our safety. Eddie and his Wing Team are on a mission to help you teach Pre-K through 4th graders what to do if they ever come across a (The NRA). The gun safety curriculums and materials can be funded from the U.S. government though the tax system and also donations. U.S. department of education will be responsible to run programs all around the United States. This way can lead to decrease tension between NRA and CSGV and make the United States safe. In conclusion, gun control has been a controversial issue for many years in the United States. Many accidents of mass shootings have led to conflicts and debates between gun- control supporters and gun protagonists. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence wants to stop trading, distribution, and using guns in the whole United States. They want to ban guns for the sake of safety. On the other hand, the National Rifle Association want less regulations on guns, so they can have more safe and strong environment for the people. The NRA and CSGV share the value of making people safe and secure. As a result, Establishing programs about gun education that run by the U.S. department of education is a great compromise that can help to decrease the conflicts between the NRA and CSGV. Alkhamali 5 Works Cited About the  CSGV ,2017, http://www.csgv.org/site/pp.aspx?c=pmL5JnO7KzE&b=3509221. Accessed 25 January 2017. Blocher, Joseph. Gun Rights  Has the Constitution Fostered a Pathological Rights Culture? the Right to Bear Arms, 3 May. 2014, pp. 1-16. Westlaw, 94 B.U. L. Rev. 813. Jacobs, Cody.  End the Popularity Contest: A Proposal for Second Amendment of  Tennessee Law Review, 9 Feb. 2015, pp. 231-290. SSRN, https://ssrn.com/abstract=2507308. Taxman, Jeffrey. Gun Violence in America A Vector  Perspectives on Gun Violence: National and International Views, 2 Jan. 2016, pp. 113-123. Wiely Online Library, DOI 10.1002/aps.1490. What is the  NRA, 2017, http://www.nra.org/home.aspx. Accessed 25 January 2017. .