Jessica 1 COVER LETTER When it comes to food, a very detailed description will not only hook the reader but also their senses. When it comes to describing an object also associated with taste, the reader should have a visualization in his or her head imagining the texture, smell, or colors look like. Describing waffles with adjectives associated with senses: crunchy and soft (texture), buttery (taste), among others, will give the reader the idea in their head of a perfect golden, delicious, syrup dripping plate full waffles, which will persuade the reader to crave more. The thesis consists on the main idea of waffles being the BEST option for breakfast putting out any other options aside. The United States Department of Agriculture (representatives of which is the substitute of the food pyramid) persuades the American public to eat in healthy ways and they should establish waffles as the fundamental breakfast over all, due to their nutritional benefits among others. Topic sentences were used to briefly explain the main concept of each body paragraph, before putting facts together. All my sources should be reliable since they were found on the USF library search website, except for the USDA webpage. This paper focuses more on the benefits of waffles then breakfast overall. There are some word choices that might not be formal nor proper (e.g. tummy) that are intentional to make the paper a bit less formal and get a more comfortable point to the reader than just statistical facts and nutritional data. Jessica 2 Jessica Beckford TJ Murray English Composition II ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Waffles: The Best Option For Breakfast nothing like a crunchy, full of syrup, and buttery warm waffle for breakfast to start a busy day along with your coffee. If hungry, no problem, always a Waffle House around the corner where you and your family can enjoy a sweet meal to start your day, or simply by getting some waffles from the fridge and preparing them in a matter of minutes. Although breakfast is the most important meal of the day, as reported by the article Influences on Adolescent Eating Patterns: The Importance of Family, in five adolescents usually ate nothing for (Tami Videon and Caroling Manning 369). The importance of a nutritional meal that can provide sufficient nutrients and a good taste can come on an effortless to make and delicious stack of waffles. As a critical influence of the nutritional criteria for many Americans, the USDA (United States Department of Agriculture) should establish waffles to be the fundamental meal for breakfast in American families, considering all their beneficial aspects. Although they the most nutritional and healthy plate at the top of the food pyramid, waffles are the best option for breakfast, not only providing you a full tummy but sufficient nutrients and a tasty flavor that the most complicated critics, kids, can enjoy. Think about it, if too bored of the typical eggs and bacon deal, waffles come in a variety of flavors and toppings that you can enjoy; from fruits for a healthy diet, to even chicken! They are also easy to make, as long as you got a waffle iron by your side, the perfect meal for breakfast. Jessica 3 One distinct reason waffles are the best option for breakfast is due to their crispy yet soft rare texture. Their practical square pattern, which provides a beneficial support for any topping, makes it easier for us to not make a mess on the plate. Another well-known characteristic waffles are loved for, is their crunchy yet soft texture. Compared to pancakes, they get soggy and the toppings get absorbed in a much slower time. Besides, food texture has a very important role on whether consumers enjoy or not certain foods. According to researchers on their article Food Texture Assessment And Preference Based On Mouth Behavior, is important to product liking and preferences ... can be a major reason for food rejection and one of the strongest drivers of food (Jeltema, Beckley, Vahalik). The stimulation of the mouth from a crunchy to soft texture may make certain individuals satisfied; such as elderly people, who may have problems chewing solid foods. Besides their good taste and crunchy texture, waffles are very easy and simple to make; hence waffles being the best option for breakfast. Need something fast to eat for breakfast? Go to the store near you and get some frozen waffles. Many Americans who work a full-time job, go to school, or simply have a tight schedule usually have time to consume nor prepare breakfast in their morning routine. Because of these overload schedules, is extremely relevant for the time-starved busy family of today, as well as the staying-single-longer (the Schwan food company 2). be honest, nothing easier than getting a box of from the fridge, tossing them into the microwave, waiting for a couple of minutes, and BOOM! Bon appetite. Besides, waffle irons facilitate the whole cooking process for those who very good at it and for those who big fans of frozen foods. When it comes to waffles, consumers can experiment with distinct flavors and several recipes to enjoy their breakfast. Although the typical eggs, flour, and milk recipe is the most Jessica 4 famous traditional way to prepare a waffle, there is a variation of ways they can be enjoyed. Many classic combinations that make waffles exquisite are: bacon waffles, chicken and waffles, peanut butter and bananas waffles, Belgian waffles, rolled waffles, pizza waffles, and anything you can throw on a waffle iron. Their versatility also provides consumers with strict diets, to be able to obtain a nutritional meal with fruits, protein, ice cream, or anything necessary for a rich nourishment. Many researchers can argue waffles exactly the most appealing meal when it comes to a healthy and nutritive diet. Considering the high number of health risk factors, according to the article Health and wellness among adolescents, 17% of adolescents in the United States are obese, making them more likely to exhibit risk factors such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and Type 2 (David Virtue). Consequently, waffles fall into the category of high calorie, low nutritive meal. Although a high number of calories may put into question how healthy something may be, waffles can provide nutrients by using alternative ingredients, such as: soy or almond milk, pieces of fruits, light syrup, among other ingredients. No to mention waffles are a part of the grain products which, source of many nutrients, including dietary fiber, several B vitamins (thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, and folate), and minerals (iron, magnesium, and (ChooseMyPlate.gov). Even though waffles may increase health problems, they help providing a nutritional meal for those who have enough time to prepare one. Waffles can also help provide a temporary economic stability to those who have a low budget, due to their cheap price. And lastly, waffles provide a range of options for those who satisfied by a simple breakfast. They come in a variety of flavors, shapes, and Jessica 5 even colors. If breakfast is the most important meal of the day, why not making it fun and delightful with a round, square patterned, tasty waffle? After all, they are the best. Jessica 6 Works Cited 5 Ways to Tap the Hidden Power of the Frozen Food  The Schwan Food Company. Web. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. ChooseMyPlate.gov, United States Department of Agriculture, www.choosemyplate.gov/grains- nutrients-health Web. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Melissa Jeltem, Jacqueline Beckley, Jennifer Vahalik texture assessment and preference based on Mouth Food Quality and Preference (2016) pp. Tami M. Videon, and Carolyn K. Manning, on Adolescent Eating Patterns: The Importance of Family Journal of Adolescent Health Web. Vol 32, Issue 5, May 2003 Virtue, David C. and wellness among The Phi Delta Kappan, vol. 93, No. 7 April 2012, pp. 76-77