ENC 1102 Kyu Yeon Han 1/29/2017 Final draft Cover letter When I choose the project one topic, I thought I need to write about my country. I am from South Korea which is dived two for North Part and South Part. However, Korea did not divide 70 years ago. So my grandparents and grand grand parents siblings lived in North Korea, and their children are still living in North Korea. However, South Korean people visit North Korea, so I have never seen my cousins who live in North Korea. These reasons make me choose this topic. When I wrote this essay, I was hard to explain the political issues because I am an international student, so when I wanted to explain the issues, I need to find lots of terms to explain the topic and evidence. Furthermore, I had never written about political essays in college. So this is my first time to write about the political essay. Before choosing the topic, I can choose an easy topic. However I wanted to overcome my lackness of writing, so I decided to the expenditure of political topic. The writing was hard, but when I finished the paper, I realized that I could do better for next time for writing about politic issues. However, it was hard to find the resources because the topic was quite narrow. Fortunately, USF library research system helps me a lot to get information about the unification of Korea. In this course, I wanted to improve my writing skills, and I think I can afford to do it! Unification of Korea All over the world, Korea is the only one country which divided two area. The North part is North Korea where the dictator Kim Jung Un rules over the entire country. Whereas, South part is South Korea where democracy is working well. So they have an entirely different ideology and lifestyle. In this reasons, they still fight in many areas. Especially, North Korea treat lots of military action to South Korea in nearby DMZ. Also, North Korea experiment of a nuclear bomb to address South Korea more powerfully. In this threats from North Korea, South Korea always reinforce the military power to protect their country from North Korea. Also, North Korea also used lots of psychological attacks to change mind who live in South Korea. All these processes are a purpose to unification under communism. North Korea want to peaceful unification. However, South Korea want to the success of peaceful unification, because peaceful unification gives lots of advantage for the both countries. The peaceful unification provides a financial benefit, better hierarchy, and powerful military power. According to the South Korean Unification, when peaceful unification will achieve success, Korea improve lots of financial parts for a couple of years later(unikorea 23). North Korea has lots of natural resources, and South Korea has professional skills to manufacture some products. Before peaceful unification, South Korea need to import lots of natural resources from abroad. So this process should be spent lots of money. However, if unification will achieve success, Korea do not need to import the natural resources from abroad. This process makes more money to the entire country. According to the research paper, unification of Germany gave lots of financial improvement; they grow up more than 35percent(blum 23). Also, unification occurs lots of new jobs. First of all, South and North Korea has divided almost 70years. So they need to build new roads to connect the South and North Korea. This necessity of roads occur lots of construction. Construction requires lots of people, so if someone has no job before, they can get a job, and this process can improve total and average GDP of Korea (unikorea 22). So when the Korea get peaceful unification, Korea will be more advanced country. According to the South Korean foreign office, when peaceful unification will achieve success, Korea will get higher hierarchy in the global world (mofa 23). Many countries are related to North Korea and South Korea. China and Russia are strongly related to North Korea. The United States and Japan are strongly related to South Korea. According to the research paper, China and the United States always used the Korea territory to show their strength in this era(Choo 13). However, this process shrinks the hierarchy of Korea in the global world, so when Korea get peaceful unification, the other countries can not utilize the territory of Korea for their on purpose. In addition to many powerful countries like the United States, Russia or China have something in common. They have a huge territory. This is important because if the country is large, the country can absorb more people and more important building can easily locate in the country. So when Korea achieves unification, their size of territory will be double. This physical size of the region can afford to be a strong country. In addition to, North Korea connected to Europe and Asia, so when the unification is complete, Korea can export their products to use land, not a sky. Land export can shrink the cost of transport. This results can save huge money for Korea. Furthermore, according to the South Korean foreign office, the connection of Europe and Asia boost up travel industry of Korea. Many foreigners can use the train to visit Korea, so it means more people come to Korea compared to the present. When the lots of foreigners come to visit Korea, can boost up the Korean financial industry. According to the Ministry of Korean Defense, when peaceful unification will achieve success, Korea will get massive military power (mnd 21). Korea is the only country where the countries are divided. So they have always treated of military action for each other. According to the article, North Korea test-fires missile to treat the South Korea and United States(Eric 11). This missle threat implies that South Korea and North Korea need to invest lots of money to improve their military strength to protect each country. However, if they get peaceful unification, their military force will grow almost double. According to the Ministry of Korean Defense, if North and South Korea combine their military power, they get almost top5 military force in the world (and 21). Furthermore, right now South and North Korea spend too much money on national defense expenditure. If they stop to fight and get unification, they can shrink the national defense expenditure. This rest money can invest other areas to improve life. Also, U.S military stay in South Korea to help from the North threat. However, this military assistance spends lots of money for every year. This support payment is paid by tax from South Korea. So whenever South and North Korea be one country, they need to pay this assistance payment. A lower tax of U.S military can improve life well. To sum up, peaceful unification of Korea has lots of benefits. The greatest positive impact is the economic improvement of Korea. This growth can make people life more affluent. Also, unification makes Korea more stable country which means that Korea gets higher hierarchy in the global world. In addition to standardization can make Korea get strong military strength in the global world. So there have lots of positive effects when Korea get peaceful unification. However, South and North Korea should make lots of compromises to be one country. This is the future homework for our generation. References http://www.unikorea.go.kr/ http://www.mofa.go.kr/ http://www.mnd.go.kr/ https://www.defense.gov/ Choo, Jaewoo. Defense Against Post-unification Korea-US Alliance: Not at Yalu but Taiwan  East Asia : An International Quarterly 33.3 (2016):197-212. Web. Blum, Ulrich. German Unification: Lessons for  Jahrbuch Wirtschaftswissenschaften 63.3 (2012):314. Web. By ERIC TALMADGE Asscitated, Press. Korea Test-Fires Missile, Apparently Challenging AP Top News Package(2017): Newswires. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.