Aggad 1 Tareq Aggad Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1101 02 /14 /2017 How Abortion Can Affect Maternal Health Abortion has been a controversial topic for long time period involving multiple conversations. A contemporary argument has originated as to whether abortion accompanies reproductive risks or benefits. India has seen high rates of maternal deaths and reproductive consequences due to the lack of accessibility to a comprehensive reproductive care. In fact, although India has liberal abortion laws, women still have not obtained an adequate access to reproductive care and safe abortion. The article The Reality of Unsafe Abortion in a Rural Community in South written by Prathibha Varkey, who is the vice of Yale New Heaven health system, establishes a link between unsafe abortion and maternal deaths. Varkey states, Out of 3.5 million of induced abortions in India in 1889, 4.7 million were This quote indicates that the high proportion of maternal deaths in India springs up from unsafe abortion. In relation, IPAS Health. Access. and AAPLOG association of pro-life obstetricians and are two stakeholders standing for women reproductive health and have different sentiments toward abortion. While IPAS believes in the necessity of safe abortion, AAPLOG presents condemnation toward abortion. However, both stakeholders share a mutual goal in India based on the safety of women in regard with reproductive services and abortion. Hence, the compromise can be efficiently fulfilled in India through a program, which will incorporate an enhanced accessibility to Aggad 2 safe abortion and birth control programs to reduce the overall number of maternal deaths linked to abortion. AAPLOG is an organization presenting an opposing view towards abortion due to reproductive concerns. Particularly, this organization claims abortion to prompt dire health consequences on women. As shown in the website of AAPLOG induced abortion has a tendency to spring up multiple reproductive and maternal concerns such as an increased vulnerability of breast cancer, premature births, and sterility. Similarly, multiple scholarly articles agree with point of view in regard with abortion. In fact, the article The abortion Cancer written by Joel Brind, who is a professor of human biology, shows a significant correlation between breast cancer and abortion. Reinforcing his presumption, Brind writes, second way abortion increases the likelihood of breast cancer is that an abortion leaves a woman with more cancer-vulnerable breast tissue than she had before she became (Brind). This quote indicates that the condemnation towards abortion arises from reproductive and maternal concerns. With this being said, the primary goal of AAPLOG is to insure the avoidance from reproductive risks stemming from abortion. On the other hand, IPAS proposes a supporting point of view towards abortion due to potential reproductive risks. IPAS has the contention that safe and researched abortion would save lives and would increase the avoidance from grave risks occurring with unsafe or inaccessible abortion. As shown in the website of IPAS, lack of safe abortion would result in deleterious and illegal practices and therefore resulting in medical consequences. In this case, there are multiple articles supporting the validity of this point of view. The article The Reality of Unsafe Abortion in a Rural Community in Aggad 3 South written by Prathibha Varkey establishes a pivotal correlation between unsafe abortion and dire health consequences on women. Varkey writes, Some 600,000 die from complications of induced unsafe abortion, or 13 percent of total maternal deaths from pregnancy- related (Varkey). This quote reinforces the contention that a higher accessibility to safe abortion would constrain illegal and unsafe abortions, which evidently accompany grave medical consequences. Using this approach, IPAS endeavors to lessen the exposure of women to maternal disorders or reproductive risks. With a reproductive health being a common ground, the compromising resolution should unify both efforts in order to provide an accessible reproductive care, eliminating risks faced by women in India. This solution can be efficiently fulfilled in India through a program, which will enhance the safety and the accessibility of abortion in India. The program will also provide birth control programs to reduce the overall number of maternal deaths in India. Enhancing the viability of the compromise, an increased access to safe abortion in India will effectively compact a substantial number of cases involving maternal risks. In fact, the article Every two hours in India, a women dies from unsafe written by Anjani Travedi, who holds a master degree in reproductive biology, seemingly acknowledges that high proportions of maternal deaths in India emerge from the lack of safe and accessible abortion. Supporting this claim, Travedi indicates, They bed down on mud floors scattered with bloody dressings. Less than 20 percent of these centers provide legitimate abortion This quote indicates that the lack of safe and legal abortion has been the major source of maternal deaths in India. For this reason, the compromise will Aggad 4 resonate with both stakeholders since it gears toward a developed accessibly to safe abortion in India. While both stakeholders are anticipated to agree on this compromise, both organizations have to give up something and contribute to the common goal. For instance, AAPLOG has to attest to the fact that an enhanced access to legitimate abortion in India will shun a substantial proportion of maternal risks. On the other hand, IPAS has to comprehend the effectiveness of birth control programs in regard with the elimination of potential health risks on women. At the same time, both stakeholders would attain some of what they desire through this program. For example, while an increased access to safe abortion will resonate with IPAS, birth control programs will satisfy AAPLOG. Given the fact that both stakeholders are oriented toward the termination of reproductive risks, they are highly projected to mediate between their differences and to collaboratively contribute to their mutual goal. The implementation of the compromising program requires several steps along with multiple collaborations from many sides. The first step is to collaborate with the health ministry in India in order to procure licenses for the medical centers, which will provide legitimate abortion in India. Regarding this step, there are multiple factors facilitating the establishment of medical centers in India. For instance, since IPAS is a global organization maintaining relations with several countries, IPAS has the capability to engage the health ministry of India into this program. Since India has liberal abortion laws and therefore encourages safe abortion, the health ministry of India is projected to be collaborative towards the program. Once the medical centers are established with lawful licenses, the second step is to hire physicians specialized in reproductive and Aggad 5 maternal services. Within this step, both organizations have to provide a comprehensive training in regard with safe procedures of abortion since an access to safe abortion requires maximized skills from physicians. Fortunately, since both organizations currently provide training programs for different health care providers in relation to reproductive services, this step will be facilitated and efficiently fulfilled. Furthermore, the following step is to incorporate birth control programs into the medical centers. These programs will require hired physicians to constantly assess and monitor their patients in order to achieve desirable outcomes and to prevent any potential risk arising with abortion. Also, to further enhance the accessibility of Indian women to safe abortion and birth control programs, both IPAS and AAPLOG should collaborate with health insurance companies in correlation with abortion and birth control programs. As both stakeholders incorporate their services into medical insurance plans in India, an enhanced access to safe abortion and birth control will be noticed. In conclusion, it is a vivid fact that abortion has been an arguable topic involving multiple sentiments. Although abortion seems to be a broad topic, there is a distinct need to address the particular health-related implications of abortion on women. In this case, both IPAS and AALPOG have conflicting presumptions regarding the correlation between abortion and maternal health. Particularly, while IPAS believes in the necessity of a broad access to abortion, AAPLOG claims abortion to prompt dire maternal risks. However, with these stakeholders sharing a mutual concern, the unification of their efforts would effectively result in a decline of maternal risks. Since India has been undergoing severe implications of abortion-related cases, both stakeholders share a common mission to be fulfilled in India. About the compromising program in India, an Aggad 6 enhanced access to a legal abortion along with birth control programs will satisfy both mutual goal, which aims to eliminate maternal risks. This way, both stakeholders are expected to mediate between their differences and to contribute to the fulfillment of the program. Aggad 7 Work Cited Brind, Joel. The abortion Cancer  NRL News Today Four part series on the abortionbreast cancer link ABC link Comments. N.p., 23 May 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ipas Health. Access. Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Prolife OBGYNS - AAPLOG - American Association of Pro-life Obstetricians & Gynecologists. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Trivedi, Anjani. Every Two Hours in India, a Woman Dies From an Unsafe Abortion  Time. Time, 13 July 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Varkey, Prathibha. The reality of unsafe abortion in a rural community in South  Reproductive Health Matters 8.16 (2000): 83-91. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.