Moran 1 For my paper, I found it difficult to develop an absurd topic. I was sitting in the library for hours just thinking of something to write about. I saw another trash fall from their desk onto the floor without them realizing. It was at that moment that I thought about littering and its effect on the environment. The electric shocks issued were the part that made this topic absurd as something that serious will never happen. Overall, it was not very difficult to find sources, due to the important of conserving the environment. However, I found it challenging to find sources that were peer reviewed and making sure my paper was formatted using MLA correctly. I used the reviews from both my peers and teacher in order to fix minor grammatical errors and errors with my citations in the paper. Lastly, I found the library search very helpful in getting sources that were scholarly and appropriate for this paper. Moran 2 Michaela Moran TJ Murray ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Instant Punishment for Littering According to an article by Luther King, of people admitted that they littered in the past 5 How many times have you thrown garbage on the ground because you were too lazy to take the extra twenty steps to the garbage can? Almost everyone is guilty for doing this and most times people do not think twice about it. Because most people litter and have the same mindset, the litter is building up and will continue to do so. It is imperative that the population takes responsibility and takes care of the planet. This is our home and if we treat the land like a garbage can, it will soon turn into one. The government should issue immediate shocks to anyone who litters knowingly. By doing this, the environment will benefit greatly and people will be forced to follow the law. As of right now, police try to monitor people littering, but it is impossible for them to catch everyone who litters. Often in parks and other recreational places there are signs that express the fine one will receive if they litter. These signs are not helpful as people are constantly littering. As much as police try to prevent littering, this is definitely not their only worry when patrolling a park. In a recent 2016 study by Thani, Hasihm, and Ismail, it was found that it is very important to implement the Crime Prevention through Environmental Design principles in order to significantly reduce the crime in parks and other recreational facilities (513). Due to the multiple other crimes that happen Moran 3 in parks, police are more concerned in preventing the crimes like murder, rape, etc. This distracts their efforts to fine and write tickets to people who are purposely littering. As a result, this leads to more litter in public parks and other public places. These instant shocks will be able to prevent the public places from being filled with trash. Furthermore, littering, even the smallest piece of garbage, causes polluted oceans and other bodies of water. Over time, there has been noticeably more trash in the oceans. A recent report published by The National Science Teachers Association studied the amount of litter in oceans and its effects on quality of life. report estimates that some 5.25 trillion plastic particles weighing about 269,000 tons are floating in the (Vol. 82 Issue 2, 18). No one wants to swim in the waters that are polluted with the items listed above. Not only personal preference, but also the amount of trash in the oceans can be detrimental to the health of humans and animals. For animals, the amount of trash in the oceans affects whether or not the animals will be able to survive. Anyone who knowingly litters and knows how dangerous it is for humans and animals deserves to be shocked. To continue, littering also leads to more air pollution. Why would someone litter when they knew it could potential risk their health? In 2002 study, PhD students found, exposure to combustion-related fine particulate air pollution is an important environmental risk factor for cardiopulmonary and lung cancer (JAMA 2002). While of course this data is extreme, it is very possible that air pollution can cause these diseases. As humans, we have the ability to prevent this chance by simply throwing out trash in the correct place. Electric shocks would cause people to throw out their trash and therefore lead to less diseases caused by air pollution. Moran 4 On the contrary, electric shocks can be very dangerous and harmful to the population. It is very unethical to electrically shock a person because they did something as small as put their gum wrapper on the ground instead of in the trash can. However, it is vital to have such punishment for people to actually follow the rules. It is evident that the signs and warnings that are given out currently for littering do not work. In order to prevent people from littering and lower the chances of the shocks being administered, the government should make sure that there are enough trashcans in every area. More trashcans will allow for people to not have to walk too far, but still be able to correctly dispose their waste. Curb Your Litter, a campaign dedicated to stopping litter at the source found that, blocks with the most litter are industrial and do not have litter This data proves that without trash cans, the amount of litter will increase, while increasing the number of trash cans will decrease the amount of litter. All in all, litter has become a huge issue that is affecting the environment and people far more than first thought of. Soon our entire planet will be covered with trash. Every single piece of litter is negatively impacting our planet. It is imperative that the population starts taking a stance in order to end littering for good. In order for actual changes to be made, the government needs to administer electric shocks to each person who litters on purpose. Everyone should be educated on the dangers of littering and those that still chose to litter deserves severe punishment. Littering is dangerous for animals and humans and nothing good comes from it. Therefore, with this new law and action taken, we will be able to save our beautiful Earth in which we call home. Moran 5 Works Cited Plastic Trash Common in The Science Teacher 2 (2015): Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. We Have Litter Curb Your Litter. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. III, PhD C. Arden Pope. Cancer, Cardiopulmonary Mortality, and Long- term Exposure to Fine Particulate Air Lung Cancer JAMA The JAMA Network. N.p., 06 Mar. 2002. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. King, Luther, and Lucky Marshall. Interesting Facts and Statistics about Litter. It Costs You. N.P., 27 Sept. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Thani, Sharifah Khalizah Syed Othman, Nor Hanisah Mohd. Hashim, and Wan Hazwatiamani Wan Ismail. By Design: Assessment Using Principles of Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED) in Urban Procedia- Social and Behavorial Sceinces 234. ASLI (Annual Serial Landmark International) Conferences on QoL 2016. AMER International Conference on Quality of Life, AicQoL2016Medan, Indonesia, 25-27 February 2016 (2016): 506-514. ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.