Daugherty 1 Julian Daugherty Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102 2/14/2017 Mass Surveillance: Balancing Safety and Privacy Recent advances in technology allow information to flow at an incredible speed. Legislation to regulate the improvements has struggled to keep up, and failed to clarify confusing topics. The United Government has attempted to counter criminals through surveillance techniques, however digital mass surveillance conducted on the population is a complicated subject. The government must find a balance between safety and privacy. The National Security Agency (NSA) is a prominent government agency that aims to protect citizens by monitoring many elements of digital lives. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) is a non- profit organization that argues to act upon the lack of regulations set for the NSA. They believe the absence of limitations permits them to infringe upon the Constitutional rights of American citizens. Both stakeholders seek to achieve what they think is best for the citizens in accordance with the Constitution, but differ through strategy. The NSA and similar agencies view lesser privacy as a necessary sacrifice. However, the EFF considers rights and security for internet users of paramount importance. A solution for these stakeholders involves restructuring the government agency without rendering their methods useless. Introducing regulations to define vague boundaries will restructure how the NSA and similar agencies conduct mass digital surveillance. The agencies can then refrain from collecting vast amounts of information from as many citizens as possible. Daugherty 2 The NSA strives to secure welfare as stated in the Preamble of the Constitution. On the website, they express their mission to accomplish the goals of discovering secrets, protecting U.S. secrets, and outmaneuvering our adversaries in cyberspace while at the same time protecting the privacy rights of the American (NSA.gov). They act as an essential asset from their ability to predict the behavior of individuals, gather intelligence on criminals, and prevent critical systems from cyber-based attacks. The missions conducted are for the greater good, but privacy must be given up to maximize safety. The Electronic Frontier Foundation intends to protect rights to use cyberspace with as much freedom as possible. They stand against virtual government surveillance organizations, such as the NSA. On the website, it states work to ensure that rights and freedoms are enhanced and protected as our use of technology (EFF.org). The EFF sends representatives to voice their opinions to members of Congress to influence legislation regarding cyberspace. For active government agencies utilizing surveillance, they demand the agencies release any requested information. With the Freedom of Information Act, they encourage members and citizens to make numerous requests. The EFF understands that criminals may be encouraged with less surveillance, so they fund programs aimed to fully secure the online world. To find a needle in a haystack, the NSA examines every straw. This is an effective technique, but some citizens are uncomfortable knowing their information may be under examination at any time. As stated in the United Constitution, right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and (law.cornell.edu). The practice employed by the NSA is considered to violate the Fourth Amendment at times. The EFF is fighting for cyberspace to qualify as a private space that Daugherty 3 the government cannot intrude. In an article reviewing mass surveillance technologies and the Fourth Amendment, Alex Brown states Katz v. United States, the Supreme Court held that Fourth Amendment protects people, not (Brown 269). The distinction that cyberspace is a place allows agencies to collect information. They treat the online realm in a manner similar to cameras in cities. Brown also mentions that individuals expect their online activity to be private by employing an analogy comparing the online space to a phone booth. Individuals may be in a public area, but the conversation inside the booth is expected not to be monitored. Much of the legislation regarding online interactions is out-of-date. There is no clear definition specifying what cyberspace exists as. The conditions to revise and pass laws exist, but a compromise is still required. Surveillance must still be allowed, but at a level that does not violate the rights of citizens. The NSA must have more regulations that define cyberspace. Distinctions between areas such as social media and financial information must be edited. With clearer boundaries, the agency can redefine their parameters for suspicious activity. The additional regulations must cover transparency issues and restrain the abilities to conduct surveillance without boundaries. In a law review discussing surveillance in the digital age, David Cole states we insist on new rules to govern and regulate the use of new technologies of surveillance, not only our privacy will be lost but all that depends on privacy as (Cole 691). Collecting data without limits is still accepted since it is difficult to predict the behavior of criminals. Agencies try to remain one step ahead of criminals by analyzing offenders. Regulations to restrict them from stretching definitions must be introduced, or offenders could mean information is susceptible to random search. Joint efforts between agencies to detect suspicious activity acts as an effective substitute to inquiries of Daugherty 4 random individuals. The NSA may request information from military intelligence departments to refine their search parameters for dangerous individuals. Instead of having to sift through the information of millions, they can use a sample of known activity and predict variations. Mischievous individuals will likely adapt to maintain the element of surprise, so criteria to observe these individuals for a short period should be in place. If no activity is found during that phase, then the surveillance should cease. To remain transparent, the Freedom of Information Act will remain an asset for citizens to use. They will be able to request information that will not compromise security measures. Initial responses must be revisited to ensure the laws adapt alongside the technology. The EFF will have assurance that privacy will be respected and government agencies will remain safely transparent. The NSA will continue to protect the denizens of the United States, while the boundaries act as guidelines for them to follow. The citizens will experience continued protection with more effective definitions for computer based technologies. . Breakthroughs in communications technologies have released more effective ways to manage information. Regulations have not kept up the pace and the deficiency allows malicious activities to thrive. The NSA and EFF both seek to provide security to the citizens of the United States, but differ on how to approach the subject. The seeks to improve safety at the cost of privacy. The EFF aims to end surveillance and defend freedoms by passing regulations that would render agencies like the NSA ineffective. A solution for the benefit of both stakeholders requires regulations for the NSA, but surveillance to continue. Surveillance has proved to be efficient at predicting actions of ill intent, but the vagueness of the guidelines is unsettling to citizens and the EFF. With newer regulations acting as instructions, the EFF will have their regulations and the NSA may conduct regulated surveillance. Daugherty 5 Works Cited we National Security Agency, 29 Jan. 2017. About  Electronic Frontier Foundation. Steve Jackson, 29 Oct. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Bruce, Thomas R. Fourth  LII / Legal Information Institute. Legal Information Institute, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Brown, Alex. New Method to Consider the Fourth Amendment Implications of Mass Surveillance Derivative-Consent Doctrine and Open Windows. Vol. 66, no. 1. 2015 Cole, David. Snowden: Regulating Technology-Aided Surveillance in the Digital Capital University Law Review, vol. 44, no. 4, 2016. Accessed Feb 13, 2017