Cover Letter This paper was written in three phases. The first phase consisted in writing many different ideas down that could make my paper meaningful and enjoyable to be read. During this phase, I wrote the paper without having a structured organization and I tried to be creative. This phase was probably the longest out of the three and it was also the most useful for the understanding of the development of the paper. In fact, during this I understood how my paper was going to look like and which were going to be my main points of development. I tried to write as many things as possible so that I would not run out of ideas I could write about. During this phase, I tried to use critical thinking as a skill that would help me to understand which ideas were to most effective for the topic chosen. I also gathered articles that seemed interesting and pertinent and I formed my Secondly, I tried to divide my ideas in three main categories such as physical benefits, mental benefits and finding a new purpose. Since my paper was going to write about having a new law that would require people to do physical activity daily, I thought that a good way to go about it would have been explaining the benefits of sport on the human body. This would have convinced my audience, hopefully, that my absurd idea was not that absurd. During this phase I also went over my paper and I read it again trying to reorganize it. This phase also took a long time, but it was probably the fastest out of the three. After I reorganized it, I went on phase three, which was making sure that my paper was as fluid as possible, as well as well-organized and grammatically correct. This phase took a long time because I kept rephrasing things that I already wrote but I think it was useful. Another thing that is worth to point out is that I used the first person in a paragraph because I was talking about a personal example. This example consisted in talking a friend of mine who suffered from anorexia and was cured through physical activity. I thought that using a personal example would help to make my thesis stronger and to show why this topic is important to me. Lastly, the paper was entirely written with the aid of music, which helps me to focus and to be creative. Andreucci 1 Marianna Andreucci Dr. Theodore Murray ENC1102 29 January 2017 Making CrossFit Mandatory for Everyone High-intensity weigh training, gymnastic, cardiovascular exercise, resistance and team work, this is what CrossFit is about. This new workout method creates exercises that challenge the human body in many different fields such as endurance, stamina, strength, speed, flexibility, power, coordination, agility, and balance (Davies 240). This discipline can create very special bonds between the participants because it gives something in common to very different people. According to a study taken place in Scandinavia, any type of physical activity promotes social interactions that develop even beyond the sport itself creating long lasting bonds between individuals (Nielsen 69). This additional enjoyment contributes to the motivation while exercising and leads to a greater willingness to keep exercising over a long period (Nielsen 66). CrossFit also has the power to release endorphins, which are hormones responsible for happiness and serenity (Goldfarb 8). In fact, research evidence shows that physical activity releases chemicals that diminishes anxiety, depression, and boosts self-esteem (Scully 111). Since exercising is such a beneficial activity and CrossFit is a discipline that challenges the human body thoroughly with its wide range of movements, a CrossFit workout of at least one hour per day during week days should be required by law. This law will ensure the members of the population to remain physically and mentally healthy, as well as giving new hope to the people that feel abandoned and aimless. To make this possible, the law should be enforced by politicians, police officers and military forces. Education will also play a crucial role in the promotion of this law because it will be the tool used to spread the knowledge regarding the benefits of exercising regularly. For the people that are not physically able to complete a fully CrossFit workout, there will be many different options and workout plans that will be based on the mobility and health. Old people will also have to Andreucci 2 complete a soft workout until they are physically able to do so. Whenever an elder will be diagnosed physically unable to complete the daily workout by a physician, he or she have to do it anymore. In the case that the mandatory workout be completed, a fine will be given to the individual that failed to complete this obligation. After a fine, if the negligence persists, punishments will range from volunteering for the community to incarceration. One of the main benefits of this law will be increasing awareness about physical and mental diseases. The law can do so by giving people the opportunity to learn more about their own bodies, and their limits. According to the American College of Sports Medicine promote and maintain health, all healthy adults aged 18 to 65 year need moderate-intensity aerobic (endurance) physical activity for a minimum of 30 min on five days each week or vigorous- intensity aerobic physical activity for a minimum of 20 min on three days each  (Haskell 1). This means that to maintain a healthy body people need to work out every day; therefore, this new law is necessary to maintain the population healthy on a physical standpoint. Many diseases related to lack of exercise and a sedentary lifestyle such as obesity, diabetes, heart diseases, high blood pressure and some types of cancers could drastically decrease and even disappear over time. The benefits gained from people being healthier would also have an enormous impact on the American social system since the money previously spent to subsidize some basic health services could be invested in other social sectors. For instance, education and public transportation could become free due to the money that would be saved. In addition to this, the daily mandatory workout could lead to healthier minds by increasing empathy and emotional intelligence as well as decreasing depression and anxiety rates. In fact, it is shown that athletes can cope better with stress and can better control their emotions (Artinger 70). This would lead to great changes in society due to an improvement in tranquility, happiness and serenity. For instance, college students could have higher success rates in their studies and lower chances to develop mental disorders since the average age of onsets for many Andreucci 3 health disorders is between 18 and 24 (Tartakovsky). A workout per day in college could prevent mental disorders from manifesting by distracting and engaging college students in fun activities. In fact, many national surveys concluded that college stress and depression levels have been constantly increasing over time due to college acceptance rates getting lower, and the numbers of applicants getting higher (Tartakovsky). Many college students feel like they have nowhere to escape the hardships of growth, responsibilities and success. That is why many of them drop out or tend to feel overwhelmed. However, this could change with the mandatory workout because students will be required to do something entertaining and different, as well as socializing. Also, the drive to complete the daily workout as a common goal could spread positivity and diminish accumulated pessimism. Moreover, this revolutionary idea could help many people that feel lost and abandoned to find the energies and the motivation needed to find a new life purpose. This could give them the incentive and the courage to start a new chapter of their lives and to feel worthwhile as human beings. There are many instances of people that found the drive to live again through physical activity. I personally have a friend that recovered from a very serious case of anorexia after many years of fighting because of CrossFit. She found a new reason to live and be healthy through this sport, and she still practice it regularly every day. What would have happened if CroosFit was not there to save her? and energy and the anger that usually people channel into doing something that will hurt them in the long run would be channeled towards a positive change and a new purpose. Afterwards, levels of attention at school will get higher and hyperactivity of kids in class will diminish. Since new governmental job positions will be created to make sure everyone will do their daily workout, crime and unemployment rates will also go down, helping many unemployed people to get a new job and find a new purpose in life. The daily workout would give these people the motivation to accomplish their dreams. Andreucci 4 Some people may argue that, even though this law would make people healthier both mentally and physically, it is unethical to force people to work out on a daily basis. In fact, one may claim that this law goes against freedom, and civil rights because it deprives individuals of the control over their own body. However, even if all these points are valid, they do not prove the sport requirement law to be an absurd idea. In fact, because of the structure of our society, we will never have complete control over our body and decisions. For example, there are laws that do not permit the consumption of drugs, and that require people to wear seat belts while driving. If these laws are socially accepted because it is known that they help people to stay safe, why would the daily workout requirement be treated any differently? In fact, it has been scientifically proven that working out every day is beneficial for mental and physical health. Additionally, people are never completely free, and what defines freedom is highly subjective. In conclusion, this law should be passed because its end goal is to positively change society. People would become healthier mentally and physically. This will lead to higher happiness and it could also fight global warming by promoting physical activities and outdoor events that would bring people closer to nature, and make them more aware of the threats that global warming represents for our planet. This new perspective will help diminishing carbon dioxide emissions and it could make a difference on a global scale by improving scientific research on renewable energies due to the new mindset that people will be developing. Andreucci 5 Works Cited Artinger, Lori. The Social Benefits of Intramural  NASPA, vol. 43, no. 1, Jan. 2006, pp. 69 86. Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Davies, Melissa J., et al. The relationship between basic psychological need satisfaction, behavioral regulation, and participation in  Journal of Sport Behavior, vol. 29, no. 3, Sept. 2016, pp. 239-245. Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Goldfarb, Allan H., and Athanasios Z. Jamurtas. p-Endorphin Response to  Sports Medicine, vol. 24, no. 1, July 1997, pp. 8-16, Web. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Haskell, William L., et al. Updated Recommendation for Adults From the American College of Sports Medicine and the American Heart  American Heart Association, Inc, vol. 135, no. 6, 1 Aug. 2007, pp. 1-13, Web. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Nielsen, G., et al. Health promotion: The impact of beliefs of health benefits, social relations and enjoyment on exercise  Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports, 23 May 2014, pp. 66-75. Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Scully, Deirdre, et al. Physical exercise and psychological well-being: a critical  Br J Sports Med, vol. 32, no. 1, 1 June 1998, pp. 111-120, Web. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Tartakovsky, Margarita. Depression and Anxiety Among College  Accessed 29 Jan. 2017.