My absurd idea was to legalize cocaine in the United States. I wanted my paper to seem as serious as possible even when I was suggesting people dying will benefit the nation in the long run. I wanted my first body paragraph to be about improving the economy through two ways: 1. available jobs 2. Taxes My second body paragraph will talk about the physiological effects of cocaine which can also lead to the concern of overdoses My third paragraphs address my previous concern and explains how to look at it as a way to help the existence of humans in the future. *Besides my first body paragraph, I wanted to use two or three of my last sentences in my body paragraphs to explain my next topic and how it relates with one another. My first paragraph has 2 sub topics that falls under the main topic of improving the economy to show how legalizing cocaine can be beneficial in multiple ways. My conclusion paragraph not only restates and ties in the information but also gives addition real time references such as tobacco and overpopulation as a final persuasion to my argument. I want my conclusion to just be summary but rather a persuasive paragraph that was hard to argue with. Nancy Leriche February 12, 2017 Leriche 1 Nancy Leriche ENC 1102 Theodore Murray February 12, 2017 Cocaine is the Better Choice I was in the fifth grade when a friend told me cocaine was the key ingredient in the Coca Cola products that are still found in the nearest grocery store. Proving cocaine was once in famous soda may be difficult to perform but the rumor shines light to how cocaine was possibly viewed in the past. The United States was probably in high spirits when the drug cocaine was legalized. When the possession of cocaine was officially an illegal drug in the United States, the potential for economic and social benefits was also ripped away from the public which lead to issues with the population. The population of humans is growing gradually and Roger Smith from the Press explains how this challenges the economy, social structures, and in his article growth and Environmental (Smith). The United States government should legalize cocaine to improve the economy and give U.S citizens an alternative way of achieving pleasure and relieving stress. Although there would be an increase of addicts, cocaine can actually be a solution to the challenges brought on by overpopulation. The economy of a nation can be improved by increasing job availability and providing more taxable products because the financial and resourceful assets of a nation is how its economic status is determined. Loss, Wealth and Depression During the Great Recession in the USA and mentions the raised unemployment rate caused by Great Recession of has negatively affected citizens regardless if they were able to keep a job (Riumallo- Herl 1508). If cocaine were to become legalized, jobs for distributing and preparing cocaine will Leriche 2 decrease the rate of unemployment. Another economic benefit of legalizing cocaine is being able to tax the purchase of cocaine instead of having money going directly to unauthorized drug dealers. Most Americans would find that most issues that come from drugs can actually be solved by the sale of drugs to adults [because is proposed as the most effective solution to the drug as R J Dennis an economist says in the article of Legalizing (126). Legally selling and taxing cocaine would be a small sacrifice for users and a great benefit to the United States economy. Paying tax would be an acceptable trade off in order to gain a chance to gain pleasure and an extra outlet to relieve stress. The human brain is highly responsive to drugs such as cocaine. Depending on the type of drug, a drug can either increase or decrease chemicals in the brain that alters how a person feels. The Institute on Drug categorizes cocaine as a stimulant drug because the drug makes the brain constantly build up dopamine, the chemical responsible for pleasure, and creates a state of euphoria for the user (NIDA). Similar to most drugs including prescription drugs, cocaine can be become addictive with acceptable reasoning. Who would not want an energy lifter after having a bad day or week? Cocaine is already illegal and yet there are numerous addicts in the United States. Legalizing cocaine will raise the number of people that is addicted to cocaine but it does not mean such a turn out would be a negative circumstance. A high number of people becoming addicts and overdosing on cocaine is not ideal, but, may be a solution to the problems presented by overpopulation. People dying or shortening their lives for pleasurable moments may seem taboo but it is a better alternative to unforeseen fatal situations. Granted, humans have come a long way to advance in health and technology in order to prolong their lives, but it also lowered human fatalities which led to overpopulation. Leriche 3 Challenges toward the structure of a nation has occurred due to the overpopulation of humans as well. If it is cruel to have people die of a conscious action that they are fully aware of the possible consequences, then why is tobacco still legal and being sold across the nation? Looking forward to the cost of living is equivalent to Conversion and Management Cost of the of non-renewable exergy connected with the fabrication of particular (Szargut 1149). As production of items involving the use of nonrenewable resource increase to accommodate living people, nonrenewable resources decreases. Instead of shortening the existence of human as a whole, the government should allow more fatalities by legalizing cocaine. Legalizing cocaine can be the next step to a better society for the American people if the United States Government chooses to review the benefits and accept it as a solution to the growing population. An additional product for the United States to tax and market is a step closer to a better economy. The step of bringing a better economy allows Americans to also have a chance to experience a more pleasurable life with less stress. If the United States Government forms the idea of how cruel it would be to withhold a great increase of jobs and pleasure from its citizens, then the potential risk of using cocaine would not seem as important. Regardless of the risk factors of using cocaine, legalizing the drug does not necessarily condemn every person to the possible fates of using cocaine. Similar to tobacco, not every American will feel compel to use a drug because of its legal availability. If the people who do decide to use cocaine overdoses on the product, at least it helps with the issue of Earth being overpopulated. The thought of thousands of people dying or shortening their life seems inhumane but the reality is that the only planet known to be sustainable enough for life is suffering from the overpopulation of humans. Leriche 4 The growth of the human population has caused detrimental challenges and legalizing cocaine is the possible solution to the challenges. Leriche 5 Works Cited Dennis, Richard J. The economics of legalizing  The Atlantic Monthly 266 (1990): 126- 132. NIDA. Cocaine. (2016): https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/cocaine Riumallo-Herl, Carlos. loss, wealth and depression during the Great Recession in the USA and Int J Epidemiol (2014) 43 (5): 1508-1517. Smith, Roger. Population growth and environmental  Encyclopedia of Environmental Issues, Revised Edition (Online Edition). Salem P, 2013 Szargut, Jan. of the non-renewable natural exergy resources as a measure of the ecological Energy Conversion and Management. (2002) 43 (9).