1 Stewart February 12, 2017 To Whom It May Concern, When writing this paper my aim was to create another holiday. Because of the limited amount of holidays, we have. I proposed that this new holiday was to be a celebration that all can relate to which was a birthday, my birthday which is May 30 th . The thesis of this essay is are only 10 national holidays in the United States of America and making this the 11th one will provide the opportunity for individuals to relax, unify them and excelled work With each new body paragraph, I aimed to create a topic sentence that would lead back to the thesis to create a unified essay. When starting the paper, I created a sense of question as to why is it that we only have the amount of holidays we do and how relaxing having another holiday can be. I did this so that the reader to think, question and advocate for the creation of this new holiday. In order to make the realization of this holiday I called on the president and congress to push the development of it. With the help of various reliable sources, I made the argument for this paper firm. Something I purposely chose to do was to reframe from using first person a lot but use it wisely so the reader does not think I want this holiday for myself but for everyone. I also combined a rebuttal in the conclusion. I did not proof read this paper because I purposely waited until the last minute to submit the paper in order to meet the deadline to show how not having rest makes the individual not do their work correctly and also procrastinate because most people wait until the last minute to do their work just to meet the deadline so the productivity is not a 100%. I also left the work cited page the way it is because I was focused on just meeting the requirements and getting the work in as opposed if I had a holiday I would have been more rested and committed to doing my work well. 2 Stewart Nicholas Stewart ENC1102 Instructor: TJ Murray February 12, 2017 May 30 th Nicholas Day a National Holiday Over worked? Exhausted? Tired? Think of having just another day in the year off from work and school. A day to take shoes off and relax, enjoy the fruits of labor and celebrate. Luckily, the only days that offer such luxury are federal holidays; which come in a handful and usually around the same time. But, what if there was a way to get another holiday that would invoke these well needed pleasures. Given the fact that there is just one national holiday in the month of May I propose making the 30 th of that month a national holiday. This precise date has a very unique attribute about it. It is the day I was born; hence this new national holiday should be a celebration of my birthday. There are only 10 national holidays in the United States of America and making this the 11 th one will provide the opportunity for individuals to relax, unify them and increase work productivity. Every holiday has the ability to bring together families, friends and people from different cultures and backgrounds. There is a of all members of the community during the ritual and later on during the (Harutyunyan, 2) which is more time to connect and share new experiences. A holiday has the power to unite us all and provide social equality which one of the most important mechanisms in (Harutyunyan, 2). The United States of 3 Stewart America, is diverse place and just like Congress have different cultures represented, so Congress should advocate for this holiday to be backed by a law. Having holidays fosters the development of traditions and the creation of memories. From old traditions, new traditions are built and having a holiday like this one which is the celebration of a life ensures the continuation and passing down of traditions. Through the time spent with people you love on a day like this is inevitable because of (Capellanus, 43) this boosted the mood within the whole group which causes people to be more open. The United States population needs to relax more. With the pressures of deadlines and busy schedules more than often people forget to take a breather. Even the president needs to take a break, so he is challenged to advocate for this holiday. The timing of this holiday will give everyone the chance to take things slow and regroup. are studies to show that stress is comparable to other risk factors that we traditionally think of as major, like hypertension, poor diet and lack of (Hung and James, 389). Having a destress holiday will improve mood and memory and concentration made easier. Not relaxing prolongs the presence of stress hormones in humans which are linked to depression (Lawler III, 234). Less stress and increased mood makes individuals more likely to want to engage with one another positively. The American population cannot keep going on and on like a machine without a break or they will self-destruct. The increased energy as a result of the improved mood due to this holiday will promote work productivity. Co-operations such as Google, Facebook etc. are challenged to spread the word for the need of this holiday through social media, for the stake of their employees. The better one feels, the better one does and the better one does, the better one feels. This positive outcome due to this holiday will have a cyclical effect. When one has rested because of a change 4 Stewart of routine. Their eyes are open to new experiences providing a new sense of inspiration and motivation. If workers are not motivated to do a task it will not be done to the best for their ability and in return can affect others and their productivity. It is said that time allows us to see the bigger picture away from everyday (Lawler III, 234). By implementing this holiday and giving workers the time off to take a minute and relax. They will realize that they are a part of something greater than themselves. Due to the precise date of this holiday many individuals may oppose it because it is celebrating someone who has done nothing of great significance. It may present questions as to what is the true meaning of a national holiday? what it should mean? And why no celebrate my birthday instead? They believe that because it will be a national holiday that a more familiar face should champion this day. Their reason for opposing this idea may stem from their own personal agenda rather than focusing of the whole idea behind the holiday. Others believe that distract individuals from the goals and reality of (Krytle, 364). However, the need for this holiday could not be stressed enough. Having this holiday every year on May 30 th which is the day I was born will be a great addition to the holidays we already have. It in its entirety will ensure the gathering and connecting of all people, it will promote the idea of relaxation; by having everyone take things slow and not rush things but do things that they love to do and work productivity will go up because people who are relax and shared a moment with the people they love are motivated and willing to do the tasks at hand. So do we really need one ten national holidays that celebrate people who have come and gone? Or have one that celebrates life and is a massive party? 5 Stewart Works Cited Capellanus, Andreas. TH E ART OF COURTLY LOVE. New York: WW Norton & Company, 1969. Harutyunyan, Gayane. Holiday as a Mechanism of National Identity  Book of Articles of the International Conference dedicated to the 500th Anniversary of Armenian Printing and the 65th Anniversary of the Establishment of YSU SS. Vol. 2. 2013. Hung, Kam, and James F. Petrick. Why do you cruise? Exploring the motivations for taking cruise holidays, and the construction of a cruising motivation  Tourism Management 32.2 (2011): 386-393. Krythe, Maymie Richardson. All about American holidays. Harpercollins, 1962. Lawler III, Edward E. Motivation in work  (1973).