Corredor 1 Andres Corredor Project 1 Intermediate Draft ENC1102 January 29, 2017 Project 1 Revision Plan After reviewing the critiques for my paper from my professor, I made a few adjustments that he recommended. The first was removing the bold font and underline under my paper title according to proper MLA format Rather than taking my original Rogerian argument format, I chose to stick to a one-sided argument which was a plea to the U.S. Department of Education to ban homework in all U.S. schools while extending the school day a bit to add more tutoring and study time to students without compromising their free time at home I changed my thesis from an argument and compromise between two parties to a single argument I strengthened my opening paragraph sentences by turning them into a brief roadmap into what the main idea of the corresponding paragraph will be I fixed my conclusion to accommodate my new thesis and argument and ended it with a foreseeable solution that would come about as a result of a federal ban on homework in schools and how students will benefit as such Corredor 2 Banning Homework in Schools Since our very first day of elementary school, teachers have tortured our freedom by assigning homework and making their students commit even more time and energy to work outside of the classroom. Homework consists of assignments or projects outside of the classroom to be done at home and returned to the teacher at a certain due date. Whether or not homework is actually effective in the learning capabilities and performance in school subjects is being debated. Two stakeholders are on opposite sides of the argument: The Department of Education on one side and some, but not all, students, teachers, parents and other experts on the other. Both sides offer opposing views on the effectiveness of homework and whether it helps or hinders students on an educational and a social level as well. To put an end to this outdated debate, the U.S. Department of Education should highly consider ordering a federal mandate that all schools in all the school districts end homework in all classrooms. This mandate will allow students to dedicate more time to developing social and interpersonal skills by participating in more programs and sports as well as spending more valuable time with their families. The U.S. Department of Education has always set standards for schools across the country and in particular, promotes teachers assigning homework and ways which parents can help their children with their assignments. The Department was established in 1980 and currently employs 4,400 individuals and also has a $68 million budget (U.S. Department of Education). It sets standards and regulations like standardized testing, school hours, curriculums and hiring requirements for teachers, staff and administrators alike. Their mission to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness by fostering Corredor 3 educational excellence and ensuring equal (U.S. Department of Education). Although the Education Department does not set obligatory measures for schools to assign homework, it strongly encourages its use and provide context into why most teachers assign it such as and practice what covered in class, learn to use resources, such as libraries, reference materials and computer Web sites to find information about a subject, explore subjects more fully than classroom time (U.S. Department of Education). It also claims can help create greater understanding between families and teachers and provide opportunities for increased communication. Monitoring homework keeps families informed about what their children are learning and about the policies and programs of the teacher and the The Education Department has a huge role in monitoring schools and their success and promoting homework and parent involvement in assignments is a crucial part of its agenda to ensure effective teaching. On the other side of the discussion of homework and its usefulness to students are some students themselves along with some parents, teachers and experts on education and study habit research. Josephine Campbell, a writer for the Salem Press Encyclopedia claims long-term studies of homework have yielded neutral results, and some show that any academic success linked to homework diminishes over Some studies done, not just in the United States, but in other countries around the world have reached similar conclusions. For example, Richard Walker, author of Reforming Homework: Practices, Learning and Policies wrote in nations where more homework was assigned scored lower on the Program for International Student Assessment (PISA) test given to fifteen year Critics of the effectiveness of homework often suggest more after-school activities like sports and music Corredor 4 classes help students more in engaging with their peers instead of stressing their additional assignments and due dates. Furthermore, author Alfie Kohn states which he believes may offer little or no academic benefit, takes time away from family activities and other experiences and may exhaust and frustrate students Students are the party most affected by homework and its benefits and/or uselessness. Many of them at the grade school level reject the idea of homework for reasons like time being taken out of their day, added stress, and sometimes even confusion between certain assignments and lessons discussed in the classroom. Although parents almost always want to be involved in their education and do what they can to help them succeed, many also get flustered with either the amount of the level of difficulty of certain projects or assignments. The parents, students, teachers who are at the receiving end of the education system and the experts who have researched homework and its effects have a vested interest in pushing to eliminate homework from their local schools if they see more cons than pros. The U.S. Department of Education and the students, teachers and parents that make up school populations can work towards a compromise to end homework and instead direct that new extra time to more valuable lessons for children that are key to their development. This viable solution includes the Department of Education to order a nationwide mandate to replace homework time by extending the school day by two hours by starting the school day an hour earlier than usual. This mandate allows students to gain extra time in learning and receiving tutoring while on school grounds and being able to have more free and family time when at home. The Education Department also benefits by not risking failing grades due to incomplete homework assignments for the students and added stressors that have negative Corredor 5 consequences on them. With no worries of homework, students can begin enjoying both school and their childhoods a lot more and can begin to see higher grades in their classes by directing their attention to studying for their tests instead. Corredor 6 Works Cited Campbell, Josephine. Students And  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Kohn, Alfie. Do Students Really Need Practice  The Homework Myth. Boston: Da Capo Press, 2006. Print. The Basics -- Helping Your Child With  U.S. Department of Education. N.p., 30 Aug. 2003. Web. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. <https://ed.gov/parents/academic/help/homework/part4.html>. Winsor, Morgan. Growing Debate About Homework, One School Bans ABC News. N.p., 06 Sept. 2016. Web. Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. http://abcnews.go.com/US/amid-growing- debate-homework-school-bans/story?id=41843594.