Cover Letter There are few reasons why I picked this topic for my first Project in this class: coming from Serbia and not being able to speak English caused a lot of issues for me in terms of enrolling in any US university. I had a very hard time learning new language in such a short time because the community where I was in expected from me to know the language. I was almost always misunderstood and caused some big problem in certain situations for me. I believe this topic would be interesting for any foreign student here at USF and I am one of them. I really wanted to introduce my family and my friends from back home to my new friends that I met here but the language barrier was a big problem and they bond because of that. I improved a lot since I first started learning English but I still have long way to go to where going to be able to express my thoughts, opinions, feelings in the proper and best way possible. My girlfriend is American and some fights that we have between us are mostly just because of misunderstandings and I belive that if we both had the same first language those fights would not even exist. Spasoje Stefanovic T. J. Murray Composition II January 28, 2017 If The Whole World Spoke The Same Language U ovom eseju cu pisati o jednoj absurdnoj ideju koja je veoma zanimljiva a to je bi ceo svet govorio istim You wish you could understand what it says, right? Without using Google translate. It is written in Serbian language this essay I will be writing about one absurd idea that is very interesting and that is the whole world spoke the same If we all spoke the same language this be a problem to understand for anyone. definitely an absurd idea but a possible one. If the whole world spoke the same language people would not have so much trouble communicating with one another, understand each other, and they would be united in some way, but it will be very difficult to agree on what language the whole world should speak for many reasons but why United Nations exist, to solve worlds problems like this one. One language for the whole world would unite the countries, religions, cultures and people. Saying something that everyone would be able to understand no matter where are they coming from, from what culture, religion, country, would be amazing. Being able to build relationships with people would be so much easier because everyone would have the strongest tool for that and communication. Misunderstandings would be cut to minimum and so many issues would be avoided because everyone would speak the same language and understand it. United Nation would play big role in founding that one language that everyone would speak, it would not be an easy task for sure but it would bring so much good to the world if that task were done successfully. According to Linguistic Society of America there are 6,909 languages spoken in the world at this moment. Numbers of those languages are pretty similar and knowing certain language can help you communicate in several different countries without a problem, but still, that is a pretty big number that can cause a lot of communication barriers. Medical field is one of many fields that need to have almost perfect communication in order to have high success rate. To provide quality medical care it is essential to have good communication with the patients. Medical professionals are dealing with a great amount of stress due to the lack of information or misinformation they are receiving from their patients, especially in emergency situations. They have to make very important decisions in treatment that can have a big impact on the life. Sometimes those decisions will have an impact on their careers too. By the survey that was designed and distributed in creating Article Article: Impact of Language Barrier on Acute Care Medical Professionals Is Dependent Upon by several authors, 61 nurses and 36 physicians responded to survey and 95% nurses reported that language barrier was an impediment to quality healthcare, on the other side 88% of physicians responded similarly. It was a high number in percentage that was reported that both nurses and physicians are experiences great amount of stress in language barrier situations.( Bernard, Andrew). Goenka, Pratichi K author of academic journal in translation: Impact of language barrier in wrote have shown that there is suboptimal identification of patients who require linguistic assistance and, as such, there are missed opportunities to bridge language gaps with many of our patients. The lack of interpretation, or use of informal, untrained interpreters, has significant effects on patient safety, quality of care, and patient (Goenka, Pratichi K.) Both of these studies show speaking one language would solve problems that language barriers make. So many lives would have been saved, the stress in workplace that was created by the language barrier would be gone and the best quality of medical care would be available to everyone. Study of USF show people from different cultures who speak the same language tend to build relationships quicker and easier than people from same culture who speak a different language. There are students from over 150 countries that attend USF and they have opportunity, organized by international service of USF, to meet their fellow colleagues from different cultures and talk to them in English, because that is the most common language that both sides will understand, and they build great relationships and get closer just because they were speaking the same language. This is a great example of how speaking one language can unite so many cultures and nations. Communicating and understanding each other is more important than from what culture individuals are coming from because even if they are coming from the same cultures they have a tool of communication to build their relationship. By uniting different cultures and nations we can avoid conflicts, fights, and war. Also we would build better things in world, make our cultures and nations better and richer in everyway. Finding that one language the whole world would speak would be a very difficult thing. Languages carry a big part of the history of cultures so giving up the language the specific culture was built on will be a decision many of nations agree on. Second, there is going to be a lot of political issues that would play a part in making a decision on what language the whole world would speak. And third, even if the world comes to the decision on what language the whole world would speak, there would be almost an impossible challenge of implementing one language into every culture. United Nation would be the main stakeholder in this case because their purpose is to solve worlds problem and this would be definitely be one of the biggest problem they would face because of the reasons named above. Maybe even making a new universal language would be the best solution for this problem because a lot of power issue would be avoided. For example if the president of France would like to talk to president of United States and the language that the whole world would speak was English, the president of US would have slightly more power in the conversation because that is his native language. So for that to be avoided coming up with one universal language can be a very good idea. If the whole world spoke the same language people would not have so much trouble communicating with one another, understanding each other, and they would be united in some way. But it will be very difficult to agree on what language the whole world should speak for many reasons. If everyone were to speak the same language, many problems would be solved in the medical care field, work places, and many other fields of the world. Cultures, countries, nations, and people would be united and make the world a better place because they would understand each other. Works Cited Goenka, Pratichi K. Lost In Translation: Impact Of Language Barriers On  Current Opinion In Pediatrics 28.5 (2016): 659-666. CINAHL. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bernard, Andrew, et al. Original Article: Impact Of Language Barrier On Acute Care Medical Professionals Is Dependent Upon  Journal Of Professional Nursing 22.(2006): 355-358. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cosgrove-Mather, Bootie. Language Barriers Cause  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 06 Aug. 2002. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Linguistic Society of  How Many Languages Are There in the World? Linguistic Society of America. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.