Cover Letter Changed the title to more appropriate one for the argument, and made it capital. Changed the thesis statement to more suitable for this project. Used another word than manipulated so it does not come as loaded. Changed the beginning of the introduction to a more interesting hook. Restated my first topic sentence. I have looked at Perdue Owl, so I can fix my MLA citation. Changed part of the word cited Proof read my paper I have included a bias in this paper just so I can show the reader the truth, and to show how a bias source can be just like they do in all sources that support the idea of global warming. Fixed awkward senesces that I have been told to change I wrote this paper in a head of time with only study for my calculus and chemistry test which made me rush a bit while writing it, and I might have some difficulties as English is my second language. Shehadehagha Alrefai 2 Youssef Shehadehagha Alrefai TJ Murry ENC 1102 29 th of January 2017 Global Warming Is Not Real The story of global warming is really contradictive, and it basically divides the people into two groups, a group that does believe in global warming, and another group that do not. In fact, the the disagreement between those two sides is just like the disagreement between two different religions. The idea of global warming being not real is absurd because of the ton of news people hear almost everyday on how it is destroying our planet, but actually global warming can be proven that is not real. Over the decades scholars discovered that some of the most important information and point of view we have on climate change is not have been true and have been deployed. The United States government should stop funding global warming research because global warming is not real. Researchers point out that there is no global warming, and disclaims some untrusted facts. Scientist are always comparing previous years and showing how global warming exist, and how climate change is changing to the worst. But according to Larry Bell, the professor at the University of Houston, cooling of about 1.3 degrees Fahrenheit between 1945 and which is actually a decrease in climate change, but in a huge period of time, almost 30 years (Bell 2016). The professor Larry Bell did not stop there but he also argued and showed surprisingly that for the past two decades satellite and weather balloon measurements show no statistically-significant global warming, which contradicts all the false claims made on global warming (Bell 2016). Professor Bell also quoted credible source the UK Hadley Center, Shehadehagha Alrefai 3 average annual planetary warming between 1850 and 2015 is virtually imperceptible, and certainly not Which certainly support that global warming can be not real (qtd. In Bell 2016). Researcher argue that there is no global warming, and nothing we do is harming the world. Some scholars are trying to disprove all the reasons that global warming is real, especially when carbon monoxide is the case. Humans are increasing the carbon monoxide on the earth. But according to a Sanford article humans are just moving carbons from the ground and turning them into living things, which they find dangerous at all, and claim that children will enjoy an Earth with twice as much plant and animal life. This is a wonderful gift from the industrial Which means that there is no global warming and carbon monoxide does not harm at all (Robinson 1997). Simple observations can be made on some climatologist to disregarded most of the previous claims about global warming. According to philosopher of science and science educator, Douglas Allchin most people who support the climate change are con artist scientists, because what professor Allchin is claiming that those scientists never really support their claim and can never teach anything about climate change. Allchin claims that only 39 out of the 30 thousands scientist that signed the petition for global warming movement are credible and actually they are the only 39 that are climatologists. Even most of the scientist cannot be trusted regarding global warming and according to Allchin it should not be a problem (Allchin 309). Elke Weber also supports professor Allchin that not everything should be trusted and global should not be a problem (Weber 103). Just with a bit of observation many flaws can be found, just like in 2014 when NASA declared the year 2014 to be the hottest year ever when they were only 38 percent sure that that was going to happen and it ended up with not being the hottest year ever. And not Shehadehagha Alrefai 4 only that but there any evidences for global warming for the past two decades which can be easily seen when looking at the flat line temperature trend since 1997 (Bandler 2016). Global warming research has the worst scientific scandal of our generation. Climategate showed emails with deployed data that was trying to show that climate change is man made with fake evidence. In 2009 people discovered email from the university of East Climatic Research Unit showing how famous climatologist were encouraging the idea that global warming is man made, with attempting to create books and deploying other books to their side with their ideas that the planet is heating up because of the high carbon dioxide levels (Bandler 2016). The former NASA climatologist Dr. James Hansen also known by the of climate change was also involved in this scandal, along side with other scientists that introduced that concept of global warming like Philip Jones, Michael Mann. The emails also included discussions on hiding the data they found and actually some of the data got deleted. This scandal should alert people and show them the truth that global warming is a myth, how can you trust the of global warming if he is involved in the biggest scandal of the century (Bandler 2016). The enormous number of people that believe that global warming is real and support it without even actually knowing what is it or what is behind it is an indication that something is definitely wrong. Although people might feel the weather is getting warmer every year but that is not the case and many other observations are made to disregard any false claims that have been made. Other scandals that shows how that global warming is not real. After all our president, the president of the united states believes that global warming is a scam and created by the Chinese in order to make United States manufacturing non-competitive. Shehadehagha Alrefai 5 Word cited Allchin, Douglas. Global  The American Biology Teacher 77.4 (2015): 309-13. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Bandler, Aaron. 9 Things You Need To Know About The Climate Change  Daily Wire. N.p., 07 Oct. 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Bell, Larry. Three Facts Prove Climate Alarm Is a  Newsmax. N.p., 31 May 2016. Web. 19 Jan. 2017. Robinson, Arthur B., and Zachary Robinson. Science has spoken: global warming is a  Wall Street Journal 4 (1997). Weber, Elke U. Experience-based and description-based perceptions of long-term risk: Why global warming does not scare us  Climatic change 77.1 (2006): 103-120.