Ajayi 1 Cover Page Writing a paper on a absurd topic was not a walk in the park for me. This was because I enjoy reading about pressing or very serious issues in the society. Nevertheless, the task was not too hard for me. I chose the topic should get because it was suggested in class and it seemed to me like a very absurd topic that I could easily brainstorm about and also find articles about it online. This did not turn out to be true. I did not exactly find anything to support my claim. Most of the ideas in this paper are based off of my own prior knowledge. This is why I do not have any sources in y paper. When I was writing this paper, I tried numerous methods to see what was the most comfortable. I tried eating while I was writing and this did not work out too well. I then tried playing an intense call of duty online game with a couple of friends right before I started writing again. This turned out to work out well. I even write better when I started listening to music while I was writing. Ajayi 2 Adedamola Ajayi T. J. Murray ENC 1102 12 th February 2017 Men Should Get Pedicures As a child, my mother always made me follow her to the salon and forced me to get pedicures. I did not like this at that time but as I grew older and I started realizing how important hygiene is in a life, it started to stick on to me. Pedicures have for a long time been known to be something done by the female gender. Men who do this might be seen as less manly and be called bad names by his colleagues or other male friends. Pedicures are seen as a form of pampering for women. They usually get pedicures that come together with package that include but are not limited to facials, manicures, full body massages and many other things. This is widely known as an act of pampering and men do not want to be pampered because they do not want to be looked down at by their fellow men. The conversation surrounding men getting pedicures is still a very controversial topic because some say that feet are nasty and need to be cleaned for hygienic purposes also some say it creates room for conversations which is a form of social progression and is also a form of relaxation but it is widely known as a thing for women. The feet are one of the filthiest parts of the human body especially for men. Feet are covered by socks and shoes and receive little or no air on a daily basis. Despite being cleaned while one takes his/her daily shower, this enough to keep them very clean. An extra step has to be taken which is in form of pedicures. This procedure helps reduce or prevent infections and also the spread of these infections or Ajayi 3 diseases like fungal infections, ingrown toe nails, warts etc. These infections can be very painful if they taken care of so it is best adviced to prevent them from happening in the first place in so as to prevent having to go through the pain. Furthermore, the facility where pedicures take place can become a place for social gathering for men to interact with other men and also women. It can be a second barber shop. Men that go to the barbers engage in intense conversations for the duration of being at the barber shop. They should inculcate this idea but in a less intense way so as to create diversity. This is a good form of social progression. It creates a very different environment for conversations in comparison to the usual environment men find themselves while discussion issues. In addition to that, it creates a topic for discussion amongst men e.g. Where do you get your pedicure done or Can you refer me to your foot specialist? These are just a few examples of the possible conversations that can be brought up as a result of men getting pedicures. It expands the boundaries of conversations of men from just sports, haircuts, politics and many other things. Likewise, this can be an additional form of relaxation for men. Women already use it as a form of relaxation. Technological advancements have enabled the equipment used for pedicures to be installed into full body massage chairs. In addition to that, these facilities are equipped with televisions that help to keep people entertained watching their favourite television show, sports or news throughout the duration of the pedicure session. All of these aid to relaxation for the individual. Owners of these facilities have started designing the facilities to create a cool and calm space for the customers like the decorations, lighting that creates a calm and cool moods and many amongst many other things. This is done in order to close the Ajayi 4 customers mind off from the outside world and aid relaxation. These are all the perquisites of getting pedicures that should be looked at by men. Despite all of the advantages listed above, the main argument thrown back at this is that it undermines the integrity of a man. Despite the fact that society has titled getting pedicures as a thing done by women since its commencement, we should understand that the world is changing and personal hygiene is becoming a very important issue because of the rapid population growth of the world which aids to a rapid spread of diseases and infections. These infections might seem very minute when they spring up on an feet and the person might not take the pain that accompanies the infection seriously because their feet are always in shoes and seen. They usually endure this until the pain becomes unbearable. This is why men should endeavor to get pedicures occasionally so as to prevent creating a breeding space for these diseases and infections. Despite the absurdity of this, men should endeavor to make this become a habit because of the betterment of his health, hygiene and also of others around him. And also other men and women should not look at men that get pedicures as girly or less manly because they are doing it for a good cause which is the betterment of oneself and also those around him.