Ewing 1 Degas Ewing Ms. Staiger [ENC 6 February 2017 The legalization of Physicians Assisted Suicide Physicians assisted suicide and euthanasia are controversial concepts related to the rights of dying people. Physicians assisted suicide is the process of a physician helping a patient die through means of lethal injection or drug dosage (Meriam Webster). Physician assisted suicide is currently legal for certain individuals in 5 states. In most the states the restrictions require the patient to be terminal as well as in a functioning mental state. Euthanasia is the killing of an individual that is in a state which prevents them from living a normal life, most often terminally ill or in a comatose, through a process that is painless (Derek Humphy). Derek Humphy is the author of Final Exit and a few other works devoted to the study and discussion of physician assisted suicide. Certain organizations are arguing for physicians assisted suicide and euthanasia to be legal everywhere such as Death with Dignity, a group that named itself after the death with dignity laws put in place in the five states where physician assisted suicide is legal with restriction. Other groups are at odds with Death with Dignity such as Choice is an Illusion because they want to prevent the legalization of physician assisted suicide at all cost. Even though these groups have very opposing views they do have one goal in common and that is a less painful dying experience and more rights for the terminally ill. One stakeholder that finds the issue at hand extremely important to be resolved for numerous reasons is Death with Dignity. Physician assisted suicide is currently legal is Vermont, Montana, California, Washington, and Oregon. There are numerous accounts of terminally ill Ewing 2 patients leaving their home towns with their families to seek refuge in a state where they can live out their final days in peace and die as they wish. The problem with this is some people do not want to leave their state, home, friends and family to die and would rather have physician assisted suicide in their own state. Dying is enough of a physical, economic, and emotional toll to the patient as well as family and friends and moving just adds to the traumatic situation. According to The Permanente Journal many people in their dying days start to deteriorate not only physically but also mentally and having family members see that deterioration is almost inhumane. The Permanente Journal is a peer-reviewed compilation of medical professionals sharing of research on medical sciences and medical humanities and is therefore very scholarly and reliable. One opinion conveyed through an article in the Permanente Journal regarding euthanasia was, A medical practitioner does not commit homicide if he or she aids a person to die with (Boudreau, MD). Dying with dignity is a basic human right and no one should have to be forced to live only to face an imminent and humiliating deterioration leading to death. There are countless reasons why these patients deem physician assisted suicide the way to go about concluding their last days including the fact that Science Direct makes the assertion that physician assisted suicide is painless and short. Science direct is a very large, reputable medical journal. Patients are often faced with the choice of spending a few fewer days, weeks, or months in comfortable conditions with a proper mental and physical state with their family or possibly a few more days, weeks, or months but in pain and suffering. Additionally, knowing the exact day one is going to die makes getting everything in order a bit easier for some. This stakeholder thinks it seems the obvious solution is to cut back on pain and suffering by legalizing physician assisted suicide throughout the United States. They believe denying people the right to die in infringing on their basic human rights. Ewing 3 However, there are opposing organizations such as is and Illusion that feel just as passionately about the process of dying but oppose physician assisted suicide vehemently. Just the name of the organization alludes to the fact that giving terminally ill patients the choice to die is a lie due to outside influences that can often pressure the ill to go through with physician assisted suicide. This organization is very wary of the opportunistic, greedy feeders off of their loved deaths and illnesses. One large issue that is an illusion addresses is the concept of vultures. A vulture would be for example a family member that wants an inheritance and therefore pressures an elderly family member to end their life prematurely. There is also the possibility that a family member or members would pressure an elderly family member to get physician assisted suicide because they do not want to care or pay for care for them. There are a lot of dystopian ideas across the internet of the possibility of if we allow physician assisted suicide to be a norm the possibility of capping off ages and not letting them live past a certain age and other crazy possibilities. However, vultures and the possibility of getting physician assisted suicide when the patient lived due to medical advances or pure luck is far more realistic. The anti-euthanasia organization makes the assertion that deaths double when a country legalizes euthanasia. Hope is an organization that is very against euthanasia and is somewhat biased and for this reason and may contort statistics or only share statistics favorable to their cause. These anti-euthanasia organizations all make the assertion that comfortable death is possible in hospice care and a more humane and better option than euthanasia, which is seen negatively throughout many religions and is something so inhumane its almost animalistic. One big point that is an Illusion makes is that there is always the slightest chance that the terminal patients could have survived had they not gotten euthanasia. Ewing 4 According to the Vermont Alliance for Ethical Healthcare misdiagnoses are all too common and they detail several cases where people got physician assisted suicide but it was later found out they were misdiagnosed and would not have died. According to the New England Journal of Medicine many doctors see physician assisted suicide as immoral and they have conducted studies in which many physicians would not participate even under the restrictions. One quote that embodies this struggle is if assisted suicide were to be permitted under some conditions, a second issue is whether physicians should ever participate in (The New England Journal of Medicine). The New England Journal of medicine is an unbiased medical research journal. This stakeholder has interest in preventing physician assisted suicide at all cost. They have a problem with the morality, some of the organization for religious reasons and others with the concern of vultures, and have a large problem with the possibility of ending a life that could have been full and prosperous if not for a fateful misdiagnosis. is an sees hospice care and love and support from families as a more humane alternative to physician assisted suicide. They stress that there is always a chance of survival with upcoming technology and medicine in addition to corrupt family members that seek financial advantages in their family death. Most every state that has legalized physician assisted suicide has about the same restrictions; must be above the age of 18, be able to communicate, and be diagnosed with a terminal illness by a physician in which they are told they have 6 months to live (Bachman). There is inherently a problem with this in that with new technology and drug trials terminal patients have a small chance of living. A list of terminal illnesses includes cancer, aids, ebola, advanced heart disease and lesch-nyhan syndrome (NCBI). The definition of a terminal illness is Ewing 5 that it is not curable and is unable to be adequately treated and will result in result in a short amount of time (Merriam-Webster). This presents sort of a problem since ebola is on most every terminally ill disease list however it has been successfully treated in the United States. For the compromise I would make it so only advanced staged cancer patients could get physicians assisted suicide. Cancer that has mestastisized is considered stage 4 cancer. According to the Mayo clinic, five-year survival rate for people diagnosed with late-stage lung cancer that has spread (metastasized) to other areas of the body is 4 Mayo clinic is an unbiased medical source that specializes in research and treating medical issues. People with below stage four cancer should definitely not be allowed to get physician assisted suicide and not even all stage four cancer patients. I would furthermore add to the compromise by making it so only patients with inoperable cancer could receive physician assisted suicide. This means the tumors cannot be operated on, there are no drug trials, there is absolutely no procedures that can be done. There are some cases of people with terminal cancer who doctors will still operate on and give treatments to in hopes of extending their life in order to wait on possible new medicine or to wait for a cure (Amri). This process is called debulking surgery and if this is an option for the patient than physicians assisted suicide would not be an option. Only patients with terminal, stage four cancer, who are deemed in operable and physicians will not operate on can receive physicians assisted suicide. In addition to prevent the so called vultures from taking advantage of the patient and influencing the decision making process. The patient must undergo three hours- worth of therapy, where the therapist would come to the hospital to keep the process as easy as possible for the patient, and the therapist would make sure the patient felt positive about their decision. The sessions would be one on one and the therapist must give permission only if they feel this is what the patient really wants and is not being influenced by other parties. The sessions Ewing 6 in total must not exceed three hours to make sure it is not infringing on the patients possibly final days with their family. In summation neither stakeholder will get exactly what they want. Choice is an Illusion will not get physician assisted to be illegal everywhere just as Death with Dignity will not get the option of physician assisted suicide for any dying person who wants it. The extensive restrictions for the compromise make it so dying people have more rights and are less likely to be taken advantage of, which is a mutual goal of both organizations. Ewing 7 Works Cited Boudreau, J Donald. Suicide and Euthanasia: Can You Even Imagine Teaching Medical Students How to End their lives? The Permanente Journal, The Permanente Journal, 2011, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3267569/. Browse by The Permanente Journal- Kaiser Permanente, www.thepermenentejournal.org/Issues.html. Chao, DVK, and. Euthanasia Revisited. is An Illusion, www.choiceillusion.org/. Death With Dignity, www.deathwithdignity.org/. Emanuel, E.J. / Science, Health and Medical Journals, Full Text Articles and Books., www.sciencedirect.com/. Flows, Capital. Suicide Debate: Are We Using The Right Forbes, Forbes Magazine, 27 Oct. 2014, www.forbes.com/sites/realspin/2014/10/27/physician-assisted-suicide-debate-are-we- using-the-right-language/. Hope. can live without Home- HOPE: No Euthanasia, noeuthanasia.org.au/. Humphries, Derek. Assisted-Dying Blog, assisted-dying.org/blog/. Merriam-Webster, Merriam-Webster, www.merriam-webster.com/. Quill, Timmothy. Suicide New England Journal of Medicine, www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMclde1302615. Ewing 8