Wilson 1 Wilson Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.068 29 January 2017 Space Exploration and its Subsequent Advancements in Technology For centuries, the human race has been led by curiosity, a drive and a passion to constantly learn more and to strive for immortalization within our universe; dating all the way back to the first man who discovered fire or the wheel. Recently, advancements have led mankind to the final frontier, space, learning more about not only the world around it but the worlds around it and humans looked back since. Companies and organizations such as NASA and SpaceX have promoted the idea of advancing humanity to the next level and creating technologies for the evolution of mankind. The goal of these two organizations has been to continuously reach new heights and to explore space and to actually colonize Mars in the next twenty years. Other organizations, such as the US government, necessarily support the advancements in technology and consider the goals of NASA and SpaceX to be somewhat unimportant and secondary to other issues in the great scheme of things. These two although at odds have an abundance of different areas in where they can come to a concession and agree on a compromise in which both of them can reap benefits. NASA and SpaceX are both working together to propel the advancements of space technologies farther and faster than ever before (Manno). Recently, SpaceX has developed a spaceship that is reusable, lowered the cost of fuel for rockets, and has been the forerunner, as of late, to pushing the bounds of previously thought human limits (Valentine). SpaceX is ran by a man by the name of Elon Musk. Elon Musk is a very intelligent man and is the CEO of a variety Wilson 2 of other companies that are also forerunners in their respective fields. All companies have something to do with constant development and all of them strive to break boundaries and to discover more. Likewise, mission is to develop space technologies at a cheaper rate and more efficiently so the idea of being in space and reaching new planets becomes the new in human culture. Another stake holder like SpaceX that has very similar outlooks is NASA. NASA has been an established organization since 1958, made under President Dwight Eisenhower. This organization was created for the sole purpose to get to space and to establish a strong foothold in the final frontier before the Soviet Union could claim it as their own. own personal mission statement is reach for new heights and reveal the unknown so that what we do and learn will benefit all this statement in itself shows drive to continuously learn more because they feel like these achievements they reach will be beneficial to all, and it truly has (Mcquaid). Take the calculator for instance; since its creation, students have been able to complete their homework faster and more efficiently. The calculator also helps scientists and engineers solve more complex equations providing the opportunity for an explosion of new ideas and new innovations. Inventions like this, and an abundance of more have led to the growth of mankind and has led to the fast-moving technological world that we live in today. Including the encouragement of students wanting to learn more about the STEM areas (Loston). However, with all of these benefits, the US government seems to be completely against these advancements in technology and the opportunity to explore more of the world around us with the defunding of NASA and its reallocations of its resources to other areas of America. Although the Obama administration has claimed to be pro-space, taken steps for all of the space progress to backtrack into a complete mockery and a shell of what it used to Wilson 3 be (Kennel). Every year, Congress has made cuts to the NASA program and has also discontinued vital programs that NASA needed to continue with their desired objectives, such as, the Constellation project and critically necessary rockets and spaceships that were used to take astronauts into space. The major issue between these two sides is purely economical, the reason that they come up with a solution that could work out for both of them is because of limited resources. These limited resources are primarily in the form of cash and the best way to use that cash. As most people know, the United States is still in a state of growth after a major recession of the American economy, in which people lost their homes and their jobs and the US government has taken steps to work solely on that issue and to restore the economy. In the minds of the US government developments in technology comes second place to the welfare and healthcare of everyday living Americans. The concession that can be made between these two seemingly polar sides, is to increase the funding of the technology again to revitalize the STEM programs in high schools and universities across the country. This would spur a spark of innovation and ideas across the younger generations, and to use these innovations and new creations to boost the economy and to sell to others (Nadeau). This concession will work great in the long term; the more resources allocated to space exploration and its subsequent advancements in technology in other areas of other life will lead to possibilities that are endless. For example, scientists in NASA have to figure out ways to grow food in space and on Mars. In both of these places oxygen and fertile soil may be pretty hard to come by, so the scientists at NASA have to come up with a way to either have food grow spontaneously or to build another form of technology that would simulate the necessary conditions that a plant would need to grow. This is beneficial in the fact that once Wilson 4 developed it could cure world hunger; and as the US government being the ones to develop it would allow mainland industry to regrow and the sale of the technology to other countries. All of these steps would lead to a full regrowth of the economy, an explosion of cash for use in other areas of the country, and the reestablishment of the United States as a global superpower. The increase in funding to the development of technology would consequently lead to the increase of employment and well-being of all of mankind leading to a new age This is what people would call a situation, allowing both sides to feel like their wants and desires were listened to and fulfilled in a well-thought out, concise plan. On one hand, the United States government would feel like the American citizens are well taken care of and that giving its population the most beneficial path to success and their own rights to the path of happiness. Meanwhile, the NASA and SpaceX organization would be able to give an actual truth to their mission statements and fulfill their passion to reach limits previously unheard of and to break those limits for the benefit of all mankind. This concession would be optimal for both parties and both sides will be completely thrilled with the bountiful outcome that will arise. The outcome that will arise will surprise all of mankind, giving growth to science and technology. This subject in itself, should be in the minds of everyone because whichever side a person may take affects entire future. Wilson 5 Works Cited Kennel, Charles F. Proposed Cuts to NASA  Science, vol. 269, no. 5224 (1995): 621. Website. Loston, Adena Williams, et al. NASA Education: Using Inquiry in the Classroom so That Students See Learning in a Whole New  Journal of Science Education and Technology, vol. 14, no. 2 (2005): 147-156. Website. Manno, Peter J. BREAKING THE MONOPOLY: THE POTENTIAL TO REDUCE COSTS IN ITS EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLE  Public Contract Law Journal, vol. 43, no. 1 (2013): 87-104. Website. Mcquaid, Kim. Selling the Space Age: NASA and Environment,  Environment and History, vol. 12, no. 2 (2006): 127-163. Website. Nadeau, Francois. Explaining Public Support For Space Exploration Funding In America: A Multivariate  Acta Astronautica (2013): 86. Web. Valentine, David. Exit Strategy: Profit, Cosmology, and the Future of Humans in  Anthropological Quarterly, vol. 85, no. 4 (2012): 1045-1067. Website.