Campbell 1 Albert Campbell Professor Paquette English Composition 1 19 February 2017 Introduction Plastic surgery has come to be one of the most disputed and often misunderstood fields of medicine. Due to the nature of plastic surgery being highly personal and even psychological, the field raises many ethical concerns to surgeons. Plastic surgery is commonly misconstrued as elective surgeries addressing insecurities; however, plastic surgery offers life-changing care to patients suffering from burns, scarring, or more severe disfigurement. One life-changing surgery in this field is facial transplantation. Partial or full facial transplantation is an uncommon procedure, but the number of patients undergoing this procedure has been growing since its introduction. When this surgery had not been performed yet the medical community was wary of the ethical issues which revolved around it. A range of ethical dilemma existed, causing hesitancy and rejection of the practice until further research had been conducted. Surgeons not only had to be confident in their ability to perform a successful transplant, but also ensure that this practice was not overstepping the boundaries of what medicine is supposed to provide for people. As the surgery was still being developed through research, it was disputed if patients should be used as test subjects for experimentation to determine if the procedure was safe. Many professionals in the medical community argued the balance of the risk to benefit ratio with ethical issues often at the center of the division. Today the surgery is approved to be practiced with caution, but only a decade ago the medical community was divided over its implementation. How did the medical community resolve the ethical issues of facial transplantation? Campbell 2 Annotated Bibliography Clarke, Alex et al. Attitudes toward Facial Transplantation in the United Progress in Transplantation, vol. 17, no. 3, 2007, pp. 228-233. journals.sagepub.com. The article describes the research performed to assess the general opinions about facial transplantation. How the public views the donation process and care for patients is a significant factor in understanding if the procedure is ethical. They conclude that their results validate the use of facial transplantation based on relevant concerns with the procedure. A majority of respondents were in favor of facial transplants, and respondents were particularly inclined to favor the procedure when they were personally connected to someone who could potentially benefit from the procedure. This source is relevant to the topic of ethical issues in transplantation as it examines the public perception of the surgery. The results of this article reveal that ethical concerns were outweighed by the potential benefits of the procedure in the perspective of the public. Views of the public assist in recognizing whether or not a procedure is within ethical boundaries. This article was published by the Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at the Royal Free Hospital in London. The department consists of professionals and fellowship members who contributed to the study they conducted. This article was published in Progress in Transplantation, which discusses the advancements in clinical aspects of transplantation. The authors are all professionals involved in the debate of facial transplantation, and the study was carried out with scientific and non- biased methods. Campbell 3 Freeman, Michael, and Pauline Abou Last Taboo: The Ethics of Face Journal of Medical Ethics, vol. 33, no. 2, 2007, pp. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/27719793. Michael Freeman and Pauline Abou argue that facial transplantations have not been fully justified, and discuss several of the ethical complications which may arise from full face transplants. Their ethical concerns involve the recipients, the donor and the family, and the disfigured community. They discuss detailed ways these groups are affected by the procedure and focus on examining the risks associated with the surgery. They call for a halt in the procedure altogether until the risks can be further evaluated and better respected. This article was published in 2007, which means it was after partial facial transplants had occurred, but before any full facial transplant was attempted. The article therefore provides a vantage point on the issues of facial transplants as they were considered during a critical time period that my paper will be examining. Also, it will be used to examine the specific obstacles that surgeons had to overcome in order to provide ethical treatment for patients. Michael Freeman and Pauline Abou published this article in the Journal of Medical Ethics, one of the journals of the British Medical Journal (BMJ) publishing house. BMJ is a leader of world-wide medical publishing, with the purpose of providing a platform for debate for doctors and professionals over healthcare innovations. Both authors have written about plastic surgery multiple times which gives them credibility as sources of debate. The article is open-access and peer reviewed, and BMJ has an editorial committee to review scholarly articles which are published. Campbell 4 Goiato, Marcelo C. et al. Facial Reconstruction: Facial Journal of Dentistry of Tehran University of Medical Sciences, vol. 11, no. 6, 2014, pp. 733-739. Directory of Open Access Journals, https://doaj.org/article/1ae90a0494194fddb22dbd49c2be9fe4 This article was published for the purpose of summarizing the ability of facial transplantation to restore function and aesthetic quality to patients with face disfigurements. Researchers analyzed composite tissue allotransplantation (CTA), and reviewed various literature on the effectiveness of facial transplants through CTA. The article began by discussing the limitations of other conventional surgical techniques which were inadequate in providing both function and aesthetic rehabilitation. The article recognizes the ethical dangers associated with facial transplants, but also realizes how real the need to have a functional face is for any person. Ultimately, they concluded that understanding of the patient of the risks, and the approval of a family is essential to perform an ethical transplant. This article reflects how the medical community used the success of facial transplant procedures to extinguish the opposing arguments regarding ethical issues. It is important to examine for the topic of ethical issues surrounding surgery as it helps to reveal how ethical concerns of outcomes are balanced with an ethical duty of surgeons to treat patients. This article was published in an open-access, peer-reviewed journal published by the Dental Research Center of Tehran University of Medical Sciences. It had to be approved by an editorial committee which finds qualified peer reviewers based on the subject of the article, making it credible. It was written by a Ph.D. in dentistry and graduate students who have credibility in scientific research and writing. Campbell 5 Latieri, Laurent A. Transplant: Learning from the Past, Facing the Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, vol. 155, no. 1, 2011, pp. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/23056846. This article was written by Laurent A. Lantieri after the completion of nine facial transplants world-wide. He documents the process of reconstructive surgeries and being able to get to the point of plastic surgeons reconstructing the full face of a patient with minimal post-operative complications. It is explained how the ethical disputes over facial reconstruction could only be settled through the process of clinical research. Some argue that face transplants are too dangerous for the psychology and lives of patients, but Lantieri describes it as a life-saving procedure. The dignity associated with being human, the basic ability to have a job, and to be seen in public without ridicule can be restored for patients with severe disfigurement. This article reflects attitudes of doctors evolving as the benefits of facial reconstruction were realized. It relates to how ethical concerns were overcome by portraying how as the surgery became more practiced, ethical concerns were settled. Ethical issues posed by the procedure were evaluated effectively, and surgeons could proceed to work without ethical doubts after the first surgeries were completed. Laurent A. Lantieri is a Professor of Plastic Surgery and the Head of the Plastic Surgery Department at University Hospital Henri Mondor in Paris, France, making him a common source of information for plastic surgery information. The articles published in the journal have been reviewed by qualified scholars and accepted for publication by the Committee of Publications for the journal, providing it with legitimacy. Campbell 6 Lantieri, Laurent, et al. Face Transplant: Long-Term Follow-Up And Results Of A Prospective Open  Lancet 388.10052 (2016): 1398-1407. Business Source Premier. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In this report by Laurent A. Lantieri, he examined long-term results of face transplants in order to document long-term risks and benefits of the procedure. His findings highlight important aspects of individual patients which need to be understood prior to surgery. Even though specific ethical guidelines were followed for each procedure, complications still occurred and required attention. Patient selection is determined to be the most important step in the process of facial transplant. Risk and benefit values can only be addressed by understanding personal backgrounds and lives of patients. Lantieri concludes that further practice must take into account review of a background and strict controls in order to maximize the chance of a successful surgery. This study relates to the topic of overcoming ethical concerns because it demonstrates how ethical issues are continuously worked on to provide the most beneficial treatment possible. Even though facial transplantation has proved successful for the right patient, the ethical issues involving the surgery still need to be addressed for every patient. The best way to deal with ethical issues is to follow protocol which maximizes success rate. Laurent A. Lantieri is a reliable source of plastic surgery information as a Professor of Plastic Surgery and the Head of the Plastic Surgery Department at University Hospital Henri Mondor in Paris, France. This article was published in a medical health journal which has credentials for the articles it publishes and it has been peer reviewed. It is one of the longest running and best known sources of medical information. Campbell 7 Maschke, KJ, and E Trump. Facial Transplantation Research: A Need For Additional  American Journal Of Bioethics 4.3 (2004): 33-35. CINAHL. Web. 19 Feb. In this article Karen Maschke and Eric Trump critique the assessment made by another journal claiming that all necessary criteria needed for researching facial transplantation had been met. They use The Royal College of Surgeons of England as a basis for their disapproval. The authors review the standpoints argued by the two sources and deny the notion that facial transplantation is ready to be performed. One of the significant issues they have with the researchers supporting the procedure is that the ethical implications were not discussed. The authors discuss that without an evaluation of ethical risks, the true risk to benefit ratio could not be understood. They state that willingness of the parties to participate does not justify a surgery being performed, and further analysis of risks and benefits needs to be conducted before continuing research on human patients. This article provides a look at how the medical community viewed facial transplantation before partial transplants had been performed. It portrays the significant skepticism which caused the surgery to be denied which the topic is based upon. Understanding how the medical community overcame the views presented in this paper is crucial to answering how the ethical concerns themselves were met by the medical community. The American Journal of Bioethics is a reputable source as it offers peer reviewed articles that relate to topics of ethics in the biomedical community. Both authors work for the Hastings Center which addresses issues of ethics in the biomedical community, meaning they are credible and relevant for exploring the topic of facial transplant ethics. The article is published in an academic journal and has been peer reviewed.