Student Jenifer Paquette ENC project1 final draft 2017.2.19 The effect for environment from climate change There is an enormous population of human beings living on the earth; people need a comfortable environment to live together which is a place with important conditions such as fresh air and clean water. However, with the development of society and technology, the climate has changed slowly for a long time, and it started to affect the environment directly. The climate change has a visible change which is the higher and higher temperature, since the 1900s some scientists found the temperature was higher and from 1981 to 1990 the temperature was up for 0.48- degree centigrade, the glacier became to melt, and some unique animals like polar bear lose their home. Climate change may lead some dangerous and grave results for the environment which will affect human lives such as the disappearing for ozone sphere, melting for glacier and rare animals extinct. It is a serious problem that people need to solve, they need to find the reasons why climate change appear and the methods that they can have a better environment to live. It is the time to do a deep research, the research question to lead the paper is how climate change happened, how it can effect environment seriously and how we can solve it. Li, ANTHONY H.F. Hopes of limiting global warming? China and the Paris Agreement on Climate China Perspectives 1(2016): 49-52. Academic Search Alumni Edition. March 1, 2016 The article shows that the climate change was appear after the industrial revolution which was the preparation for the developing the global economy. According to the scientific and credible evidence from some researchers, with the development of the technology because of the industrial revolution, the amount of using fossil fuels were higher and higher, especially in the World War II. Because using these fossil fuels, it produced more and more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere which was the most important reason to lead climate change. However, after that time, the climate change point more serious problems such as global warming, rising of sea levels, melting of the glacier and the disappearing about the forests which are too dangerous to affect the environment. This useful source shows the research question that how climate change happened. Because using fossil fuels to approach the goal of the industrial revolution, it needs to produce more and more guns in the World War II and created some useful production such as trains and cars. As a result, more and more carbon dioxide rise to the atmosphere and made temperature higher and higher and lead climate change. This source is credible because the article give the current references where the news come from and shows the truth about the lives such as the carbon dioxide lead global warming, so it is useful and reliable for in-depth research. John T. Abatzoglou, Crystal A. Kolden, Pamela Doughman, Joseph F.C. Dimento ,Stefano Nespor. Climate-Change Effects adaptation and Joseph F.C. Dimento Climate Change. The MIT Press 59-63. 2014. Print. The article shows how climate change affects the environment seriously such as affects water resources. Under the careful researching, the climate scientists refer that the water may cycle among the land, oceans, and atmosphere. Because of the climate change, temperature become higher and higher and lead global warming, it may affect this cycle and lead the strange raining and drought in some special area. In additional, the article also shows a new challenge for the environment issue because climate change which is water availability. In some special place where have many mountains may need more water to live, however, under the higher temperature, water may less and less in these situations and make people live harder. Since climate change has appeared in the world, it caused more and more problems. This source solves the research question that how climate change affects the environment seriously by using one of the problem of environment which is water. The climate change leads global warming and affect environment directly which need us to pay attention and solve it immediately. This source is credible because it was published by The MIT Press which is the journal division began in 1969, and it has enough reliable references for scholar knowledge, so this source can be a useful and trustworthy method to do in- depth research on how climate change may affect environment seriously. Wibberley, John. Global Climate Change: Agricultural Implications And Theological Rural Theology 6.2 (2008): 75-89. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. According to the article, climate change leads the global warming which is the biggest challenge in the world now. However, the global warming also brings some severe cases to affect the environment even affect the human lives. First, climate change produces the Greenhouse gasses which is the direct reason for global warming; the more fossil fuels were burned, the more carbon dioxide were produced and make the temperature higher with extreme weather to lose more and more forests and animals. Second, climate change brings the sea changes which is the rising of sea levels, because of the high temperature, the sea ice melt more and more and it leads some sea animals to lose their home. The article shows how climate change affect the environment seriously which relate to the research question by using some results about the climate change. It indicates that sea animals lose their home because of the rising of sea levels, more and more forests disappear because the higher temperature, it all affects environment even change human lives. This source is credible because it was published by the Rural Theology which is an journal, it has many correct scholar references in the article and the article can be also available online. So it is a credible and useful source to do in-depth research and solve the research question. Beckrich, Amanda. When Climate Change Causes The science Teacher 6 ( 2016) : Academic OneFile. In this article, it shows that climate change may affect the environment and cause extinction. For example, a small Australian rodent called the Bramble Cay melomys suffered extinction because of the climate change. Under the climate change, melomys lost their food sources and their home because of the rising of sea level. According to the article, it shows three reasons that will cause wildlife extinctions. First, the higher and higher temperature will destroy wildlife populations. Second, the rising of sea level will destroy some wildlife homes. Third, climate change can endanger wildlife in a kind of domino effect. The climate change may affect the environment and lead serious problem such as extinction. This article solves the problem of the research question which is how climate change may affect environment seriously. The article uses some real example such as the extinction of Bramble Cay melomys and give some reasons that how climate change will lead wildlife extinction to show how climate change affect the environment. This source is credible because it was published by Science Teacher which is the property of National Science Teachers Association. However, the information has been put in the article. The article also has enough references about the topic and available online. So this source can be used to do deep research on the climate change. Wong, S. and G. Coates. Nickel: Important Part of Climate Change Corrosion Engineering, Science &Technology 45.1 (2010): 97- 100. Academic Search Premier. In this article, it shows that the important part of climate change solution which is the using of material relate with the engineer. The article shows the new technology which can solve the climate change which is using solar energy, using ethanol production. First, using the new technology which is concentrating solar power to concentrate energy with some method to heat a transfer fluid and it can save fossil fuels and reduce the production of carbon dioxide. Second, another new technology can solve climate change which is ethanol production. Because ethanol is a renewable source of energy, it can save energy and decrease the production of greenhouse gasses. After knowing the climate change cause the environment problems, time have some solutions to solve these problems. This article solves the research question how to solve the climate change which is focused on some new technology to save energy. The article shows the methods which are using solar energy to save fossil fuels and using renewable energy such as ethanol to save the other energy. And it shows that people need to solve the problem of climate change. This source is credible because the article shows the real information about the authors and it has enough references in the article and available online. So it is a credible and scholar source to do deep research and know the information about climate change solution. Zami, Mohammad Sharif, and Angela Lee. Use of Stabilised Earth in the Construction of Low Cost Sustainable Housing in Africa An Energy Solution in the Era of Climate Archnet-IJAR 3.2 (2009) : 51-65. Art & Architecture Source. In this article, it shows that the climate change cause the problem of environmental pollution such as air pollution, water pollution and some pollution which is caused by chemistry production. Nowadays, using some improvement materials to build most of the buildings is one of the great method to solve the problem of climate change. According to the article, using stabilized earth construction and using solve low cost housing crisis in Africa, choosing some stabilized construction material in building is an energy solution to solve the problem of climate change. This article relate with the research question that how to solve the problem of climate change. Facing the biggest challenge of climate change, citizens, governments and some special organizations are all affected and want to solve this problem. The solution which is using special stabilized construction material has been into focused and become to the energy solution to solve climate change. This source is credible because it is from International Journal of Architectural Research. On the other side, the two authors are all introduced in the article that is also available online. This article also has enough correct and credible references to show the problem of climate change and the solution of using stabilized construction material. So this article is credible to do deep research. Totally, the article follow the research question how climate change happened, how it can effect environment seriously and how we can solve it to do deep research. Climate change happened because human beings behavior and may lead serious environment problems to affect human beings lives, so we need to solve it immediately to live in a better world.