Jones 1 Shakyra Jones Mr. Spencer Bennington ENC 1102 12, February 2017 Sexual Education Being Taught To Student Sex has always been a part of life. It is being taught in schools, at home or not being taught at all it is something that cannot be avoided. Sex is the way we reproduce and there are over 90,000 kids being born each year in the United States; there is no way anyone can get over the fact that sex does not need to be talked about ever. Some parents feel that their child will never have sex so they decide not to speak on it, refuse to let someone else speak to their child about it and continue to have that awkward feeling when watching television with their child and a sex scene comes on. On the other hand some parents are not bold enough or feel very uncomfortable talking to their child about sex so they prefer for someone else to teach their child about it. One of the main organizations in Florida that support sexual education being taught in Florida public schools is NCSSE, the National Coalition to Support Sexual The National Coalition to Support Sexuality Education consists of over 140 national organizations committed to medically accurate, age-appropriate comprehensive sexuality education for all children and youth in the United (NCSSE). One of the main organizations that goes against teaching sexual education in schools is People For The American Way, The Religious Rights Campaign. For the American Way Foundation is an organizations founded to defend constitutional values under attack, including free Jones 2 expression, religious liberty, equal justice under the law, and the right to meaningfully participate in Sexual education should be taught in school to inform students on the topic and parents should have the say so on if their child should be taking in the information. The National Coalition to Support Sexuality Education consists of over 140 national organizations committed to medically accurate, age appropriate comprehensive sexuality education for all children and youth in the United States (NCSSE). Their goals are to provide a form of networking and collaboration for other organizations for them successfully deliver the message to children about sex. Hold event and meeting about the key issues in sexual education and also to empower member organizations to spread the knowledge of sexual education on a national and state level. Their main thing is to teach each student that he or she has the power to control personal behavior and encourage students to base actions on reasoning, self-esteem, and respect for others. Before they are providing all this information they are making sure the student is age appropriate, they are really benefiting from the lesson and laws are being met. Their website www.ncsse.com contains information on their purpose, policy and advocacy, and their curricula and resources that support sexual education. Florida teens cannot keep getting denied about the education and information that is necessary for them to make healthy and safe decisions as they grow older (Planned Parenthood for south, east and north Florida). People for the American way have a teaching fear on bring sexual education to schools. Their religious rights campaign are against sexual education. They seem to believe that education has been one of the primary sources of controversy in the public Jones 3 schools for almost thirty They state on their website that teaching the students about sex motivates them to do it, if it is already being exposed to them at home, why do it in schools? Providing accurate information about sexual activity makes students more likely not to engage in sexual activity than just not knowing about sexual activity at all. They argue that student are getting overexposed to the knowledge. do you learn appropriateness and consent in a culture where song about pleasuring a guy in a car is championed by some as feminist and others as (www.time.com) there is nothing appropriate about teaching students sex in school rather it is just talking about kissing, parts, or sexual transmitted diseases according to people for the American way. The generation today is so into technology, they are coming in contact with sexual uncensored media all the time. They can be searching for pictures, listening the radio or just reading an article. Sexual uncensored media comes in all shapes in form just because the school teach it the parents talk about it at home mean the student will never come in contact with sexual media or sex period. Truth is it be stopped and it will not be stopped. It has been proven that young people now engage in relationships increasingly via technology, they are able to connect in a variety of ways and at a high speed to communicate and do whatever they decide to do. that do not have programs to teach kids about the facts of life, start too late to learn about life or have already tried to experience life on their parent) A Centers for Disease Control and Prevention study showed that out of most teens who have had sex, they did not receive any sex education before they lost their virginity. One teen stated that she had sex with her boyfriend at sixteen and after the fact that she lost her virginity her dad decided to talk to her about sex, at that point it was too late. Jones 4 Who is to know when the child is at the appropriate age to learn about sex or the right age to have sex? It just happens so some as parents and mentors decide that they will do everything in their power to not lose their child to the real world at such a young age. They make the child grow up in a church go to school, do chores and teach the right things in life and say that sex or anything in that category is considered wrong and shameful. The age appropriate for sexual education is a big deal for those against sexual education not being taught in schools. Every stage in life children should be able to understand about sex and reproduction at different ages. Religious beliefs are another reason why some believe that sexual education should not be taught in schools. religions celebrate wholeness for all people, including children and youth, and most believe that sexuality is a gift of the (advocates for youth). There are different reasons why people do not agree with sexual education being taught in schools. Through every situation, right or wrong, age, being taught at home or being taught at school no one can avoid the fact that students will have sex. The only way to create a compromise between these two stakeholders is to implement a program through the schools that will allow the parents to control the content on what their child is learning. The way the program should be implemented is by having a sexual education program put in place but allowing the parents to vote on what the students should be learning and at what paste. That way no parent will feel like their child is being too exposed to life and no parent will feel like their child is not being exposed enough. Schools need to completely reshape the sex education landscape and find resources that will help make this whole process possible. This compromise will meet both goals with sexual education being taught and what will be taught in the hands of the parents. This Jones 5 compromise will definitely improve the way new generations view the world and how students will apply the information they are being taught in the real world. Works Cited Page state Copyright 2002-2008 SIECUS http://www.ncsse.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=Page.ViewPage&PageID=1017 People For the American Way Foundation Fear: The Religious Campaign Against Sexuality 2017 People For the American Way http://www.pfaw.org/report/teaching-fear-the-religious-rights-campaign-against- sexuality-education/ news 2017 Planned Parenthood of South, East and North Florida, Inc. https://www.plannedparenthood.org/planned-parenthood-south-east-north- florida/newsroom/press-releases/sex-education-survey-in-miami-dade-county- reveals-need-for-curriculum-standards schools teach sex 2017 Time Inc. All rights reserved. http://time.com/why-schools-cant-teach-sex-ed/ the Future of Sex Education: A Tool Kit for States and http://www.futureofsexed.org/envisioningthefuture.html sex education be taught in schools 2002-2008 SIECUS http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/parents/167?task=view Jones 6 Sex Education Should Not Be Taught In 2017 the Blaze, Inc.http://www.theblaze.com/contributions/obviously-sex-education-should-not- be-taught-in-schools/