Choi 1 Jimin Choi Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC 1101 (Composition 1) February 10, 2017 Come over Firearms Nowadays, society has a lot of problems regarding firearms. According to Time to Ban Guns. Yes, All of by Bovy, a lot of people have conflicting views about the safety of having firearms. Because of this, having firearms brings about a lot of contemplation. One of the reasons is because firearms can sometimes be used to save a life. However, it would be serious problem because of people who use firearms maliciously. Basically, we have to think about how to fix these problems concerning firearms. First, Time to Ban Guns. Yes, All of shows us that the government always gives ambiguous problems to those living in the US (Bovy). For example, some problems are also related to other ambiguous problems which is further related to other problems. In other words, the government even have a specific standard. Basically, this author insists that the government has to make clear laws about the use of firearms. As we know, it is not always clear who is in the right in the cases of so we can expect similar problems in the future. For instance, the article mentions that people have the right to choose to get firearms by law (Bovy). However, everyone has been confused by legitimacy of using firearms. take specialized expertise in constitutional law to understand that current U.S. gun law gets its parameters from Supreme Court interpretations of the Second the Second Amendment has been liberally interpreted prevent any of us from saying been misinterpreted, or that it should be (Bovy) Choi 2 Moreover, this article gives us more insight on the vagueness of gun laws. The author explains herself, just gun violence. Not just certain guns. Not just already-technically- illegal guns. All of (Bovy). As everybody knows, this is very ambiguous problem. When we think about we have thoughts like: is the standard of illegal use of and makes this important decision for people in terms of the legal use of In fact, the name of this article sounds like ban all guns regardless of the reason of using gun; however, the main purpose of this article is that we prevent anyone from having firearms as long as there are no laws preventing them. Depending on interpretation of this article, we will be able to recognize the conflicts between banning firearms and using firearms and why we should ban firearms. Twisted by Joyce Lee Malcolm, there is a major crime problem in England. However, the rate of crime is more than the US even though gun regulations are strict. The rate of crime was not high in regard to the use firearms, but in many other ways. Still, it has been slightly rising compared to crime rates in the past. five centuries of growing civility ended in 1954. Violent crime has been climbing ever From 1991 to 1995, crimes against the person in inner cities increased 91 And in the four years from 1997 to 2001, the rate of violent crime more than (Malcolm). By looking at this article, we can recognize that similar problems concerning firearms may occur in the US as well. Regardless, firearms may bring about the sacrifice of people in general. object of a weapon was to assist weakness to cope with strength and it is this ability that the bill was framed to destroy. I do not think any government has the right, though they may very well have the power, to deprive people for whom they are responsible of the right to defend (Malcolm). Even for England, Choi 3 the role of the government is more important in many ways. As long as the government care who uses firearms, then England reduce the crimes related to them. The government has take care of people who use firearms as well as people who use firearms. This article give us the message that the harmony between people and government is very core of society. If something bad is taking place, someone should be there to help in regard to the problems of firearms. Before making good alternatives, no one should relax thinking about firearms. How can we minimize the crimes of firearms? Are crimes related to firearms not related to a particular nation? Choi 4 Works Cited Bovy, Phoebe Maltz. Time to Ban Guns. Yes, All of  New Republic. N.p., 10 Dec. 2015. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Malcolm, Joyce Lee. Gun Twisted  Reason.com. N.p., 01 Nov. 2002. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.