Mouro 1 Mary Mouro Phillips Adam ENC1102.026 12 February 2017 Same Sex Adoption Children are a source of life, happiness, and future. To take care of a child and to raise him or her to be valuable person in the community is a bittersweet, huge burden that could be challenging for the parents to create a healthy life balanced for the child. Children who are in facilities like foster care are waiting to be taken and placed in permanent house to meet their needs until s/he becomes an adult. When applying for adoption, certain criteria must be met. The criteria includes being at least twenty one years old, being comfortable in sharing life information, and having a background checks. Adoption can be a long proses that requires patience, hard work and long forms to fill, but it is a way to cure childlessness. In some states, it is required for the adopted parents to be married for two to three years before applying for adopting a child. Today same sex adoption is a controversial subject, with opposing groups believing that parents can be Same-Sex Couples. On the other hand, there are other groups oppose this idea and believe parent only should be of Opposite-Sex Couples. For example, organizations that agree with same sex parenting to adopt is Family Equality Council and for an organization that is against people from same sex to adopt is American Family Association (AFA). Therefore there must be a compromise between the two opposite stakeholders who have similar beliefs in child benefits, interest to grow in diversity, have a loving environment; and have the adoption parents gather within a small community regardless of sexual orientation. Family Equality Council organization supports same sex; lesbian, gay, bisexual, Mouro 2 transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) for parents adoption. The AFA fights for same sex rights to have family and children to share and communicate their value, morality, laugh and hugs together. goal is to guarantee equality and fairness to be happy and to have the right to raise children. The AFA organization aims and works toward achieving their moto which is love, justice, family, equality as stated in their website Equality Council All parents regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity have the same cares and worries for raising and educating children. Family Equality Council works specialty to provide comprehensive environment for all children who have same sex parents. It also connects other local families with same sex parents to provide a supporting educational environment. There is no proof for lesbian and gay parents to be unfit for the parenting roles. Where research held comparing child development between same sex parents and hetero sex parents it showed there is no significance difference between the children (Regnerus 754). According to Regnerus, the comparison of divorced same sex parents and divorce heterosexual parents have no systematic difference on how relationship and growth effects children (Regnerus 754). Whereas American Family Association are against LGBTQ adopting a child. AFA in a tradition family respecting the fundamental of existed of life that child is the result of man and women harmony. In addition, approximately 25% of respondents in a survey of similar stakeholders indicated that birth parents have objected to placing their child with gays or lesbians or have specifically requested that their child should not be placed with lesbian and gay families (Erich et al. 399). AFA believes that a culture based on traditional families best serves the well- being of our nation and our families. Their goal is to keep and apprise conservative families (American Family Association Para.3). A father figure, a mother figure, and a child figure. Most of these stakeholders are from a religious background establishment. The AFA also strongly Mouro 3 believe that family should only consist of two parents a man and a woman to allow and facilitate adoption and they think it is the only way to create balance between two genders and families. Their mythology and objectivity for the necessary of having the parent of opposite sex. In their perspective, there are some manly skills that cannot be learned from female and likewise for feminine skills. Their mission from a Christian worldview is to improve faith and family. According to their studies, a child identity will mature by seeing their father and mother confronted with love (American Family Association Para. 5). Stakeholders against same sex adoption have argued that Lesbian / gayity was considered a mental disorder by the American Psychiatric Association prior to 1972 (Erich et al. 398). Therefore, it is not possible to guarantee an adoption children. They observing also from child perspective s/he has the right for parent of opposite sex, and it is abridge or take away this right in a same sex couple. Both sides and every human agree that there are many babies and children in urgent need of a family. Children will be healthier and more productive while being with a loving family rather than a foster home orphanage. Love cannot be found outside a family, regardless of the family if it is guy or lesbian or tradition parent. Love is essential nutrition for children to grow and learn value and morality. These children will grow up in the community to be good men and women by the love demonstrates from their family. It is important to value children and provide them with love as much as they give love and happiness. Children thrive in stable and permanent family regardless the parents sex orientation. There have been a number of studies that demonstrate, that same sex parents do not place a child at a higher risk for emotional and behavior problems (Cianciaruso 219). For a compromise between both stakeholders it is to come with new family lifestyle consists of all kinds of parent sex orientations. This new lifestyle design will be like a big family or small Mouro 4 community. That will compose of a household with lesbian parents and another household with guy parents and a third household with traditional parents. Where socioeconomic level of the families are equal. This way basic needs will be met. It would be easier also to handle any question could come to children mind, and to prepare them to more accepted diversity community. Together any absent element can be easily covered. The tremendous support and harmony between them will shed a light for broad view between families. It also demonstrates a spiritual settlement, value and morality among parents who are sharing support. It will also help the society to be more accepting to the new family structure. The Gay & Lesbian Parents Coalition International is one of the organizations that has facilitated a similar idea with two lesbian couple and two gay couple to co-parent with each other. The children will grow up with an open mind without having gender rules and boundaries. Family is the foundation of co-exist. It would benefit that the new family look to be with some effort that have a similar structure of a traditional family, but with a new flavor. The human nature is to be selfish and most of the time resist and afraid of change. So changing the typical father, mother, child view is difficult, but with some effort will help to overcome the stereotype and the resistance of the accepting the new family style. In the end, all are created equal, all are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination, and no one is similar to the other person except humanity. Ultimately, compromising between the two opposite stakeholders where adoption parents will gather and live in small close community consists of three couples; gay, lesbian and straight parents. And that will give the adopted children affection. And it will help in growing a more diversity lovingly environment. So why not live in a big happy family spreading love and companion to the adopted children. Mouro 5 Works Cited American Family Association. afa.net, Inc., 16 Oct 2013. 21 Jan 2017. Cianciaruso, Lauren B., and Adrienne N. Zavala. Culturally Competent Care For Nontraditional Family  Osteopathic Family Physician 5.(2013): 217-224. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Erich, Stephen, et al. An Empirical Analysis Of Factors Affecting Adolescent Attachment In Adoptive Families With Homosexual And Straight  Children And Youth Services Review 31.3 (2009): 398-404. PsycINFO. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Family Equality Council. Familyequality.org, 3 Feb. 2017. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Regnerus, Mark. How Different Are The Adult Children Of Parents Who Have Same-Sex Relationships? Findings From The New Family Structures  Social Science Research 41.(2012): 752-770. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.