luosang Immigration And Technology ZhuoGE, LuoSang Khawaja, Anastasia ENC 1101 29/01/2017 Introduction Today, the U.S is the Centre of immigrants in the world. Although, immigrants do assimilate faster in the state it is becoming contentious to them. While much of the issues on the basis of cultural and economic issues of migration are straightforward. The rate of immigration has grown to almost 13% from 1970 to 2013. Economic theory emphasizes that no effect in wages and it brings about positive impact to the native as well as other citizens. In this this paper, am concern on the impacts of immigration on technology in U.S. The immigration of people has brought tremendous changes in the America economy regarding technological transformation dating 400 years back. The immigrants have brought industrial revolution in farming mechanization. The influx of immigrants has brought skills and innovations that have contributed to promoting new technologies that have enabled the country economic growth regarding manufacturing industries. In the year 2003 to 2013, most of the immigrants have played a central part in US scientific innovations and engineering portions. The ratio of the engineers and the intelligence gathering personalities both the local and the immigrants seeking employment has almost the same proportion level. The constant influx of immigrants has sparked immigration plans by the former president Obama in trying to make reforms to immigration laws that cent past tried in Luosang luring will allow them to work easy in US. This is due to the fact of freely utilizing their skills in promoting technology advancement. The US has in the recent past tried in luring the best minds in tech building by offering visas to the irrespective of them being immigrants. The high tech has impacted innovation to the country progress. The immigrants have made the tech to have fewer prices regarding creation and to develop it. This has a positive impact, as more people will acquire technology in creating wealth thus alleviating poverty levels. The problem of both legal and illegal immigrants has put pressure on the government to come up with new measures such as creating high techs and border surveillance that will deter outsiders in the illegal entrance. The creation of new techs by the immigrant has created new job opportunities for the citizens. By more jobs, being created through the transformational of technology has impacted on the life of the citizens by giving them an earning that provides disposal and investment spending. Luosang Bibliography Card, David. Is the new immigration really so  The Economic Journal 115.507 (2005). The articles states in looking at whether the immigration pattern being beneficial or harmful to the US. The question begs of whether the immigrant possess threats of reducing the labor wages that the natives are earning. The author analysis the aspect of technological perspective of more job creation regarding competition. The competitive labor force that the immigrants bring forces the native to work extra to fit the job market matching their skills too. This offers the gateway of creating a pool of skilled and industrious workers who are willing in the transformation of the country into an industrialized economy. The creation of the new jobs and companies mean an extra tax into the state that will improve on social amenities. The health care reformation will be possible due to the influx that will lower the cost of medical services there will be more doctors. Peri, Giovanni. The effect of immigration on productivity: Evidence from US  Review of Economics and Statistics 94.1 (2012): 348-358. This article provides the insights of the effects of the immigrants in the US economy regarding productivity. Most of the immigrants came through Mexican border. Their presence in US regarding those working adds more income to the GDP of the country. This is the right from the taxes and labor skills to various firms they work. Also, they added to implementation and adoption of technologies that require fewer skills in operating. Borjas, George J. The labor demand curve is downward sloping: Reexamining the impact of immigration on the labor  The quarterly journal of economics 118.4 (2003): 1335-1374. Luosang This article puts more emphasize on the effects of immigration on the demand curve where it puts across that employment has become low due to high population. Adaptation of new methods of mechanization which results to labor intensive skills hence low demand of labor. Although it has been criticized it was only analyzed for a period of time Borjas, George J., ed. Issues in the Economics of Immigration. University of Chicago Press, 2008. This article looks upon the issues associated with immigration in the U.S. The author argues that the population is growing at alarming rate. They further questions the impacts it will have in terms of the economy. They asserts that the high population has no impacts in the level of wages. They further look immigration as an advantage to the society due to technological innovations associated with it. Samovar, Larry A., et al. Communication between cultures. Nelson Education, 2015 The article looks upon the impact of immigrants to U.S in terms of culture. It has been witnessed great changes in the culture of different groups in the US. The author looks upon the relationship between the different groups. The author also puts into dangers the will come in as a result of changes in the culture. He also looks on the positive impact of the culture. He also looks upon the migration clauses and rules. Gagliardi, Luisa. Does skilled migration foster innovative performance? Evidence from British local  Papers in Regional Science 94.4 (2015): 773-794. The article is more concern about the impacts of the skilled labor force in the field of innovation. This academic paper asserts that the skilled migration has led to great innovation in America and more so Great Britain. This has been evident in the field agriculture, technology as well trade. It also looks on areas which bias experienced the high rates of skilled immigrants and their impacts.