Cherry 1 Mackenzie Cherry Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102.035 January 27, 2017 The Legalization of Marijuana Across the nation, the argument over the legalization of marijuana has become more and more prevalent. There are constantly new developments being made and theories being tested when it comes to marijuana. It is being analyzed from all angles; people are seeing just how dangerous is it for the general public to have as compared to alcohol while also discovering how it can help or inhibit medical patients. There are currently multiple groups representing both sides of the issue, with two of them being National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) and Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana (CALM). NORML is one of the largest known groups in support of marijuana, and are pushing to have it legalized. CALM stands on the other side of the issue pushing against the legalization. Both groups face problems caused by the same subject, the general public is realizing a decision needs to be made finally. Therefore, in order to appeal to the publics best interest, NORML and CALM need to come together to find a compromise, to settle the issue once and for all. NORML is a public-interest advocacy that is working to provide voice for responsible marijuana by being a way for people to communicate their opinions with state legislators. Originally being founded in the 1970s, NORML has worked for years to decriminalize minor marijuana offences and continued to fight to reform state and federal marijuana laws while becoming one of the largest and most well-known advocacy organizations (norml.org). NORML has made a large amount of contributions towards the fight Cherry 2 of marijuana legalization, and make sure that they emphasize that they are the speakers for responsible users, even going as far as to have principles of responsible cannabis use posted on their website. Many of the supporters of NORML emphasize on how it would be positive for the economy, but many people feel the risks of it being publicly available are too big to allow general access to marijuana (norml.org). NORML is just one of the many groups facing negative responses for their mission to legalize marijuana. On the other hand CALM, Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana, is an all-volunteer Political Action Committee. The Committee came into being in California during a 2010 election, so that there was a voice to fight the efforts to legalize marijuana. CALM upon the state legislature, county governments, and local municipalities to work within current federal law and to join with federal agencies to stop the spread of marijuana distribution and (calmusa.org). As many other groups on this side of the argument do, they look to fight anything that does not go along with the Federal Controlled Substances Act. Since CALM is a volunteer- based organization, many members of the committee are parents in the general public who worry about their children being able to get their hands on the substance, which could pose some serious risks (calmusa.org). NORML and CALM are both after two different end results in the settlement of this argument. Both groups have conflicting views of how the legalization of marijuana will impact society, but both have a similar goal, to do what is best for the people. The debate comes up though as to what exactly is better. One of the largest debate aspects is the idea of how the economy will be affected. There is a large underground market for the sale of marijuana, and many people believe that there would be a positive influence on the economy if marijuana was to be made legally obtainable at specific facilities, so the money would go towards the government Cherry 3 and not back to the underground sellers. The less profitable it is for the underground sellers the less it will be sold by people who sell illegally (druhrehab.us). At the same time while this could be a boost in the economy, the people who make their living selling this illegal drug might turn to worse substances. Another argument that is proposed by NORML is the fact that marijuana has been proven on more than one occasion to have positive medicinal effects for patients. Marijuana has had much success in being used by cancer patients as a form of pain relief, and by many other patients for similar causes (nyln.org). With all the health positives, there are also negatives, such as poor lung health and the possibility of it being a gateway drug (health.usnews.com). Patients who use marijuana as a form of pain relief face the issue of trying other substances to achieve an even better feeling. Every dispute with this argument has a pro or con on either side of the issue, making it almost impossible to find a middle ground. Both groups need to give a little to reach an equal compromise on the issue. To help come to a compromise, NORML and CALM could look at the possibility of posing an age limit, such as how America has one for alcohol or cigarettes. Many people would argue that alcohol poses a greater threat to people when there are drunk drivers on the road than they do when a person who is high is behind the wheel. Both alcohol and marijuana affect a reaction time so along with the agreement of an age limit there should be a certain point people are not allowed to pass when using marijuana as to not endanger people on the roads. With the agreement on an age limit, younger children would not be able to legally acquire the substance keeping it out of the hands of people who should not have access to it. Just like alcohol, marijuana would be a substance people would choose to use, and still have to choose to be responsible with the substance. People would need to be more well generally educated on the effects of marijuana, just like how they are about the effects of alcohol, so as an addition to the Cherry 4 age limit, NORML and CALM should have to work together to find ways of educating people to make the use of marijuana safe, whether it be through ads or another source of information. With marijuana being such a controversial issue, a compromise is hard to come by, but not impossible. The Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana and the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws both have a large amount of influence on the future of the legalization of marijuana. Both groups have managed to influence the public and the governments opinions, and will continue to be a voice in the issue. CALM and NORML should work together to make the use of marijuana as safe as possible for all people who wish to, or find a need to use it. Word Count:1283 Cherry 5 Works Cited Http://nyln.org/author/nylnadmin. 19 Primary Pros and Cons of Legalizing  NYLN.org. N.p., 23 June 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://nyln.org/19-primary-pros-and-cons-of-legalizing- weed>. Legalizing Recreational Marijuana Pros and  Drug Rehab. N.p., 06 July 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.drugrehab.us/news/pros-cons-legalizing-recreational-marijuana/>. U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://health.usnews.com/health-news/patient-advice/articles/2016-10-12/marijuanas-public- health-pros-and-cons>.  CALM USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://calmusa.org/>. Working to Reform Marijuana  NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://norml.org/>