Bradley Ramon Professor Phillips ENC1102.026 2/12/2017 The Solution to a Millennium Old Problem As defined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention an abortion is intervention that is performed by a licensed clinician, who may be a physician, nurse-midwife, nurse practitioner, or physician assistant, and it is intended to terminate an ongoing pregnancy (cdc.gov). The organizations and people who fight to ban abortions are known as The organizations and people who fight for a right to have the choice to decide whether to have an abortion are known as Abortions may seem like a relatively new issue in society, but they are not. Women have been getting abortions for thousands of years, and about the in the United States (Blanchard et al). It was not until the mid 1800s that states began to pass laws to bar abortions and make them illegal. The laws were aimed to bar abortions in part, because the procedure often took place in unsafe and unclean environments, putting the life of the woman in danger. In addition to the health of the woman, there were other reasons for the push to make abortions illegal. Anti-abortion laws were part of a response against the movements for right to vote and birth control - an attempt to keep women in their traditional roles as childbearers. The work of the female midwives who performed abortions also posed a threat to the male doctors. Another reason was fear of a In the late 1800s, the birth rate among white women with Northern European origins was on the decline, and the U.S. government wanted white women born in the U.S. to reproduce. (Blanchard et al). A primary stakeholder in the fight for the pro-life cause is the National Right to Life Committee (NRLC). NRLC is the oldest and largest pro-life organization. Recognized as the flagship of the pro-life movement, it works through legislation and education to protect and defend the right to life of every innocent human being from the beginning of life to a natural death. An opposing stakeholder, representing pro-choice, is the National Association for the Repeal of Abortion Laws (NARAL) Pro-Choice America. NARAL Pro-Choice America is an organization that fights to serve people through Congress, and make sure that the voice is heard. While on the surface these two stakeholders have nothing in common, if the two work together a strong middle ground can be found. If a compromise is possible it will require that a law be passed stating that an abortion is allowed while the baby is in an embryonic state (the first 12 weeks). Founded in The NRLC currently has over 3,000 chapters throughout the 50 states. The organization endeavors to stop initiatives. One of their biggest victories was when Tennessee became the first state to outlaw abortion as a health plan benefit. David N. Ph.D., Executive Director of the NRLC, had this to say when the bill was passed, continues to show that the public is opposed to the use of public monies - be they in the federal or a state treasury - to pay for or subsidize (nrlc.org). Historically, the NRLC has done a great deal to promote the pro-life cause, and it continues its efforts today. On the opposing side of the issue is National Association for the Repeal of Abortion Laws (NARAL) Pro-Choice America. NARAL Pro-Choice America was founded in 1969. Fortune Magazine called NARAL Pro-Choice America of the top 10 advocacy groups in on its track record of successful advocacy, legislative activism, and political (nextmark.com). The basis of the pro-choice movement is that a woman should have the power to decide whether to have an abortion without interference from the government. According to Major et al (2009), studies were based on samples that are largely or exclusively U.S. based. Cohan, Dunkel-Schetter, and Lydon(1993) examined responses of 33 women one month following a pregnancy test, 21 of whom had terminated their pregnancy and 12 of whom had continued their pregnancy. Almost all had reported that their pregnancy was Unwanted pregnancies are the primary reason why the pro-choice groups fight. They do not believe that a woman should be forced to keep a baby that she does not want. According to Junior research scholar Marianna Karakoulaki, every chance the republican controlled legislatures have, they change their state laws in order to make it more and more difficult for a woman to have an abortion or even take A breakthrough in abortion laws came on January 22, 1973, when the U.S. Supreme Court announced its decision in v. Wade . The case involved a Texas statute that made it a crime to perform an abortion, unless the life was at risk. The case had been filed by a single woman who wanted to legally end her pregnancy. Through its ruling in this case, the Supreme Court decriminalized abortion, and gave women the legal right to an abortion in all states. The decision made abortions legal in the first trimester of pregnancy on the basis that abortion was to be umbrellaed under a right to privacy. (History.com) The case was a big win for the pro-choice. Both organizations, the NRLC and the NARAL Pro-Choice America, continue to fight for their positions by trying to get legislation passed in supports of its cause. While these two groups seemingly do not share any common ground, a common ground may be found in providing better education to both women and men. Women and their partners should be better educated on practicing safe sex, the options for handling an unwanted pregnancy and ways to handle the social stigma of an unwanted pregnancy. Such education should be a part of the early education of young girls and boys, and it should take place in the classroom, at home and perhaps even in their place of worship. According to Baker (2011), the value and treatment of human life is of great importance to cultures throughout the human race and the growing life inside a woman is viewed by many as sacred, including by the woman herself. For the good of the mother and child, both sides should have to make sacrifices. The NRLC should fight to prevent unwanted pregnancies in the first place, and the NARAL Pro-Choice America should work with NRLC to support the pro-life positions in certain circumstance. The government should support the agenda by providing free contraceptives to those who want it. Lastly, learning from our European neighbors who teach sexual education as early as the age of four (pbs.org), there must be educational reform. When these elements all come together, a compromise can be had. Eichenwald says am opposed to abortion. I believe women have the right to choose. This is not a is saying that a compromise is possible, people just have to want it. The compromise that requires the greatest sacrifice from both sides, would be making abortions illegal after the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. This compromise would mean that NARAL Pro-Choice America would be losing one of their fundamental beliefs that a woman, should have an abortion at any stage of pregnancy if she thinks she wants one. While the NRLC would be giving up fighting for the right of fetuses that are in their embryonic state. The websites for both organizations provide a lot of information on their respective positions, they have a lot of members and supporters, and they raise money through donations on their websites. The positions of the two groups are seemingly incompatible. But, perhaps these two organizations could pool their resources and create a committee comprised of members from both organizations, whose purpose would be to provide better education to both sexes and to have a non-partisan discussion on the issues and ideally propose legislation that would address some of the major concerns of each organization. In the long run while the middle ground compromise seems a bit hard for either side to accept, it can be seen as a fair solution to the debate over abortion. The best thing to do is educate yourself, and make sure you are aware of all risks that come with sex and abortions and are prepared. Works Cited America, NARAL Pro-Choice. Pro-Choice Pro-Choice America . N.p., n.d. Web. Baker, Aspen. to Resolve the Abortion Huffington Post . TheHuffingtonPost.com, 25 May 2011. Web. Blanchard, Kelly, et al. of Abortion in the Bodies Ourselves . N.p., 18 May 2016. Web. Abortion Surveillance System for Disease Control and Prevention . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 16 Nov. 2016. Web. History.com Staff. v. . A&E Television Networks, 2009. Web. Karakoulaki, Marianna. and Rights in the - Share research . N.p., 15 June 2012. Web. Major, Brenda, et al. and Mental Health: Evaluating the Psychologist (2009): n. pag. Web. Oldest & Largest Pro-Life Right to Life . N.p., n.d. Web. History.com Staff. v. . A&E Television Networks, 2009. Web. EICHENWALD, KURT. Newsweek Global. 12/25/2015, Vol. 165 Issue 23, p28-37. 10p. 7 Color Photographs, 1 Black and White Photograph. , Database: Business Source Alumni Edition