Nicholas Chiaramonte Sabah F. Uddin Composition 1 January 28, 2017 Should Strong Laws Be Imposed for Gun Control to Help Reduce Crime Rate Debate of strict gun control has been going on for years in the U.S. The discussion is whether we should greatly restrict gun use and ownership to help reduce crime rate, theoretically, cities with the strictest gun control laws should have the lowest gun related crime. Or would enforcing very strict gun control become unconstitutional and hurt civilians who wish to protect themselves from crime. In the end, both these arguments want the same outcome, to reduce crime rate. According to current statistics over the past couple of decades Gun related violence has be decreasing substantially, and the number of guns per household has also deceased. Nevertheless, gun related violence is still a major topic and problem for every major city in America. So why cities with very strict gun control laws show us a difference to cities with lenient gun control laws? Three major factors contribute to crime rates in a city. The percentage of people living in poverty, amount of education and promotion of schooling in a city, and the involvement of gang intervention and civil unrest in a city. Strict gun control can change any of those factors so it lower crime rate, people should be looking at those problems first rather than taking a tool away from criminals. So, should strong laws be imposed for gun control to help reduce crime rate. Zimring, Franklin E. Elimination of  Is Gun Control Likely to Reduce Violent Killings? 4th ed. Vol. 35. Chicago: U of Chicago, n.d. 721-37. Print. The study made by Zimring explains where crime is committed and why crime happens. Often crime is correlated to the impoverished. Zimring goes over extensively that most guns own in these impoverished areas are illegal. Meaning that making laws stricter for law obeying citizens affect those guns already in circulation and ones often used in crime are not legally owned. Basically, showing that if we want to reduce crime in cities, creating strong gun laws is not the way to do it. Criminals will find away, you just take a tool away and think crime will also drop. Frank Zimring is an American Criminologist and a law professor who studied at the University of Chicago. He has written several books on the topic of gun control and how crime rate is affected by it. The book Is Gun Control Likely to reduce violent killings discusses topics of how crime ignores laws and creating the strictest laws halt crime but only lengthen the sentence of those accused. He also discusses how removing guns the only way to stop crime. A criminal will often resort to other means, and the lack of fear that the person they are going to commit a crime to will own a gun will drop. Kleck, Gary, and E. Britt Patterson. The Impact of Gun Control and Gun Ownership Levels on Violence  Journal of Quantitative Criminology 9.3 : 249-87. Web. A study was conducted on the impact of gun control threw out 170 cities in the U.S. From the study conducted by Kleck and Patterson, 7 showed improvement of reducing crime rate. The rest showed no exponential improvement or, in small cases, resulted in more crime. These statistic help show that making guns more difficult to get had no effect on lowering crime rate. Crime rate rise or fall from those changes in cities. These studies, however, show other factors and comparisons of poverty rates and dropout rates for schooling. These could have shown us factors of crime rate and are correlated. Gary Kleck and Britt Patterson have taken studies from 170 U.S cities with a population of at least 100,000. They work for the Journal of Quantitative Criminology. Their findings show that gun prevalence generally have no net positive effect on total violence rates, homicide, gun assault, and rape rates. Also gun control restrictions generally have no net effect on violence rates. So increasing the gun control laws in major cities have any net effect on lowering crime rate. There just was no correlation. Lott, John R. How to Test the Effects of Gun  More Guns, Less Crime Understanding Crime and Gun Control Laws. Chicago, IL: U of Chicago, 2013. 22-37. Print. Ser. 3. Lott briefly discusses how both sides of the argument are trying to solve the same problem, crime. The text explains some examples for both sides of the gun control argument. He brings up the April 2007 Virginia Tech shooting, 32 people were (22), how it could have been stopped if it was a lot harder to obtain the (22). Lott then brings up attack on the New Life point Church in Colorado with seven thousand people attending, an attack was stopped by a concealed- carry permit (23). John Lott is an American economist and gun rights advocate. He has done multiple studies on gun related crime and how it affects overall crime rates for cities. He is currently the lead research scientist at the University of Maryland. The book he wrote More Guns, less Crime explain a bit of both sides of the argument. Furthermore, It goes into detail on the restrictions imposed and how it help reduce crime, which is ultimately what everyone wants. Lastly, he gives a rundown on how the statistics show anything exponentially working towards the goal of lowering crime. He even quotes the study with Kleck and Patterson. McGinty, Emma E., Julia A. Wolfson, and Tara Kirk Sell. Journal of Health Politics, Policy and Law. Duke University Press, 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. 2012 mass shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, opened a rare window of opportunity to strengthen firearm policies in the United (4). Stronger laws were imposed, federal and state. laws were strict and were directed at semiautomatic assault weapons and those with metal (5). These laws also strengthened background checks and closed loop holes for private sales. The study conducted showed the support for these laws percent in favor who were gun owners, 92 percent for respondents who identified as liberal and lastly, 83 percent of respondents who identified as conservative (5). So people on both sides of the argument agreed on these more strict laws. That shows that there is a compromise for public opinion. These journalists conducted and compiled statistics on the effectiveness of background checks for before and after a major shooting. number of shootings and shooting coverage went down dramatically after a bill was passed in (19). The Study mainly talked about how effective these laws were in Colorado, Nevada, and Delaware. It also explained public opinion and how the new laws were affecting their everyday lives. Duke university published the findings, all three writers are doctoral candidates for the department of health policy and work extensively on health politics and laws.