Stefan Dimitropoulos It has become common knowledge that physical activity brings a variety of physical and psychological benefits to the human body. Among the numerous types of exercise, it seems that each one brings a different kind of result, or benefit, to the body. Meaning, cardiovascular training serves a different function than resistance training, which serves a different function than yoga training, and so on. Many respected figures in the fitness industry agree that to reach optimal athletic performance, a person should not restrict themselves to only one type of exercise. Most people that take up a hobby in health and fitness, however, are not training to achieve such a high level of athleticism. For the average non athlete, fulfilling the goal of staying healthy is more the focus than anything, whether that mean to build muscle or to cut fat. Although nobody should ever be encouraged to restrict their forms of exercise, the average non athlete does not always have the opportunity, nor the desire to broaden their range of exercise. Therefore, it seems fit to ask the question, which single type of exercise should people consider the healthiest for the average non athlete? Source 1: Collis, Nathan; Vivienne, Lewis; Crisp, Dimity. Is Buff Enough? The Effect of Body Attitudes and Narcissistic Traits on Muscle Journal of Studies. 24.2 (2016): 213-225. Authors Nathan Collis, Lewis Vivienne, and Dimity Crisp in their journal entry, Is Buff Enough? The Effect of Body Attitudes and Narcissistic Traits on Muscle attempted to correlate narcissistic personality traits, perceived body image, and muscle dysmorphia. Their study consisted of seventy-eight men that currently weight train, twenty-eight men that formerly weight trained, and eleven men that have never weight trained. In total, their subjects consisted of one hundred and seventeen men between the ages of eighteen and fifty-eight. The results of the psychological study showed that body image was strongly correlated with muscle dysmorphia, and that men who currently weight train have a much more positive body image than those who formerly weight trained. Narcissism had no relationship with other factors. This text was most likely written for the purpose of an evaluation. It is a frequent observation that weight training has been correlated in society to body image and narcissism. It seems that the authors mentioned above were looking to challenge the validity of the conception. Audience members that could find use in the results of this study are other psychological researchers that specialize in the area of self- esteem or effects of physical activity on the brain. The authors expressed that it is an adequate study to formulate another research project off of. The article was a part of a peer reviewed journal named of All three of these authors have also published papers in several other scientific journals pertaining to psychology and behavioral science. Source 2: Zavanela, Plinio M., Crewther, Blair T., Lodo, Leandro, Florindo, Alex A., Miyabara, Elen H., Aoki, Marcelo S. and fitness benefits of a resistance training intervention performed in the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research. 26.3 (2012): 811. Authors Zavanela, Plinio M., Crewther, Blair T., Lodo, Leandro, Florindo, Alex A., Miyabara, Elen H., and Aoki, Marcelo S. conducted a study to find beneficial effects on the body gained from resistance training in the workplace. These authors have also conducted several other studies about implementing a workout regimen in the workplace. Forty-eight participants underwent a twenty-four week resistance training program, and forty-eight participants were told to continue their daily routines as they currently were. All ninety-six participants were bus drivers. At the end of the period, the participants who were exercising showed a large decrease in blood pressure, pain incidence, and absenteeism, as well as a large increase in muscular endurance and flexibility. This text can serve to inform the average non athlete of the benefits of exercise, as well as health and wellness experts the importance of staying physically active. It also proves that it is very possible to create time for exercise in the average working daily routine. This study could potentially be taken in another direction, and that is to fight against common misconceptions people hold of exercising, such as making a person too tired to continue their week. According to the study, exercise was directly correlated to decreased absenteeism. The work was published by the National Strength and Conditioning Association. The Association functions for the purpose of providing knowledge about fitness and helping professionals in the fitness industry expand their career, as can be read at www.nsca.com. Source 3: Wiklund, Petri; Alen, Markku; Munukka, Eveliina; Cheng, Shu Mei; Yu, Bo; Pekkala, Satu; Cheng, Sulin. response to 6-week aerobic exercise training and dieting in previously sedentary overweight and obese pre-menopausal women: A randomized Journal of Sport and Health Science. September 2014 3(3):217-224. Wiklund, Petri; Alen, Markku; Munukka, Eveliina; Cheng, Shu Mei; Yu, Bo; Pekkala, Satu; and Cheng, Sulin studied the metabolic effects of aerobic exercise on pre-menopausal, obese women. Ninety women were used for the study. In random order, 45 were subjected to a six week walking program and 45 were subjected to a dietary counseling group. Only 6 weeks of aerobic walking activity significantly decreased levels of glucose and serum free fatty acids, and increased lipid metabolism. Such is one example of the health benefits of aerobic exercise (a term interchangeably used with cardio exercise or cardiovascular exercise). The authors in this study are affiliated with the Department of Health Sciences, University of Department of Medical Rehabilitation, Oulu University Hospital, Institute of Health Sciences, University of Oulu, School of Kinesiology, Shanghai University of Sport, Department of Sport and Physical Education, Shanghai Jiao Tong University. The source of this information comes from the Journal of Sport and Health Science. The authors have completed numerous studies on the benefits of aerobic exercise on a number of categories of participants. Source 4: Authors Monteiro, Paula Alves; Chen, Kong; Lira, Fabio Santos; Cicotti Saraiva, Bruna Thamyres; Mello Antunes; Barbara Moura; Campos, Eduardo Zapaterra; and Freitas Jr. Ismael Forte. and aerobic exercise training promote similar benefits in body composition and metabolic profiles in obese Lipids in Health & Disease. 11/26/2015, Vol. 14, p1-9. Authors Monteiro, Paula Alves; Chen, Kong; Lira, Fabio Santos; Cicotti Saraiva, Bruna Thamyres; Mello Antunes; Barbara Moura; Campos, Eduardo Zapaterra; and Freitas Jr. Ismael Forte gathered evidence on the effects of cardio activity by completing a study having obese adolescents undergo aerobic activity. The participants that underwent the twenty week aerobic exercise program showed a decrease in percent body fat from 2.9%-3.6%. The control group, which did not exercise for twenty weeks, showed no significant decrease in body fat percentage. They also showed beneficial changes in lipid levels. This study is affiliated with Center and Prescription Motor Activity Laboratory, Department of Physical Education, Universidade Estadual Paulista, UNESP, Rua Roberto Simonsen, Presidente Prudente, Paulo, Brazil Exercise and Immunometabolism Research Group, Department of Physical Education, Universidade Estadual Paulista, Presidente Prudente, Paulo, Brazil Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Obesity Branch, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Disease, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA The authors have published other articles of their comparative studies of exercises. Even more so, studies on how exercise effects the body on a biological level.