Elliott 1 Taryn Elliott Bennington ENC 1102 31 January 2017 The Future of Trade Relations In the past 80 years the world has become increasingly more globalized; promoting a mass of interconnectedness and worldwide flow of communication. More than any other time in American history, countries rely on other countries for economic needs. With this comes international trade, which effects every single person in the world. One of the most popular forms of trade is free trade, which is a form of trade where all barriers, quotas, tariffs, and bans are lowered or eliminated in order to promote and encourage international trade. The World Trade Organization (WTO) is one institute that runs on the principle concepts of free trade. The WTO is a forum for governments that help negotiate and create trade agreements between states (WTO). The WTO believes that free trade best supports the consumer because no barriers mean cheaper prices. On the opposing side, many organizations resist institutions that develop free trade agreements. Labor unions are one of the greatest critics of free trade and the World Trade Organization. The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO), a labor union located in the United States, has worked for a long time in opposition of free trade programs; arguing that free trade agreements do not protect the workers (AFL-CIO). As stakeholders, the WTO and AFL-CIO appear to be on completely opposite sides of the trade spectrum. The WTO is motivated by the benefits of the consumer while the AFL-CIO wishes to promote the wealth of the workers. While their policies and methods appear to be polar opposites, both stakeholders have the same goal of succeeding in economic prosperity through Elliott 2 international trade. The WTO and AFL-CIO can compromise by adapting policies during trade agreements that encourage international trade and protect the workers and laborers. The World Trade Organization promotes the use of free trade during international trade agreements which predominantly only protects the rights of the consumer. Founded in 1995, the WTO administers trade agreements and handles negotiation disputes (WTO). It is international trade without any type of barrier or restriction such as tariffs or quotas. According to the WTO website, overriding purpose is to help trade flow as freely as this is important to economic development and (WTO). Essentially, the World Trade Organization wants trade to move easily and freely between participating countries so quotas and tariffs do not weigh on the economy. By doing so, consumers benefit from free trade because the prices are lowered. However, there is an abundance of critiques on the principle of free trade by opponents who have, in turn, sought to get rid of free trade agreements and the WTO. One example of this is given by Jerry Lynnott in an article written for The Times Leader. Lynnott discusses the free trade agreement between Mexico, Canada, and the United States called NAFTA. While NAFTA has benefited the consumers, Lynnott argues that because of the way free trade agreements are set up, workers in the United States lose their jobs companies move their work to Mexico and Canada with the opening of borders and elimination of (Lynott). When tariffs, quotas, and bans are eliminated by the concept of free trade, companies are able to outsource jobs easily to a foreign country in order to make the products cheaper. So while the products are cheaper for the consumer through free trade, workers are not protected. Organizations like the WTO and agreements like NAFTA are not protecting or economically benefiting workers, which is exactly what the opposing stakeholder, AFL-CIO, argues. Elliott 3 critique of the free trade agreement shows that there is room for correction in free trade policy, one that will benefit everyone from the producer to the consumer. The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations or the AFL- CIO is an organization that represents unions in the United States and opposes the use of free trade in the United States. The organization works to ensure that all workers are getting proper paychecks, safety in the workplace, and equal and fair treatment. AFL-CIO focuses on many issues regarding unions and workers in America. One of the principal points of the organization is the issue of trade and how it is effecting the American Economy. According to the AFL-CIO website, and investment policies have reflected the influence of powerful corporate and workers have little to no protection of their rights (AFL-CIO). This means that free trade focuses on the prospects of the company instead of ensuring the safety and rights of workers, farmers, and laborers who are creating the products. United trade policies with other countries are based on the theories of free trade which the AFL CIO argues to be the desires of global corporations rather than the needs of working (AFLCIO). The workers have essentially been left behind during U.S. trade deals because free trade focuses solely on the benefits of the consumer, and does not protect the sustainability of the laborers and workers creating the products. While the idea of worker protection appears to be a great idea, many critics are skeptical on how the values of organizations like the AFL-CIO actually affect the economy. The AFL-CIO is made up of different unions across America that push for better wages and work environments. However, writer James Sherk argues that when organizations like AFL-CIO push for greater wages, the companies and business suffer (Sherk). In order to pay for the desired wages of the workers, companies have to raise the prices of Elliott 4 products. So, while organizations like AFL-CIO may achieve their goal of ensuring that workers are taken care of, the consumers suffer in return. While both AFL-CIO and the WTO seem to be polar opposites they share a commonality that potentially sets up a compromise between the two stake holders. The main goal of the AFLO-CIO and WTO is to ensure economic prosperity for their respective focus groups. AFL- primary goal in regards to trade is to make sure the workers responsible for developing and manufacturing the products. The WTO desires to make sure that consumers benefit during international trade and that respective countries are able to prosper through trade with no barriers. Ideally, a compromise can be put into effect that benefits both the consumers and the workers so the WTO and AFL-CIO are both pleased with the ultimate result. A compromise between AFL-CIO and WTO would be the adaptation of a fair trade policy during the negotiations of trade policies. As defined by Fair Trade USA, fair trade is a process of trade which creates more equitable global trade model that benefits farmers, workers, consumers, industry, and the (Fair Trade USA). Unlike the World Trade free trade policies and AFL-CIO union ideals, fair trade works to protect people in every aspect of international trade. From farmers and workers to consumers, fair trade focuses on the quality of the work environment, fair wages, and fair prices. One example of how fair trade has been used successfully in the international market is the company Green Mountain Coffee. Since 2001, Green Mountain Coffee has been a certified Fair Trade business that ensures fair priced products for consumers as well as healthy work environments and fair wages for the workers (Green Mountain Coffee). The company was originally founded in Vermont, which means international trade is especially important because coffee beans cannot grow in Vermont. Green House Coffee Roasters is estimated to be worth Elliott 5 about 18.6 Billion dollars and is considered one of the most innovative companies in the world (Forbes). Fair trade policies, such as the ones used by Green Mountain Coffee, are benefiting the consumers through fair priced products as well as workers, who are given fair wages and working conditions. Fair trade worked for this company, which makes it a very probable compromise between AFL-CIO and WTO. If both stakeholders agree to adopt fair trade policies that will benefit the consumer and the worker, trade can become far more efficient and fair. International trade is an essential aspect of how humans live their lives. Almost every product a person uses or purchases came from a line of trade deals and negotiations in order to get the item at the hands of the consumer. Companies like AFL-CIO desire to protect the workers responsible for developing the products. The WTO was designed to make sure that consumers and buyers are able to receive the product for the best price (WTO). By compromising with the adaptation of a fair trade policy, both of these stakeholders can achieve their primary goals cooperatively and make trade more effective in every aspect. Elliott 6 Works Cited AFLCIO -  AFL-CIO. AFLCIO, 2017. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Trade Fair Trade USA. Fair Trade USA, 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 Jerry, Lynott. Impact Hits Manufacturing Workers In Wilkes-Barre, Pa.,  Times Leader, The (Wilkes-Barre, PA) (n.d.): Newspaper Source. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Forbes. Keurig Green Mountain on the Forbes Most Innovative Companies  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 2017. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Sherk, James. What Unions Do: How Labor Unions Affect Jobs and the  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., 21 May 2009. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. World Trade  World Trade Organization - Home Page. World Trade Organization, 2017. Web. 02 Feb. 2017.