Aye Aye Sint Dr. Oana Cimpean English Composition II 14 th February 2017 Is it possible to build solar energy everywhere? In the twenty-first century, energy requirement has increased around the world significantly. People are using coal or oil to produce energy that has disadvantage of being non- renewable. Considering about the limited fossil fuel available in the world and the increasing uses of energy it is important to find an alternative way to produce energy. An alternative source, solar energy is another form of venue to provide clean and affordable energy from the sun. According to the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA), it states that solar energy is a energy which means that solar plants or solar panels can be built as a distributed generation, utility-scale solar power plant and central-station. On the other hand, institute of energy research (IER) states that using natural resources like coal can produce much more energy than using alternative energy. Not only coal can produce high energy than the alternative energy, it can also be converted into liquid fuels which include jet fuel, diesel, gasoline as well as LNG (Liquid natural gas) for the uses in synthetic and industrial gases. Therefore, it is better to use coal and to build solar energy to produce electricity at a right place reducing negative causes which include environment damage with less producing cost. According to Cambridge dictionary solar energy means that energy from the sun to produce electric Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) belief that spreading the different uses of solar energy around the world wosuld help to reduce global warming. They believe that enlarging the industry and educating the public about the pros of solar energy would help the world to produce clean and low cost energy. The motto of the organization is that a strong solar industry to POWER The organization informs that building solar energy around the world is possible because building solar heating energy is affordable to all the families and helps commercial systems to handle their energy bills. Not only in the hot climate, solar panel can also be built in the colder climates by using an indirect system and system. Properly designed and installed solar water heating system can provide approximately 40% to 80% of the needs. In the article written by Kale, Joshi and Menon (2016) mention that with the uses of solar panel in buildings can saved about 54.64% of the total electricity cost over span of twenty-five years with minimum initial investment. Therefore, the energy consumption can be lower by using solar energy as well as using modern techniques. On the other hand, Institute of Energy Research (IER) is a non-profit organization founded in 1989. The mission of the organization is that aspires to be the center of excellence in educational research through extensive usage of modern information and communication technologies at all levels to develop the The organization states that is a concentrated form of prehistoric biomass in the form of plant life and is the most abundant fossil fuel produced in the About 33.2% of the resources is made of coal in United States. Coal has been served as the chief transportation energy source and fed the commerce with steamships as well as railroads. Also, factories and industries use as an industry source of cement and paper, making steel and numerous industries to produce qualify products. One of the benefits of using coal is that coal can be converted into liquid fuels which can be used in cars, airplanes, industry and uses in synthetic and industrial gases. According to the article written by Walid Matar (2016), the author explains that in Saudi almost all of the electricity is generated by using coal and oil. In the research made by the author, he explains that using coal would provide a lower generation cost than solar. Successful development of building the coal-fired plant would also reduce the impact of carbon emissions from the coal than the hazardous emission. Therefore, the common ground between the two organizations would be that both of the organizations are finding a better way to produce electricity with less damage to the environment with less cost. Also, both of the organization are making further research to produce higher output electricity power with lower input of energy. Both method of producing energy produces dangerous emission unless they are built properly. The compromises between the two organizations are that depending on the situation, they should decide whether to use coal or build solar panel to produce electricity. I believe that this compromise would work because not all the country produces huge amount of coal while other countries does not. So it would be better to build solar energy where there is less coal. And build the coal-fired plant where there is large amount of coal produce in that place. Also, solar energy should be built in rich country because it is expensive to build. I believe that this would be the best compromise because in the congressional digest (2013, Vol.92) it explains that majority of coal used in the United States goes into electric power generation. It also explains that 90% of the coal in United States consumption is used by electric power sector, 900 million tons of coal to produce electricity which shows that US has abundant coal in the country. Using coal is easy to burn and ship and it is inexpensive costing only one-third as much as renewable sources of building solar energy. Although, both the organization has common ground to produce electricity with low cost with high input energy there are still some factors to consider when producing electricity whether to use coal or solar energy. Coal is made from natural resources which is limited resources while solar energy is using energy from the sun. So there are factors such as negative impacts on environment, natural resources and so on to consider before building solar energy or using coal-fired plant as an electric source. Works cited: Matar, Walid, Rodrigo Echeverri and Axel Pierru. Prospects for Coal-Fired Power Generation in Saudi Energy Strategy Reviews 13-14 (2016): 181-190. Science Direct. Web. 14 Feb. 2017 Nilma N., Kale, Joshi Deepa and Menon Radhika. Cycle Cost Analysis of Commerical Buildings with Energy Efficient Perspectives in Science, Vol 18, Iss C, Pp 452-454 (2016). Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Future of Congressional Digest 92.1 (2013): 1. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 14 Feb.2017 Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) Institute of Energy Research (IER)