TeMaat 1 Melanie TeMaat Mr. Phillips Composition II 27 Jan. 2017 Animals in the Movie Industry Animal Rights organizations, such as PETA strongly believe in the protection of animals and against animal abuse. Recently, Amblin Productions has produced a movie entitled Purpose, which is about how a dog finds purpose throughout different lifetimes. In the recent past, leaked footage from the movie shows what it seems to be trainers forcing a dog into turbulent water. Immediately, the movie and its producers received backlash from animal rights groups. Birds and Animals Unlimited, the trainers for the dogs in the movie, went under fire for the leaked footage. The video clip became popular in the media and has had a significant effect on the success. Many movies today, especially children films, involve animals such as cats or dogs into the story, making their appearance and use within the film industry inevitable. The question to be asked is whether or not it should be considered abusive to use animals within the movie industry. Because animals may need to be used in cinema, the abolishment of the use of animals in movies would be unrealistic. Animal trainers, such as Birds and Animals Unlimited, will have to realize that they may have to limit animal usage in cinema, while PETA and other animal rights activist groups need to take into account the fact that sometimes animals will have to used in movies. In modern times, the concern for animals and their lack of rights have been brought to attention and popularized through the media. For example, the growing popularity of TeMaat 2 vegetarianism and veganism prove that the animals and their rights have been brought to the attention, and has therefore decreased the number of people who consume animal products. There are countless numbers of groups and organizations that promote animal rights and oppose various animal cruelties. PETA is one that is arguably one of the most popular and well known groups. PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) is a nonprofit charitable organization that stresses the importance of the coexistence of the rights of both humans and animals. official website concludes that the only way to get attention for their cause is to make their gimmicks both and for the Ethical Treatment of This way, the organization has been able to receive national and even global attention, promoting their cause and leading to change, such as fur bans, increasing numbers of vegan options in food and clothing, and rescuing animals from experimentation. In society, many organizations and groups exist that advocate for animal rights, however, PETA has gained immense popularity in the animal rights world. This particular organization focuses on the treatment and abuse of animals in four different areas: the food industry, laboratories, clothing trade, and (most notably) the entertainment industry for the Ethical Treatment of PETA views the the use of animals in the food industry as abusive and also environmentally devastating. In addition, they highlight the health benefits of going vegan. Next, animal experimentation in laboratories is described as inhumane; the website mentions the numerous animals that are often tested on, leading to pain and loneliness due to isolation. Similarly, the fashion industry is said to be responsible for the death and suffering of many animals, particularly for the creation of leather, wool, and fur. Lastly, the entertainment industry is chastised for forcing animals to do tricks, TeMaat 3 often in fear of physical punishments. These animals are often separated from families and forced to travel in cramped cages. Birds and Animals Unlimited is a popular Hollywood animal training firm used to train dogs and other animals for movies. Popular movies that have used the training firm include Harry Potter Films, of Thrones , , and For Dogs . In the past, they have received complaints from animal rights groups, especially PETA, for alleged animal abuse and mistreatment (Baum). For instance, pigs used in the movie, Road Trip , were found to have overgrown hooves and bloody lesions, which sparked an outcry from PETA. In addition, dogs used for Hotel for Dogs were said to have been forced to sleep outside in kennels without bedding in below 50 degree weather (Baum). Although popularly used in the movie industry, there have been numerous allegations of animal mistreatment for Birds and Animals Unlimited. PETA has constantly fired allegations at the training firm, suggesting that the practices are unjust and cruel. Most of the allegations center on the kennels and cages used to house the animals when offset. PETA has reported that some of these cages had not been cleaned in weeks, as in the instance of birds of prey used for Potter films. Other such allegations suggest the uncertainty and the questionable conditions that the animals face from Birds and Animals Unlimited. A recent clip for the upcoming movie, Purpose , shows trainers who seem to be forcing a dog into turbulent waters. Thus, PETA accused the firm for promoting animal cruelty and forcing a dog to do something potentially dangerous. The video clip gained immediate attention as it was shared and reshared on multiple social media platforms. Due to the sudden unpopularity, the opening premiere was cancelled. In addition, Birds and TeMaat 4 Animals Unlimited produced a statement defending themselves and also explaining how the situation was greatly misinterpreted. The firm claims the video clip was to look as if trainers were forcing a dog into water against its will. In the video clip a voice can be heard saying, gotta throw him However, Bird and Animals Unlimited states that the person who voiced this statement is unclear and also irrelevant, as the animal training firm claims that this person had no authority whatsoever. Lastly, they ensure that an American Humane Representative was in attendance the entire time, observing and approving every shot taken and Animals The entity of the situation begs the question as to whether or not it should be considered abusive to use animals in the movie industry. Despite the apparent differences between the two stakeholders, I believe that both PETA and Animal Rights Unlimited can come up with a compromise. Perhaps if animals were allowed the same rights as humans who work in movies, maybe then animals in cinema and entertainment would be both healthier and safer. According to Weiss, animal rights should not be something so different as than human rights. She describes how that there is no difference between the suffering of animals and humans (703). Thus, I believe by highlighting this fact, people may be better able to understand the need to protect animals in the movie industry. I think that being stricter with how we treat animals in cinema could suffice as a compromise for both stakeholders. For PETA, requiring officials to supervise the animals under strict, specific guidelines will make sure that the animals are being treated fairly and equally. With this compromise, Birds and Animals Unlimited would still be able to use animals in movies, but only under strict supervision. TeMaat 5 The subject of animal use in the movie industry is a highly controversial topic. With the recent release of the movie, Purpose , and leaked footage showing the possible abuse of a dog, the topic of using animals for entertainment purposes has been a hot issue. Animal rights organizations such as PETA have called this animal use abusive and a violation of simple animal rights. However, Birds and Animals Unlimited argues that the video was taken out of context and the alleged animal abuse is a false claim. Despite the apparent disagreements these two stakeholders may have, I believe that official supervision in all cases of animals use within entertainment (under strict guidelines) would benefit both stakeholders as it allows the animals to be protected, while allowing Birds and Animals Unlimited to continue their business. Works Cited TeMaat 6 Baum, Gary. Dead Kangaroo, a Bleeding Pig: Top Animal Training Firm Hit With PETA Abuse Claims Hollywood Reporter , 11 Jan. 2017, www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/animal-abuse-claims-brought-hollywoods-top-training -firm-963331. Accessed 12 Jan. 2017. for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights PETA , www.peta.org/. Accessed 14 Jan. 2017. of Birds and Animals Unlimited on A Purpose and Animals Unlimited , www.birdsandanimals.com/. Accessed 12. Jan. 2017. Weiss, Erica. Are No Chickens In Suicide The Decoupling Of Human Rights And Animal Rights In  Of The Royal Anthropological Institute 22.3 (2016): 688-706. Search Premier . Web. 10 Feb. 2017.