Viviana M. Milla Milla Professor Spencer Bennington ENC 1102 09 February 2017 1 A new interpretation of the Quran to ensure Education equality in the Pan-Arab states of Syria and Lebanon. An equal educational system between women and men has been a controversial issue in the Pan Arab states of Syria and Lebanon. Due to their common historical background, those Arab states share a common perspective of the Islamic values (Schwedler 55). Therefore, those states assume that religion has to intervene in the political sphere. Thus, the Quran more than a religious book, is the pillar for their constitution and politics. This controversy has increase after the contact between the occidental and the Middle Eastern cultures. The occidental perspective is defined as the viewpoint that promotes certain values stablished by the European and North American countries (Kong 334). The gap between both cultures generated the formation of several organizations in order to defend rights according to each perspective. For instance, women league is an organization created with the purpose of implement the values of Islam and reclaim the status of Muslim women as free, equal and vital contributors of society in terms of Islam (Muslim league). By the other side, United Nations Women purpose is to ensure social and economic empowerment thought the development of equal rights between men and women (UN Women). Despite UN Women and the Muslim Women league, have opposite perspectives of how to ensure women equality, both believe that Muslim women in the Pan-Arab states must have equal education, in order to ensure an egalitarian development between men and women. In order to arrive to this goal, both organizations have to cede certain Milla 2 aspects. Thus, UN Women will have to renounce to achieve sexual liberty in the Pan Arab states, while the Muslim league will discard an interpretation of the Quran that promotes an inferior feminine role in the society. After that agreement, both organizations will ensure the development of an equal educational system between men and women in the Pan Arab- States that will promote the improvement of women equality. The main purpose of Muslim league is to promote the development of Women in the Pan- Arab states thought equal education base on the original rules. Thus, this organization argues that spiritual equality, responsibility and accountability is ensured in the Quran for both men and women (Muslim league). Therefore, according to the Muslim league there is no contradiction between the Islamic values and the achievement of equal education between men and women. However, over the time, the governments of the Pan- Arab states have modified the original principles, in order to suit their political agendas (Shalabi 1). For instance, during 1965 and 1990, Syria and Lebanon, increase their parity index between men and women thought the establishment of mandatory equal education from elementary school to college (Bradley 1). Based in the original interpretation of the Quran, the governments of those Pan-Arabic states imposed rules that guarantee the egalitarian development of both genders. However, after 1990, the political agendas of those countries focused their efforts in the civil conflict, giving as a result the re-interpretation of the Quran, emphasizing the differences between men and women rather than the development of both genders. That fact leads to a tremendous growth of the illiteracy and inequality rate; for instance, before the Syrian Conflict, literacy rate was over 90 percent, but after the conflict barely arrived to 40 percent (Guass Teschendorff 3). The Lebanese and Syrian government can generate deep changes in the educational laws base the Quran that assumes that men and women are complementary but not equal (Al- Hariri 311). That means that Milla 3 according to the Islamic rule, ensuring women equality is synonym of preserving the identity of the Muslim women. According to the Muslim league, some governments take advantage of this ambiguous interpretation of the feminine identity preservation, in order to adjust the Quran values to their political purposes and interfere with the Muslim women development. Thus, Muslim league purpose is to achieve an educational system that reinforce Islamic identity in the Pan-Arab states. By the other side, the United Nations Women purpose is to ensure freedom and development thought equal education. UN Women respects cultural and diversity issues, therefore, it assumes that certain Islamic values must be preserve if they do not interfere with the development of a human being. For that reason, UN Women believe that there must be a distinction between cultural values and women rights. Moreover, this organization argues that the addition of religious values in the political sphere of Pan-Arab states ensures the institutionalization of laws and policies that promotes gender discrimination (UN Women 12). The reason for this argument, is that UN Women believe that rights become vulnerable during conflict periods due to their dependence on a religious interpretation rather than on a law. UN Women considers that the only way to arrive to an equal development between men a woman in the Pan- Arab countries is thought equal education (UN Women 15). However, UN Women proposes a kind of equal education that is in complete conflict with the Arabic identity. For instance, this educational program promotes sexual and dress freedom among Arab women. UN Women aspiration is that education in the Pan- Arab countries of Syria and Lebanon can be completely unrestrained. Therefore, that any kind of religious or cultural boundary can not interfere with the educational development of women. Milla 4 Despite Muslim league and UN Women apparently have opposite perspectives about how to achieve equal education between men and women in the Pan Arab states, both organizations share the common goal that women deserve equal professional and educational development. Therefore, a possible agreement between UN Women and the Muslim league will be achieved if both organizations cede in certain aspects, in order to generate a common educational program. The development of this program will be achievable, because both organizations share a common purpose, the educational development of women in the Pan-Arab states of Syria and Lebanon. Firstly, UN Women will have to restructure its perspective of equal education. That means that this organization will have to abandon the goal of sexual freedom as part of the new educational program, because this concept interferes with the identity of the Arab women according to the interpretation of the Muslims league. At the same time, the Muslim league will have to stick to the original interpretation that ensures that there is not a conflict between women educational development and identity. After, UN Women and the Muslim league have elaborate the new educational plan, both organizations can advocate the mandatory implementation of this program in the Pan-Arab states of Syria and Lebanon. For instance, in the after the UN conference on women in Beijing, international efforts brought the Lebanese government to form a partnership with organizations in order to provide social welfare services and design the future of gender relations in the country (Stephan, Four Waves of Lebanese feminism). As a consequence, Lebanese rights improved, because the government gave temporary protection orders that reformed the Lebanese court and criminalize all forms of domestic violence. Therefore, there exist previous evidence that proves that when international and organizations work together, rights improve in the Pan-Arab states. The implementation of this new Milla 5 educational system will allow the development of Lebanese and Syrian women without loosing their identity. Education equality in the Pan-Arab states will continue to be controversial, if UN Women and Muslim league do not give up certain aspects in order to arrive to a common agreement. Stake holders like UN Women will always defend educational freedom. In contrast, Muslim league will defend the identity of Muslim women thought education. However, this new educational program will not give exactly what the stakeholders want, both organizations will obtain their ultimate purpose, the educational development of the Lebanese and Syrian women. In addition, the implementation of these educational program will benefit the state, because its work force will be more capable and productive. Therefore, as a whole, the implementation of this educational program will generate the economic and social growth of Lebanese and Syrian women without loosing their identity. Milla 6 Works Cited Al- Hariri, Rafeda. Point of View on Education in Saudi Arabia. Journal of Comparative Education. Vol. 23.1 (1987): 51-57. Web. 11 Feb. 2017 Bradley, Karen. The Incorporation of Women into Higher Education: Paradoxical  Sociology of Education 2000: 1. JSTOR Journals. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Guasp Teschendorff, Marta. Education in Syria: A catalyst to well-being under risk. Our World. 17 Sep. 2015. Web. 11 Feb 2017. Kong, Jieyoung. Discourses Of The East And The West And Their Implications For Intercultural  Journal Of Multicultural Discourses 11.3 (2016): 331-335. Academic Search Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Muslim League. of Concern for Muslim Women. N.p, n.d. Web. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. http://www.mwlusa.org/topics/equality/issues.htm Schwedler, Jillian, Understanding the contemporary Middle East. Lynne Rienner Publishers, 2013. Shalaby, Marwa. Political Representation and Authoritarianism in the Arab World. Project on the middle east political science. 11 March 2016. Web. 11Feb. 2017 Stephan, Rita. Four Waves of Lebanese Feminism. E-International Relations. 7 Nov. 2014. Web. 11 Feb. 2017 Milla 7 United Nations Women. UN Women for Arab States & the committee on Elimination of Discrimination Against Women, Regional consultation for the proposed general recommendation on Women Human Rights in Situations of conflict and Post Conflict context. United Nations Press. Web. 11 Feb. 2017 United Nations Women. United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of  UN Women. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 http://www.unwomen.org/en