Quadros 1 Nicole Quadros Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 14 February 2017 The Abortion Compromise Abortion is a big controversial topic in the United States. For many years, there has been a debate over abortion. There are people who are against abortion, prolife, and there are people who are for abortion, pro-choice. Those who are for abortion believe that women should have the final decision on what should happen to their body, that in the end it is their choice. Those who are against abortion believe that killing a fetus at any stage in pregnancy is considered murder. The National Abortion Federation advocates abortion and the National Right to Life organization oppose abortion. Although these two organizations are at odds with regards to what happens to the baby (i.e. fetus), they both however, care about the wellbeing. To attain a common ground both parties could reach a potential compromise, with some rare and extenuating circumstances abortions should be permitted after checking the pro and cons thoroughly. These rare and extenuating circumstances could be women or teenagers who were raped, mothers who could possibly die if they gave birth, or if the mothers are at risk of having children who may have a birth defect with no known cure that could endanger them in the future. The National Abortion mission is to ensure safe, legal, and accessible abortion care, which promotes health and justice for women. (About NAF) Beverly Wildung Harrison, a journalist, had a similar belief, that legal right to abort focused on respecting moral agency and bodily integrity. (Ellison) The National Abortion Quadros 2 Federation believes that, is a valid personal decision within the continuum of health care a decision that ultimately belongs to each woman. It is more important than ever to honor, through words as well as through actions, the right of women to access their full reproductive health options with the autonomy and dignity they (Abortion Federation) They give women several options, including adoption, abortion and parenthood. With each option, they give them information on how to go through with it and talk with the mother to find the best decision for her. National Right to Life is an organization that is against abortion. Their mission is to protect and defend the most fundamental right of humankind, the right to life of every innocent human being from the beginning of life to natural death. (National Right to Life Mission Statement) National Right to Life believe, promoting respect for the worth and dignity of every individual human being, born or unborn, including unborn children from the beginning; those newly born; persons with disabilities; older people; and other vulnerable people, especially those who cannot defend (National Right to Life) Their goal is to inform others about abortion facts and to give women other options other than abortion. National Right to Life and National Abortion Federation are very different, but they do have some similarities. A common goal is they both want the mother to make the right decision. They both are looking out for her wellbeing and both are trying to educate women about abortion from their viewpoint. Since both organizations care about the wellbeing, a good compromise would be to only allow abortions for certain extenuating circumstances like the ones listed above in the first paragraph. Women who may have children with threatening birth defects should have the option to make the decision themselves if they want to abort or not. Glenn Cohen, a professor of Quadros 3 Law and a Faculty Director, believes that there are exceptions for pregnancies that result from rape. (Cohen) National Right to Life would have to go make certain adjustments to their legislation clauses to allow some leeway through which abortion in these rare circumstances will be allowed after thorough review of the case by the appropriate parties. The National Abortion Federation must also agree to see the viewpoint that not all abortions women perform are justified. An innocent baby cannot be punished for a lack of responsibility in matters of sex or where drug addiction is the cause of pregnancy. In such cases, adoption should be considered and not abortion. Both these organizations should come together to achieve this compromise. This could possibly lead to the birth of a new organization that is reasonable, just and values human life within the confines of the circumstance being evaluated. This will give the baby who has no voice and the mother equal rights and will strike a balance that is favorable to both organizations. For this compromise to go through, both organizations must set aside their long-instilled prejudices and see life from a practical standpoint, although not losing the moral implications in the process. This will create a constructive dialogue and with time a compromise could be achieved. What is also more important is for leaders of both organizations to be mature, responsible, open minded, have good moral ethics to reach a consensus that is suitable for both mother and unborn child. Quadros 4 Works Cited NAF National Abortion National Abortion Federation, National Abortion Federation , prochoice.org/about-naf/. Cohen, Glenn I. All Abortions Equal? Should There Be Exceptions to the Criminalization of Abortion for Rape and Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, 2015, eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=32f89f78-dd96-4c65-9705- 92703d0bd2e1%40sessionmgr4007&vid=5&hid=4105. Ellison, Marvin M. What We Really Mean to Journal of Feminist Studies in Religion, 2014, eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=16f7640e-7b27- 429d-b79a-3dbb48e2c95a%40sessionmgr103&vid=5&hid=127. Right to Life Mission National Right to Life, National Right to Life, www.nrlc.org/about/mission/. Rajczi, Alex. Competing Entitlements, and Parental Journal of Applied Philosophy, Nov. 2009, eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=25f7e334-9da0-4d04-9225- 89febfafc521%40sessionmgr101&vid=15&hid=127.