Sierralta 1 Carliette Sierralta Dr. Oana Cimpean English Composition II 29 January 2017 U.S. Children of Undocumented Immigrants: The Outliers As of 2016 around 4.5 million children in the United States were reported of having at least one parent of illegal immigrant status. (Zayas and Heffron) With these children averaging about 7% of births every year, it is evident that this population is growing and currently demanding a solution to the issue regarding the legal status of their immigrant parents. (Passel and Taylor) The two stakeholders, the U.S. federal government and the Families for Freedom (FFF) advocacy group, have taken differing actions on this issue. Although people within the federal government hold individual and varied opinions on this topic, it is their overall decisions and legislations that will be taken into perspective. Thus, the current immigration regulations will constitute for the view on this issue. The legislations in place today allow for the deportation of all illegal aliens found violating immigration or criminal law. (Caldera and Piper/Bach) FFF believes that the federal government is not taking into perspective the outlier community of unauthorized immigrants and their U.S-born children. These mixed status families are often separated as a result of undocumented parents being apprehended and deported. They work towards repealing the laws that are affecting this particular group of people. To keep some of the essential aspects of the current immigration laws and to benefit the concerns of the FFF, illegal alien parents should be granted temporary residency until their U.S. citizen children reach an age of financial independence. Sierralta 2 The federal government has been changing immigration laws since the late 1700s. The most current immigration policy is encompassed in the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1965 or Hart-Celler Act, in which the previous quota system is dropped and replaced with a numerical restriction of about 675,000 permanent residency visas a year. (CIS) Any immigrant who does not hold one of these residency visas cannot legally reside in the United States. This means that the majority of incoming immigrants are not legal at all, with about 700,000 illegal immigrants entering the United States every year with intentions of staying. (Elbel) All in all, these federal policies were put in place to protect the rights and privileges of current U.S. citizens by restricting the amount of immigrants that can be granted residency. By looking to deport those who violate these immigration policies the United States government is not allocating national resources on people who are not citizens and who do not pay taxes. On the contrary, Families for Freedom advocacy group believes that the federal government has oversimplified their immigration policy. They believe that by looking at this issue in black and white, the federal government is ignoring those illegal immigrants who are parents to U.S. citizens. In 2013, over 72,000 parents of U.S. citizen children were deported. (Foley) In these situations, it is common for parents to leave their children here with other family members or even in foster care if other options are not available. Many times leaving a child here alone is a better option than taking them back to the their home countries, as even foster care can sometimes provide a better life. FFF works towards repealing all laws that they believe will separate mixed status families and communities. They also provide financial and legal support to those families affected by the immigration laws currently in place. In a broader scope, they oppose policies that oppress all specific groups of immigrants and believe Sierralta 3 that all illegals should be given the chance to prosper in this country without the threat of deportation. for Although the current federal policies and Families for Freedom present very different stances on this issue, they both share an underlying goal. Although not directly stated, it is clear that the federal government and FFF want to protect the rights and opportunities of U.S. citizen children, despite the legal status of their parents. The federal sole purpose is to protect the rights of all U.S. citizens in general and FFF chooses to advocate for U.S. citizen children whose parents can be separated from them at any moment. By intertwining the views of both sides to benefit these U.S. children a solution can then be made: grant illegal alien parents temporary residence while their children reach the pre-determined age of financial independence. To decide on an age of financial independence it is important to note that the average eighteen year-old could not possibly be financially stable enough to support themselves completely. Therefore, the age of twenty-two seems appropriate for this situation. If the person went to college they would be finishing their degree, and if they pursue college then they would have acquired enough work experience to settle themselves financially. After these children reach the age of twenty-two, their parents would be ordered to voluntarily depart the United States as a result of their temporary residency no longer being valid. After reaching this age children should be able to petition for their parents to receive a permanent residency visa. This would be denied or accepted based on the history in the United States. For example, if during their temporary residence the parent was convicted of a felony crime, they would be denied. This would fulfill both of these common goals. It would be within the interest of the federal government to accept this solution, as it would benefit the socio economic position of all children of illegal immigrants, giving them equal protection under the law. In Sierralta 4 2016 the Migration Policy Institute reported that percent of children with undocumented parents came from low-income families at or below 185 percent of the federal poverty (Carnock) Most of this is a result of illegal immigrant parents having to work jobs that do not require documentation. These usually pay below average wages and include jobs related to construction, agricultural work, housekeeping, and mining. By granting these parents temporary residence, they would be able to obtain work permits and licenses, which would enhance their possibilities in regards to job choices. Children of undocumented parents would therefore grow up with equal opportunities, which would ultimately amplify their quality of education and other factors that are affected by family income. Because many of the issues with granting residency have to do with wasting resources and money on people who are not U.S. citizens, it would make sense for these parents to have their privileges revoked after their children are financially stable. Thus, the parent would only benefit of american privileges for the good of the child. In the same manner, it would also be in the interest of FFF to accept this solution even though it does not meet their ultimate goal of allowing all illegal immigrants to receive permanent residence. Because one of their main issues has to do with the separation of mixed status families and communities, this solution would appease views sufficiently. With parents not facing the threat of being deported, families would not have to be separated and U.S. citizen children would have an equal financial opportunity to succeed in their home country. Parents who showed to be contributing citizens during their temporary residence would also have a fair chance of being allowed to stay if their child chooses to petition for them. While the issue of undocumented parents being separated from their U.S. born children is only a fraction of the current immigration issue at hand, it is one that concerns the well being of future generations of american citizens. With this population of children growing every year it is Sierralta 5 crucial for parties to quickly come to a compromise that will satisfy some of the goals on both ends. By allowing illegal alien parents to hold a temporary residence until their child reaches the age of twenty-two, there are a variety of other issues being combated including poverty among children of immigrants. Similarly, it would protect the equal opportunity of all U.S. children despite the legality of their parents and ultimately keep thousands of families together in times when children need their parents most. Sierralta 6 Works Cited Caldera, Selena, and Paige Piper/Bach. Immigration policy in the United States. Washington, DC: Congress of the United States, Congressional Budget Office, 2006. Feb. 2006, www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/109th-congress-2005-2006/reports/02-28-immigration.pdf. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017. Carnock, Janie T. Growing Up with Undocumented Parents: The Challenges Children  New America. N.p., 01 Feb. 2016, www.newamerica.org/education-policy/edcentral/undoc- parents. Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. CIS. Three Decades of Mass Immigration: The Legacy of the 1965 Immigration  Center for Immigration Studies. N.p., Sept. 1995, cis.org/1965ImmigrationAct-MassImmigration. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017. Elbel, Fred. How many illegal aliens reside in the United States? A methodology using Border Patrol got  statistics CAIRCO - Colorado Alliance for Immigration Reform illegal aliens crime  CAIRCO - Colorado Alliance for Immigration Reform. N.p., 2004, www.cairco.org/issues/how-many-illegal-aliens-reside-united-states-elbel. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017. Families for  About Us Families for Freedom. N.p., n.d., familiesforfreedom.org/about. Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. Sierralta 7 Foley, Elise. Deportation Separated Thousands Of U.S.-Born Children From Parents In  The Huffington Post. N.p., 25 June 2014, www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/06/25/parents- Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. Passel, Jeffrey S., and Paul Taylor. Unauthorized Immigrants and Their U.S.-Born  Pew Research Hispanic Trends Project. N.p., 11 Aug. 2010, www.pewhispanic.org/2010/08/11/unauthorized-immigrants-and-their-us-born-children. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017. Zayas, Luis H., and Laurie Cook Heffron, PhD. Disrupting young lives: How detention and deportation affect US-born children of  Pardon Our Interruption. American Psychological Organization, Nov. 2016, www.apa.org/pi/families/resources/newsletter/2016/11/detention-deportation.aspx. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017.