Al-Wahaibi 1 COVER LETTER As we were assigned to write this paper, the hardest part was choosing a topic. The word made it very challenging specially with the need to use five sources as evidence. At first, I choose the legal drinking and I actually continued with that choice and wrote an intermediate draft. But I was still not convinced with how the topic should be. I could have made up an absurd topic but I believe that it is not necessary to be creative with absurd ideas as we are already living in a bizarre world! I decided to change the topic to While writing the paper I found it a bit challenging to convince readers on legalizing torture besides that it also effected the way I organized my paper as I separated the counterargument into two parts to intensify my argument and to be more convincing. Al-Wahaibi 2 Rawan Al-Wahaibi Theodore Murray ENC 1102 Jan 29, 2017 Why Torture May Be Necessary Donald Trump has sparked much controversy in his campaign trail. But one of the issues that have provoked much talk is when he said that he would restore torture, including although he did not explicitly waterboarding (Hajjar 1). For many people, using torture of any kind to get information from suspects is not the right thing to do. Many arguments focus on the human rights perspective, which argues that torture is inhumane (Ross 561). Also, many point out that the use of torture creates an environment in which the civil liberties of even the innocent are at risk. Moreover, some people argue that torture does not necessarily work (Costanzo & Gerrity 182). However, this paper seeks to offer support to the use of torture, arguing that, despite its ethical implications, torture may be necessary. Indeed, this is a relevant topic today, especially in the face of the fight against global and domestic terrorism, and which has seen the unlawful detention of many people. Government must consider legalizing torture for certain purposes like punishment or interrogation. Torture has been a topic of conversation in the American legal system for many years. The more prominent use of torture in the United States can be traced back to the months after the 9/11 attacks. President George W Bush had promised to respond to the injustice that had been committed against the country and its people, and the government quickly authorized torture, Al-Wahaibi 3 mildly termed as interrogation on suspects of terrorism. However, this came to see the abuse of the civil liberties of many people, who were detained without trial (Costanzo & Gerrity 179-180). When Barack Obama took over the presidency, he promised to curb many of the symbols of the injustices that the government was said to be committing against its own people. Torture is one of the things that Obama came to remove, acknowledging that they constituted the abuse of human rights (Ip 35). However, Donald Trump did promise to restore these techniques of if he became the president. Now that he has become the president, he is most likely to keep his promises and make it true. The question then is whether he may be justified in doing this. No doubt, torture is repulsive and cruel upon its victims (Costanzo & Gerrity 179). Also, there are risks of innocent people being subjected to torture unfairly. But this is more a problem of due process. The main premise here is that, if there was an effective system to identify just those who are known to have information that can help apprehend the guilty, and then torture can be justified. The consideration of the cruelty of torture on people may have been a sensible factor in the decades leading to the new millennium, when the rule of law seemed to have some clout towards curbing crime. But the emergence of global terrorism has introduced a new crop of enemy, who are willing to go any distance to achieve inflict atrocities against innocent people. These fanatics do not deserve protection from any form of cruelty. In the context of this new warfare, rules have been buried. The terrorist fanatics have no rules: they kill indiscriminately and without remorse. The framework of the Geneva Convention does not provide a sufficient counterforce against what the fanatics are ready to do. Many have come to agree with the premise of bomb as justification enough for torture. This premise describes a Al-Wahaibi 4 situation where terrorists are in possession of a nuclear bomb and are planning to use it. Many agree that in such a situation, torture is justified (Spino & Cummins 544). But, most importantly, what this general agreement implies is that torture can be justified in certain circumstances, and that is the argument that this essay makes. The suffering of the few for the safety of many has always been the undertone of the justice system. It must apply with torture, too. There are many counterarguments against torture. Many argue that it is an abuse on human rights, and as such immoral and unethical. Also, they argue that it is illegal under international law (Ross 561). But perhaps the strongest argument is that torture does not work, and instead leads to false intelligence. In other words, even when the tortured individual does provide information, the argument is that such information may not be trusted because it is has been provided under duress, and as such they say anything to stop the torture (Costanzo & Gerrity 183). Standard ethical views remain adamant in their view of intentional torture as being morally wrong. However, the ticking time bomb (TTB) premise remains one that many people agree on as sufficient justification for torture. As already noted above, the argument is that, when a terrorist has hidden a bomb in a secret location in a city, then the only way to reach the bomb in time and defuse it in time is to torture the terrorist to get the information needed (Spino & Cummins 543). Naturally, not everyone agrees with this view. Still, Spino and Cummins (559) found that many seemed to change their minds about torture when such a scenario was presented, especially when there was no other alternative to getting the required information from the suspect. In the end, it remains a rather complicated question and there are no easy answers. However, torture, Al-Wahaibi 5 while remaining cruel and unacceptable, can be justified when there are lives at stake in the immediate context and there are no alternative ways of getting the required information. Certainly, there are ethical questions related to torture. However, for the sake of majority, some may have to suffer. Torture can actually work. Still, there is need for a strict system that only those who deserve it are tortured. Al-Wahaibi 6 Works Cited Costanzo, Mark A., & Gerrity, Ellen. Effective and Effectiveness of Using Torture as an Interrogation Device: Using Research to Inform the Policy Social Issues and Policy Review, 3.1 (2009): 179-210 Hajjar, Lisa. Bringing Back Waterboarding? Torture Policy in America, Open Democracy, Nov. 16, 2016. Web, 26 January 2017. Ip, John. Narratives of Northwestern Journal of International Human Rights, 7(1): 35-77 Ross, James. Letter Abuse: the US Legal Response to Torture since International Review of the Red Cross, 89.867 (2007): 561-590 Spino, Joseph & Cummins, Denise D. Ticking Time Bomb: When the Use of Torture Is and Is Not Rev. Phil. Psych., 5 (2014): 543-563