Copper1 Corey Copper Sarah Basil ENC 1102 11 February 2017 Selling Violent Video Games To Kids The distribution and selling of violent video games to kids has become a problem in society. The Parents Television Council only wants to stop popular video game industries (e.g. Rockstar Games Inc.) from selling or advertising their most violent games to kids. Rockstar Games Inc. main interests are to satisfy their consumers, and to make a substantial profit of their sale on the video games they have made. The main problem is that kids or have easy access to buying video games that are considered to be too violent or for them, because retailers of video games always check the minors ID. If the Parents Television Council and the popular video game industries were able to work together rather than fighting about their civil rights, then minors would have a safer and more entertaining environment. Also, the video game companies would most likely earn more respect by parents, and adult consumers alike for respectively not selling violent video games to kids. The two main stakeholders have to agree on everything, but they should agree that kids should not be allowed to buy violent video games that are mature rated. The first stakeholder does not oppose violent video games in general, but only opposes to the selling of violent video games to minors. The Parents Television Council (PTC) was founded in 1995 by L. Brett Bozell III, whom served as President of organization until he was replaced in 2007 by Timothy F. Winter. The PTC is a non-partisan education organization advocating Copper2 responsible entertainment. According to PTC their mission is to protect children and families from any sort of media deemed too mature for children to witness. The main vision is to provide a safe and secure entertaining media environment for all children and families across the United States of America. They fear that the violent video games would cause the kids to become more violent or aggressive. The problem that the PTC is trying to fix is that they want the retailers to be held more accountable for selling mature and adult-only rated video games to kids irresponsibly. The PTC article, Applauds Video Game Bill Requiring Increased Accountability for Adult Game talks about the Parents Television Council praising two congressmen (Jim Matheson and Lee Terry) on increasing their efforts on retailer accountability sales of adult video games. The two congressmen revealed a bill that requires all retailers to check identification for all customers buying any mature and adult-only video games. PTC President Tim Winter said, game ratings supposedly exist to protect children from material that is created for adults, but there is no consequence for irresponsible retailers who repeatedly sell these games to The President of the PTC only wants to stop retailers from selling minors any mature and adult-only video games irresponsibly. Recently, the PTC has done a secret shopper campaign for the research of retailers selling video games to minors. The PTC President said, research shows that nearly one out of every five underage children in America is still able to purchase a Mature-rated video game from a retailer. This failure rate, while not as bad as prior years, demonstrates the continued reluctance or refusal of some retailers to serve the needs of This proves that the distribution of mature games is still a relevant issue that needs to be handled. The second stakeholder Rockstar was founded in December 1998 by British video game Copper3 producers Terry Donovan, Sam Houser, Dan Houser, Jamie King and Gary Foreman. The main goal for Rockstar Games Inc. is to create the most innovative, progressive, and interactive entertainment. Rockstar is the most successful video game company to sell violent or mature rated video games. The article Rockstar Is the Leader of the explains how Rockstar is one of most successful video game companies and how different from other companies. Rockstar is different because they their games around the outlaw side of (Croal), while other companies focus more on same set of heroic (Croal). For Example, the Grand Theft Auto video game series is most successful and most controversial video game series, because it the most violent game they have made. The reason the most violent because it allows you to portray a virtual character or that can drink alcohol, shoot people, do drugs, and etc. The video game series has also generated several controversies related mostly to their violence and depiction of women. The ProCon.org website discusses the controversy of violent video games contributing to youth violence. many as 97% of US kids age 12-17 play video games, contributing to the $21.53 billion domestic video game industry. More than half of the 50 top-selling video games contain (Pros and Cons). All of these facts prove that there is no correlation between youth violence and violent video games. There was never any history of working together between these two stakeholders. The Parents Television Council always opposes the selling of violent video games to minors, but the Popular Video Game Industries argue that they have the right to sell whatever they want. Also, the consumers must decide that if they want to purchase the video game or not, so the companies feel responsible about a kid buying a mature rated game. The only common ground they Copper4 had was that both stakeholders always try to satisfy the public. I propose that they should apply the California Law across the United States. A PTC article called PTC Urges Supreme Court to Empower Parents and Protect Children by Upholding California Violent Video Game Law talks about the Parents Television Council trying to push forward the compromise of the California Law to the Supreme Court in California in 2005. In 2005, The Parents Television Council encouraged the Supreme Court to enforce a California law to punish retailers that sell or rent violent video games to kids that are underage. PTC President Tim Winter argues that, and adult-only rated games are easy for minors to get their hands on without the company accepting any backlash that comes from The PTC President only wants the California law to prevent children from buying any mature rated video games. The law stop the companies from creating the ultra-violent video games, nor does it stop the marketing or distribution of games to the older consumers. The law was passed for a few months, but then the Supreme Court struck down the law and ruled games are protected under the First Amendment (Nagesh). The Supreme Court ruled this law afoul of the First Amendment right to free speech. The compromise should be attempted again, so that it will benefit both popular video game industries and PTC. The compromise will benefit the video game industries because they gain more respect from the public eye and from their more mature consumers. The concession for the companies is that they will lose a good chunk of their consumers because most of them are to young to play the violent video games. But the companies can overcome this law because it does not prevent the parents from buying the game for them so that way they lose as much profit. The compromise will benefit PTC because they have completed their mission to protect families and children from graphic violence in media. The only concession for PTC is that the organization has to move on from going after the violent video Copper5 games. One of the major common problems in society are retailers selling and distributing violent video games to kids far too easily. PTC only wants to protect children from violent entertainment because they believe that long-term effects can become very harmful for kids. They also believe that retailers should always have a mandatory identification check on anyone who wants to purchase a mature rated game. The video game companies (e.g. Rockstar) just want to create interactive entertainment that satisfies consumers that will earn them a substantial profit. The best compromise between these two stakeholders is the California Law. This law just makes retailers do a mandatory identification check on any minor that tries to purchase a mature rated game. This law does not prevent the video game companies from making anymore-ultra violent video games, nor does it stop the distribution and marketing of them to their more mature audience. With 97% of US kids ages 12-17 playing video games, now is the best time to make a law to protect kids from buying violent video games that are far too mature for them to handle. Copper6 Work Cited Nagesh, Gautham. Supreme Court strikes down Calif. ban on sale of violent games to  The Hill 2011: Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Croal, Why Rockstar Is The Leader Of The  Newsweek 146.19 (2005): 70-71. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Urges Supreme Court to Empower Parents and Protect Children by Upholding California Violent Video Game Parents Television Council. N.d. Web. 28, January 2017 Secret Shopper Campaign Reveals Retailers Are Still Selling Mature-Rated Video Games to Parents Television Council. N.d. Web. 28, January 2017 Applauds Video Game Bill Requiring Increased Accountability for Adult Game Parents Television Council. N.d. Web. 28, January 2017 and Cons: Do Violent Video Games Contribute to Youth ProCon.org. N.d. Web. 28, January 2017