Gaffglione 1 Austin Gaffglione Ms. Hernandez Composition II 12 Februaury 2017 Unity and Social Security: Finding a Compromise Between Opposing Views of Privatization and the Retirement Age Since its establishment in the Social Security has provided American citizens with a reliable source of income after retirement. Whether a young individual working at a job paying minimum wage or a middle aged adult being paid tens of thousands of dollars annually from a successful workplace, both individuals can rely on Social Security after done working. While the idea of keeping Social Security is not in question, the belief of reworking its infrastructure has been debated for many years, as the idea of changing the retirement age and allowing the privatization of Social Security have been mentioned on numerous occasions. A direct example of this can be seen with the American Benefits Council, a corporate organization dedicated to ensuring and maintaining benefits for private employers while pushing their policies in federal courts. On the other hand, the Alliance for Retired Americans plans to suppress organizations like the American Benefits Council from allowing social security to be modified and privatized, as they want to stabilize Social Security and increase the benefits for such. While both groups have opposing views on Social Security, they both would agree on a deal that would ultimately improve the structure and spending on such. From this, with respect to both interests, a proposal can be made to changing Social Gaffglione 2 Security such that increases will be made to tax revenues and benefits while a partial privatization of resources would be implemented. For the American Benefits Council, both the full privatization of Social Security and an increase in the retirement age are both policies in which they seek to go after. According to their main website, they are a corporate organization dedicated to being the most effective advocate for employer-sponsored benefit plans and being the preeminent advocate of employer-sponsored benefit programs in Washington D.C. (American Benefits Council). Along with this, they also participate in advocacy meetings with members of Congress and agency representatives on matters important to them (American Benefits Council). One of the biggest subjects they advocate is the complete privatization of Social Security in which they wish to allow employers to place Social Security funds into private accounts and manage them personally. They believe that by doing so, middle and higher class individuals will be able to invest in their pension payments as well as manage them, thus creating a boost in the private sector and an overall increase in the economy. To support this, in a study conducted in 2013, Alisdair McKay created a model that would predict market projections in a government that allowed the full privatization of Social Security. After developing and finishing this model, McKay concluded that the full privatization would, on average, increase the assets of households nationwide due to an increase in opportunities of managing finances, testing out markets, and investing in stocks (McKay). From this study, the privatization of Social Security could produce an economic boost from enabling individuals to manage their funds and use them efficiently. Without any mention of an increase in the retirement age relating to an improvement in Social Security, the American Gaffglione 3 Benefits advocacy for the privatization of Social Security can be presented with proof of theoretical success. On the other side of the spectrum, the Alliance for Retired Americans is in favor for the stabilization of Social Security as well as an increase in the benefits for such. From their website, the Alliance for Retired Americans is a nationwide grassroots organization dedicated to ensuring social and economic justice and full civil rights for all citizens to make life enjoyable and fulfilling (Alliance for Retired Americans). Along with this, one of their biggest accomplishments includes blocking the privatization of Social Security with their delivering 2.1 million petitions (Alliance for Retired Americans). With their active nature in stopping the privatization of Social Security, their opposition against raising the retirement is also present, as stated on numerous occasions that doing so would damage the accessibility and minimize the benefits made from Social Security. In support of this, a study in 2014 was conducted by Luciano Forto in which a self-created model was used to show the effects of raising the mandatory retirement age in developed countries. After the model and data were analyzed, the results showed that for countries with rapidly aging populations, raising the retirement age would reduce long-run income and fail to sustain future pension payments (Forto). While this model does not guarantee raising the retirement age will decrease the quality of Social Security, it does show that raising the retirement age should be a questionable decision met with controversy (Forto). From the activism of the Alliance of Retired Americans with preventing the privatization of Social Security to the previous study that shows the issues with increasing the retirement age, the stabilization or the expansion of Social Security should be considered in a compromise between the two sides. Gaffglione 4 Considering the perspectives of both the American Benefits Council and the Alliance for Retired Americans, a proposition can be made between the two organizations that would include interests from both sides that could be agreed upon if it could ultimately benefit Social Security. This proposition includes increasing both tax revenues and benefits while including a partial privatization of resources. For the American Benefits Council, while increased taxes and an increase in benefits would go against their interests, a partial privatization of Social Security for the sake of improvement and reducing the deficit for such seems reasonable. On the other hand, the Alliance for Retired Americans would likely accept partial privatization and increased taxes in return for an increase in benefits and an improvement of quality for Social Security. To support this compromise, Yoana Koleva wrote an article in 2012 considering two plans that could help stabilize and reduce the deficit for Social Security: full privatization and partial privatization with an increase in benefits and taxes. While full privatization could be successfully executed in the U.S., doing so would be hard to agree with for organizations like the Alliance for Retired Americans and could remove the that allows lower income individuals to have some assets once they retire (Koleva). For the second plan, also known as the balanced package, the combination of partial privatization, increased benefits, and increased taxes could allow both sides to reach an agreement and theoretically improve the quality of Social Security. With an increase in taxes, the financial gap for Social Security could be greatly reduced, regardless if in the form of a payroll tax or an increase in the taxable minimum (Koleva). For the increase in benefits, while a decrease for such would also help with the financial gap for Social Security, an increase in benefits would help with an agreement with organizations, like the Alliance of Retired Americans and those that share similar interests, in favor of stabilizing Social Gaffglione 5 Security while posing neutral effects to the financial gap, given that the increased taxes are in place (Koleva). Finally, a partial privatization would allow lower income individuals to preserve their money through federal means while allowing higher income individuals to put their money into the stock and bond markets (Kolvea). With this balanced package and its theoretical success, a compromise can be met with both sides that allows Social Security to be reworked for the sake of improving it. Regardless of its current state, Social Security will remain as a hallmark for one of the most successful federal programs in U.S. history. With its ability to provide a reliable source of income for retired individuals as well as its longevity, no surprise that the last major reform for Social Security occurred in the Despite of this, the good can be even better, as the distant future of Social Security remains unclear due to its polarizing sides of support. Organizations like the American Benefits Council wish to make many changes to Social Security while groups like the Alliance for Retired Americans want to preserve Social Security. Although both sides appear to be far from reaching an agreement with each other, compromises, like the balanced package mentioned earlier, that can be proven to be successful could hopefully build a common ground between the two and present a not-so-foggy future for Social Security. Gaffglione 6 Works Cited About  Americans . Web. 29 Jan. 2017 American Benefits Council: About the Council - Our  American Benefits Council: About the Council - Our Mission. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Fanti, Luciano. Raising The Mandatory Retirement Age And Its Effect On Long-Run Income And Pay-As-You-Go (PAYG)  65.4 (2014): 619-645. . Web. 29 Jan. 2017 (For Alliance for the Retired Americans) Koleva, Yoana. The Outlook For Social Security Reform: Proposals And  Of Financial Service Professionals 66.3 (2012): 26-31. Source Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McKay, Alisdair. Search For Financial Returns And Social Security  Of Economic Dynamics 16.(2013): 253-270. . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.