Liam 1 Liam Travers Oana Cimpean Composition 2 January 28, 2017 Why is Animal Testing Still a Thing? Being beautiful is a standard that nearly every human wishes to achieve. There are many different ways to improve looks and cosmetics are one of the most simple ways to do so. Women wake up early to put their makeup on and men use shaving cream to shave their beards. Although cosmetics are used everyday, most people usually think about how their favorite body wash was approved or if animal testing was used on it to satisfy regulatory requirements. Whether or not animal testing is ethical generates huge controversy throughout academic study and social media. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) believe that animal testing should be abolished and have campaigned through social media to spread their belief. On the other side has allegedly halted animal testing but still use it if authorities it. Many are still skeptical of anti-animal testing. Although no animal testing would be an ideal standard for cosmetics, realistically, it might not be completely feasible for some companies just yet. To combine the interests of both of stakeholders, there should be a movement to educate the public on why animal testing is used and the current progression to alternative methods. This will let the consumers decide for themselves if animal testing is ethical or not. PETA is the largest animal rights organization in the world. It started out with two founders. Although PETA began its campaign with only two people, the 1980s, by 2015 it had a worldwide membership of more than three million Liam 2 (PETA). They are often described as radical in their belief and have conducted many movements and undercover operations to press their standard. on animal testing is to, globally expose and end the use of animals in experiments as stated in their website. PETA have conducted various efforts to end animal testing such as, undercover campaigns to educate the agencies to stop funding and conducting experiments on and funding humane non-animal (PETA). PETA has publically called out on their website titled, used to be included on the cruelty free This article on their website discusses the aleged loopholes implement to use animal testing while being pubically advertiesed as animal testing free. is one of the largest cosmetics companies founded in 1909. mission statement is about creating cosemetics to make people beautiful and it has, itself the mission of offereing alll women and men worldwide the best of cosemetics innovation in terms of quality, efficiancy, and (LOREAL). On FAQ page they discuss their stance on animal testing. states that, no longer test on animals any of products or any of (LOREAL) but this has been the subject of much contreversy. In their other questions in the FAQ, it discusses that In China, regulatory authorities carry out within their evaluation centers animal tests for finished cosmetics products before these are placed on their Although supports animal testing free products they are not fully testing free. have been chastised in social media for their on-the-fence stance about animinal testing and it would be in their best interest to adopt a stronger stance on the matter. Liam 3 Animal testing is not thought about in day to day life so it would be benificial to educate the public on the matter to evoke thought. Since there have been alternative methods to animal testing in development both stakeholders could receive more support if civilians are presented these studies. Both stakeholders will benefit from this comprmise because bringing this dilemma out to the public may cause it to gain more social media traction, supporting the issue on both sides. has been critisized in the past for being partly animal testing free so being able educate the public on why their methods are still on the fence would also remedy some backlash on the matter. Creating a call to action on animal testing education and alternative testing funding will help both stakeholders by the inclusion of the animal cruelty free target audience. To prove that this target audince is significant enough benefit both stakeholders, the Comitee for Resposible Medicene has conducted a survey that proved that, percent of Americans oppose testing cosemetics products on The methodology of this test was weighted by age, sex, geographic region, race, and education to ensure an accurate representation of the total adult (greater than 18 years of age) population and they 1009 Out of the surveyed group 72 percent opposed animal testing. There are many different alternative methods to animal testing that could be presented to the public. According to, to animal by R.E. Hester and R.M. Harrison, one alternative method for example, is called in This provides three dimnesional models of human skin to be tested on with cosmetics as opposed to animal testing. This method is also commercially availible with products such as EPISKIN and EpiDerm. Some might argue that these methods are to expensive and that implementing these methods would cost company time and Liam 4 money. to animal also covers this topic as it states that, problems can be reduced if the criteria for test selection (and especially for the novelty for a test and the need for it) and for prevalidation are rigorously It also discusses that, chemicals should be very carefully and that, is no reason for having more than three or four laboratories perform the same test in a multi-laboratory Basically there should be more precision and better data systems so that experiments do not have to be repeated and take up extra costs. Another problem that one would run into switching to animal testing would be lack of cooperation by the company itself or by the individual workers. Alternatives to Animal Testing covers this by stating this problem can be avoided by, an appropriate training stage training indivdual workers. These methods have been proven to be successful in the, sponsard study on in vitro tests for skin corrosivity. A majority of people believe that animal testing is unethical and while that may be the case, switching to alternative methods would put a financial strain on most companies. Through the stated proposal, if and PETA created a joint effort to bring this topic to light, both stakeholders may gain support. If more people are informed and passionate about stopping animal testing, alternative method funding would increase exponentially. Although both stakeholders are at near opposite ends of the spectrum on this subject, my stated proposal reaches a the shared goal of educating the public. If more people understand why animal testing is used they will be inclined to aid alternative methods so that they may become reality. Liam 5 Works Cited Animal Testing  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Group, History: Highlights, Stages of  - Group. n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Hester, R. E., and Roy M. Harrison. Alternatives to Animal Testing. Cambridge: Royal Society of Chemistry, 2006. Print. Hoffman, Donna L. Can You Measure the ROI of Your Social Media Proquest. MIT Sloan Managment, Fall 2010. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. More Than a Makeup Trend: New Survey Shows 72 Percent of Americans Oppose Testing Cosmetics Products on  The Physicians Committee. Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, 28 Dec. 2011. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. PETA Launches in Silico Testing Resource to Reduce Number of Animal Marketing Weekly News. NewsRX LLC, 17 Mar. 2012. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.