Sell 1 Vanessa Sell Professor Spencer Bennington ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Funding Technology in Schools The Office of Educational Technology, OET, and the Homeschool Federation, HSF, both have different perspectives on the issue of technology in school and how it will be paid for. While the Office of Educational Technology believes that technology in school would be a solid investment because it could drastically effect the futures of the children learning with it, the Homeschool Federation does not agree with this for many reasons. Ultimately, HSF believes that homeschools do not have enough funding to implement the technology. If they were to compromise, the Office of Educational Technology could set up programs and locations for the HSF to use regarding technology, creating a better way of learning for all children of all ages. With this compromise, many students will be provided with the tools they need for future success. The U.S. Department of Education has a specific office dedicated to researching the ideas of technology in schools. This office is called the OET, or the Office of Educational Technology. The OET is a governmentally run office that dictates what policies and technological advances go through out education programs. The OET believes that technology is a great force that can bring about change in the lives of our future generation. They also encourage technology for our time because of its many different uses. Technology can help every type of student learn through many different types of programs and software. It allows many types of students with different Sell 2 learning styles to have the same access to the help they need regarding a certain subject. With the introduction of technology to the education system, our teachers can be encouraged to branch out and teach in many different styles. to realize fully the benefits of technology in our education system and provide authentic learning experiences, educators need to be properly prepared to use technology effectively in their (OET) Also, technology can help with the accessibility of materials, such as internet access and books. The OET describes technology as the world at a fingertips. In contrast, the Homeschool Federation is an organization of professionals and families that are advocates for the idea of homeschooling and family led schooling. This organization is privately-run, headed by lawyers and professionals that all fight towards the advancement of homeschooling. They believe that the family should decide the thought of education, and the parents should decide what their children get out of schooling. 2012, there were an estimated 1.8 million homeschooled students in the United States, which is an increase from 850,000 in 1999, when estimates were first (OII). Many parents believe that the education they receive in public schooling is not adequate for future employment. A survey was conducted on the reasons why parents chose to homeschool rather than let their children have a public education. The results showed that percent of parents said it was because of a concern about the environment of other schools; 77 percent of parents said it was because of a desire to provide moral instruction; 74 percent of parents said they homeschool because of their dissatisfaction with academic instruction in other (HSLDA). The Homeschool Federation believes that technology can be implemented into schooling but they also think that for this to happen, they need more funding from the government. Technology is an expensive thing to adopt and it should not be the families burden to worry about per the Homeschool Federation. They believe Sell 3 more funding is necessary because it is not just the cost of the technology. This funding is necessary because there are much more expenses to the idea of technology than most people are aware of, such as start-up costs and Wi-Fi. Whereas it may seem as though these two organizations are on different sides of the call for technology, it is however the exact opposite. education stakeholders should commit to working together across organizational and geographic boundaries to use technology to improve American (OET) Both organizations believe that technology should be encouraged in school, and brought upon students as soon as possible so that they can be fully equipped with the learning process. These organizations need to come together and benefit each other so that both of their goals are fulfilled, and that is to educate children with the use of technology. With agreeance, if the Office of Educational Technology funded homeschooling more, then the Homeschool Federation would be more acceptable to the idea of technology. The OET could create locations with technology and Wi-Fi access that both the public-school system and the HSF could use. Thus, creating the pathways for technology to be introduced to a wider variety of students. This satisfies both parties of the compromise, because it allows for the technology to be introduced without a dis-agreeance, which pleases the Office of Educational Technology, and it allows all students to have access to technology, which is the main concern for the Homeschool Federation. In conclusion, technology in education is highly argued over, because of the concept of payment and funding. However, if the Department of Education funds the Homeschool Federation, then there will be no issues over how the technology will be paid for. Which in turn allows the HSF to implement technology into schooling without burden. With this compromise Sell 4 in place, there will be a wider variety of students that have access to technology and they will gain the knowledge they need for future scenarios and higher education. Sell 5 Works Cited Bates, Anthony Williams, and Gary Poole. Effective Teaching with Technology in Higher Education: Foundations for Success. Jossey-Bass, An Imprint of Wiley. 10475 Crosspoint Blvd, Indianapolis, IN 46256, 2003.  PBS Education. PBS, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Li, Hongmei. Distance Education: Pros, Cons, and the  Distance Education: Pros, Cons, and the Future. (2003): n. pag. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Statistics About Non-Public Education in the United  Office of Innovation and Improvement. US Department of Education (ED), n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. U.S. Department of Education: Homeschooling Continues to  U.S. Department of Education: Homeschooling Continues to Grow! The Homeschool Legal Defense Association, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.