Cheema 1 Mohammad Cheema Professor Basil ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Parents, Coaches, and Concussions Sports are such a big part of society, and important to society because they allow for youths to be active and allow them to find a passion for competing, teamwork, and winning. The dangers of sports are inevitable; injury can easily be caused in any given sport. Concussions have become a hot topic recently, and especially in youth sports due to the fact that youth body, and specifically their brains, are still growing. Although the youth athletes are the ones enduring the injury, the parents and the coaches of these youth athletes should be held accountable after their youth has suffered the injury. The reason for the parents and coaches getting the most blame is that they are the ones that can take the athlete out of the game and get them treated in a timely manner. An agreement between the National Youth Sports Coaches Association (NYSCA) and the Parents Association for Youth Sports (PAYS) needs to happen in order to help this epidemic become less common. The common ground that can be made with the issues of concussions in youth sports is if parents and the coaches of the youth athletes stop blaming each other so much and actually take responsibility themselves for the ongoing epidemic that is happening. Parents should find better ways to treat their kids after they have suffered a concussion, and the coaches should be required to take a course on concussions before they are hired for the position, so they can clearly see when someone has endured a concussion and when it is safe to allow them to play again. Cheema 2 The National Youth Sports Coaches Association is an organization that is built to train coaches on how to be a good coach, why it is necessary for them to be a good coach, and also how to recognize and treat an injury when it happens to occur. The organization covers topics coaches of all sports need to know, such as with parents; motivating kids; building confidence; instilling good sportsmanship; safety; and nutrition and hydration; among many other These topics allow for coaches to be successful in their coaching careers, while making the game that much better/safer for the youth athletes who are participating. The NYSCA need to educated their coaches in sports injuries because less attention is on youth sports, so the people who can suspect a concussion and need to take the players out are the coaches, and not the doctors because that only happens in most professional sport leagues. According to Coaches About Concussion in Sports: Evaluation of the by Tracey Covassin, a survey was conducted in which coaches only take players out of games around sixty percent of the time after they have suffered a concussion, and only notice a concussion sixty-three percent of the this is significant because this can cause a youth athlete to suffer another concussion in a short period of time, which could be deadly (Covassin 233). Moreover, coaches only notified parents/guardians of their youth suffering a concussion around forty percent of the time, which does not allow for a parent to stop their kid from going to school or taking them to a doctor for evaluations (Covassin 235). If NYSCA put more pressure on the coaches of these youth athletes to provide proper treatment for their kids, then the youth will have a better recovery, and quicker. Another argument made is that some athletes pressure their coaches to leave them in, because the athlete is afraid that if they are taken out of the game, they will not receive the same amount of play time after injury. Coaches need to Cheema 3 do more because they have the most power in terms of taking the player off of the field/court as soon as a concussion is endured by a youth athlete. Parents Association for Youth Sports, is an organization that bases itself as an and membership program that supports youth sports parents while helping youth sports organizations eradicate parent This organization provides for an effective way to make youth sports parents aware of their roles and responsibilities that they have with their youths playing the sport that they love. Furthermore, parents have a heavy influence on what activities their kids participate in and are the ones, most of the time, choosing to put their kids into a certain sport, even after they realize all of the dangers in that sport. That is why PAYS needs to do more when it comes to concussions. In Concussion Management in the Emergency parents concluded that they are only certainly going to take their kids to the doctors for an MRI, or seek other treatment plans (Zamarripa 231). Another statistic is only sixty-eight percent of the parents will keep their kids away from school/sports-related activities for around a week (Zamarripa 232). A reason that is very interesting is because youths that suffer a concussion are recommended to stay away from sports for at least one week, and from school for three days at least. The NYSCA and PAYS have not been able to reach a specific compromise between both organizations that will equally benefit each other is because they simply have not tried hard enough. They both have a mission statement that only benefits people in their own organizations, for example on the PAYS page it does not mention anything about being involved directly with Cheema 4 coaches in order to make the game for enjoyable, safe, and interesting for the youth athletes. Although both the coaches and parents all want for the youths to be injury free, it is unrealistic, especially with sports like football, lacrosse, hockey, and etc. In addition to these reasons, another reason why the two organizations have yet been able to merge together is because parents are simply not taking full responsibility for the role they play in helping their youths recover from these concussions. If both organizations came together, the possibilities of having a safe environment for the youth athletes, and for a more enjoyable experience, are very realistic. A common ground that both the parents and coaches of these youth athletes share is that more needs to be done to prevent these injuries. Many youth athletes have suffered permeant brain damage, or even death, because the coaches did not take them out, or because the parents did not take the injury serious enough. Many coaches and parents have tried coming up with many different solutions to the concussion issue, but clearly they have not worked. One of the solutions parents think would be effective is to not let the youth compete in sports that a concussion is a serious issue, but the resulting problem is that any sport can cause a concussion. This is why based on the sources and multiple associations, like the National Alliance for Youth Sports, pled for both the NYSCA and the PAYS to become more educated about what to do, and how to react properly and in a timely manner. NAYS argues that everyday a youth athlete goes untreated, about two days is added for the overall recovery time. In summation, sports are an important aspect to society because they promote an active lifestyle. Sports are also great because they are a great way to allow a person to get away from all the positives and negatives and just keep their mind on something else. The cons of sports are the Cheema 5 various injuries that an athlete can suffer. Anywhere from a broken arm, to a torn ACL, these injuries can change someone, and even have a negative consequence on their lives. Concussions are a hot topic recently because of all the research done, the multiple athletes that have died because of the injury, and also a movie that came out based on the injury. A solution to this horrible injury in youth sports, is for parents to learn more and take more responsibility, rather than blaming the coaches and the sport itself. Another solution would be to train the coaches so that they can recognize a concussion when it happens, and then know what to do from that point on. Cheema 6 Reference Page Covassin, Tracey, et Educating Coaches About Concussion in Sports: Evaluation of The Up: Concussion in Youth  Journal Of School Health 82.5 (2012): 233. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Kroshus, Emily, et al. Concussion Under-Reporting and Pressure from Coaches, Teammates, Fans, And  Social Science & Medicine 134. (2015): 66-75. ScienceDirect. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Mannings, Carol, et al. Knowledge Assessment of Sports-Related Concussion Among Parents of Children Aged 5 Years To 15 Years Enrolled In Recreational Tackle  Journal Of Trauma & Acute Care Surgery 77. (2014): S18-22. CINAHL. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. National Youth Sports Coaches  National Alliance for Youth Sports Improving youth sports programs nationwide since 1981 - National Alliance for Youth Sports. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. Parents Association for Youth  National Alliance for Youth Sports - Improving youth sports programs nationwide since 1981 - National Alliance for Youth Sports. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. Zamarripa, Angela, et al. Original Articles: Pediatric Concussion Management in The Emergency Department: A National Survey of  The Journal Of Pediatrics 181. (2017): 229-234. ScienceDirect. Web. 23 Jan. 2017.