Harris 1 Brittany Harris Professor Bianca Hernandez English 1102 10 February 2017 Lowering the Minimum Age to Drink Alcohol Once a person becomes the age of 18, they are automatically considered an adult. They are able to do things such as: obtain a driving license, vote, work full time, enlist in the army, and even buy cigarettes. However, since the National Minimum Drinking Age Act was implemented in 1984, drinking alcohol has not been a decision that 18 years olds are able to make (Miller et al. 1). Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) is an organization that has built their platform based solely upon this Act in which they believe when a person reaches the age of 21 they are entitled to make their own decision on whether they would like to drink alcohol or not (Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) . However, during the people were allowed to drink alcohol at the age of 18(Miller et al. 1). Choose Responsibility is an organization that supports lowering the minimum drinking age back down to 18 like it once was before because by that age a person is considered a legal adult (Choose Responsibility). Lowering the minimum age to drink has been a controversial issue of discussion in this society which has caused organizations such as MADD and Choose Responsibility to develop and enter the conversation. While MADD believes that maturity to drink alcohol starts at the age of 21, Choose Responsibility believes it should start at the age of 18 once adulthood emerges. Rather than maturity only being defined by age, it should instead be measured from level of Harris 2 comprehension of alcohol consumption by obtaining an alcohol permit at the age of 18, which can be a viable compromise between the two organizations. MADD supports The Minimum Drinking Age Act in which they have integrated it as a part of their platform and mission. According to Mothers Against Drunk Driving, their mission is end drunk driving, help fight drugged driving, support the victims of these violent crimes and prevent underage . They discourage lowering the minimum drinking age to 18 for numerous of reasons. One reason includes the dangers that can occur from drunk driving. They believe that 18 year olds are not yet responsible or adult enough to conform to the rules of alcohol consumption, such as not drinking and driving. They have proved their theory by analyzing data in the where in 37 states people were allowed to drink alcohol at the age of 18. During that time period, 3,170 deaths and 2.6 million other harmful incidents occurred due to lowering the minimum age to drink. From this data, The United States decided that this was not a great setting the age to drink alcohol to 21 (Miller et al. 1).Another reason MADD believes that the minimum age to drink be lowered to 18 is because by that age they are still growing physiologically and psychologically. For example, drinking alcohol affects the brain negatively (Mothers Against Drunk Driving). This also can be supported by a research article published in Neuroscience journal that concluded that when drinking alcohol as an adolescent, it disrupts the brain during development and alters the ability of their brain to respond to stressful events during adulthood (Allen et al. 60). Overall, Mothers Against Drunk Driving have mentioned a variety of points in which they were able to support on why they believe the minimum age to drink should stay at the age of 21. The age of majority is set to be 18. Choose Responsibility is a nonprofit organization that recognizes the that 18 years olds are young adults and should not be denied the decision to drink Harris 3 alcohol. Their mission is to revise current legislation regarding alcohol so that young adults can make mature decisions about alcohol for themselves. (Choose Responsibilty). While MADD enforces that minimum age to drink to stays at 21, Choose Responsibility insist that it is actually causing more damage and it should be lowered to 18 (Choose Responsibility). John McCardy, founder of Choose Responsibility and also college professor, recognizes the negative effects that The Minimum Drinking Age Act has caused in the college community--a community that resides 18 - 20 year olds (McCardell). Many adults under the age to drink are consuming alcohol in an excessive and irresponsible manner. Ruth Eng, a professor of public health, offered her opinion based on research, and suggested  This is because drinking by these youth is seen as an enticing forbidden  a badge of rebellion against  and a symbol of (Eng Ruth 1). Another unintended consequence is the increasing rate of false identifications to prove they are of the age to drink alcohol, which has also become a felony (John McCardy). Considering the negative effects resulting from this act, keeping the minimum drinking age at 21 has not always effected our society positively. Choose Responsibility is an advocate for lowering the minimum age to drink and confronts the reality of alcohol that exist in young lives today (Choose Responsibility). The disagreement between the two organizations, Mothers Against Drunk Driving and Choose Responsibility, arises when deciding the age that ensures responsibility and safety. Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) supports The Minimum Drinking Age Act and believes not only has it been a tremendous impact on our society, but on the young community as well. For example, evidence in a 2001 study entitled Societal Cost of Underage  , indicated that  the uniform higher drinking age reduced alcohol related car crashes among young  (Miller et al.). Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) sole purpose is to Harris 4 protect the young community and to avoid any harm caused by drunk driving (Mothers Against Drunk Driving). This is why they insist on keeping the legal age to drink at 21 because by that age MADD feels as if people are mature enough to drink alcohol safely and responsibly. Similarly, Choose Responsibility also takes these factors into consideration when supporting their stance. For example, they disagree with the Minimum Age to Drink Act because they believe it is causing more harm than benefit to the young community. Choose name even implies that they want to promote responsibility, while helping young adults understand the reality of alcohol consumption in their lives. Both organizations agree that the safety of this society and on the young community as well is essential before being able to drink alcohol. Since both organizations, Mothers Against Drunk Driving and Choose Responsibility agree that safety plays an important role before being able to drink alcohol, an age be the only factor that can determine this. Instead, an alcohol education course should be taken by 18 year olds to obtain a permit , which teaches them certain aspects relating to drinking and the precautions that they should be take while consuming alcohol. The legal age to drink should remain 21 as the law states, but once a person turns 18, they will be able to take a course to obtain an alcohol permit to be able to drink alcohol. However this permit can be taken away until they turn 21 if caught drinking irresponsibly. According to a research article entitled What works in school-based alcohol education: A systematic , it was that proven some alcohol educational programs such as, Project Alert (Australia) and All Stars(USA), has had a significant and positive effect on the young community on teaching them how to be more responsible (Lee et al.). It is true that some alcohol programs in the past, such as Drug Abuse Resistance Education (DARE), were ineffective in minimizing the alcohol risks that were taken by young Harris 5 adults (Harvey Seamus., McKay, Michael., and Sumnall Harry 4). However, United Kingdom has even started School Health and Alcohol Harm Reduction Project (SHAHRP) and it has been also been effective (Lee et al.). Project Alert, All Stars, and SHAHRP were all successful because of their ability to engage young adults. These programs accomplish that  using interactive lessons, small group peer support, one-on-one with facilitators, debates, games and general  (Lee et al). Therefore, implementing a 40-hour alcohol education course that uses past techniques to engage young adults in the guidelines to obtain an alcohol permit, can ensure safety and responsibility before drinking alcohol. This compromise is of benefit to both organizations because although the minimum age to drink alcohol will not be lowered legally, this alcohol permit will give 18 year olds the chance to learn about alcohol consumption more effectively before turning 21. Over the years, drinking alcohol has not only become a trend but it has become a part of many cultures for some in the United States. It is important for people to practice alcohol consumption responsibly, not only for young adults, but for the overall well being of this society. Being able to complete an alcohol education course to obtain a permit will seen as a a privilege for 18 year olds which can easily get revoked until the age of 21. Since Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) and Choose Responsibility both believe that safety is important when drinking alcohol obtaining an alcohol permit through an alcohol education course at the age can be a viable compromise. Harris 6 Work Cited Allen et al. Exposure to alcohol during adolescence exerts long-term effects on stress response and the adult brain stress . Neuroscience, vol. 339, 2016, pp. 64-71. Carpenter, Christopher and Dopkin, Carlos. The Minimum Drinking Age and Public . Journal of Economic Perspectives, vol. 25, no. 6, 2011, pp. 133-156. Engs, Ruth. Why the drinking age should be lowered: An opinion based upon . Alcohol Research and Health History Web Page, Indiana University, 2014. Griggs, Brandon. Should the U.S Lower Drinking . CNN, 2015. Retrieved from http://edition.cnn.com/2014/07/16/us/legal-drinking-age/. Harvey Seamus., McKay, Michael., and Sumnall  reflections on school- based alcohol education in the United Kingdom: education as usual compared with a structured harm reduction . Journal of Substance Abuse., vol. 21, no. 5, 2016, pp. 640-45. Huckle, Tasia., Pledger, Megan., and Casswell, Sally. Trends in alcohol-related harms and offences in a liberalized alcohol . Addiction, vol.101, 2006, pp. 236-240. Lee et al. What Works in School Based Alcohol Education: A Systematic . Health Education Journal, vol. 75, no. 7, 2016, pp. 780-98. McCardell, John. The effects of 21-year-old . Middlebury College, 2015. Miller, Ted et al. Societal Cost of Underage Drinking. Journal of Studies on Alcohol, vol. 67, no. 4, 2006, pp. 519-28. Harris 7  Choose Responsibility.2016.Web. 29 Jan. 2017. . Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD). 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Phillips, Patricia and Goldbas Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD): History and . International Journal of Childbirth Education., vol.28, no. 4, 2013. Harris 8