Grajales 1 Angelica Grajales ENC 1102 Bianca Hernandez February 12, 2017 Disease Millions of people around the world suffer from terrible diseases and most of those diseases are incurable. Most of the people living a life like that have families that help them through it and have a good support system. One of those incurable diseases is disease but many organizations are hoping to change that. disease, also called senile dementia, is a progressive disease that destroys memory and other important mental functions. Your brain cell connections and the cells themselves degenerate and die, eventually destroying memory and other important mental functions. The main symptoms of are memory loss and confusion. Right now no cure exists but, medications and management strategies may temporarily improve symptoms Disease Education and Referral Center).The Foundation of America (AFA) and the Cure Fund are both organizations that are completely different from each other but share a common goal in fighting disease. The AFA simply provides care to the people and families with the disease whereas the Cure Fund is conducting research and provides funds to find a cure. While both these organizations have different ways on how to help the community, instead of the AFA going to the government and spending tons of money they should collaborate with the Cure fund and use the funds and research have found to give the people they care for the proper treatment. Grajales 2 For many years, disease research was completely stifled by a lack of funding. Cure Fund has helped changed that. They are a non- profit organization whose goal is to fund research with the highest probability of preventing, slowing, or reversing the disease. The organization was founded in 2004 by three families frustrated by the slow pace of research. Due to that, they came together to build a new research fund designed to dramatically accelerate research and focus exclusively on finding a cure. Fully 100 percent of funds raised by the organization go directly to research, since its founding the fund has contributed more than $50,000,000 to research and its funded initiatives have been responsible for several key breakthroughs (Cure Fund). One of those breakthroughs include a potential treatment recently selected by the National Institutes of Health for its elite drug discovery program, and the ground breaking in a study, which promises to greatly accelerate drug testing. The study is called in a because they created a petri dish with human brain cells that develop the telltale structures of disease. The study was done in 2014 and reported by Gina Kolata from the New York Times where she says they resolved a longstanding problem of how to study and search for drugs to treat it; the best they had until now were mice that developed an imperfect form of the disease. Along with this, Dr.P. Murali Doraiswamy, an researcher at Duke University says is a giant step forward for the (Kolata). The study and Dr. great words show that this organization has been doing a tremendous job in providing research and funds however it would be more beneficial if those funds were helping another organization that cares for people. Along with the Cure Fund, who has done a successful job at creating funds for research regarding the disease, acting upon it and caring for patients with Grajales 3 requires another organization, the Foundation of America. The mission of the AFA is to provide optimal care and services to individuals confronting dementia, and to their caregivers and families through our member organizations dedicated to improving quality of life Foundation of America ). By raising awareness of and educating everyone including healthcare professionals the AFA believes four things will occur. According to their website they will improve quality of life, provide proper treatment through early detection of the disease, be more effective in use of community resources, and help remove fear surrounding the disease. This is accomplished through the unification of than 2,600 member organizations from coast-to-coast that are dedicated to meeting the educational, social, emotional, and practical needs of individuals with and related illnesses, and their caregivers and Foundation of America ) The AFA is an organization that play a tremendous role in our society in helping Americans across the country with this horrible disease. According to the AFA through the news source Globe News Wire, are more than 5 million Americans living with disease. The disease is the sixth most common cause of death in the United (NEWSWIRE). Awareness of the deadly disease has dramatically increased due to foundations such as the AFA. In representation of National Awareness Month, specific across the country and world will light up teal. Nearly 200 landmarks around the globe are participating in the Up initiative set forth by the foundation, according to the source. This movement is an initiative of the AFA. Not only is the foundation caring for patients with the disease, they are active in spreading awareness for it, and this initiative alone is something many recognize. As aforementioned, the Cure Fund has successfully generated funds to support research for the disease, and Grajales 4 the AFA adds to their success in being able to spread awareness and care for patients with the disease. From the help of the Cure Fund on December 12, 2016 the 21 st Century Cures Act was signed by President Obama. The legislation will substantially increase federal funding for medical research, and aims to improve and accelerate the approval process for new drug treatments. While this new legislation will be beneficial for both organizations, if they came together in a collaborative effort, the duo would be able to be even more effective by using the funds from the Cure Foundation and giving it to the patients which the AFA care for. According to an article from Yahoo Finance, CEO of the AFA that an additional $1 billion be appropriated for research in the budget for the fiscal year While the administration had been very supportive of the AFA and their objectives, going through the government can have its difficulties, and funding this money could be accomplished in other ways, including through another foundation. Well, it just so happens there is one, being the previously mentioned Cure Fund. While help from the government is always a good thing and a bonus, relying on that money may not always be the most effective method. A collaboration between the two entities would increase their success and most notably help the spread of awareness and care of patients with disease. To conclude, these two influential foundations are breaking barriers in regards to and finding cures through funding completed by the Cure Foundation. If this foundation and the AFA come together, they could make an extremely effective system that would further the successes already accomplished by the foundations. According to NewsLeader.com, the most expensive medical condition in the county if the number of patients triples as projected; the costs to care for them will exceed $1.1 (Goodwin) Grajales 5 Overall, both these foundations are doing an amazing job at accomplishing their objectives, but I definitely think we can all agree that if these two were to form a duo and work together, it would make for an extremely effective system, and developing a sustainable cure for would be in even closer reach. Grajales 6 Works Cited Disease Education and Referral Center. 18 August 2016 . 9 February 2017. Foundation of America . n.d. 29 January 2017. Cure Fund. n.d. 29 January 2017. Goodwin, Juliana. News Leader. 24 January 2017. 29 January 2017. Kolata, Gina. New York Times. 12 October 214. 29 January 2017. NEWSWIRE, GLOBE. Landmarks Around the World Turn Teal for Awareness. n.d. 29 January 2017.