Viens 1 Evelyne Viens Professor Emil Smith Composition 1 19 February, 2017 Final Draft Project 1 Sports are a universal passion and almost religion for some, a part of life enjoyed and supported by most societies. Millions of dollars are spent annually by fans and sponsors to support their favorite teams for their own entertainment. These teams are made of both men and women, but they face very different experiences. By and large, teams receive more attention and support from fans and sponsors, and this reflects the wage gap between men and women. Some reasons for this financial deficit include the uneven representation of men and sports in the media, as in television, on social media, in newspapers, etc. The teams not receiving a payout equal to their performance, and pure discrimination in society. With all these considerations, can women achieve true financial equality in sports? Vann, Portia. the Game: The Role of Social Media in Overcoming Old Attention Deficit Toward Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media, July 2014, Print. This article addresses the aspect of media and why women are not as represented as the men in sports. The writer of the article, Portia Vann, explains the evolution of the utilization of media. She describes with statistics the popularity of the teams in relation to the intensity. For example, the Thunderbirds team was Tweeted about 319 times in the Major Semi Final and 2,002 times in the Grand Final in the ANZ Championship netball season. Netball is more popular than rugby in Australia and New Zealand, but even during the final, the Viens 2 league did not receive as much of attention on Twitter. Moreover, she explains the lesser attention that sports receive compared to The author describes bad structural challenges that media has placed on professional Portia Vann works at BMediaComms. She is a doctoral student in the Department of Media, Entertainment and the Creative Arts at QUT, Queensland University of Technology. Her primary research interest is the use of social media in sport. This author has also written about social media and sports before and it is a well-known text of the topic by other authors. The information of this source will be used in the first paragraph that is going to talk about the gap of representation of sports in the media. Some graphics, for example, the one Twitter Activity for New Zealand Teams Throughout the 2013 Regular are really interesting, so an interpretation will be added in the essay and be able to relate this information to the thesis statement. Learn, and Sage. Sports: (Still) a  Parks & Recreation, vol. 49, no. 11, Nov. 2014,eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=514fdb89-9b93-4cc0-84ee- a5b1d982d6c7%40sessionmgr4006&vid=7&hid=4211. Accessed 1 Feb. 2017. The two authors of this article talk about the discrimination between boys and girls at younger ages. The authors ask questions like: we currently providing equal opportunities for women and girls to play and compete in The author mentioned that they can still see a difference treatment between male and female athletes. Men received much more attention than women, and a major discrimination at young age is still present. The article describes the evolution of the participation in sports since the early 1950s. that time, it was commonly believed women were not physically capable of running long Moreover, the subject of changing attitudes between men and athletes and find respect are two subjects explained Viens 3 in the text. Compared to the 1950s, female athletes receive more opportunity, however it is still not completely equal. This article will be useful in the third paragraph because the discrimination aspect will be use to explain the research question. Moreover, in the essay, it is required to explain the evolution of the subject. This source will be useful because the authors are doing an overview of discrimination over the last couple of years. The article illustrates their description with graphics. It is credible because Sage Learn already wrote about sports and he is a reputed author. Moreover, she is (National Recreation and Park Association) Government Affairs Manager, Finally, some quotes of this article will be add to the essay. Cunningham, George B. Media Coverage of Sport: A New Look at an Old  Physical Educator, vol. 60, no. 2, 2003, eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=10&sid=f0edb2c1-1495-4df0-9342- 3fff26b8cf9d%40sessionmgr4010&hid=4211&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d# AN=507822125&db=eft. Accessed 1 Feb. 2017. The media is playing an important role in the popularity of sports. The article explains that more diffusion in the media for sports results to more sponsors and more money for the team. George B. Cunningham the Internet coverage of university sponsored and tennis sites. However, everyone thinks that team receive more coverage than team, this scientific research shows the Results indicate no differences in the presence of information between and sites. However, the coverage of tennis was significantly longer than that of signaling a stark change from previous findings. The author is credible because he explains all his methodology. He is a professor at a university and he already wrote four different books about sports: Diversity in Sports Viens 4 Organization, Sociology of Sport and Physical Activity and others. This source will answer the research question by explaining the media coverage in college and the transition to professional league. This article will help to support the counter-argument in the paragraph about the media coverage. Flake, Collin R., Mikaela J. Dufur, and Erin L. Moore. Advantage Men: The Sex Pay Gap in Professional  Sage Journal, vol. 48, no. 3, 2013, journals.sagepub.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/pdf/10.1177/1012690212442166. Accessed 1 Feb. 2017. This article tries to describe the wage gap between men and tennis players in the top 100. The authors separated the tournament in three sections: Grand Slams, middle- and low- tier tournaments. They compared the salary of those tournaments between men and players. With their scientific method, they wrote five result models that explain the difference of payout between both of them. They suspected a lower salary for players, and they analyzed the productivity and the salary; they controlled the most variables possible. 1 identifies the size of the gap in 2009 prize money: on average, females earned .235 logged dollars (p < .05) less than their male counterparts during the 2009 Furthermore, the study shows that a female player earned less than a tennis player for a single tournament. The article is credible because of all the explanations of their method. The authors did a real scientific method by explaining the problem, giving their hypothesis, explaining the data and problem, observing and researching, giving their conclusions and finally doing an overview. They are a group of university professors and they worked all together to write this article. As professors at a university, they have a huge study background. This article will be useful in the second body Viens 5 paragraph that is going to explain the wage gap between and professional athletes. Some data and quotes from the article will be use in the essay. Hoeber, Larena. Gender Equity for Athletes: Multiple Understandings of an Organizational  Sex Roles, vol. 58, no. 1/2, 2006, pp. 58-71, eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=1b9849f0-a6ed-48cb-b7a9- 4d219e805c43%40sessionmgr4006&vid=2&hid=4113. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017. This article describes the gender equity for athletes. The author interviewed 5 administrators, 6 coaches, and 17 athletes at one Canadian university athletic department. They tried to define these three concepts: equality, conditional equality and a issue. The article has many graphics that explain the percentage of people that defines each concept. For example, they have a table: of gender equity based on sex and stakeholder Furthermore, during all her interviews, someone said: is saying try to change this for women so they can do it After her study, the author realized that individual definitions of these principles is not the same for everyone, so that causes some discrimination for sports. Larena Hoeber is a professor at the University of Regina in Canada. She wrote five articles, all in link with the use of organizational theory. Moreover, she received help from Michael Sagas, another teacher and co-editor of this special issue who gave a lot of feedback. This article is credible and really interesting because some quotes can be added in the essay. The information of this article will be use to write the paragraph about discrimination between male and female athletes. Dick, Ronald, and Peggy Kellers. Females in Sport - past, present, and future: perceptions by a panel of female sport  Journal of Critical Postmodern Organization Viens 6 Science, vol. 5, no. 1/2, 2006, pp. 17-23, eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=be15c739-0233-40db-a1b6- 226957cda967%40sessionmgr4008&vid=2&hid=4113. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017. The authors did a review of the evolution of the females in sports in the past, present and future. They discussed about the Title IX evolution and how the WNBA national Basketball Association) can succeed. Moreover, the authors explain their opinion on equal pay between men and athletes: women with a business sense felt that if the TV ratings, revenue, etc. are at X-level for the men, and the women are at a lower revenue stream, then you HAVE to pay the men more; it is common sense and good business Finally, the statue has evolved over the couple of years, athletes can dream to live from sports and play professional after college. Ronald Dick and Peggy Kellers, the two authors are two professors at the university level. Throughout their article, they were neutral and they use many references to write their text. Additionally, some quotes are really interesting and will be added to the essay. The information of this article will be useful to write the body paragraph about the wage gap between male and female athletes.