Brown 1 Jonathan Brown Prof. Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 910 16 February 2017 Privacy of Police Body Cameras Today people are still fighting for their civil rights; whether its freedom of speech, racial profiling, etc. A right that many forget is still being fought for today is the right to privacy. This right is in danger of being violated by the usage of Police Body Cameras according to the organization EPIC (Electronic Privacy Information Center). While on the other hand the organization ACLU (American Civil Liberties Union) is all for the usage of Police Body cameras to keep police power in check. Instead of using police body cameras or not using them, there can be a way where they can be implemented into United States Police Forces while protecting the rights of privacy. ACLU and EPIC both want the same thing, the people protected whether their rights or security. From this common ground between the two organizations, there can be an easy compromise that can implement the usage of the body cameras while keeping it in check. The ACLU was first formed in the 1920s by Roger Baldwin, Crystal Eastman, and Albert DeSilver (About ACLU). The organization was formed to combat those who would violate the Bill of Rights and make sure that justice was issued fairly. Since then they have fought harassment and deportation of immigrants, fought for rights of unions against the Supreme Court, and even stood against the government when they issued the use of concentration camps Brown 2 for Japanese-Americans during World War II (About ACLU). To this day they still fight an everlasting battle to protect civil rights from anyone, especially our government officials. One such issue is the use of police body cameras. ACLU believes that police officers should use body cameras to record any and all interactions with civilians. From this it keeps the officers in check and serve as a check against the abuse of power by police (Police Body Mounted Cameras). This interest arose from the recent horrific events that occurred such as the Ferguson and Baltimore case. Jay Stanly, The ACLU Senior Policy Analyst, even stated about their position, there was no documentary evidence of most encounters between police officers and the public, and due to the volatile nature of those encounters, this often resulted in radically divergent accounts of (Stanly 1). The public outraged for change and accountability but lacked any sort of video evidence to truly dictate if the officer abused his power or acted accordingly. As a voice of the people, ACLU is pushing for the continued and permanent use of police body cameras to ensure that anything like these cases will not happen again. On the other side of the spectrum is the organization EPIC. EPIC is a public interest research center in Washington DC (About EPIC). It was established in 1994 to have public attention on privacy and civil rights issues (About EPIC). main concern is also to protect the basic rights of the American people. They hold many classes open to the people to teach them about their rights and how to fight for them. They also file many cases to Federal court to protect organizations, consumer privacy, and speak before congress and courts about any breaches of civil rights (About EPIC). Their take on police use of body cameras is on the other spectrum, they believe the use of them will violate rights of privacy. EPIC believes that it is a complete breach of privacy for people to be recorded and then have the footage released to Brown 3 the open public for anyone to view (State Law Enforcement Camera Policies). They believe that productive means to achieve police accountability that do not carry the risk of increasing (State Law Enforcement Camera Policies). From this; EPIC, along with others, believe that releasing the footage to the public from the cameras would be a hasty action. Law makers have a history of acting to hastily when something awful happens, it creates an ill- advised policy from a moral panic that EPIC fears would happen (Wasserman Paragraph 1). EPIC has also always been against any form of surveillance on the American people for the exact same reasons as their opposition against police body cameras due to the breach of privacy (About EPIC). Although it might seem that ACLU and EPIC stand on completely different sides of the spectrum when it comes to use of police body cameras, yet they have one common goal. They both exist to protect Civil Rights of the American People. ACLU want complete use and release of police body camera footage to protect peoples right, they believe that it will keep the police in check. Releasing the footage to the public will allow this to happen completely. While EPIC believes releasing this footage will breach privacy and violate their rights. EPIC believes that releasing footage publically will only hurt what both organizations are trying to protect. From this along with the common ground of protecting the American people, it can lead to a compromise that both organizations will approve of. There is easily a way for police to implement the use of police body cameras while keeping rights of privacy protected. Such as the program Carnivore instituted by the FBI that allowed for more surveillance of people (Bloss 219). Unfortunately, the program was shut down due to concerns with violation of their privacy (Bloss 219). Carnivore was the first step into a compromise that could bring ACLU and EPIC together. Brown 4 The institution of police body cameras can be achievable by having certain guidelines and polices to help keep in check how they are used. From these policies, privacy will be protected while also instituting the cameras to keep police powers and actions in check. Police Officers must record any and all interactions with civilians during their shift. The footage obtained will only be released to courts when criminal prosecutions are being held or there is a dispute on policy violations. Only the judge and jury of the court will be able to view this footage to help them achieve a fair judgement. Also the cameras will remain off when the officer is in his or her patrol car to ensure the privacy of the officer as well. To help with the officer so they do not have to worry about turning the camera on, their cruisers will have a sensor installed at the door of the vehicle; this will allow the camera to be turned on hands free when exiting the vehicle. Police vehicles are already outfitted to fit their job by whatever car company designs it for that agency. This technology suggested can easily be implemented. When this is implemented this will protect privacy along with issuing police officers their body cameras to keep them in check and allow the courts to determine any legal disputes of the interactions. As ACLU stated, against pervasive government surveillance, but when cameras primarily serve the function of allowing public monitoring of the government instead of the other way around, we generally regard that as a good (Stanley Paragraph 5). This compromise will allow the fight to be won on both ACLU and ends. ACLU will get their cameras to have a checks and balances on the police, EPIC will have their civil rights of privacy protected from the cameras only being on during certain periods and the footage only viewable to court systems. ACLU will have to give up complete public viewing of the footage and EPIC gives up people completely being recorded. These sacrifices will lead to an ultimate goal and compromise that will achieve the common goal of protecting the American Brown 5 civil rights. The battle to protect rights and privacy has been fought for years, this compromise to allow police cameras with checks and balances will be one battle won for both sides of the spectrum. Brown 6 Works Cited About the American Civil Liberties Union. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.aclu.org/about-aclu>. Bloss, William.Escalating U.S. Police Surveillance after 9/11: an Examination of Causes and Effects*.Surveillance and Society, 2007 Page 219. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. <http://ojs.library.queensu.ca/index.php/surveillance-and- society/article/view/3448/3411>. Center, Electronic Privacy Information. EPIC - About EPIC - About EPIC. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. <https://epic.org/epic/about.html>. Center, Electronic Privacy Information. EPIC - State Law Enforcement Body Camera EPIC - State Law Enforcement Body Camera Policies. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. <https://epic.org/state-policy/police-cams/>. Police Body-Mounted Cameras: With Right Policies in Place, a Win For American Civil Liberties Union. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.aclu.org/other/police-body- mounted-cameras-right-policies-place-win-all?redirect=police-body-mounted- cameras-right-policies-place-win-all>. Stanley, Jay.Police Body-Mounted Cameras: With Right Policies in Place, a Win For All.Cop Cams, The ACLU View, Oct. 2013. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Brown 7 <http://www.urbanaillinois.us/sites/default/files/attachments/police-body-mounted- cameras-stanley.pdf>. Wasserman, Howard M.Moral Panic and Body Cameras.HeinOnline. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. <http://heinonline.org/HOL/LandingPage?handle=hein.journals/walq92&div=26&id=&p age=>.