Anthony Williams Ricketts ENC 1101 27 January 2017 How are guns in schools as a precaution, good or bad? Guns and schools have begun to have a complicated relationship given all the violent attacks on schools in the past several years. There have been many discussions on whether or not guns should be kept inside schools so that staff may use them to protect students if need be. The two sides of these discussions have views that are the exact opposite of each other. Many experts involved with this issue believe that guns can be used to neutralize threats that could potentially deadly. Others believe that the more guns that are around, the more dangerous the environment becomes. Guns are a weapon that be taken lightly. It is very important that the ruling that eventually gets made about guns in schools, is the right choice. The lives of the staff, students, and visitors to the schools depend on the correct choices being made. The voices of the people involved in the tragedies of school shootings around the nation are heard loudly. Gun safety is currently one of the largest issues that faces the nation today. Government officials have said that they will try to make certain moves towards both sides of the argument, but not much progress has been made because of so many different opinions. How are guns in schools as a precaution, good or bad? Guns in  Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This source talks about which states allow guns in schools and which do not. Its purpose is persuading readers into sharing the same view as the author, that guns have do not belong in schools. The website shows statistics to support its findings. It also talks about suicide as a risk, and that it just homicide an issue. The author includes acts passed by the government in the website to show what is being done to prevent gun violence in schools. Along with the acts, the website also lists some laws pertaining to the subject. This source uses a lot of statistics. These statistics are credible and are very useful in putting together good information in a paper. The source works well for the topic because of the information it includes about different states and what they allow. There are several people that make up the team that worked on this website. They are credible because of their backgrounds. There is a list of the entire team that talks about each individual person, and what their duties are. Barrett, Kimberly L., Michael J. Lynch, and Paul B. Stretesky. Green Criminology and The Reconceptualization Of School Violence: Comparing Green School Violence And Traditional Forms Of School Violence For School  Critical Criminology 1 (2016): 19. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. This source talks about how gun violence has become a big issue in our country, especially in our schools. It also includes possible causes of certain behaviors that could lead to people being violent. The information included in the article is more about guns being a bad thing rather than a good thing, but it could be argued that it also says guns are good. This source ties into the topic because it talks specifically about guns and if they are beneficial or detrimental to society in the hands of ordinary civilians. It may help to make a case that gun violence in schools would not be helped by having guns around the schools. The overall information will work well for the topic of gun violence in schools. Staff, CBSNews.com staff CBSNews.com. Columbine Have Been CBS News, CBS Interactive, 7 Apr. 2001, www.cbsnews.com/news/could-columbine-have- been-prevented/. The source above is about an attack in south Denver in 1999, the Columbine shooting. It was one of the first school shootings. Thirteen people were killed and twenty were injured in the attack. This source asks whether it could have been prevented and provides evidence to support the theories it brings up. It also talks about how some cold cases may be reopened to take a deeper look into how the process was handled. The website wants to look into what could have been done to prevent the catastrophe. This source works very well with the topic. It gives a look at what people thought about gun violence over 15 years ago. It shows that not much has changed in the many years since the Columbine. Gun violence is still an issue that is being discussed and debated. The Columbine was a major event that sparked the discussions on whether guns belong in the same places that are being attacked. school warns: Our teachers be armed and will use whatever force is to protect The Washington Post, WP Company, www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2016/09/22/texas-school-sign-our- This source talks about teachers being armed in Texas. It says that they will use whatever force is necessary to keep children safe. There is a picture of a sign that warns people that the teachers at the school that is being talked about may have weapons in their possession. For this source, a different stance was taken towards whether or not guns should be in schools. This view shows that some believe that arming teachers is an effective way of protecting students from attacks. This works into my topic well because it is giving a different view from what the other sources have given. This source allows me to show both sides of the argument. Collins, Crystal Lee1, crystal.collins@sreb.org. Threat Assessment In The Post-Columbine Public School System: The Use Of Crisis Management Plans In The Public School Sector As A Means To Address And Mitigate School Gun  International Journal Of Educational Advancement 7.1 (2006): 46-61. Education Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This particular source was one may be very important. It stresses the issues of the Columbine attack. Its main focus is on assessment of the threats of the tragedy that took place. This source talks about what is done to attempt to alleviate gun violence in schools, but especially public schools. It also goes into details about things that effect and are affected by the events that take place in mass shootings such as the one at Columbine High School. This ties into the topic because it is important to uncover issues with the security of schools when determining how to prevent future displays gun violence. Investigating exactly what went wrong during these acts of viciousness is key in taking precautions. This source dives deep into reviewing such things. The fact that it was written just five years after the event occurred shows that it was still a very relevant issue, and that there was still much investigating to be done to determine certain things. McGill, Natalie. Maternal And Child Health Section Focuses On Gun Violence  The Health 4 (2014): 19. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This source is short, but it talks about many significant things. It was written in reaction to the shooting at a school in Newton, Connecticut in December of 2012. This was one of the more recent and well-known school shootings of the 21 st century. Many children were killed and more injured during the occurrence. The article was written in 2014. Being that it was written just two short years after the shooting makes it even more significant to the topic. In this source Natalie McGill wrote about many issues that tie in well with the topic I am writing about. It is essential that specifics about the acts of gun violence are known and brought to light. She illuminated many important facts about shootings in public schools.