Lopez 1 Adela Lopez Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 2 February 2017 Inequality For many women have proven they can do just as much as men can and have demanded more respect. Class has also evolved the richest is no longer the strongest, although they continue to be very powerful, but in era we are all seen as or so we thought. Over the many controversies surrounding the United States in the recent five years stands the most recent case of privilege, Brock Turner a Stanford student accused of rape who was only sentenced to serve six months but ended up serving only three months of his total sentence. Another example, the case like Ethan Couch who got away with only probation after killing four in a DUI incident. There are hundreds of similar cases like this of white, wealthy, male getting a different punishment compared to a Hispanic, or black lower class male. With this I pose this question, how does gender, class and race affect the punishments criminals receive after being convicted of the same crime? Bierschbach, Richard A. Wrong with Sentencing Virginia Law Review, vol. 102, 2016, pp.1447-1450 This article speaks on how the Warren court created a procedure that should be taken into account when undergoing a sentencing procedures. This was created over a half of a century ago to terminate all unethical racial treatment to criminals. The same crime means the same sentence not just because one is black or white, male or a female, wealthy or poor. None of Lopez 2 this should play a role in the law procedure that criminals undergo biased on factors other than just the crime. For example, when one is detained there is a certain protocol that must be followed one gets to have equal rights our Miranda rights are read to us, we are prosecuted in the same way. This is significantly important information to back up my topic question because for some reason it changed. The author has the same idea that race, class, and gender seem to be more involved in the sentence that criminals are given up to today This is a credible source from Richard Bierschbach, a professor of law at the University of Michigan. Bierschbach studies the criminal law procedures. Bierschbach clerked for U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day and D.C. Circuit Judge A. His main interest has always been the procedures. He even dedicates to also teaching on this matter to his students at Cardozo, connecting it back to the original question on how it all plays a role. Kansal, Tunshar. Disparity in Open society foundations. 2005. Web. Jan.2017. https://www.opensocietyfoundations.org/reports/racial-disparity-sentencing The article addresses that, are more likely to be disadvantage in terms of sentence It also speaks on how more minorities receive harsher punishments in comparison to whites even if both groups commit the same crimes. For example, in page one of the article it also states that blacks pay a higher trial penalty than white males. So if a black or Latino male is convicted of a lower level crime, such as that of drugs, he will tend to receive a tougher punishment than if a white male does it. Or they might even receive a punishment harsher compared to a white male who has committed a higher level crime. This article is focusing on the key factors that play when it comes to a sentences. Based on what tends to happen to a black or Hispanic criminal compared to a white criminal. Lopez 3 This article was published to explain key factors in discrimination. Tunshar Kansal wrote this article for the Open Society Foundations which works with different communities and support their human rights, he published this article in 2005 and speaks on the different types of racial discrimination that people get. He studies the history on racial discrimination in criminals. Kleck, Gary Discrimination in Criminal American Sociology Review, Dec. 1981. Republished 2014.http://www.jstor.org/stable/2095079?s . Accessed 2. Feburaury.2017 According to the Article critical evidence is shown in lots of case studies that Racial Discrimination is among the biggest reason why people tend to be afraid to confront their consequences. They fear what they have learned over time, how simply turning on the television and seeing on the news that another felon has been convicted and the odds of that criminal being black is higher than being white. Crime control and how it is set out to be perceived is also a tie back to why we tend not to be surprised at the outcomes of sentence regarding race. Minorities, mainly blacks, tend to be the ones treated harsher especially when sentenced to the same crime as a white. On the second paragraph (Kleck pg. 783) it states that even when it comes down to the death penalty it seems much easier, and less of a hassle, when a person of color is sentenced rather than privileged whites. The article concludes that the United States Legal system is among the worst for their criminals, it is unfair towards minorities. This is crucial support for my research question considering that this article goes back too sometime before this century but was published in this time period to allow us to see that things have not changed since 1970. Author Gary Kleck is a criminology professor at Florida State University he has been there for many years and continues to study the topic with such a passion, he is currently researching if employing more police officers has an effect on the fear of crime. He has also Lopez 4 done research in race when it comes to criminal punishment. How it has nothing to do with their exposure to crime but more to do with the audiences view on television. Rodrguez, Fernando S. Differences in Criminal Sentencing: Do Effects Vary Across Violent, Property, and Drug Wiley. Vol. 87, no. 2, 2006, pp. This article states that women are often left of the hook for minor, nonviolent offending crimes. According to this article, studies find that females benefit from their The sentencing will not always be determined by the gender but also by the severity of the crime. The article uses the following example, both property and drug offending, females are less likely to be sentenced to prison and also receive shorter sentences if they are sentenced to Meaning that if they are to be sentenced it will still be shorter. But although they are females and it depends on the level of crime in some cases regarding the same crimes women are still often left on a lighter sentence referring back to the article it also says that, violent offending, females are no less likely than males to receive prison time, but for those who do, females receive substantially shorter sentences than This article ties back to define the gender injustice in the legal system. The main author in this article Fernando Rodriguez is from the University of Texas in El Paso, working in the department of Social Anthropology as an Associate professor. He holds an area of expertise in homicide, criminology, sentencing and program evaluation which is everything in regards to my paper. Despite his many areas of expertise and many years of work his current focus in research in domestic violence and a particular interest in homicide among the intimates. Starr, Sonja. Large Gender Disparities in Federal Criminal Lopez 5 Michigan Law. Nov., 2012. https://www.law.umich.edu/newsandinfo/features/Pa Accessed February 2017. Although we tend to hear a lot of cases regarding racial discrimination there is also a numerous amount of cases regarding gender discrimination It is out there more than we think, in the first paragraph of the article it says, receive 63% longer sentences on average than women  and as likely to avoid incarceration if Women tend to be seen as the victim or as a simple object in the cases of crime involving them. It can either go really good or really bad for them. Women will either get a lighter sentence because whatever they do as compared to if a man had done it. Like cases of Rape or Domestic Violence where women can be seen as a week and unstable leaving them in a worse place they were before leading them to a minimal punishment compared to a male. This article gives me some insight on how the legal system runs gender discrimination and that it always be proven with numbers but with just common knowledge when looking at different criminal cases. Sonja Starr is a credible source due to her outstanding research in gender inequality at the University of Michigan Law. She has done tons of research and publications regarding racial and gender inequality throughout her career at the University. This provides my research question with the fundamental support it needs in support of the gender part of my question. Males tend to have a harsher punishment that women for same case crimes. Sonja is perhaps more than clear when she says may help-a lot-to be a Tonry, Micheal. Punishing Race. Oxford University Press, 2011 Punishing Race is a book that responds to the things that have been affecting America regarding race and crime. The author believes that this not from racial differences in Lopez 6 crime or drug use but primarily from drug and crime control policies that disproportionately affect black The book is a strong voice that summarizes the injustices created in the American legal system how, are much more likely than whites to be stopped by the police, arrested, prosecuted, convicted, and imprisoned, and are much less likely to have confidence in justice system officials, especially the The news and media always have an influence especially when seeing that they mainly portray the criminal to be of color and the victim to be white. Leading to, provoked partly by the Republican Southern Strategy of using coded law and  which in the article is said to appeal to race, wanting to get more white voter support. The author of this book Michael Tonry has lots of experience as the director of the Institute on Crime and Public Policy he is also the McKnight Presidential Chair in Law and Public Policy at the University of Minnesota. Before that he was the professor of law and public policy at Cambridge University. His work goes all the way back to 1986 where he was an editor and publisher, his history as director, president and fellow at numerous university hands him the credibility I seek for my paper.