Velez 1 Madison Velez Smith ENC 1101 February 19, 2017 Animal Agriculture in America Rare a time does the American populace question where their food comes from. They simply do not need to, as Americans are graced with the convenience of markets and consequently have little to no interaction with the source of their food. They normally buy things labeled as or and believe that what they are putting into their body is healthy. Everyone is aware of the way animals are used to provide food for humans. What they are not mindful of, however, is the way that this method of getting meat affects the entire world. With that thought comes the question, are the sacrifices truly being made to supply millions of families with Over the past few years, the United States has seen an increase in diets that eliminate meat and animal products in hopes to reverse what animal agriculture causes on the Earth. The pros and cons of animal agriculture are great in number, which makes this topic less about an ethical dilemma but rather that of a logical struggle for sustainability and survival. The first positive aspect to be discussed is that the consumption of meat is sometimes the only option for a fulfilling meal for some families, especially those living in food deserts (areas of the country in which fresh, healthy food is not easily available due to a lack of local grocery stores and funding). Velez 2 Gatrell, Jay D., Neil Reid, and Paula Ross. Local Food Systems, Deserts, and Maps: The Spatial Dynamics and Policy Implications of Food  Applied Geography 31.4 (2011): 1195-196. Web. This journal entry tells the sad truth about living in food deserts. For millions of Americans, fresh produce is not an option. Unfair distributions of resources, such as money and food, have caused grocery stores around the nation to lack nutritious foods. In some cases, said food deserts are in such a remote areas (that sometimes lack the necessary environment to cultivate agriculture) that they cannot obtain food let alone produce any or enough to provide for their inhabitants. These families then are forced to eat what will fill them up the most, and for the longest period of time. when they must turn to meat. This, as talked about in the journal, comes from both buying cuts of meat from the store, or fast food. Not only does this cause a spike in the demand (or need) for even more animal agriculture, but it puts the public health at risk. Surviving off of solely fatty, high-cholesterol meat can cause detrimental issues, especially when consumption begins at a young age. Fortunately, animal agriculture provides those living in impoverished areas with the opportunity to feel full and satisfied after a meal. Although it is not the most nutritionally balanced diet, it ensures that these communities of people will survive. This is relevant to the research question because it shows that for some people, eating meat is absolutely necessary. It is not possible for all families to stop their consumption of meat, because for some it is their only means of nutrition. In order to cut back on animal agriculture, America would have to work on redistributing the money in the country so that everyone has an equal chance at a meat-free diet. Velez 3 Another pro is the fact that this billion-dollar industry does provide a large amount of Americans with jobs. In 2013, than 482,100 workers were employed in the meat and poultry packing and processing The United States Meat Industry at a  The United States Meat Industry at a Glance. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. The truth is, without this industry, the economy would lose a substantial amount of money since there is a constant demand for meat. Almost half a million people would also lose their jobs. The combined salaries of these workers were more than $19 billion. That is money that hard-working Americans have to use to provide for their families. This is relevant to the research question because it provides evidence that animal agriculture could never truly cease since so many people depend on the industry for income. If America were to stop the production of livestock and meat, thousands would be out of their jobs and without means to support their family. There is another positive side of animal agriculture- selective breeding. Agriculture: Steps to Sustainable  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This practice is the artificial means of natural selection. In other words, farmers are able to take the traits that they deem important and keep them within the gene pool by breeding the animals that carry those traits, while abnormal or unneeded traits can be taken out of the gene pool. This makes for livestock that is larger, which provides more meat once they reach slaughter. This article is relevant to the research question because it proves that scientifically, there is at least one positive result of raising animals. By manipulating the Velez 4 livestock, farmers can eliminate or lessen the chance of a sick animal, which would ruin a substantial amount of meat that could be sold. The authors of this article are experienced farmers who have first-hand encounter with using this method to their advantage. There is, however, the con of global warming. A lot of people do not understand just how much livestock affects the health of our Earth. Hyner, Christopher. A Leading Cause of Everything: One Industry That Is Destroying Our Planet and Our Ability to Thrive on  Stanford Law Review 27.1 (2015): 209. Web. As discussed in this article, animal agriculture is responsible for a significant portion of climate change. The overproduction of animals through unnatural methods has caused deforestation as well as 30% of greenhouse gas emissions. It also takes an astronomical amount of resources in order to keep these animals alive. Famers use 55 trillion gallons of water annually just to support the production of meat. This is water that could be sent to communities in America, such a food deserts, that are struggling to meet their dietary needs. Millions of people drink only juice and soda because it is cheaper than clean, bottled water, however trillions of gallons are being used just to keep cows alive. These environmental issues do not only come from mass farming of livestock, though. There is also fish farming. Due to overfishing, it is expected that fish will be close to extinction by 2048. This would be a huge problem for not only Americans, but also the whole globe, as fish are the main source of food for millions of people around the world. This is relevant to the research question because it proves that animal agriculture is greatly affecting the planet. So much water is being used to raise these animals, when it Velez 5 could be sent to struggling communities around the nation. Also, farming has caused either too many or too little supply of animals; the mass production of livestock has caused an unnatural amount of methane in the atmosphere, while overfishing has caused the depletion of the supply of fish. Another con is the use of chemicals and hormones in livestock that humans then eat when they consume meat. As stated by the Farm Foundation, food safety and assuring consumers of the safety of their food will continue to be challenges for the Farm Foundation.  Future of Animal Agriculture in North America -  Farm Foundation. N.p., 2012. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article tells all of the potential safety issues that come from eating meats. The livestock are pumped with chemicals and hormones in order to become fatter, so they will provide more meat. Unsuspecting consumers then digest these hormones. Over time, the repeated exposure to these synthetic hormones can have a negative effect on humans, including diabetes and heart problems. They also come with a high risk of illnesses such as e coli and influenza. These foodborne illnesses are extremely draining on the body and can even cause death. This article is relevant to the research question because it provides examples from a trusted source that states that animal agriculture is in fact a semi-dangerous means of getting food. Humans can get incredibly sick from some of these chemicals, and not everyone has access to information that allows them to understand exactly going in their body. This is almost unethical. Everyone should know exactly what they are Velez 6 putting in their body, as it is the one and only body they are given and they must take care of it. Additionally, animal agriculture has the potential to contaminate groundwater. Estimated Animal Agriculture Nitrogen and Phosphorus from  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 11 May 2016. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, agriculture manure is a primary source of nitrogen and phosphorus to surface and (EPA). This is harmful to humans because it finds its way into the tap water, which is used for things like cooking, drinking, and bathing. In just Florida alone, for the year 2007, 101,939,000 kilograms of nitrogen were produced from manure and 30,901,000 kilograms of phosphorus were produced (EPA). These numbers are startling because they show just how much poison is entering a main source of water for many Americans. This is relevant to the research because it provides statistical evidence to show that animal agriculture has negative side effects. The size of the numbers also shows that there is a sense of urgency with the raising of livestock. The publisher of this article is the US Environmental Protection Agency, which is an agency of the Federal government, making it a reliable resource. Overall, there are multiple pros and cons to animal agriculture. All in all, however, the practice will never be eliminated due to it being necessary for some families. There will hopefully be some advancement that allows it to be more sanitary and ethical.