Ingle 1 Alexis Ingle Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 15 February 2017 To Sign or Not to Sign Issues within the Deaf community do not garner much attention, especially in the hearing world. However, the issue over whether or not deaf and hard of hearing individuals should use and be educated with American Sign Language is an ever apparent and growing controversy within the deaf community. The Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing (AGBA) promotes the teaching and learning of deaf children orally. On the other hand, the National Association of the Deaf (NAD) promotes teaching Deaf children and infants to communicate with sign and recognizes sign language as the natural language of the Deaf. Both stakeholders have the same goal of providing deaf and hard of hearing individuals with a good education that will subsequently lead to a successful life, but they have differing ideas of the best way to achieve this goal. In an effort to meet in the middle and come to a compromise, classes could be provided for both oral English and American Sign Language and classes could be taught in both languages. This would allow the students to become proficient in both languages and allow them to participate in both communities later on in life, or pick which community to participate in. The first stakeholder, the AGBA advocates for oral learning through spoken English for the deaf and hard of hearing. Their mission and purpose is ensure that Ingle 2 every child and adult with hearing loss has the opportunity to listen, talk and thrive in mainstream We This association promotes that deaf and hard of hearing individuals should learn to speak and listen in order to communicate. This can be done with the help of early intervention, along with the help of hearing aids and cochlear implants. The AGBA supports mainstream education for children with hearing loss, which means placing them regular school classrooms so they can learn alongside their hearing as opposed to placing them in specialized programs is A survey was done with students transitioning to general education classes from a Listening and Spoken school, along with their parents and teachers. According to the results of this survey, when the teachers were asked whether the students were adequately prepared out of 7 (86%) teacher participants answered yes, they believed the student was adequately (Rugg and Donne). With this information as well as the high overall satisfaction of their success and education, we can gather that educating deaf and hard of hearing children orally is an adequate form of education. If the students can fit well with and perform well in a general education setting, they can also be successful in the hearing community. On the other hand, the second stakeholder, the NAD, promotes education of deaf and hard of hearing individuals through the use of sign language. Their mission to preserve, protect and promote the civil, human and linguistic rights of deaf and hard of hearing people in the United The NAD recognizes sign language as the natural language of the Deaf and encourages the use of it in everyday life within the Deaf community and with education of the deaf and hard of hearing. For the NAD, acquisition, usage, and preservation of American Sign is a core value Ingle 3 While learning to use their voice and speak, and hard of hearing children lack access to the same auditory base that hearing children have for acquiring spoken (Snoddon). In this respect, sign language is easier for deaf and hard of hearing children to learn and communicate with and thus would make it easier for deaf children to be educated through. With the use of sign language, the NAD also promotes diversity in encouraging the deaf and hard of hearing to embrace their differences in their language and community as well as many other aspects of life. Both stakeholders have goals for deaf and hard of hearing students to be provided with an education that will allow them to thrive later in life. The AGBA provides information and education outlets for parents of deaf/hard of hearing children as well as adults looking to further their education through listening and spoken language. The NAD is a strong advocator for equality for Deaf and Hard of Hearing individuals, especially in equal opportunities for education. Both stakeholders are also strong advocators for education for parents of deaf/hard of hearing children and educating them on how to help their children and provide them with equal opportunities in all aspects of life. Not only do these stakeholders want deaf and hard of hearing individuals to be provided with equal opportunities for education, but also equal opportunities for relationships, jobs and parts of everyday life. A compromise for these two stakeholders would be to create an education system for deaf and hard of hearing students that would provide classes in both sign language and spoken language. This would allow the students to become proficient in both languages, subsequently allowing them to thrive in both communities, whichever they should choose to involve themselves with. In studies done over the last 15 years, research Ingle 4 shows that bilingual education is no more [and no successful than any other means of education, however the goal is not to better than other means, but simply to supply a strong education for deaf students (Swanwick). This form of education would be similar to a combination of state or federally funded Listening and Spoken Language schools and specialized residential schools for the deaf and hard of hearing. In other words, students would go to school and learn with other deaf and hard of hearing peers and if necessary they would be able to live on the school campus as well. Should the parents and students choose to do so, the student could be mainstreamed later on in their education. This compromise would also require hiring teachers who are skilled and experienced in teaching using both sign language and spoken language. Research would also need to be done on ways to implement easily accessible and affordable hearing aids and cochlear implants. It is difficult for many families to afford hearing aids as average cost of one digital hearing aid can range from $1500 to (Why Do Hearing Aids Cost So Much?). Cochlear implants are expensive as well and can cost upwards of $40,000 (Cochlear Implant Frequently Asked Questions). All in all, this would achieve the goal of both stakeholders in providing a strong education for the deaf and hard of hearing. This would meet the views of the AGBA in educating students through spoken language, as well as meeting the views of the NAD by simultaneously educating students with sign language. Both stakeholders would still be helpful for parents and professionals in providing information on the Deaf signing community and the oral deaf and hard of hearing community. This form of education would be the most sufficient form as spoken language may not be sufficient enough for a deaf student and the same goes for an education provided only in sign language (Swanwick). Ingle 5 In summation, providing an education for deaf and hard of hearing students is the goal for both stakeholders, the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing and the National Association for the Deaf; the stakeholders have contradictory views on how deaf students should be educated-through spoken language or sign language. Having an education system where deaf and hard of hearing students are taught with both spoken language and sign language would allow for both of the views of the stakeholders to be met. Deaf and hard of hearing students would be provided with an education equal to that of their hearing peers and they would be able to thrive later in both communities and in the workforce. Both stakeholders would also be necessary to provide information for parents and professionals about both communities and forms of education. This compromise would be beneficial for both stakeholders, but most importantly for deaf and hard of hearing students. Ingle 6 Works Cited National Association of the Deaf-NAD, https://www.nad.org/about-us/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Implant Frequently Asked American Speech-Language-Hearing Association, http://www.asha.org/public/hearing/Cochlear-Implant-Frequently- Asked-Questions/. Accessed 14 February 2017. Rugg, Natalie, and Vicki Donne. Parent And Teacher Perceptions Of Transitioning Students From A Listening And Spoken Language School To The General Education  Volta Review, 111.3, 2011, 325-351. Academic Search Premier. Accessed 28 January 2017. Snoddon, Kristin. Equity In Education: Signed Language And The  Current Issues In Language Planning, 10.3, 2009, 255-271. Education Source. Accessed 28 January 2017. Swanwick, Ruth. Deaf Bimodal Bilingualism And  Language Teaching, 49.1, 2016, 1. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Accessed 28 January 2017. is Clarke Schools for Hearing and Speech, http://www.clarkeschools.org/programs-and-schools/clarke- campuses/philadelphia/philadelphia-mainstreaming. Accessed 29 January 2017. We Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing, http://www.agbell.org/who-we-are/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Ingle 7 Do Hearing Aids Cost So Kaczmarski Hearing Services, http://www.kaczmarskihearing.com/best-hearing-aids/why-do-hearing-aids-cost- so-much. Accessed 14 February 2017.