Terrill 1 Elisa Terrill Emil Smith ENC 1101 2-17-17 The Emotional and Physical Effect of Cell Phone Overuse As time has passed, technology has rapidly increased in both use and efficiency. In particular, cell phones are continuously being upgraded in order to keep up with the rest of technology. However, with all the continuous improvements that cellular devices have undergone come side effects, both physical and mental. When it comes to the toll cell phone overuse has on the body, Environment International has found that extensive use of a cell phone can lead to infertility in men. Furthermore, Elder (a professor and research scientist) completed an experiment on student cell phone use in class and the effect it had on their learning abilities. So, the question stands, to what extent does the daily use of cell phones affect the average person? Environment International, comp. Effects of cell phone use on semen parameters: Results from the MARHCS cohort study in Chongqing,  Environment International. 91 (2016): 116. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. For this study, the scientists began by collecting a large sample of men to participate. 794 men participated in 2013, 666 in 2014, and 568 in 2015. An important note is that these men were gathered from an infertility clinic instead of from the general population. Conclusion of the experiment led to results that showed the relevance between talking on the cell phone each day and decreased semen parameters. It was Terrill 2 also found that accessing the internet with the cell phone could also be traced to decreased sperm concentration and count. Several different types of studies were done to account for a discrepancy in a certain type of analysis but decreased semen parameters still remained. The effects of talking on the cell phone daily, although consistent, were not drastic when looking at it year by year, but when the data from all 3 years is combined, the decreased semen parameters are significant. The results are as follows. coefficient = 6.32% per unit daily duration of talking on the cell phone (h); 95% confidence interval (CI), 11.94, and total sperm count 8.23; 95% CI, 14.38, 1.63) in 2013; semen volume 8.37; 95% CI, 15.93, 0.13) and total sperm count 16.59; 95% CI, 29.91, 0.73) in The research done in this study helps to answer the question posed earlier. Just how much does cell phone use affect someone? However, there is a slight possibility of skewed data based the fact that the data was collected in a fertility clinic which may lead to infer that there may have already been some pre-existing infertility problems in the men that were being examined. This creates a sort of grey area when it comes to the credibility of this source. Despite this conflict of interest, the authors and scientists involved in this experiment are part of either the Institute of Toxicology or Department of Environmental Health at a University in China. Elder, Anastasia D. 1. College Cell Phone Use, Beliefs, And Effects On Their  College Student Journal 47.4 (2013): 585-592. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Terrill 3 In this study, Elder gathered a sample of 88 college students which she had fill out a questionnaire about the use of their cell phones during class and while studying. The questionnaire asked how the students believed their use of their cell phones affected them during these activities. In addition, a subset (n=34) participated in an experimental part of the study in which half the students listened to a novel lecture without their cell phone and the other half were instructed to use their cell phones during the lecture. results showed that students are in agreeance with cell phone use during class and reported that they felt neutral about whether the cell phone was a distraction. When given a quiz, there was not a difference in test score between the two different groups in the subset. This study does an excellent job of exploring how cell phone use during class affect students. Although there was not a difference in the quiz scores of the students, it was noted that those who did use their phones during the lecture anticipated lower quiz grades. This shows that although the use of the cell phone during class may not cause lower quiz or test grades, it does cause unnecessary stress to the student. This source differs from the previous one because unlike the negative data collected about decreased semen parameters, one can argue that this source proves that cell phone use is acceptable during class lectures. Also, unlike the other source, the author of this study, Elder, has many credentials associated with her. She is currently a Professor in the department of Education Psychology and Counseling and has previously held employment as a Research Associate at Vanderbilt University. These positions give Elder much credibility. Terrill 4 Zajdel, et al. Cell Phone Ringtone, But Not Landline Phone Ringtone, Affects Complex Reaction  International Journal Of Occupational Medicine And Environmental Health, Vol 26, Iss 1, Pp 102-112 (2013) 1 (2013): 102. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. For this experiment, Radoslaw wanted to test two theories. The first was to monitor how the sound of ringtone correlates to their reaction time and the seconds is to determine whether there is a difference in reaction time between cell phones and landlines. The examination conditions were standardized and consisted of 23 women and 24 men aged between 19 and 24 years of age. The results of the study found that reaction times were longer in women than in men ((Mobile Session, 665 ms) is longer than in the test with the landline phone ringing (Landline Session, 642 ms) and the in test not disturbed by any phones (Control Session, 621 ms)), but it was noted that the difference was not significant. The setup for this experiment was well executed-with four different types of scenarios that can all be compared to one another to help gain a clear and true perspective and results. It was concluded in the study that an aspect as simple as a ringtone can disrupt a concentration and attention. Though thorough, it would be nice for them to have also researched which hormones in the brain are responsible for the abrupt distraction that occurs when a ringtone goes off as well as what they believe the positive and negative effects of long/short reaction times are to help get a deeper perspective of what is really going on when a person becomes distracted by their phone in a physical and mental capacity. Terrill 5 Roberts, James A., Luc Honore Petnji Yaya, and Chris Manolis. The Invisible Addiction: Cell-Phone Activities And Addiction Among Male And Female College  Journal Of Behavioral Addictions 4 (2014): 254. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The purpose and objective of this study is to observe which functions of the cell phone are most addictive. One hundred and sixty-four college students willingly participated in an online survey which asked how much time each student spent on twenty four different cell phone activities. The activities that were found to drive cell phone addictions were also found to vary vastly across males and females, although there was a correlation when it came to social components. The conclusion of the study is that cell phone addiction can be associated with desire to connect socially to others. After reading this study, it has become evident that this was a very well thought out experiment that was also well executed to find the results that were desired. However, because the results varied to drastically between the sexes, it made the data hard to interpret and infer information from. However, a great suggestion was made on what future research on this topic should focus on: the activities that push cell- phone use beyond its where it crosses the line from a helpful tool to one that undermines our personal well-being and that of Although good data was collected, it is too dispersed to base much off of, which makes this source not as strong as it could be. However, it is still a semi-credible source as Roberts is in the Marketing Department at the School of Business at Baylor University. Terrill 6 Shivashankara, Arnadi Ramachandrayya, et al. Effect Of Cell Phone Use On Salivary Total Protein, Enzymes And Oxidative Stress Markers In Young Adults: A Pilot  Journal Of Clinical & Diagnostic Research 9.2 (2015): 19-22. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 17 Feb. 2017 The aim of this study was to the levels of salivary enzymes, protein and oxidant-antioxidant system in young college-going cell phone The study involved splitting students into two separate groups based on how often and how long the subjects used their mobile phones. From there, unstimulated saliva samples were collected from all participants and analyzed for specific enzymes: amylase, LDH, MDA, and GSH. The results found that those who had high mobile usage also had significantly heightened levels of these enzymes: (p = 0.001), LDH (p = 0.002) and MDA (p = as compared to those who did not have as much usage. It was concluded that a high amount of cell phone use leads to large changes in salivary chemicals and MDA, which in turn has negative effects on cell health. This study was written by seven different authors, but the main author, Shivashankara, is an associate professor in the Department of Biochemistry and has written 4 different academic journals since 2011. Relating back to the research question, this article supports the notion that too much cell phone use has adverse reactions on bodies. An area of concern related to this study is those who participated. It was not written how many people participated or any demographics about them either, which brings a question of validity to the table. Terrill 7 Maples, W.C., et al. Clinical Research: The Effects Of Cell Phone Use On Peripheral  Optometry - Journal Of The American Optometric Association 79.(2008): 36-42. ScienceDirect. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. This study poses the question of whether or not talking on the phone effects the range of eyesight and/or awareness. The experiment includes measuring a visual field twice, one without a cell phone conversation taking place and one with a cell phone conversation taking place. In addition, a survey was given to the participants to help indicate any person who had eyesight conditions/symptoms. After testing 40 people aged 22-71, it was found that the percentage of restriction on a field of view while using a cell phone, if they did not have any vision conditions, was equal to the visual concentration of the group with visual conditions. It was concluded that phone use while driving can decrease the perceptual visual field, making the driver less aware of the The main author of this article is associated with the Southern College of Optometry in Memphis, TN. Even more impressive than the last, Maples has taken a part in writing eleven different academic journals, making Maples extremely credible. This source is unique and especially helpful when it comes to relating back to the research question because of the participants. Most of the other articles analyzed college students or younger peoples, but this study included a person who was up to the age of 71, broadening the scope of how far the affects of technology can reach depending on a age.