Roeder 1 Katherine Roeder E. Smith ENC 1101-002 01-28-2017 Is Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) The Cure to disease is described by James Parkinson as tremulous It normally occurs if someone is fifty or older, and has had polio, which causes temporary or permanent paralysis. New research has begun where a lead implant is surgically put in place, that will use neuromodulation networks to control groups of neurons that produce the tremor-like reaction. The signals sent by the lead implant will be tracked consistently by the Research Electronic Data Capture, or REDCap, this way certain cycles and trends can be followed and the implant can reduce them before they begin. Patients being treated have the option to have a passive, active, or collaborative approach to controlling the motor system. The patients who choose to have an active treatment had a shorter sickness time, but all groups claimed that there is size fits (Involving Patients in Weighting Benefits and Harms of Treatment in Parkin- Disease) approach for Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS). Deep brain stimulation has also been known to cause depression, so while the active group decreased the effects of they could have possibly increased their depression levels. Also those who are introduced to a life without continuous seizures may suffer from Burden of Normality, or BoN, which is the phe- nomenon that when a patient is to (The burden of normality: from Roeder 2 to they do not know how to behave in common society, and there is little thought of those who are suffering in their transition into regular life. Which leads most doctors and researchers to ask if DBS is a beneficial treatment of Dewey, R. B., P. E., Sanghera, M., Patel, N., Khemani, P., Lacritz, L. H., . . . Dewey, R. B. (2016). Developing a Deep Brain Stimulation Neuromodulation Network for Parkinson Disease, Essential Tremor, and Dystonia: Report of a Quality Improvement Project. Plos One, 11(10). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0164154 The article explains the process of deep brain stimulation, and how the implant uses REDCap, or Research Electronic Data Capture, to track motor and non-motor outcomes that the implant produces. It addresses the Plan-Do-Study-Act cycle, meaning that when tremors are sensed the implant will track it as well as decrease it. This will also create a new pattern in the system so that it is easier to detect if another patient has similar tremor patterns. The tracking system has to be as close to perfect as possible for the process to work to its full ability, and REDCap will be designed for storing the outcome data for later monitoring. Patients are selected after many tests that differentiate the symptoms of Then as the treatments are done, researchers will do clinical scoring by rating movement on the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale. Then following one round of treatment patients will do 12 hours off of treatment and the entire process is recorded, then patients will take a self report, a questionnaire on their Parkin- and an inventory of their depressive symptoms. All scoring is kept in REDCap database. A MRI is given, to prepare and avoid damaging anything while inserting the DBS lead implant. Two to three weeks after the implant is in place, thresholds are discovered by testing pulse Roeder 3 voltages. In minor cases the voltage is set to whenever the patients tremble is no longer happen- ing, but in cases with severe dystonia, which is muscle spasms, and other Disease symptoms it can take month to reduce the effects. Six to eight weeks after the device is placed any necessary adjustments are made, and if needed another monopolar setting can be added in, so that two separate charges from one lead implant correct one symptom. After this monthly meetings occur to improve the outcome of DBS. This article is relevant because it lays out how the technique of deep brain stimulation works, and also how the data is contained and kept up with. However this article does not ex- plain any of the side effects. It simply describes the method but gives great detail on how the tracking of information as well as the system used for tracking the cycles is used. All of the au- thors who conducted the experiment work at UT Southwestern Medical Center and work every- day on movement disorders. Five of the authors specialize in neurosurgery and neurology in a whole and the other four specialize in movement disorders and psychology. Weernink, M. G., Til, J. A., Vugt, J. P., Movig, K. L., Groothuis-Oudshoorn, C. G., & Ijzerman, M. J. (2016). Involving Patients in Weighting Benefits and Harms of Treatment in Disease. Plos One, 11(8). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0160771 The main purpose of this second article is to show the perspective of the patients in the process of deep brain stimulation. In most cases when deep brain stimulation is used, the patients choose how aggressive the treatment is. A majority of the patients picked the most aggressive process but other articles prove that picking that approach can produce multiple negative or harmful side effects later in their life. This article shines light on the point of view, and Roeder 4 they classify the three types of treatment in groups, advanced (most aggressive), passive, collab- orative (weakest treatment). A large flaw in the study is that disease varies as well as the patients. The neuromodulation networks which control the tremors are all unique and re- searchers understand that it is not size fits when choosing the style of treatments. With- in the groups undergoing deep brain stimulation there also seemed to be a trend of patients who focused on the technique of care while the other group focused on their motor symptoms. Those who kept focus on technique seems to be more positive about their personal outcomes. This article is useful for the research because it balances out the first article used for re- search and also gives another perspective of the treatment. It is easy to only think of the scientific side of the process of curing or helping the effects of a disease but this article proves that you also have to take in to consideration the type of treatment, the level of aggressiveness and the relationship between doctor and patient. All of the authors who wrote conducted this research are from Department of Health Technology and Services Research, MIRA institute for Biomedical Technology and Technical Medicine, University of Twente, Department of Neurology, Medical Spectrum Twente, or Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Medical Spectrum Twente, Enschede, the Netherlands Gilbert, F. (2012). The burden of normality: from to New ethical challenges for deep brain stimulation postoperative treatment. Journal of Medical Ethics, 38(7), 408-412. doi:10.1136/medethics-2011-100044 The third article discusses the ethics behind patients who go from a life that is labeled to After Deep Brian Stimulation is used most symptoms are Roeder 5 alleviated and there is a psychosocial adjustment that is abruptly introduced to the patients. DBS is used mostly on patients that have physical or cosmetic differences, and after DBS there is psy- chological, behavioral, affective, sociological changes. Most patients claim feel like my- self understand their self image. Even though patients lost the symptom they do not understand how to be normal when they have always identified as ill. The article con- cludes by stating that when patients are introduced to the idea of DBS that doctors and re- searchers should prepare them fully by informing patients that Burden of Normality, or BoN, syndrome is most likely going to occur afterwards. Also with DBS increasing life expectancy acknowledgment of BoN will positively change health care systems. The author, F. Gilbert is an expert in invasive brain technologies, and neuro-ethics. He does extensive research for Disease as well as disease, he has a MA and PhD, also he has published a book, many journal articles, and chapters in books. Currently he is teaching neuroethics,and medical ethics. This piece is relevant because it focuses on the patient, and how they react after the treatment, it is difficult to find any articles that discuss after treat- ment effects for patients. Feldman, D. A., Pulliam, C. L., Urrea Mendoza, E., Gartner, M., Giuffrida, J. P., Montgomery, E. B., Jr., . . . Revilla, F. J. (2016). Computer-Guided Deep Brain Stimulation Programming for Disease. Neuromodulation, 19(2), 127-132. Retrieved February 05, 2017, from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=471d5e04- cfb8-4f7e-8d45-07e046b6bc8f%40sessionmgr4010&vid=0&hid=4108&bdata=Jn NpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=113138318&db=aph Roeder 6 The fourth article focused on the programming of DBS for PD. Seven people where used in this research, who had all recently received a DBS implant. First they were monitored while patients were on the general pulse voltage setting, then using a temporary controller voltage was increased by 0.3 and arms and hands were monitored. There is a graph to understand the next step, as in, if the general setting is enough voltage, or if more is needed. After discovering the steps needed to decrease the tremble, an algorithm was made to control the DBS implant 24/7. It was successful in all 7 patients, average improvement percent was 35.7% and programming time took an average of 89 minutes. This technique could help patients who have DBS program- ing centers near, and they could control their symptoms all day, everyday and have their implants adjusted more frequently, if needed. The authors who produced this article consist of biomedical researchers, biomedical product managers, and president of Great Lakes NeuroTechnologies Inc., one author is a neurol- ogist, another an associate professor of neurology, and a movement disorders and deep brain stimulation programming specialist all from University of Cincinnati, one is from University of Cincinnati and Greenville Health System, University of South Carolina School of Medicine- Greenville, and specializes in neurology. This article is relevant because the researchers involved studied the programming side of the treatment, and produced an algorithm for patients, doctors and researchers to rely on. Lim, A. S., Moro, E., Lozano, A. M., Hamani, C., Dostrovsky, J. O., Hutchison, W. D., . . . Mur ray, B. J. (2009). Selective enhancement of rapid eye movement sleep by deep brain Roeder 7 stimulation of the human pons. Annals of Neurology, 66(1), 110-114. doi:10.1002/ana. 21631 This article did a study with a very small test group male and female, over the age of 50 with disease. All undergoing DBS, at different voltage levels, and some taking addi- tional medications, the study used polysomnography, which is just a sleep study, to observe the rapid eye movement (REM) sleep cycles. Normally this is the stage of sleep when people dream and this is also the heaviest sleep. REM cycles happen multiple times during sleep dependent on the person and the length of the sleep. Through the study, would be monitored falling asleep, and entering REM cycles, once done with one REM cycle, they would stop using DBS treatments and record the next REM cycle, once that is over they turn on the DBS treatment and record the next REM cycle and so on and so forth until the patient wakes up. The purpose of the study is to connect DBS treatments to REM cycle patterns, which control brain maturity, ho- meostasis or the bodies natural balance of itself, learning and emotions, all which could signifi- cantly alter someones daily life, if DBS changes one or more of those things. The research con- cluded that two patients felt more alert after REM sleep with DBS but one had more dream recall and one had much less dream recall, one felt no difference with or without DBS, and one felt more like she had more refreshing sleep with DBS. These researchers do believe DBS signifi- cantly changes the REM cycle sleep the patients are having. Which mean DBS could also be modifying learning, alertness and emotions. The authors who conducted this study work in the Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine at the University of Toronto with specialties in sleep disorders, as well as working in Roeder 8 the Department of Physiology at the University of Toronto. This study proves another side effect DBS could have on patients. There are a few articles that prove DBS could have life changing effects, besides helping the effects of disease. Levy-Tzedek, S., Krebs, H. I., Shils, J. L., Apetauerova, D., & Arle, J. E. (2007). dis ease: a motor control study using a wrist robot. Advanced Robotics, 21(10), 1201-1213. doi:10.1163/156855307781389383 This article shows research on the control patients have while undergoing Deep Brain Stimulation. Patients are set up in a chair with their arms laying on the rests, and only using wrist and hand movements they must follow lines or patterns given on the screen in front of them. They are tested with no voltage being produced and then again with their normal settings. The point of the research is to improve the voltages conducted to give the movements a more smooth feel, as well as reducing as much tremor as possible. The results varied, some could follow the lines given with very minimal mistakes or imperfections, while others keep the line in the same area continuously, and would have spasms. Through the study five different patterns of control were found, ranging from inability to perform any task given, to only able during DBS treatment, to using DBS for the beginning of the task and letting it wear off, to someone who can 50% of the time follow the lines, to someone who can constantly follow the task given without sharp unwanted movements. With the new research found the effectiveness of the voltages can be better observed, and with that they can also be better maintained. The authors who contributed work and study at the Division of Clinical Neurosciences in Newcastle General Hospital, the Division of Clinical Neurosciences at the University of Roeder 9 Southampton, and the West London Neurosciences Centre, Charing Cross Hospital in London. This article is needed because it displays the different amounts of control that the voltages can have on patients, and also shows how severe certain cases of disease can be. This is helpful in weighing out whether the negative effects of DBS is worth the positive effects of DBS, especially if in some cases a tremor is still happening.