Gill 1 Cover Letter I opened my paper with a quote on wearing clothing to show how clothing has been around for a very long time and shaped the way clothing is today. My opening engages the reader through a story that shows the relevance of clothing since the beginning of humans. My thesis is: the Society For Indecency To Naked Animals, or SINA, should urge Gymboree, a company that specializes in toddler clothing and toys, to start making and selling animal I am calling Gymboree, a child to toddler clothing and toy company, to act and to start making animal clothing. I did use topic sentences, but in the line before so that the reader understands my reasoning for calling on Gymboree. No, all of the sources I used are reliable. I used pictures in this essay, which I do not normally do. Usually when I type essays, they are formal language, but this is a nice change and it adds a little comedy to my paper. Gill 2 Jordan Gill Murray ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Clothing for Animals The Neanderthals first wore clothing, and Nathan Wales, a Ph.D. in Ancient DNA and Archeology, describes how clothing patterns are still in use and are modeled across Europe and over a range of Pleistocene environmental (Wales). However, never in history has it been normal for an animal to wear clothing. What exactly defines who can and cannot wear clothing? Alex Boese, a museum curator, wrote an article in which he shows that this issue was actually brought up in 1959 when G. Clifford Prout introduced his society, the Society For Indecency To Naked Animals, in which Prout tried to clothe all animals, wrote an article. His society used catchy slogans such as: today means morality and nude horse is a rude (Boese). Animals should be held to the same regard as humans and start to wear clothing because it is considered public indecency to be naked in public, it will keep the animals warm regardless of the surrounding climate, and the clothes can give the animals a sense of fashion. Therefore, the Society For Indecency To Naked Animals, or SINA, should urge Gymboree, a company that specializes in toddler clothing and toys, to start making and selling animal clothes. Animals should start to wear clothing because it is considered public indecency when one is naked and in public. As defined by the United States government, generally refers to acts involving nudity or sexual activity in view of the public, often with the Gill 3 intent to shock, offend, or (Stanley). If a human were in public with no clothing, he or she would get arrested. Nonhuman animals should be held to this standard as well because technically we are both considered animals and we both live together on the same Earth. If Gymboree developed animal clothing, this would make for animal clothing to be more accessible and they would no longer be breaking the law. Clothes allow humans to remain warm, so why not for animals as well? There are two types of animals: those who are warm-blooded and those who are cold-blooded. Warm-blooded animals, such as humans and dogs, maintain a steady body temperature regardless of the surrounding climate. According to Alan Mulhall, an editorial for NASA, a warm-blooded animals eats plenty of food to keep warm, in which small amount of the food that a warm- blooded animal eats is converted into body mass. The rest is used to fuel a constant body (Mulhall). If all animals were clothed, their bodies would use less energy to maintain the body temperature and could instead be directed toward something else. On the other hand, cold-blooded body temperatures are similar to the temperature of the climate they are in. animals are much more active in warm environments and are very sluggish in cold environments. This is because their muscle activity depends on chemical reactions, which run quickly when it is hot, and slowly when it is (Mulhall). To some animals, this could mean life or death. Whether the animal is catching food or running from predators, the mobility would depend on the temperature. Now, if a cold-blooded animal was wearing something to keep it warm always, the animal could then either successfully catch its food or run away. Gymboree could state that they help animals stay alive longer and preserve energy due to the clothing they developed. This would help promote the business with the public. Gill 4 Animals have no sense of style or sense of individuality. According to Samantha Hurn, a social anthropologist, is one of the myriad of ways in which humans attempt to separate themselves from or align themselves with each (Hurn 110). If animals start to wear clothing, it could promote a sense of individuality among the animals by them deciding what to wear and how to wear it. All animals could have distinguishing clothing, similar to how American clothing is different from Asian clothing, which is different from Hispanic clothing. In doing this, Gymboree will provide people with more jobs to make and design animal clothing. Plus, both the animals clothing and the animals in the clothing would be adorable and entertaining to look at. Some people would be against the idea of animal clothing, saying that tend to rely exclusively on their own skins, fur and plumage for protection from the (Hurn 110) and therefore do not need clothes. However, animals and society is always evolving, so why not let clothing evolve as well. Some animals are more susceptible to harsh weather, such as baby penguins that need the warmth of their parents to keep them alive, and would live an easier life if they did not always have to worry about how to find warmth. Gymboree would therefore be the first company to make the first step towards the advancement of clothing. In summary, animals should wear clothing made by Gymboree due to the public indecency laws, to be kept warm, and to be fashionable. History is always changing and evolving, so should the rule regarding animal clothing. Furthermore, just imagine a world where all cats would be dressed up in top hats, penguins in sweaters, and dogs would wear pajamas. To show you what the world would be like, I included a few pictures of the future from a blog by Beverly Jenkins. Gill 5 Gill 6 Works Cited Boese, Alex. The Society for Indecency to Naked  Museum of Hoaxes. Museum of Hoaxes, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hurn, Samantha. Dressing Down: Clothing animals, disguising  Civilisations 59.2 (2011):109. Web. Jenkins, Beverly. 10 Funniest Clothes-Wearing Animals (animals, Clothes, Dressed-  Oddee. Oddee, 18 May 2012. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Mulhall, Alan. Warm and Cold Blooded  Warm and Cold Blooded Animals. NASA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Stanley, Tim. Public Indecency  Justia 1.12 (2009): 12-13. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Wales, Nathan. Modeling Neanderthal clothing using ethnographic  Journal of human evolution 63.6 (2012): 781-795.