Fuller 1 Delaney Fuller Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Vaccine Controversy in the United States The decision on whether a parent should have their child vaccinated or not has become a recent debate and has gained more attention and research due to the potential of vaccinations causing more harm than good. Most school systems in the United States require a basic physical assessment from a physician that then leads to the child receiving a series of vaccinations over the course of the his or her first eighteen years of life. Although these vaccinations are mandated, many parents are disheartened by this prevention method due to the belief that thimerosal, a mercury-based preservative found in certain vaccines, is linked to some illnesses including autism (Bellinger). Many members of society do not want to take any potential risks and are opting out of vaccinations completely, such as the members of the Vaccination Resistance Movement. Other groups, such as Voices for Vaccines, advocate for everyone to vaccinate their children and do not believe in the potential repercussions. Instead of answering the question with a simple yes or no, the Vaccine Resistance Movement and Voices for Vaccines should combine efforts to research the links between vaccinations and certain illnesses, educate the public with facts regarding both sides of the argument, and create an alternate illness prevention method. The Vaccine Resistance Movement is a non-profit-organization that aims to teach people to look within the body for healing rather than turning to a pharmaceutical product. The Vaccine Fuller 2 Resistance Movement is also considered a grassroots organization, meaning it is not affiliated with the government but still supports political, economic, or sociocultural movements. The mission statement of this organization states the four common goals they hope to accomplish. The goals include teaching people around the world their own instinct for self-determination of the body, exposing vaccine fraud and media/government malfeasance, beginning preparation for possible lawsuits of respective health agencies worldwide, and identifying the real cause and cure for Autism (Vaccine Resistance). Autism does not have just one definitive cause, although there are many different factors that are believed to be led to a child being born with autism. One of these potential causes is a child receiving vaccinations that contain thimerosal, a mercury-based preservative. Although research shows there are certain cases where thimerosal is linked to children who have Autism, the amount of children affected is minimal. Since very few children can prove this link, thimerosal can be ruled out as a direct Joel Lord, the founder and director of the Vaccine Resistance Movement, hopes to fund more research about having children receive mandated vaccinations. The Vaccine Resistance Movement does not require subscribers to pay a monthly or annual fee but does encourage donations at the convenience. Joel Lord believes that human species is not at war with nature. Nature is, in fact, the ultimate and encourages holistic and naturalistic remedies (Vaccine Resistance). By educating people around the world about abandoning Westernized beliefs about disease prevention, Lord hopes to continue voicing his beliefs and to permanently eliminate the vaccine method. Voices for Vaccines is a parent-led-organization that believes in the continuation of on-time immunizations to prevent those diseases that can simply be stopped by a vaccine or Fuller 3 series of vaccines. The organization aims to provide evidence-based facts about the importance and power of vaccinating children, to create a community of parents who agree with these ideals, and to invite those non members to join the movement (About). Most of the people who speak out about vaccinations are against the cause rather than in support of it. Doctor Paul Offit explained that many people who chose to not vaccinate are not aware of the potential hazards of not vaccinating due to their economic status or even lack of knowledge (Beyerstein).Voices for Vaccines creates an opportunity for all parents to encourage those who may not be on either extreme side of the argument to vaccinate their children. This organization informs people through the opinions and knowledge of other members (backed up by evidence), allowing a parent to be invited into a community where he or she can discuss facts rather than simply researching them. There is no cost to join this organization and no obligations once a person is a member, just the opportunity to be informed through talks, calls, and a monthly newsletter (About). Although the Vaccine Resistance Movement and Voices for Vaccines have completely opposing opinions, both of these organizations share one common goal: ensuring the health of the future generations to come. Both of these organizations were built to inform others with evidence based facts about the side of the argument they agree with. They both have created communities that welcome members of all walks of life to join them and they encourage freedom of speech. These organizations, how a person may join them, and what a membership entails are all available on both of the website, making the information extremely accessible to all. Both the Vaccine Resistance Movement and Voices for Vaccines have the ability to educate large numbers of people about both the pros and cons of the choice to vaccinate or not. Fuller 4 To educate the people of the United States of America, the Vaccine Resistance Movement and Voices for Vaccines should join forces to research and create an alternate immunization process. This process could include less dangerous vaccines or a completely different method of disease prevention entirely, such as a series of oral medications. In order to accomplish these broad goals, the two organizations must first combine their funds. Next, they need to conduct a plan on how to reach the highest amount of people possible. To do this, the two organizations could create an ad campaign with methods and explanations on how to join their movement. By creating commercialized television, computer, and cellular ads, the new organization will be able to capitalize on the previous methods the two previously individual organizations utilized to reach all their members. Another goal the new organization should try to accomplish is to ensure the new, alternate methods are accessible to all demographics of the United States. A recent study showed that a group of mothers who chose to vaccinate their children tended to be middle-class, well-educated, and married. The group of people whose children were under-vaccinated were more likely to live below the poverty line, to be single, and have recently moved (Vaccine Controversies). This proves that not all cases or sides of this debate are necessarily a choice and that more education and resources need to be provided to all demographics. All children deserve the chance at living a full and healthy life just as all parents deserve to know both the positive and negative aspects of choosing to vaccinate his or her child or not. Both Voices for Vaccines and the Vaccine Resistance Movement aim to educate the public about factual information that back up their beliefs by creating a group of people who can discuss and spread this information . If these two organizations were to come together to create one group Fuller 5 that aims at educating and providing a safe disease prevention method that also fits the needs of all demographics, then the future generations of the United States would no longer have to worry about the potential repercussions of certain vaccines. Word Count: 1209 Fuller 6 Works Cited  For Vaccines . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Bellinger, David, and Roberta White. 30.  : Practical Guide for Deciding Really Safe and Really Dangerous in the World Around You , by David Ropeik and George Cray, Houghton Mifflin, 2002, p. 247+ Beyerstein, Lindsay. Vaccines and the anti-vaccination movement: an interview with Dr. Paul  Inquirer , May-June 2015 Vaccine Controversies Are As Social As They Are  Edition , 30 Sept. 2014. Vaccine Resistance  Resistance Movement RSS . N.p., n.d. Web. 288 Jan. 2017.