Longerbeam 1 Megan Longerbeam Professor Hernandez ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Teaching to the Test Standardized tests have become a very normal occurrence for children in the education system. These modernized versions are used to determine intelligence and find students with possible learning difficulties (Issitt). While the League of United Latin American Citizens supports the idea of standardized tests so they can set students up for success in future endeavors, FairTest and other similar organizations are fighting these high-stake tests Neill). In order to appease both groups, a compromise can be made to protect students from such high stake tests but also to ensure every child is receiving the same level of education. These tests should be used to collect data and find areas where more help is needed, however they should not be used as an indicator of which classes a student should be placed in. With one test allowed per year per core subject, we can dramatically decrease the amount of time spent on taking tests. This will also remove the stress from students, but can still collect data in order to find school districts in need of extra help from the government. This compromise can be easily adopted by both stakeholders, FairTest and LULAC. The National Center for Fair and Open Testing, FairTest, aims to end the discrimination of race, gender, and class placed by standardized tests. This organization believes multiple choice questions do not encourage deep thinking but measure a superficial level of intelligence (Neill). Quinn Mulholland, writer of Harvard Political article Case Against Longerbeam 2 Standardized discusses the complications with President signing of the No Child Left Behind Act. If schools did not make yearly they were administered By 2011, Mulholland found that almost half of our schools are failing in the eyes of the government (Mulholland). A development in the Every Student Succeeds Act which replaced No Child Left Behind has brought about both hope for reform as well as possible risks. This act allows for testing to be moved from federal decisions to the local government in deciding what is tested on. Although local authorities and parents hold more power, there are also many tests given to students that are not federally required. This means that local authorities could actually require more tests than the federal government had. To achieve their goal, FairTest is seeking the help of students, parents, and educators to opt out of standardized tests while informing their local officials of the misuse of such high stake tests (Neill). Protecting students is not only goal, it is also the goal of the League of United Latin American Citizens. LULAC opposes the efforts of FairTest as they believe standardized tests provide data to improve education and advocate for the equality of students. LULAC was formed in 1929, a time when Hispanics were discriminated upon and denied their rights. This organization was formed in order to empower the people who needed it most. While education is only a fraction of what this organization stands for, they are passionate about setting students up for success in college and in the working world (LULAC). Both FairTest and LULAC aim to protect minorities from inequalities, but their stances on standardized testing differ dramatically. Every student must be represented in order to accurately assess schools and teaching methods. In their Oppose press release, LULAC contests along with many other Civil Rights organizations that until federal laws were put into place to require Longerbeam 3 every student to partake in the standardized tests, certain groups were excluded in taking the test so schools would receive higher scores without having to teach every student (Leadership Conference). LULAC recognizes that there are still ways to misuse the data recorded from these tests, but believe the most important issue is teaching every student the same subject matter regardless of their race, gender, and class (LULAC). Even if either one of these organizations accomplished their goals completely, problems would still persist. FairTest aims to abolish standardized tests completely to avoid any kind of discrimination that could come about. If this were to happen, a chain of events would follow shortly thereafter. There would be no way to verify that the same subjects are being taught across the country, or even in the classroom next door. To set students up for the collegiate level, there must be a set cirriculum to be covered in order to ensure no one student is left behind. Also, these standardized tests are a very important factor in how funding is distributed to schools. The government relies on test scores to award money to schools where it is needed most (Issitt). The U.S. Department of Education sets aside $403 million to administer state tests. After these results are collected, another $25 million is used to aid the schools with pressing needs for developments in their programs Without them, the government has no way of knowing where their efforts should be focused. On the other hand, if LULAC were to get their wishes, education would become more about filling in bubbles on a sheet of paper than using a solid foundation of knowledge to face problems. Valerie Strauss, a writer of the Washington Post, claims in her article that students take an average of one hundred and twelve standardized tests in their twelve years of school. This comes out to about twenty-five hours of test-taking per year for each student These tests are used not only to determine Longerbeam 4 the intelligence of students, but also the teaching practices of educators. If tests become the most important aspects of school, teachers will only teach to what is on the test. Teachers are supposed to provide help in inspiring students to want to learn. If teachers are not passionate about teaching to the tests, the education will suffer. Since many teachers have shown their discontent with these tests, it is likely that if the government does not regulate the amount of tests students can take, the quality of education will suffer. There must be a compromise in order to avoid these problems but to also appease FairTest and LULAC. In order for both organizations to comply with a compromise, it must support the core beliefs of both. If schools were limited to administering one standardized test per core subject per year, we could accurately collect data to see where each grade level stands in their knowledge and how some areas compare to others of the same grade level. This is different than what is happening now since students are taking over nine of these high-stakes tests per year Not only that, but these nine tests are imperative for schools to place students in their respective classes for the following year, or even to allow a student to pass their grade level. Along with normal graduation requirements, students are required to pass their state mandated tests to graduate This puts extra stress on students at the end of their academic career even though they have proved their learnings over the past twelve years. With this compromise, no tests would be required to pass in order to graduate or progress to the next grade level. If a student cannot graduate, it will be because of their performance in the classroom. The government will save money with this plan and have more money to award districts with high scores or low scores to improve their system. Their $403 million to administer state tests will dramatically decrease and the $25 million to disperse Longerbeam 5 among districts can increase, putting more money into schools than into the tests This would appease FairTest as the amount of tests are limited which means teachers can focus on their methods of teaching rather than prepping for many tests their students will have to pass. The Center for Research and Evaluation conducted a study where 341 teachers were asked if their methods of teaching were changed due to the amount of standardized tests. They found that, does influence the teaching and learning objectives within (Herman). With this compromise, teachers can return to their ways of teaching without such rigid guidelines of a test to be worried about. LULAC will also be happy in this agreement as they still have data to use in order to find areas in need and help set students up for college or the working world. This compromise can easily be adopted by both groups since it relieves students of such rigid high-stakes tests while also preparing them for their future endeavors. This compromise is not only going to benefit FairTest and LULAC, but it will also better the education system in the United States. Since both organizations would have faced their own set of problems if their goals were carried out completely, a compromise is the only way to completely solve the issue of standardized tests. Two stakeholders with seemingly opposite views can unite as one stronger force to set positive change into effect. Our level of education in the U.S. is something we pride ourselves on as a country, however there are still problems we need to fix. If we allow these standardized tests to continue as-is, our country will see a decreasing number of teachers that are willing to teach to the test, and students will not be passionate about their learnings. This compromise is imperative in keeping our country up to the standards we believe it should be. Longerbeam 6 Works Cited Confirmed: Standardized testing has taken over our schools. But to  The Washington Post. WP Company, 24 Oct. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Fact Sheet: Testing Action  U.S. Department of Education. 24 Oct. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Herman, Joan L., and Shari Golan. ERIC - Effects of Standardized Testing on Teachers and Learning--Another  ERIC - Effects of Standardized Testing on Teachers and Learning--Another Look. 1990. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. Issitt McMahon, Micah L. Maureen. Standardized  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. Civil Rights Groups: We Oppose Anti- Testing . LULAC. 05 May 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Education  League of United Latin American Citizens. LULAC, 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Mulholland, Quinn. Case Against Standardized Harvard Political Review, 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Neill, Monty, ed. The National Center for Fair & Open  The National Center for Fair & Open Testing FairTest. N.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. State Testing - Office of Superintendent of Public  Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction - State Testing. 04 Oct. 2016. Web. 09 Feb. 2017. Longerbeam 7