Clark 1 In the process of selecting this topic I was torn between several different ideas. As we sat in class and discussed with our partners our ideas I reached to grab a pen from my backpack and saw the glaring yellow papers shoved in between my notebooks serving as a reminder to pay my ticket and instantly knew what I wanted to write about. After driving through Virginia over Christmas break and being intrigued by their I spent a few days researching speed and law enforcements tactful ways of catching speeders. In the process of writing this paper I would think about it during the week but like most college students I would always wait until the very last minute to actually get anything done. I found that sitting in the floor or in an uncomfortable chair helped me to write better and actually focus on the task at hand because that meant the sooner I got done the sooner I could get up. I also learned that not kidding when they say schedule writing center meeting weeks in advance. I attempted to set up an appointment after receiving feedback but could not find an opening for at least two weeks. Compared to last semester in ENC 1101 I definitely value my writing more and value honest feedback from my peers. For this paper I wish I could have received more feedback from my group but what I did receive was very useful and I believe helped me tremendously. Clark 2 Gabrielle Clark Instructor: TJ Murray ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Speed Limit Reduction For many Americans seeing those flashing red and blue lights in the rear view mirror is never a great feeling, especially while driving a little too fast down the road. The definition of as defined by the Mirriam-Webster dictionary states that it is act or state of moving For some the word can generally be associated with the poor habit of speeding while operating a personal vehicle. A reduced speed has been shown to lower road fatalities, lower vehicle emission rates, and increase situational awareness. Posted speed limits should be reduced by the Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles in order to promote a safer driving environment. Reducing the posted speed limit has been shown to lead to a lowered road fatality rate. Within the past few years, news of deaths on the highway and local roads has plagued society leading to hesitant travel. In a report presented by the New York Post it is shown that with a speed reduction to 25 miles per hour in 2014, New York City saw a 10.5 percent decrease in all fatalities. Mitchell Moss, a professor of urban planning at NYU and the director of the Rudin Center for Transportation Policy and Management stated, think very important that New York City has a continuing trend in an effort to control speed and to design for pedestrian (4). With continuing research being conducted by state and local highway safety agencies it may become more common to see traffic fatalities decrease as speed limits are reduced as well. Clark 3 A lowered speed limit leads to lower vehicle emission rates. Various studies have been conducted to show the correlation between vehicle emissions and global warming. One such study was conducted by the London Congestion Charge System in which they studied how lowered vehicle traffic in the accompanied with lowered speed limits led to a lower rate of NOx emissions. are referring to areas in which drivers where charged a fee to drive there in order to promote use of public transportation instead. Lowered speed limits may also promote drivers to simply avoid being behind the wheel altogether in some countries and turn to more sustainable public transit. With a lower speed limit it will promote more situational awareness amongst drivers. To most drivers a posted sign is simply a rather than a law and see it as okay to go a few miles per hour over the limit. This justification is proven incorrect by the amounts of distracted drivers and crashes. What many drivers realize and take into consideration is the road terrain and how this factor is already weighed into the speed limit imposed by the state or local agency. According to the U.S. Department of Transportation in 2015 was a factor in 27 percent of motor vehicle crash deaths. Speeding has been a factor in more than a quarter of crash deaths since 2005. Speeding was defined to include crashes in which the driver was issued a traffic citation for speeding or in which driver-related factors included driving too fast for conditions, racing or exceeding the posted speed A lowered speed limit will lead to a better chance of an increased reaction time. Although research has been shown to back the idea of lowering posted speed limits, various amounts of contradicting research has also been presented. For example, little research has been provided to show the overall effectiveness of lowering speed limits compared to NOx emission rates. With increased technology in personal vehicles the government and car Clark 4 manufacturers have been able to cooperate and therefore adequately advance the Eco boost technology in modern cars. This has led to the ability to increase the amount of commuters on the roads while simultaneously lowering emission rates. On the other hand though, even with advancing car technologies it will still take many years to see an abundance of eco boost cars on the road as compared to regular vehicles. In conclusion a reduced speed has been shown to lower road fatalities, lower vehicle emission rates, and increase situational awareness. Although controversial this topic should be heavily considered in age of increased personal travel. Posted speed limits should be reduced in order to promote a safer driving environment. Clark 5 Works Cited General  Fatality Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. Keller, Johannes. The impact of reducing the maximum speed limit on motorways in Switzerland to 80 km on emissions and peak  Environmental Modelling & Software 23.3 (2008): 322-32. Web. Islam, M.D. Tazul. The impact of lowered residential speed limits on vehicle speed  Safety Science (2014): 483-94. Web. Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web Road deaths drop after speed limit  New York Post [New York, 2 Jan. 2016. Sayed, Tarek. Evaluating the safety impact of increased speed limits on rural highways in British  Accident Analysis & Prevention 95 (2016): 172-77. Web. Wang, Xu, Yuwei Bie, Tony Z. Qiu, and Lei Niu. Effect of speed limits at speed transition  Canadian Journal of Civil Engineering 44.1 (2017): 10-17. Web.