Kaushal 1 This essay is purely a work of satire. I wanted to make that abundantly clear. To me, satire or any other method of talking about a sensitive or prevalent subject in society today that provides levity is a great way to talk about such issues. I think if done correctly satire and methods like it not only entertain readers, but also assist in the edification of them as well. Thus, when I was thinking of way to complete this assignment I thought what better than talking about college while currently a college student. However, from the various articles and journal publications I read opinions about college were typically drab, and I found myself snoring halfway through them. when I thought it would be incredibly enjoyable to write an essay arguing for the abolishment of college even though I ardently believe that everyone should attend to college if they can. Although having an amazing time being sarcastic or witty in this essay my intention is to also inform and educate. Specifically, in the penultimate paragraph in this essay I lay out my various positions on why college is so incredibly beneficial even though it may seem that begrudgingly admitting it. I think another part of why writing this essay so pleasing was that I felt that I could educate my readers because of the variety of reliable and academic sources that I cited. When I first wrote a draft of this essay I thought it was humorous and engaging, but it was doused in subjectivity. Even though I want my voice to be uniquely heard throughout the essay I felt that if I had some reliable sources to call upon it would only serve to make my argument stronger, and frankly more believable. So, what I did, I added sources from reputable publications that substantiate and bolster the claims I was making. Simultaneously, while adding these sources I believed, when writing, that I would also be educating my readers not only for my satirized argument on why college should be abolished, but also stating why college is necessary and important. Kaushal 2 There one aspect of this essay that was initially difficult to integrate before I started completed this final draft. Although I had a good thesis and supporting points, my thesis was too broad. After thinking about it for a few hours or so been shorter but Netflix gets in the way) I ultimately decided that it in the spirit of my satire-like essay I thought it would amusing to have the government, in the context of my thesis, be the ones to abolish college. I thought it would so incomprehensible to have the government do this that my readers would have to, if they at this point in the essay, clearly understand that being utterly sarcastic. What funny is how when I was finding sources for this part of the essay I found a myriad of articles mentioning about the rise in tuition being directly correlated to bad government legislation and the absurd amount of money going into government financial aid. However, no matter how perturbing this may be, it fit perfectly into the narrative about how the government could work to abolish college (yea I can sleep at night knowing this). All in all, like I stated before, my goal of this essay was to provide a witty yet informative way of letting people know that college is good and very important. I wrote this essay in a very genuine and conversational way so that my overall point could come across easily without sounding preachy and pedantic. Additionally, by having sources to back up whatever supporting arguments I was making, I could lend not only some credibility to my reasoning, but it also served to essentially prove that my way of thinking about these issues were not shared solely by me. It is my sincere hope that you, the reader, will understand what I was trying to accomplish with this essay, and that you thoroughly enjoy the essay written. be honest though, I want to get an on this paper so I can feel good about myself instead of wallowing in self-pity and misery. Is that sarcasm? I know you can be the judge of that. Kaushal 3 Adithya Kaushal TJ Murray ENC 1102 12 February 2017 College Should be Abolished BOOZE, ESSAYS, TESTS, STUDYING, PANICING, CRAMMING, and LEARNING ABSOLUTELY NOTHING: this is college. However, difficult to wean college off from people; it is something that has been deeply engrained in our society. A college education is deemed as a gold standard, or nowadays a regular standard and as a mark of success. However, this rhetoric should be crumpled-up, trashed, and be thrown away to a dark, barren crevice. College itself is an institution that is severely flawed so why exactly should so many strive to receive an education from one? Well, they should not. I genuinely believe that college should be abolished, but how would that happen? I think college could be abolished by an institution that is clearly not as flawed as college: the government. Now yes, to some this idea is ludicrous however, I truly feel that abolishing college is a necessity, for a few reasons. First, the college system does not foster true learning it only encourages memorization of test-taking and regurgitation of knowledge. Second, a college education regarding a certain major or field is not comparable to real experience in such field. Learning, the process of acquiring knowledge, or whatever method people use to become skilled, require a myriad of aspects. Through nuance, patience, repetition, and real-life examples is how people learn, or how I believe people learn the absolute best. believe me? In a scientific study researchers found that students to explain the reasoning behind their answers, and using case studies can all facilitate (Clay 67). Additionally, in another Kaushal 4 scientific study it was found that and focused study sessions may seem are spending most of your brainpower on trying to maintain your leave a lot of brain energy for (Parker-Pope). That is the complete antithesis of what is being taught and expounded upon in college. In college, the spewing out of subject material and memorization of test-taking strategies is what is emphasized as the main model of learning. What I have found, as a third-year college student, is that professors are simply resigned to providing an overabundance of information on a subject with little clarification. Crazily, they give a miniscule amount of time to effectively learn such information so that it can be applied on an exam. Furthermore, to be successful in some college courses, students simply have to memorize how the teacher gives his or her exams in order to pass; this is wrong. Be it through the teaching plans set forth by the college or the ennui of the professors, this manner of teaching is simply ineffective in cultivating the learning process for college students. Learning, to me, in the college environment should be active and engaging. It should not be like the passivity that is present in many of the classes that are taught. Learning is also something that is best left to the individual. If people had the ease of being able to learn at their own pace about the respective subjects that interest themselves, this could possibly foster a better and happier set of educated people. Is that not what we want? A happier and more educated work-force? If were allowed to learn at their own rate coupled with the ability to engage in a certain field of work that is within their relative interests, I would be hard-pressed not to say that it would not be a success. The whole idea surrounding college is that it one for the real This statement should be filed as an While the current college system does provide some skills and knowledge that could be applicable to whatever field a student may be interested in entering, the material in college only deals in hypotheticals and theory that relates to a subject Kaushal 5 matter. I reckon that by immersing in a specific field of work people would learn and gain practical skills, directly from those who are skilled, that make them useful while also acquiring applicable knowledge about their certain field. For example, why do medical schools require students to attend college? Why students simply able to take the MCAT and gain acceptance to a medical school to learn and being the process of becoming a doctor? This would not only drastically increase the rate at which motivated people can become doctors, but could also potentially quench the crisis of severe shortages and marked maldistribution of health (Crisp and Chen 1). Through bypassing the ineffectiveness and impractical college system that deals in the theoretical, would be able to deal and become incredibly more productive and knowledgeable members of society more quickly. Now, all these points I have made, backed by reputable sources, are great. My idea of abolishing college is great, but not explaining how the government would abolish college is not great. However, here to rectify that. I truly believe the government could actually abolish college, after all they created the major problems with college in the first place. arguably the major problem with college? SO OUTLANDISHLY EXPENSIVE. Without taking student loans, people sell their kidneys on the black market just so they can sleep in class. Now many people assume that colleges are just mean-spirited and conniving institutions for charging exorbitant amounts of money to attend, and though they are the real incompetence lies with government. Colleges charge more for people to attend because of misguided legislation passed by the government. Specifically, in 2010 there was signed that ending subsidies for private banks giving federally guaranteed student the federal government, not banks, the choice of most (Cary). So, since private banks were not the favorable choice anymore, students who wanted to attend colleges relied on the government to Kaushal 6 help them with their education, and surprise, students were let-down. Ultimately, the government found itself in position in which as it pumping money financial aid, the more money colleges for (Cary). The same government that passed legislation to help students deal with the costs of college was, and is, contributing to the ridiculous costs of attending college. So, if the government caused this problem in the first place, why not have the government deal with problem now? Just get rid of college. Now that you asked, I have a couple of ideas of how the government could maybe do this. The government could start by introducing legislation that completely defunds financial aid and redistributes it to specific private and public sector institutions that are important in the development of specific careers. For example, money could be given to the National Institute of Health which in return could use that capital to create educational and career programs for people motivated in the variety of health-related fields that are present. The government could also take a more drastic measure through executive or judicial action. Through this, the government could legally require all colleges to immediately shut down or, more interestingly, take control of all the respective endowments from each college. With the control of billions, maybe trillions of dollars, the government could create or distribute money to career-specific training, and still have capital left over to deal with other monetary issues plaguing the country. See, so simple, the government could abolish colleges right now if they wanted to. I even gave them some ideas of how they could get started. However, I could be completely and utterly wrong about a college education and its value. I am especially wrong about how the government could abolish the government, if you tell. Though the college system is plagued with many faults, there are a plethora of positive aspects that stem from a college education. Unlike the hyper-focused learning that I proposed, a college education provides individuals with the ability to get a more well-rounded Kaushal 7 education. Instead of learning about one subject matter, college students can study a variety of topics ranging from Alexander the Great to Calculus. With having an all-encompassing education that includes many different studies it allows for a people to gain more of an understanding about the world they are in; instead of having a unilateral way of thinking. In addition, many academics claim that the return on investment of a college education, despite the rising costs of a college education, are at some of the highest values they have ever been. For example, as compared to the average high school graduate, an average college graduate over $800,000 more than the average high school graduate by retirement (Daly and Bengali 1). Moreover, while many people assume that value of a college degree has declined because of falling wages and rises in return to a college degree has held steady for more than a decade at around 15 (Abel and Deitz 2). Ultimately, it is quite apparent that getting a college education may insure a more comprehensive educational experience it most definitely guarantees the likelihood of earing more money than those without a college education. All in all, there is a compelling case for the effectiveness of getting a college education. Yet, I still strongly argue for the removal of the college system via the government as it ineffective in allowing students to learn properly and, does not allow for people to immediately specialize and gain knowledge for a relative field of interest. However, this is absurd, everyone should have the chance and attend college. Not only is college a way to find your passion it serves as a cocoon for you to grow both academically and socially regardless of what teaching style you are faced with, unless of course Donald Trump. Kaushal 8 Works Cited Abel, Jaison R., and Richard Deitz. Do the Benefits of College Still Outweigh the  Current Issues in Economics and Finance 20.3 (2014): 1-12. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Cary, Mary Kate. Why the Government is to Blame for High College  U.S. News & World Report. N.p., 23 Nov. 2011. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Clay, Rebecca A. Science shows us the best ways to learn: Tap into the evidence-based resources that can help students  Monitor on Psychology 41.11 (2010): 67. American Psychological Association. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Crisp, Nigel, and Lincoln Chen. Global Supply of Health  New England Journal of Medicine 370.10 (2014): 950-57. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Daly, Mary C., and Lisa Bengali. Is It Still Worth Going to College?  FRBSF Economic Letter (2014): n. pag. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Parker-Pope, Tara. Better Ways to  The New York Times. N.p., 6 Oct. 2014. Web. 7 Feb. 2017.