Sian 1 Sonal Sian Emil Smith Composition I February 19, 2017 The Ethics of Physician Assisted Suicide The physician-patient relationship has come a long way since the creation of the Hippocratic oath. Hippocrates encouraged a paternalistic take on the role of a doctor, wherein a physician was expected to be the altruistic guide that led the patient down whatever path he deemed best for his condition. Fortunately, society has since evolved from these older philosophical views, and patients now plays a more active role in the medical decisions made in regards to themselves. In fact, the patient has become so much more vocalized now that it has brought forth the issue of physician assisted suicide, which involves doctor intentionally helping a person commit suicide by providing drugs for self-administration, at that voluntary and competent (Materstvedt, 2003). The issue with medical requests rises when physicians are faced with a request for physician assisted suicide (PAS). When a patient is on their death bed and is suffering tremendously, is it the duty to terminate the suffering by actively taking part in the death and providing the means to commit suicide? Not necessarily. There are many ways for a physician to mitigate the suffering and to prevent anything that is death delaying, such as discontinuing a life support. Through the course of this research, a close look at a case dealing with a involvement with PAS displays the extent to which participating in PAS can go wrong. Thus, this research Sian 2 will explore whether physician assisted suicide is necessary in the medical world and whether the active participation in killing a suffering patient is part of a duty. Hosseini, H. M. (2012). Ethics, the Illegality of Physician Assisted Suicide in the United States, and the Role and Ordeal of Dr. Jack Kevorkian before His Death. Review of European Studies, 4(5), 203-209. doi:10.5539/res.v4n5p203 The article listed above discusses the ethical and legal nature of physician assisted suicide (PAS). the Illegality of Physician Assisted Suicide in the United States, and the Role and Ordeal of Dr. Jack Kevorkian before His brings to light the legal issues that physician assisted suicide has met with in the past, and many differing arguments made by ethicists, philosophers, and legal experts. Unlike many other articles discussing physician assisted suicide, this one shares the personal story of Dr. Jack legal issues due to his belief in PAS. His assistance in the suicide of James Adkins in 1998 initiated what was to become a prolonged legal debate on his role as a physician. Despite being taken to court, Dr. Kevorkian continued to administer PAS, causing the state of Michigan to pass stricter laws governing PAS. Dr. strong belief in PAS and his active administration of PAS on a 60-min CBS program was the last straw that forced this issue into the light and led to may legal complications for him, ultimately landing him in prison for a sentence of 10-25 years. The inclusion of a specific example of the issues arising from the blurred lines of physician assisted suicide give a good perspective on the ethical and moral aspects of physician assisted death. The article is relevant to this research as it discusses a type of case study on Dr. Jack contributions to the issue of PAS. A generally accepted position on PAS is explored in this article, which is the immorality of physician assisted suicide. The article discusses some Sian 3 basic information regarding the illegality of PAS and its ethics in the United States. The ethical insight provided by this article can be deemed credible as Hengameh Hosseini, the author of the research article, has done a great deal of research connecting economic/business theories, ethical theories as well as her own global knowledge to healthcare issues. Hosseini is a part of the editorial board of the International Journal of Hospital Research, is on the board of advisory of Franklin Publishing Company and has a Ph. D. in health promotion. Her research article was part of the fourth volume of Review of European Studies and was published by the Canadian Center of Science and Education. Emanuel, E. J., Onwuteaka-Philipsen, B. D., Urwin, J. W., & Cohen, J. (2016). Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and Europe. JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association, 316(1), 79-90. doi:10.1001/jama.2016.8499 The article listed above gives an overview of the legal status of euthanasia and physician assisted suicide, statistics related to PAS, and information regarding the attitudes and practices involved in PAS. Specifically, this research article states that contrary to popular belief, less than 20% of physicians in the united states receive euthanasia or PAS requests, and less than 5% have complied to these requests. Similar to the and physician-assisted suicide: a view from an article, this article by JAMA lays out clear cut facts and statistics on public support for PAS across the world and reasons for requesting PAS. The article provides evidence indicating that PAS and euthanasia are of relatively rare occurrence, typically involve cancer patients, and are increasingly being legalized in countries such as Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Colombia, and Canada. Additionally, it states that from the data scrutinized in the article, there is no indication of widespread abuse of PAS or euthanasia. Sian 4 This is another article that can be used to provide basic statistical information of aspects relating to PAS and euthanasia. The data provided regarding public opinion of PAS, reasons for requesting PAS, and the general perception of PAS is analyzed and interpreted, yielding a conclusion that could be used in an argument for allowing PAS. This article is very relevant and contains crucial information in the form of statistics about PAS that will help create a solid backbone for this research paper. The primary author of the article, Dr. Emanuel has an extensive background in the field of medicine, research and medical ethics. He is the chair of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the university of Pennsylvania, and he was the founding chair of the Department of Bioethics at the National Institutes of Health. Dr. Emmanuel received his MD from Harvard Medical School and received his Ph.D. in political philosophy from Harvard University. Additionally, this article was extracted from JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association. Materstvedt, L. J., Clark, D., Ellershaw, J., R., Gravgaard, A. B., H. C., . . . Rapin, C. (2003). Euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide: a view from an EAPC Ethics Task Force. Palliative Medicine, 17(2), 97-101. doi:10.1191/0269216303pm673oa Like the previous article, and physician-assisted suicide: a view from an EAPC Ethics Task discusses physician assisted suicide in legal and ethical terms. However, this article provides a good amount of background information on the basic accepted definitions of terms such as palliative care (care focused on pain and stress relief of individuals with serious illnesses), euthanasia, and physician assisted suicide. The article also addresses key issues regarding euthanasia and physician assisted suicide, which includes promoting the significance of caring for patients with life-threatening illnesses in accordance with the World Health definition of palliative care. This encompasses restoring and strengthening Sian 5 the autonomy. An attempt to figure out how PAS fits into palliative care, the role of a physician, and into patient autonomy is also made. This article provides crucial foundational information needed for one to understand the debate revolving around PAS. This article relates to the topic chosen for this paper as it defines major concepts and terms that are a significant to the understanding of the role of PAS in the medical world. The article relays basic information and comparisons regarding palliative care, medical killings, PAS, and euthanasia. It gives the history of euthanasia and PAS as well as the current role that these processes play in the medical field. The article is from Palliative Medicine and was reviewed by the European Association of Palliative Care. The primary author, Dr. Johan Materstvedt holds a Ph. D in political philosophy and is qualified as Full Professor in medical ethics. He was authorized by the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology in Trondheim, Norway. In addition to his position as the Full Professor, he researched the relationship between palliative medicine and euthanasia as a Postdoctoral fellow with the Norwegian Cancer Society. Yang, Y. T., & Curlin, F. A. (2016). Why Physicians Should Oppose Assisted Suicide. JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association, 315(3), 247-248. doi:10.1001/jama.2015.16194 Physicians Should Oppose Assisted is a one-sided article, however, it provides sound moral/ethical arguments in opposition to the process of PAS. The article takes a strong stand against the use and existence of PAS, lists reasons as to why physician assisted suicide is never justifiable, and discusses violations PAS makes in regards to the duty of a physician. Because the article contains a strong bias it will have to be used cautiously to prevent Sian 6 any use of misinformation or solely opinion based information, but it contains relevant arguments, when accompanied by fact-based information, which could be a beneficial addition to this research paper. The pertinence of this article to PAS is clear in that its purpose is to discourage the use of PAS. Despite its strong bias, the article does contain an interesting perspective that if added to this research paper would provide a complete study of whether the use of PAS should be allowed or completely outlawed. This article, like and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician- Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and was extracted from JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association. Farr A. Curlin, one of the authors, has an MD and is the Professor of Medical Humanities in the Trent Center for Bioethics, Humanities and History of Medicine, and Co-director of Theology, Medicine and Culture initiative at Duke Divinity School. The second author, Tony Yang, was a post-doctoral researcher at MIT, the 2009-2010 Health Policy Fellow for Academy Health, and has authored over 80 peer-reviewed articles. Wittwer, H. (2013). The problem of the possible rationality of suicide and the ethics of physician-assisted suicide. International Journal of Law and Psychiatry, 36(5-6), 419- 426. doi:10.1016/j.ijlp.2013.06.009 The above article takes on a more philosophical perspective as compared to the other research articles listed. problem of the possible rationality of suicide and the ethics of physician-assisted explores the concept of PAS as an irrational decision, which would make it a forbidden act. The article explores the ethical and philosophical arguments provided by opponents of PAS and discusses two complimentary premises regarding PAS: it is morally forbidden to help somebody to carry out an action which is inherently irrational and Sian 7 which will probably cause him severe harm, and (ii) the act of self-killing is necessarily irrational and (Wittwer, 419). Keeping the previous statement in mind, the article argues that the act of suicide is irrational and therefore unnecessary; thus, further legalization of PAS should be forbidden. This article contains a much more morally based argument than the other research articles presented, which will add to the variety of perspectives that can be offered to the reader. The inclusion of this article in this research paper will help present an overall objective view on PAS as it will provide an ethically rooted argument to counter or support the differing statistics found in the previous articles. The author, Hector Wittwer, received his PhD in habilitation at the Humboldt-University in Berlin. He was a Research Fellow at the institute for Philosophical Investigations Hannover during the 2009-2010 academic year. Additionally, he specializes in normative ethics, the philosophy of death, the ethics of killings, and the philosophy of law. His previous publications include Self-Killing and as a Philosophical Problem and Philosophy of Death, which are two books discussing the ethical issues of medical suicide. Batavia, A. (2001). The ethics of PAS: Morally relevant relationships between personal assistance services and physician-assisted suicide. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 82(12). doi:10.1016/s0003-9993(01)12017-4 article on the ethics of PAS explores the relationship between personal assistance services and physician-assisted suicide for patients with disabilities who do not have the access they deserve to basic personal assistance services. Unlike many of the other articles listed above, piece on PAS focuses on one specific factor that results in patients requesting PAS: lack of accessibility for patients with severe disabilities. This article takes a bold Sian 8 stance against PAS and states, people with disabilities who do not have access to the basic personal assistance services they need are inherently oppressed, and a society that provides a right to assisted suicide is essentially an accomplice in coercing such individuals to end their (Batavia). Despite its unique focus, the article manages to hold similar views to the other ethically oriented research articles in that Batavia seems to argue the irrationality of PAS and that such requests could be prevented by providing effective and efficient care for the patients most likely to make PAS requests. Batavia received his BA from University of California, his MS from Stanford University Medical School and his JD from Harvard Law School. He was a former Associate Professor of Health Law and Policy at Florida International University and helped write the Americans with Disabilities Act. Some of his previous publications include and Physician-Assisted which was published in the book Physician-Assisted Dying: The Case for Palliative Care and Patient Choice in 2004, and and Physician-Assisted which was published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 1997. article will be a good addition to this research paper as it will give a localized view on the wide variety of issues regarding PAS. Its focus on how providing widespread personal assistance services to debilitated individuals will help alleviate some of the issues with PAS requests provides another unique viewpoint which will allow the reader to consider many aspects of the PAS debate.