Bryanna Tanase Dr. Smith Composition 1 19, February 2017 Tanase 1 Vegetarian and Vegan Diets for Weight Loss Over the years, several different types of vegetarian diets have come about to appeal to the varying degrees to which individuals can tolerate cutting out meat from their diet. These include the commonplace vegetarian diet, the not as common ovo, pesco, and lacto vegetarians, and veganism. The latter is the most extreme type of vegetarian diet, which eliminates all foods containing animal products, while pesco- vegetarians are allowed to consume fish and other seafood, ovo-vegetarians can eat eggs, and lacto vegetarians eat dairy products. Nutritionists and ordinary people alike have promoted these diets because of their supposed ability to decrease risk of disease such as diabetes and cancer, as well as aid weight loss. On the other hand, others have condemned them because of the fact that they can lead to nutrient deficiencies. The aim of this research project is to determine whether vegan and vegetarian diets are effective for weight loss and discuss the potential risks of engaging in these eating regimens. Turner-McGrievy, Gabrielle M., et al. Applied Nutritional Investigation: Comparative Effectiveness Of Plant-Based Diets For Weight Loss: A Randomized Controlled Trial Of Five Different  Nutrition 31.(2015): 350-358. ScienceDirect. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This journal article is a study comparing the effectiveness of five different plant based diets on weight loss. Participants were randomly placed on one of the diets (omnivorous, semi- vegetarian, pesco-vegetarian, vegetarian, or vegan) for a 2-month weight loss period with a 4 month follow up period. The omnivorous diet contained no restrictions, the semi-vegetarian group was limited in that they could only consume red meat once a week and poultry less than Tanase 2 five times a week, the pesco vegetarian group could not consume any meat or poultry but could eat fish, the vegetarian group could not consume any type of meat, and the vegan group could not consume any animal products. This quote from the results section of the study describes the weight loss in each of the five groups from largest to smallest trend for weight loss among the five groups was significant at both 2 mo (P < 0.01) and 6 mo (P < 0.01) with the greatest weight loss occurring in the vegan group 4.5%), followed by the veg 6.6%), pesco-veg 3.4%), semi-veg 3.8%), and omni 3.6%) groups It was concluded that vegan diets were more effective than the other diets for weight loss because of increased fiber intake and decreased cholesterol intake. This source is credible because it was published in the journal Nutrition and the study described was carried out by a team of registered dieticians and experts in the field of nutrition. Gabrielle Turner McGrievy, Charles R. Davidson, and Edward A. Frongillo are all members of the department of Health Promotion, Education, and Behavior at the Arnold School of Public Health at the University of South Carolina, while Ellen Wingard and Sara Wilcox are part of the Department of Exercise Science at the same school. The source is relevant to the topic of study in that it provides affirmation that a vegan diet is best for weight loss when compared with other plant based diet plans due in part to improved consumption of fiber and decreased consumption of saturated fat. This article relates to the other sources in that it also approves veganism as a safe form of weight loss. Ramona, et al. Adolescent And Young Adult Vegetarianism: Better Dietary Intake And Weight Outcomes But Increased Risk Of Disordered Eating  Journal Of The American Dietetic Association 4 (2009): AGRIS. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Tanase 3 In this study, researchers surveyed teenagers and young adults between the ages of 15-23 on vegetarian diets to examine the relationship between vegetarianism (which includes veganism) and weight, nutrient consumption, and unhealthy manners of weight management. They found that although vegetarians consumed more fruit, vegetables, as well as less saturated fat and weighed less than non-vegetarians, former vegetarians in both groups were more likely to engage in unhealthy weight control habits. This quote from the conclusion section of the article provides a clearer picture of how many young adult and adolescent vegetarians are likely to use poor methods of weight control. high proportion of current adolescent vegetarians (1 in 4) and former vegetarians in both the adolescent cohort (1 in 5) and young adult cohort (1 in 4) engaged in extreme weight-control behaviors The authors believe that this is due to the fact that adolescents and young adults are more sensitive about the way their body looks, which leads them to be dissatisfied with themselves and experiment with different manners of weight loss. In addition, a poorly planned vegan diet leads to increased risk of deficiency of vitamin B- 12, calcium, vitamin D, riboflavin, protein, zinc, and n-3 fatty acids. This article is related to the research being conducted in that it agrees with the idea that following a vegan diet is helpful to adolescents and young adults looking to lose weight. However, it also brings up two potential downfalls to this way of eating: the potential for vitamin deficiency and usage of unhealthy weight control behaviors following cessation of the diet. This source is credible because medical professionals and experts in the fields of nutrition and biostatistics conducted the study described and it was published in The Journal of the American Dietetic Association. Ramona Brien is an assistant nutrition professor at St. University, Cheryl L Perry is the dean and Rockwell Chair of Society and Health at the University of Texas Austin campus School of Public Health, Melanie Wall is an associate Tanase 4 professor of biostatics at the University of Michigan, and Mary Story and Dianne Neumark- Sztainer are professors of epidemiology at the University of Michigan School of Public Health. This article is related to the other sources in that it continues to approve the vegan diet for weight loss, but offers some information that may cause readers to be opposed to the diet. Mangels, Ann Reed, Virginia Messina, and Vesanto Melina. Position Of The American Dietetic Association And Dietitians Of Canada: Vegetarian  Journal Of The American Dietetic Association 6 (2003): 748. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. This article discusses the overall consensus of the American Dietetic Association and Dieticians of Canada on vegetarian diets, including veganism. Both organizations agree that planned vegetarian diets are healthful, nutritionally adequate, and provide health benefits in the prevention and treatment of certain (748). They came to this consensus after looking at all sorts of factors surrounding vegetarian diets such as the interest in the diet, nutrients consumed and recommendations for increasing intake of vitamins B-12 and D, calcium, zinc, iron, and n-3 fatty acids if needed, and looking at the many diseases which these diets are believed to prevent such as cancer and heart disease. This source is credible because it was published in the Journal of the American Dietetic Association and offers the perspective of two of the organizations which registered dieticians and nutritionists can become members of, The American Dietetic Association and Dieticians of Canada. Ann Reed Mangels is a registered dietician and assistant professor of nutrition at the University of Massachusetts, Virginia Messina is a registered dietician with a focus on vegan diets and she writes her own blog offering tips and advice for those looking to go vegan, and Melina Vesanto is a registered dietician and a co-author of books on all types of vegetarian diets and raw food diets. This article is related to the research because it illustrates that plant based Tanase 5 diets are effective for weight loss and can also help defend against disease. The fact that this article was published in 2003, much earlier than the others, yet still reiterates the notion that these diets aid weight loss support the position that perspectives on this topic have not changed over time. Panebianco, Stephen M. The Merits And Pitfalls Of  Explore: The Journal Of Science And Healing 1 (2007): 55. Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. This article discusses both the benefits and downfalls of consuming a vegetarian diet, as well as provides some information on the many different spectrums of vegetarianism, including veganism. Benefits stated by the author include reduced risk of disease. In addition, plant based protein sources have plenty of protein to boost the feeling of fullness for fewer calories than meat. On the other hand, following a vegetarian diet can lead to an excess intake of refined grains and processed foods, vitamin B12 and calcium deficiency, and anemia due to lack of iron consumption. Panebianco also states that some people have the wrong approach to vegetarianism in that they think they are being healthy just by avoiding meat. This is evidenced in the following quotation brand of vegetarianism can be soda, fries, and macaroni and (55). This statement illustrates that not all vegetarian eating habits are healthful and have the potential to be filled with empty calories and junk food, both of which inhibit weight loss. This is a credible source because Stephen Panebianco is an MD certified in family and holistic medicine, and the article was published in the Journal of Science and Healing. It is relevant to the research in that provides both approval and disapproval for the use of vegetarian diets in weight loss. This article compares to previous sources in that it still mentions the same benefits of plant based diets as the others, but provides more evidence in opposition to them which will be useful for the argumentative assignment. Tanase 6 Gabrielle M., Neal D. Barnard, and Anthony R. Scialli. A Randomized Weight Loss Trial Comparing a Vegan Diet to a More Moderate  Obesity 15.9 (2007): 2276-2281. This article discusses a study in which a vegan diet was compared to the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) low fat diet in order to determine which was more effective for weight loss. Participants included 64 overweight, menopausal women, and they were randomly assigned to either the vegan or low fat diet for 14 weeks over the course of two years. It was concluded that the vegan participants lost more weight at both one and two years than the NCEP diet. According to the study, vegans lost 8 kg (17 pounds) more than their counterparts on the NCEP diet. The authors state that this could be due to the fact that the vegan diet contained foods higher in fiber than the low-fat group which helped participants feel fuller, and it also allowed them to consume a greater amount of food while consuming less calories. This article is credible because it was published in the journal Obesity, and it relates to the research and the other articles found in that it shows that vegan diets are effective for weight loss. Gabrielle Turner Mc-Grievy is a member of the Department of Nutrition at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Neal D. Bernard is a member of the department of Medicine at George Washington University, and Anthony R. Scialli is a part of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Georgetown University. Klopp, Sheree A, Cynthia J Heiss, and Heather S Smith. Self-Reported Vegetarianism May Be A Marker For College Women At Risk For Disordered  Journal Of The American Dietetic Association 103.(2003): 745-747. ScienceDirect. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. This article details a study whose goals were to determine if college women on vegetarian diets had different eating patterns or attitudes towards eating than those who were not on a Tanase 7 vegetarian diet. A questionnaire and the Eating Attitudes Test (EAT) were used to survey 143 female college students. Out of the 143 surveyed, 30 were non-vegetarians and 113 were vegetarians. As reported in the results of the study median EAT score of the vegetarians 16.5 was significantly higher than that of the non-vegetarians (745). In addition, a higher proportion of vegetarians had scores higher than 30, which meant that they were at risk for developing an eating disorder. These results led the researchers to conclude that vegetarian college students have a higher possibility of having unhealthy eating habits and attitudes. The fact that this article was published in the Journal of the American Dietetic Association as well as the status of its authors makes it a credible source. The authors Sheree A. Klopp, Cynthia J Hales, and Heather S Smith are a clinical dietitian that graduated from California Polytechnic State University, an assistant professor in the Department of Family and Environmental Sciences at California State University as well as a registered dietician, and a statistics lecturer at California Polytechnic State University, respectively. This article is related to the research being conducted and the other sources found in that it offers a source of opposition to plant based diets and provides further support that following them could lead to unhealthy manners of eating. Tanase 8