Musgrove 1 Andrew Musgrove Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101 18 February 17 In light of recent events such as the Russian election hacking, the threat of attacks on U.S. cyberspace is clearer than ever. Cyberspace is defined as globally-interconnected digital information and communications (Bottolfson et al 39). Cyberspace is basically another universe to tend to while the country still has to deal with its physical security on the ground. The difference between boots on the ground national security and cybersecurity is that there is an infinite number of holes and methods to infiltrate computer systems. Computer systems are so prone to attack because computer run on coding, so if someone can figure out part of the security coding, then they can infiltrate the system. The main way that the government is combating this is to make smarter computers. Advanced computers can detect when they are being infiltrated and can shut down the immediately, preserving the information inside. From the earliest invention of the computer, the U.S. has been storing valuable information on computers so that the information is readily available to those who need it. The names of undercover agents, locations of military troops, information about border security, military tactics, and much more is at risk of being stolen at any minute. This country has prepped for cyberattacks since the very first invention of the computer, but it has not been until the last 10 to 15 years that these attacks became malicious and dangerous. The U.S. government is now allocating more resources to defending cyberspace than it ever has, but is it enough to keep the country safe? So, I pose the question, how has the U.S. government adopted new cybersecurity measures to combat attacks on sensitive information? Musgrove 2 Bottolfson, Carl, Gerry Fernandez, and August G. Roesener. for U.S. Air & Space Power Journal, vol. 28, no. 6, 2014, pp 38-54. United States Department of Homeland Security, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=961fa64f- fac1-4c59-88c6-d47607aa9b0c%40sessionmgr4009&vid=6&hid=4205. Accessed 29 January 2017. This journal purpose is to inform the American people about the status of the cyberspace and explain which government agencies are responsible for the safety of information. According to the authors, cyberspace is hailed as one of the most vulnerable parts of the United security because not like the front lines of battle where you can see the enemy coming; attacks come out of the blue and the origin of attacks is very difficult to pinpoint (Bottolfson et al 39). The government role in cybersecurity has increased over recent years due to the exponentially increasing threat. For example, the last two presidents, Bush and Obama, did more to improve the defense against cyberattacks than all of the previous presidents combined (Bottolfson et al 43). The intended audience is the American people, and it addresses them effectively by keeping the language simple and easy to understand. The authors of this journal article are Carl Bottolfson, Gerry Fernandez, and August G. Roesener. Dr. Roesener, a Lt. Colonel in the U.S. Air Force, is the main author. He holds a PhD in Operations Research and Industrial Engineering and has worked for the USAF for 18 years. He has a strong military background and is very knowledgeable when it comes to the security of the United States. The co-authors, Carl Bottolfson and Gerry Fernandez, are also ranking officers in the U.S. military making them prime candidates to write about the security of the nation. The journal, Air and Space Power Journal, is a peer reviewed journal published by the Musgrove 3 USAF and comments on the national security of the United States. At the moment of publication, the USAF deemed cybersecurity as the most relevant national security threat, so that is what they focused their research on. This article is useful for my topic as it outlines how much the U.S. has focused on cybersecurity in recent years and who exactly is responsible for its upkeep. Cetron, Marvin J and Owen Davies. War 3.0: Ten Critical Trends for Futurist, vol. 43, no. 5, 2009, pp 40-49. Business Source Premier, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=3&sid=bb24d854-24e8-4175-ba04- 9aa3a4b980c9%40sessionmgr101&hid=114&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d# AN=43537475&db=buh. Accessed 31 January 2017. The main purpose of this journal article is to explain possible cyberattack scenarios and basically scare the audience into caring about cybersecurity. They address the reasons why people need to be concerned about cybersecurity including the increased dependence on technology, the protection of sensitive research information, and the increasing interconnectedness of the entire (Cetron and Davies 44). Their main point is that that the world has become so connected that an attack on one part of the global computer system will influence the entire world. The authors also attempt to persuade the audience to look at cybersecurity as a real threat to society and inform the audience about possible consequences of weak cybersecurity defenses. These consequences are presented in the form of real life scenarios that could possibly occur because of a cyberattack. For example, the authors explain the outcomes of attacks on oil rig systems, computers in general, telephone wires, airplanes, and Musgrove 4 more. Their intended audience is the general public and specifically those who do not know about the dangers of cyberattacks. Marvin Cetron and Owen Davies are writers that write for Futurist, a journal that focuses on looking toward the future. Cetron and Davies consulted military personnel and intelligence experts while writing this article including high ranking U.S. Army officials and experienced intelligence workers. This article was peer reviewed by those same military and intelligence experts. This article is useful to me because it gives me a to answer why the U.S. is adopting so many cybersecurity policies. Chertoff, Michael. Cybersecurity Regulation and Governance, vol. 2, no. 4, 11 December 2008, pp. 480-484. Wiley Online Library, DOI: 10.1111/j.1748- 5991.2008.00051.x. Accessed 16 February 2017. Michael journal article informs the audience about the dangers of cyberterrorism on a global scale. He highlights the fact that the frequency of cyberattacks is increasing as the world becomes more connected through technology. According to the author, countries like China and Russia, and terrorist groups such as Al Qaeda and ISIS hold back about their intentions to use cyberattacks. In response, the executive branch of the U.S. government began to take action that was solely based on cybersecurity for the first time ever. In 2008, President Bush issued the Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative which laid out plans to fortify cyber defenses, wipe out threats, and to educate the next generation to deal with the cybersecurity issues of the future. The author also expands on the exact methods of improving the cyber defense which includes limiting connections and strengthening which is Homeland cyberattack sensor. The audience of this article is the Musgrove 5 people of the United States who are interested in what their government is doing to protect against the growing threat of cyberattack. The author, Michael Chertoff, was the U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security during parts of the Bush and Obama presidencies. He also is the co-author of the USA Patriot Act which is a piece of legislation that increases government power when it comes to surveillance. He received his law degree from Harvard University and served as Assistant Attorney General for some time. This article is very important to my research because it has information from a highly credible author about U.S. cybersecurity policies that were passed around 2008. It also provides a global perspective on the threat of cyberattack. Craig, Amanda N., Scott J. Shackelford, and Janine S. Hiller. Cybersecurity: A Comparative Industry and Regulatory American Business Law Journal, vol. 52, no. 4, 1 January 2015, pp. 721-787. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=11&sid=c0c0823a-13fd-4f04-922b- 1abed03af838%40sessionmgr101&hid=114&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#A N=edslexCCAB0ECC&db=edslex. Accessed 16 February 2017. This academic journal article focuses on proactive cybersecurity and how the U.S. government has failed to utilize it. The main point is that the U.S. government cannot use some proactive cybersecurity measures that private businesses use very effectively. Unlike private businesses, the U.S. government faces difficulties such as law restrictions and national security. The author also explains that private businesses do not have to pass laws through a divided congress, and they are not scrutinized by the public like the U.S. government is. This means that private businesses can respond more quickly, and use more advanced forms of Musgrove 6 cybersecurity. The article also informs the readers that the U.S. government has very outdated cybersecurity laws that limit the active cybersecurity defense actions that the government can take. The intended audience of this article is the American people and attempts to explain to the audience why the U.S. government seems to fall behind when it comes to defending against cyberattacks. Dr. Shackelford has a PhD in politics and international studies from Cambridge University as well has his JD from Stanford University. He teaches cybersecurity law at Indiana University. Amanda Craig is the senior cybersecurity strategist at Microsoft and was educated at the Indiana University school of law. Janine Hiller is a professor of business law at Virginia Tech University and teaches graduate courses concerning technology law. The American Business Law Journal is a quarterly journal published to highlight the always changing corporate and business law. This article is very useful for my research because it gives me a way to compare the U.S. government cybersecurity policies to the effective private sector cybersecurity policies. Kaiser, Robert. Birth of Political Geography, vol. 46, 2015, pp 11-20. ScienceDirect, DOI: 10.1016/j.polgeo.2014.10.001. Accessed 29 January 2017. This journal article takes the readers chronologically from the to today explaining the evolution of the and what the U.S. government has done to respond. It informs the American people about the history of cybersecurity and how events like 9/11 altered the cybersecurity development. The author also explains the possible consequences of and the future of cyberattacks. He also explains one of the major catalysts for the start of cyberwarfare, the 9/11 attacks. Around the year 2000, there were countless plans from Musgrove 7 the Clinton administration to beef up the U.S. computer security and President Bush was ready to move along with the plans after his election in 2001 (Kaiser 13). Then 9/11 happened; all cybersecurity plans were put on hold and the entire world focused on the war on terror. The author states that this is where the huge problem of the United lack of protection against cyberattacks began. The intended audience of this article is the general public and those who are interested in the United plan to combat cyberterrorism. The author of this article is Robert Kaiser. Dr. Kaiser is a research professor at the University of Wisconsin who specializes in political geopolitics and has been published several times. He has a PhD from Columbia University, teaches all levels of geography and geopolitics, and has done several research projects relating to cyberspace and cultural politics. His article is perfect for my topic because it has useful data collected a 15 year span from 2000 to 2015. It explains which cyberattacks warranted responses from the U.S. government and what the U.S. government continues to do to improve its national security. Milone, Mark. Securing the National Knowledge, Technology, and Policy, vol. 16, no. 1, 2003, pp 75-103. Springer Science & Business Media B.V., http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=99c8d219-c2f8-4386-b74a- 9c3ac0cc103f%40sessionmgr102&vid=0&hid=114&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU %3d#AN=10515411&db=a2h. Accessed 31 January 2017. The purpose of this article is to inform the American people about what the U.S. government is doing to fight against cyberterrorism. Published in 2003, it highlights the first steps that the U.S. government took to directly address the cyberterrorism threat. It effectively explains complicated legislation such as The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, and the USA Musgrove 8 Patriot Act (Milone 78-79). These acts lay the groundwork for the U.S. policy on cyberattacks. The CFAA was passed in 1986 and introduced most of the U.S. computer systems laws, but it did not address national security as a whole (Milone 79-80). In 2001 following 9/11, President Bush signed the Patriot Act which was controversial because of the perceived threat it posed to personal privacy. However, part of that act addressed national security when it comes to cyberattacks. It beefed up the definition of a computer, increased penalties for those who damage computer information, and introduced cyberterrorism as a threat to U.S. security (Milone 81). The intended audience of this article is individuals who want to understand the United laws that protect against cyberattacks. The article effectively does this by explaining legislation in simple terms. The author of this article is Mark Milone. He graduated from Hofstra Law school and has experience in electronic commerce and telecommunications. He has his own online business and has taught classes about computer law at the university level. His article is useful to my topic because he provides a more technical point of view and very clearly explains the kinds of policies that the United States has passed to address cybersecurity. Musgrove 9