Josh McGowan Ms. Ricketts ENC 1101 5 February 2017 The Evolutionary Controversy Evolution is the scientific theory of how life changes over time. Scientists explain evolution through certain processes, such as natural selection and genetic mutation. Just as a concept, it has been in conflict with the ideals and beliefs of people since its introduction to the world. Throughout the years, research into evolution has ironically strengthened the arguments both supporting its legitimacy and the arguments attempting to dismiss it. For example, scientists see the fossil record as a continuous source of evidence that species have evolved over time while those in opposition dismiss the fossil record because its telling of evolutionary history is incomplete. The religious find the notion that we are closely related to apes to be insulting and preposterous while scientists say the proof lies in our DNA structure. The controversy mostly comes from how these two vastly different concepts converge into the world of politics. The scientific concept of evolution and the religious beliefs of a predominately Christian society are morphed into political movements (Caiazza 105). The conflict is unavoidable, however, as the theory is viewed by many to be essential to science education. The fundamental flaw is that political movements have an agenda and have already decided what the end goal of a debate should be. Science and religion have been butting heads even before evolution was the center of it. I have two questions: How do we know evolution is worthy of being taught in public schools and how could this conversation proceed in a civil and logical manner? Bilen, Kadir and Orhan Ercan. of Comprehension and Acceptance of Theory of Evolution: A study involving Students from the Faculties of Education and International Journal of Environmental and Science Education, vol. 11, no. 9, 2016, pp. 3101-3115. Education Source. 10.12973/ijese.2016.908a Accessed 17 February 2017 This article presents a Turkish study regarding the acceptance of evolution by university students. In it, students of education and theology are compared, as well as people with right or left-leaning political views. A survey was presented to those participating in the study with statements referring to the processes of evolution, the scientific validity of the theory, the evolution of humans, evidence of evolution, and the age of the earth. Students in the faculty of education were found to have more moderate views in regards to evolution while theology students did not accept the theory very well. It was also found that the more left-wing people tended to be more accepting of evolution than those with other political views. The results were not surprising, as the others mention that religion is considered a big road block to people understanding evolution. This article was published in International Journal of Environmental and Science Education, a peer-reviewed journal from Turkey. It publishes articles relating to science, engineering, and education. Kadir Bilen is a professor at Alanya Alaattin Keykubat University in Turkey and has a PHD in science education. Orhan Ercan holds the same PHD and is a professor at Kahramanmaras University. The authors detail how Turkey is country where opposition to theory of evolution is strong, and their work in this article is obviously very important to them as science educators. The paper may be a critical step into improving the understanding of science in their country. Caiazza, John. The Evolution Versus Religion Controversy: How Two Mystiques Devolved Into  Modern Age vol. 47, no .2, 2005, pp. 104-112. Education Source. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=3&sid=e3b85a81-69f9-45ea-9081- 05989ee144a1%40sessionmgr4008&hid=4213&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d #AN=edsgcl.135340116&db=edsglr Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. This article examines how the controversy surrounding evolution developed historically. The word is frequently used, meaning that religion and evolution alike (generally speaking) are thought provoking ideas about the world, attempting to explain how and why it exists in this way. A Christian Harvard professor specializing in botany, Asa Gray, applied evolutionary theory to explain the distribution of plant life in North America not long after its publication. It was shown that the two ideas have the capability of coexisting. Man is viewed as greatest creation, and seeing how evolution includes the development of our superior minds and our ability to communicate, form civilations, etc., a theological argument can be made in its favor. The driving forces of the conflict were the development of the idea of Social Darwinism and comparison of man and ape. Social Darwinism is an idea that puts natural selection in a social context, meaning the weaker members of society should be eliminated for said society to improve. In book The Descent of Man, he goes into detail about the similarities between humans and apes and how the two are likely very closely related. This idea was seen as demeaning to the great achievements accomplished by man. Evolution suffered a great deal of scrutiny from the Christian rule of England and those who believed in the credibility felt as if they were being censored. Evolution was put in the center of a movement advocating for free thinking and to be rid of social influence over the people. It went from religion and evolution being ideas/observations about the world to being a major political discussion that resulted in this seemingly never-ending controversy. This article is from the peer reviewed journal Modern Age, and was published in 2005. It is a journal meant to reflect traditional conservative values. The author John Caiazza is a senior philosophy lecturer at Rivier University and has written 4 books, all dealing with science, religion, and society. He reaches his conservative readers by not advocating for either side of the argument. This allows his readers to not feel like their ideals are being targeted or that they are being compelled to change how they live their lives. The text giving a detailed outline about how religion and science became at odds gives a significant amount of context to the topic as a whole. Arguments from both sides are well represented, which helps with answering my research question. Dorner, Meredith. The More Things Evolve, the More They Stay the Same? A Brief Comparison of Evolution Coverage in Selected Mainstream and Christian Biology  Reports of the National Center for Science Education vol. 35, no.6, 2015, pp. 1-8. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=5&sid=e3b85a81-69f9-45ea- 9081- 05989ee144a1%40sessionmgr4008&hid=4213&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d #AN=115320503&db=eue Accessed 4 Feb. 2017. This article examines how evolution is covered in Christian textbooks versus mainstream, public school textbooks. In it, four questions are put forth: Christian textbooks devote the same number of pages to covering evolution as mainstream the coverage of evolution changed in either the Christian or non-Christian textbooks over the last few does the use of religious terminology in Christian chapters covering evolution compare to that in chapters covering other biology the use of religious terminology in Christian textbooks changed over It was found that mainstream textbooks devote more time to evolution than Christian textbooks do to evolution and creationism combined. This article was published in Reports of the National Center for Science Education in 2015, a peer reviewed scientific journal. The publisher is the Natural Center for Science Education, a non-profit organization meant to inform the public on the importance of the way science is taught in public schools. The author is Meredith Dorner, a biology professor at Irvine County College. She dedicates her time trying to convince students to accept the theory of evolution. In this text, she shows that the source of science education matters, primarily trying to reach other educators. She provides an interesting perspective of how students attending Christian private schools are being given a biased perspective on biology and evolution. Nadelson, Louis S. and Sherry A. Southerland. and Preliminary Evaluation of the Measure of Understanding of Macroevolution: Introducing the Journal of Experimental Education, vol 78, no. 2, 2009, pp. 151-190. Education Source. 10.1080/00220970903292983 17 February 2017 This article talks about how the coverage of evolution in schools primarily has a focus on microevolution rather than macroevolution. Microevolution deals with processes like natural selection, which change species over time, while macroevolution refers to how these processes create new species altogether. The author(s) claim that this is a big reason why the debate about evolution rages on, as much of the dispute lies in the process of speciation (particularly how humans came to be). To assess the understanding of macroevolution, two groups of college students are tested. The first group consists of freshman taking an introductory biology course while the second has students who are enrolled in a high-level evolutionary biology course. Participants were given a test called the MUM (Measure of Understanding of Macroevolution), which is comprised of 27 multiple choice questions and one open-ended response. This was developed by the others to be an accurate way to assess the knowledge of macroevolution. It was found that the lower-level students lacked an understanding of macroevolutionary concepts. The open-ended question, in particular, yielded very short responses and it seemed that those who answered were confused by the subject of speciation. This article was published in the journal The Journal of Experimental Education, which is considered valuable to those interested in educational research and the advancement of teaching methods. Louis S. Nadelson is a professor at Boise State University with a PHD in educational psychology. Sherry A. Southerland is a professor in the Science Education program and Florida State University. She has taught biology in high schools, community colleges, and universities alike. Having two authors with a clear passion for education makes this article very effective at reaching an audience of people interested in the subject of science teaching. Thagard, Paul, and Scott Findlay. Getting to Darwin: Obstacles to Accepting Evolution by Natural  Science and Education vol. 19, no.6, 2010, pp. 625-36. Academic OneFile. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=9&sid=e3b85a81-69f9-45ea- 9081- 05989ee144a1%40sessionmgr4008&hid=4213&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d #AN=edsgcl.228091499&db=edsgao Accessed 3 Feb. 2017. This is an article which outlines the reasons why a significant portion of the population has difficulty accepting evolution. It is separated into three categories: cognitive obstacles, emotional obstacles, and implications for science education. The first section discusses how the ideas behind evolution require people to think in a way different from how they normally would. People tend to gravitate toward easy to understand answers to questions. The author(s) give an example of how a bicycle operates, in that it is a straightforward process that can be easily explained and shown. Evolution is a complicated series of different processes, it deals with massive populations of many different species and how their genetic structure is influenced. In a bicycle, you rotate the pedals, which rotate the chain, which in turn rotates the wheels. Evolution incorporates that is, the smaller parts of an ecosystem influence it in different ways, leading to a variety of different results. The emotional obstacles refer how the beliefs of people are often influenced by what they want to be true. From a religious perspective, the concept of an all-loving God that created humanity directly is a very comforting thought. The idea that it may not be exactly true is very threatening and flips perspectives of the world upside down. The third and final section examines methods science educators can use to go about teaching the theory. The first is one of detachment, avoiding religious discussion entirely and allowing students to learn about evolution and accept it as true through their own discretion. The second is in which God is presented as the designer of the whole evolutionary process. The third is direct confrontation, attempting to disprove the religious perspective altogether. This article is from the peer reviewed journal Science and Education. It is dedicated to facing issues with modern science and math education by included influences by historians and philosophers as well as scientists and mathematicians. It is targeted at an audience who enjoys learning about science, and authors Paul Thagard and Scott Findlay reached this audience by taking a clear stance that evolution is accurate. Paul Thagard is a philosophy professor at the University of Waterloo, specializing in the philosophy of science. Scott Findlay is a biology professor at the University of Ottawa. The article serves as a means of trying to improve understanding about the conflict people have with the theory and how it can be taught. It provides an interesting perspective in regard to my research question. Zigler, Ronald Lee. Reframing the  over Evolution and Intelligent  Thresholds in Education, vol. 39, no.1, 2016, pp. 70-84. Education Source. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=11&sid=e3b85a81-69f9-45ea-9081- 05989ee144a1%40sessionmgr4008&hid=4213&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d #AN=117304535&db=eue Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. This article discusses the dispute with teaching evolution in public schools, specifically how efforts to teach ideas of creationism or in science classes have proved unsuccessful. Creationism/Intelligent Design is the notion that the Earth was created directly by God only a few thousand years ago. The author advocates for this debate to continue, and examines how it should be done. Three types of controversy are given, those being scientific, philosophical, and public policy controversy. The author dismisses the issue of having any kind of scientific controversy, as overwhelming majority of scientists and science educators maintain that from a scientific perspective the theory of not intelligent has a strong epistemic foundation In other words, there is a plethora of empirical evidence in favor of evolution and virtually none in favor of intelligent design. An obstacle in the way of having a proper debate about religion and science are how humans tend to respond to their emotions more than they critically assess facts. Another complication is the social division between the scientific and religious views of the world keeps the two from coming together to talk about these topics. In conclusion, the author determines that the debate should be framed in a philosophical point of view. This is a fairly recent article from the peer reviewed journal Thresholds in Education. It is a journal dedicated to open discussion of ideas with a diversity of viewpoints. There is no target demographic, making it accessible to almost anyone. This article was written by Ronald Lee Zigler, a professor at Penn State University, specializing in educational theory. The article delves into one particular issue that results from the controversy behind the theory of evolution and also establishes that it is credible from a scientific perspective. Seeing how, according to the author, intelligent design appears to have no place in a science class, this provides an interesting aspect to the answer to my research question.