Andre Boothe Ms.Elizabeth Ricketts English Comp I 19 February 2017 Final bibliography Draft Stop and frisk is a major policy practiced by police that has a handful of history behind it.This policy allows police to check, question, and search any citizen viewed as .The first case of this was in 1960 after the earliest(but unofficial) case of stop and frisk resulted in the Terry V Ohio supreme court case which led to the practice being ruled Constitutional.Despite this the use of stop and frisk was low until the when the crime rate in New York greatly increased.Due to the increased use and various factors the stop and frisk policy has become a contested debate topic.For instance one factor being that crime rate did go down by the after stop and frisk was used more often.Another factor being that the amount of friskees found which weapons/suspicious items was low compared to the total amount of people checked.Looking at these factors along with some other factors how has stop and frisk affected New crime rate? Belin, The Inverse Relationship Between Constitutionality and Effectiveness of New York Stop and . Boston University Law Review, Vol 94, pg 1495- 1520,2014,Accessed 19 February 2017.Social Science Research Network This journal article highlights factors on why stop and frisk increased in use during the 1990s.The main factor being New record high crime rates mostly composed of homicides.As a result the NYPD adopted a broken window  or policy focused on stricter policing for major and minor crimes while conducting stop and frisk.Due to this the crime rate was able to go down by the 2000s.However only a small amount of friskees were found with weapons or dangerous objects. This article was written by Jeffery Bellin a Stanford law school graduate and a current law professor at William and Mary law school.This Article links my research question by showing why the stop and frisk method increased in the 1990s and some of the effects of the increase. Gelman Andrew, Fagan Jeffery, Kiss An Analysis of the Police Stop and  Policy in Context of Racial Journal of American Statistical  ,Vol 102,September 2007,pg 813-823. Accessed February 19th 2017. American Statistical association. This Source offered information mostly on why the police force was using stop and frisk.For instance they needed to try something to try tone down the crime surge.However it did show that despite that it was met with little approval from citizens and was contested frequently. In 1996 the Debour V People case green lighted the decision to check a person simply cause they had . However the Brown V Texas case the ruling was the police could not use the reason that the person walk away from  and a justifiable reason to stop and frisk. This was source was written by Andrew Gelman, Alex Kiss and Jeffrey Fagan. All three members are law professors at Columbia University.This source links to the research question by showing the effects and history of the stop and frisk policy during the Harris, David. Across the Hudson: Taking The Stop and Frisk Debate Beyond New York  .N.Y.U Journal of Legislation and Public Policy,2014. Accessed February 19 2017.Social Science Research Network. This source focuses on the 1960 Terry V Ohio case that occurred after the first use of stop and frisk.The original incident occurred when police stopped two men waiting by a jewelry store for a extended period of time.Based on a gut  the officers questioned the suspects and found weapons on them leading to their arrest.This was controversial since the police had no evidence before counting a search and seizure on the suspect.This conflicted with the Fourth Amendment which is against unlawful searches and seizures.As a result the Terry V Ohio case was conducted and it deemed the method constitutional. This source was obtained in a journal written by law professor David Harris from the university of Pittsburgh.This journal offered a good history lesson by showing what caused the case that approved stop and frisk and when all these major events happened.This links to the question by providing history on why stop and frisk started and gave some views on how it affected the crime rates. Ismali, New York Stop and Frisk Hit Record Levels in Socialist Web Site,March 3 2010, https://www.wsws.org/en/articles/2011/03/nypd- m03.html.Acessessed 19 February 2016 This source focuses on explaining the record high stop and frisk rate and some of demographics for citizens exposed to this method.During this time the total amount of people stop and frisked in New York was about 600,000 in 2010, the highest since 2002. Among that group most of them were either Latin American or African American.Futhermore 50,000 of the friskees were arrested after being checked for minor crimes such as having marijuana not for possessing a weapon.This lead to heavy friction between the police and citizens due to racial profiling complaints. This article was written by Ismali a Lead writer of this site with seven years of experience and a dozen articles on this topic.This source ties In with my research question by showing how stop and frisk was affecting crime rates at the time it was most commonly used. Rivera, Ray, Baker AL, Roberts, A Few Blocks, 4 Years, 52,000 Police .The New York Times,July 10 2010, http://liblog.law.stanford.edu/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/Over-4- Years-Nearly-52000-Police-Stops-in-a-Few-Brooklyn-Blocks-NYTimes.pdf.Acessed 19 February 2017 This Source is about the effects of stop and frisk in Brooklyn a crime heavy city in New York.Over the course of 2006 to 2010 the city had 52,000 cases of stop and frisk.Six percent of the checks lead to arrests.A possible reason that the rate is only six percent is based on the theory stated in this article by police Inspector Holmes Its becomes difficult to tell which gun owners are carrying weapons for self defense and which are carrying them to commit . The authors of this articles all worked for New York times magazine and each of them have at least 4 years of experience in their field and at least 50 articles written from each individual author.This links to my question by showing how stop and frisk affected one of the larger and more crime heavy cities in New York. Scheiderman, A Report on Arrests Arising From The New York City Police Departments Stop and Frisk ,New York State Office Attorney General, Civil Rights Bureau,November 2013,pp 1-86,Accessed 19 February 2017. This source focuses specifically on what happens with each stop and frisk case.For example in 2009 150,000 New Yorkers were being frisked.Fifty percent of them were checked were arrested but most of them were not jailed due to lack of evidence.Also the ones that were jailed were for minor crimes. The author of this article works for the New York Bureau and acts as one of the states attorney generals.This links perfectly with my question since in show more case by case analysis of stop and frisk on New Yorkers.