Engel 1 Daniel Engel Professor Ricketts English Composition 1 25 January 2017 Mental Health in Military Families The United States military is a very diverse and complex community with people from all over the U.S. and the world. Within these military communities, most families experience either one or two parents being deployed overseas for over a year at a time. Along with deployment, most families are stationed at different military bases and forced to move every two to four years, which can be highly stressful when picking up and moving so often. When this happens, children need to adjust to a new school, a new neighborhood, and the family, as a whole, may have to live in a foreign country and have to learn to local language. One can see how with constant environmental changes along with deployment, as well as many other factors could induce extreme stress and might possibly contribute to mental illness. Those affected by this stress more often than not are the parents, but the children of military families can also experience extreme stress that leads to mental illness as well. What factors contribute to mental illness within military families, and how does this correlate with either higher or lower mental illness rates or all that encompasses the military lifestyle? Alfano, Candice A., Simon Lau, Jessica Balderas, Brian E. Bunnell, and Deborah C. Beidel. The Impact Of Military Deployment On Children: Placing Developmental Risk In  Clinical Psychology Review, vol. 43, February Engel 2 2016, pp. 17. Academic OneFile, doi: 10.1016/j.cpr.2015.11.003. Accessed 4 February 2017. This article deals with, specifically, the effect of deployment on children, rather than focusing on the one deployed. Again, this article focuses on the increased deployment by the U.S. miltary with recent conflicts in the middle east, and the correlation between higher deployment rates and children who are affected negatively by this. The article focuses on the different stages within deployment, such as the preparation, the initial time apart, as well as the adjustment of one returning for years at a time. The audience that this article is based towards would be military families but also specifically military families who have experienced deployment. The main point of this article would be the correlation between increased deployment and increased mental health issues with children, including cognitive and developmental disorders. This article connects with my research question because it focuses on the childrens mental health, instead of the one deployed, or the spouse. Each article will hopefully be focusing on different areas within the family unit. Candace A. Alfano received her PhD in Clinical Psychology from the University of Houston and continues to teach and conduct research there. Simon Lau studies developmental psychology at the University of Houston as well as Doctor Alfano. Jessica Balderas studies in the Department of Psychology at the University as well. Brian E. Burnell studies Clinical Psychology at the Medical University of South Carolina, and Deborah C. Beidel received her PhD in Clinical Psychology from the University of Central Florida in Orlando where she continues to teach and do research currently. Engel 3 Lucier-Greer, Mallory, Amy Laura Arnold, Rebecca Neilann Grimsley, James L. Ford, Chalandra Bryant, and Jay A. Mancini. Parental Military Service and Adolescent Well-being: Mental Health, Social Connections and Coping among Youth in the  Child & Family Social Work, vol. 21, no.4, 2014, pp. 421-32. Academic OneFile, doi: 10.1111/cfs.12158. Accessed 26 January 2017. This article primarily focuses on the influence a parents profession can have on their entire family as well as coping strategies. Depending on the amount of stress within the family, and at work, excessive and prolonged deployments, as well as other personal stressors can all be leading factors to mental illness within military families, especially adolescents. The audience of this article would be primarily for military families but also a basis for parental employment and the effects on the family, which can be aimed at any family. Mallory Lucier-Greer has a PhD in Philosophy, as well as a PhD in Human Development and Family Studies, from the University of Georgia and currently teaches at Florida State. Laura Arnold has a PhD in Family Science from the University of Georgia as well and continues to teach there currently. James L. Ford works within the Athens-Clarke County Courts with experience in qualitative social research. Chalandra Bryant received her PhD in Child Development and Family Sciences from the Univeristy of Texas and currently teaches at the University of Georgia. Jay A. Mancini received his PhD in Child Development and Family Relations from the University of North Carolina and currently teaches at the University of Gerogia. This piece directly relates to my topic again because my topic deals with mental illness in the military, and a parents profession and the influence it has on their childrens well being is exactly that. This also connects Engel 4 directly to my research question because it deals with the stressors in the parents profession as well as the outcome on the family. Karney, Benjamin R., and John S. Crown. Families Under Stress: An Assessment of Data, Theory, and Research on Marriage and Divorce in the Military. Karney, Crown, 2007. This book deals with marriage and divorce within military families and the correlation between deployment and divorce. Focusing on the extensive deployment we see today and militaristic events currently, the rate between one spouse being deployed for extended periods of time and the divorce rate is closely connected. The audience for this piece would be military families who have experienced a divorce or even those within the military who struggle keeping a marriage together. Benjamin Karney received his PhD in Social Psychology from the UCLA in Los Angeles where he continues to teach. This article connects to my research question because this focuses on the relationship between the spouse and the one employed in the military and the effects that can follow. Okafor, Ebony, Mallory Lucier-Greer, and Jay A. Mancini. Social Stressors, Coping Behaviors, and Depressive Symptoms: A Latent Profile Analysis of Adolescents in Military  Journal of Adolescence, vol. 51. August 2016, pp. 133- 43. Academic OneFile, doi: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2016.05.010. Accessed 25 January 2017. This article deals with the studies of stressors and depressive symptoms among adolescents in military families. This piece involves plenty of information on the topic such as the variety of coping techniques, specific stressors like parental deployment or Engel 5 periodic moving, and severe change. The audience for this article would be directed toward adolescents as it directly relates to the mental health of adolescents within military families. The only author that has not been mentioned is Ebony Okafor who received her PhD in Marriage and Family Therapy from Florida State University and currently teaches at Towson University. This article pertains directly to the topic because I am focusing on mental illness within military families and what the causes are. Vasterling, Jennifer J., Proctor, Susan P., Freidman, Matthew J., Hoge, Charles W., Heeren, Timothy, King, Lynda A., King, Daniel W. Symptom Increases in Iraq Deployed Soldiers: Comparison with Nondeployed Soldiers and Associations with Baseline Symptoms, Deployment Experiences, and Postdeployment Journal of Traumatic Stress, vol. 23, issue 1, 2010, pp. 41-51. Wiley, doi: 10.11002/jts.20487. Accessed 18 February 2017. Based on the information provided in the article, the amount of stress experienced amongst veterans and military personnel deployed to Iraq is much higher than of previous wars in the past. Over 43% of those deployed to Iraq experiened PTSD symptoms which include nightmares, vivid flashbacks, specific triggers such as sounds and smells that cause one to experience extreme distress, etc. The study includes both males and females in the reseach conducted, and military personnel of varying ages and races. The article focuses on PTSD symptoms regarding deployment in warzone areas as well as taking into consideration levels of PTSD before and after deployment. The audience this article would pertain to would be veterans, and those who have deployed in areas experiencing war. Engel 6 Jennifer J. Vasterling received her PhD in Psychology from Vanderbilt University in 1988. Currently, she works for the U.S Department of Veterans Affairs specializing at the National Center for PTSD. Susan P. Proctor received her Masters at Tufts University as a Research Associate Professor. Matthew J. Friedman received his PhD from Albert Einstein College of Medicine in Pharmacology in 1967 and currently works for the U.S. Veterans Affairs and works at the National Center for PTSD. Charles W. Hoge currently works for the Army Institute of Research specializing in Epidemiology, PTSD, and infectious disease. Timothy Heeren received his PhD in Mathematics from Boston University in 1981 and currently works in the School of Public Health. Lynda A. King currently works for the National Center for PTSD just like Matthew J. Friedman and Jennifer J. Vasterling. This article connects directly to my research question in that it identifies mental illness within the military family unit. As mentioned previously, I am examining mental health within the entire military family unit which includes the individual who is serving in the military, the spouse, and the children (if any). This article deals with the individual who is actually serving in the military, and also contrasts the differences between those who have been deployed and those who have not within the military. Riddle, James R., Smith, Tyler C., Smith, Besa, Corbeil, Thomas E., Engel, Charles C., Wells, S. Timothy, Hoge, W. Charles, Adkins, Joyce, Zamorski, Mark, Blazer, Dan. Cohort: The 2001-2003 Baseline Prevalence of Mental Disorders in the U.S. Journal of Clinical Epidemiology, 2007, pp. 192- 201, ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.clinepi.2006.04.008. Accessed 18 February 2017. Engel 7 According to the article, the United States has the highest rate of mental illness within the military when compared to 14 other countries in the study. The mental illnesses recorded from 2001-2003 accounted for just over a quarter (26%) of the overall mental illness in the entire United States. The article also brings up how the United States is often one of the first countries to be called upon for large disasters or conflicts, which can result in military personnel being deployed from their families for extended periods of time. A large portion of military hospitalizations from the to current day are due to mental disorders that require 24 hour surveillance and attention. The audience that this article would be directed toward would most likely be veterans as well as other military personnel who have either experienced mental disorders themselves, or have known family or friends within the military who have had mental illnesses. The main point of the article is to inform the audience of the relationship between the duties required in the United States military and the higher rate of stress and anxiety that a large portion of the U.S. service members experience. James R. Riddle studies epidemiology at Wright Patterson Air Force Base, and Tyler C. Smith received his PhD in Epidemiology from the University California and is currently an associate professor who teaches epidemiology, and biostatistics. Besa Smith received her PhD in epidemiology in 2007 from the University of California like Tyler Smith, where she currently teaches. Dr. Charles Engel currently teaches at the RAND corporation where he specializes in Senior Health Science. Timothy S. Wells studies epidemiology like almost all of the other authors in this piece. Charles W. Hoge works for the Army Institute of Research specializing in epidemiology as well as PTSD within the military. Joyce Adkins is a psychologist who works for the Department of Defense Engel 8 and has contributed largely to mental disorder resources within the military including the provision of online mental assessments. Mark Zamorski is the Senior Medical Epidemiologist for the Department of National Defense of Canada and specializes in Family Medicine, and Health Administration. Dan Blazer received his PhD in Epidemiology in 1979 from the University of North Carolina and is well known for his research in Epidemiology. This article connects to my research question because it explicitly deals with mental illness within the military in the United States, which my research question addresses.