Jordan Reed Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 27 January 2017 Should teachers have guns in school? There are a lot of pros and cons on the subject of if teachers should be armed in schools or not. These articles explain how some people view teachers with guns. But my question is if some schools do allow teachers to be armed in school then who else in the staff should be armed? Principals, janitors, athletic coaches? Some people view this situation as a problem because teachers as well as anyone from off the street can open fire in a school setting without any warning because they just want to. I have did research and tried to find the best articles to give both sides of the argument. Some pros of teachers having guns in school is that they can protect the students if someone brings a fire arm to school or disable another student from using the weapon on the teacher or the students in the school. Frederick, Jennifer. CHALK TALK: Do As I Say, Not As I Do: Why Teachers Should Not Be Allowed To Carry Guns On School  Journal Of Law & Education: . LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews, vol. 28, no. 139, 1999, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=1&sid=ed8329fc-7add-474a- 9d390abaf70954a3%40sessionmgr4010&hid=4102&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLW xpdmU%3d#AN=edslex9E47645C&db=edslex. Accessed 25 Jan 2017. Using this source is effective because it proves that if teachers bring guns to school then students will be more likely to do the same, leading to even more school violence incidents. This article explains a couple of events of school shootings by students and suggests that if the government allows teachers to carry guns in school it Jordan Reed Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 27 January 2017 will not set a good example and maybe cause students to bring guns to school as well. They explain methods on how to make sure students do not bring guns to school such as using metal detectors and searching of lockers and backpacks, and having security guards or police officers to make sure students are protected and do not bring guns to school. These are all alternatives to teachers bringing guns to school. This may be a good idea because there could also be over eager teachers willing to use their weapons when it may not be necessary, which would lead to increase shootings. This source is credible because it offers real life examples of school shootings that actually happened in America and also provides information about court cases that actually occurred regarding the legality of teachers carrying guns in school. It is also a peer reviewed academic journal. Gereluk, Dianne T., J. Kent Donlevy, and Merlin B. Thompson. Normative Considerations In The Aftermath Of Gun Violence In  Educational Theory: Academic Search Alumni Edition, vol. 65, no. 4, 2015 pp. 459-474, http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/edth.12127/abstract. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. This read provides a different outlook on guns in school and that teachers in schools should not be armed and the schools just should amp up security and gives 8 ways to boost of security so guns and things like that can not be brought in schools. Some of the 8 procedures were things such as lockdown procedure if something happens Jordan Reed Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 27 January 2017 around or within the school, also limited to no access of visitors to the school. This article supports the idea that teachers or staff members should not carry fir arms in school and that the school just needs better protocol for future events. But doing this also makes the school kind of a jail in a sort of way because the students will always be kept inside and no one other than the staff can come into the school unless a parent that is picking up your child, but yet you have to go through a metal detector before you can even see your child. And the term is a historic work that prisons use with they lockdown the inmates. This article is credible mostly because of the main author that wrote the article Dianne Gereluk got her bachelor in education and is really one of the most respected people in her field. She is also or was a teacher and a professor at the University of Calgary. I feel her background in the school system really helps support some of her claims about the security of schools. Weatherby, Danielle. Opening The Arming Teachers In The War Against School Violence And The Government-Created Risk  Connecticut Law Review: LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews, vol. 48, no. 119, 2015, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=7&sid=825be47e-70ec-47f5- a9e565e897ab833d%40sessionmgr4010&hid=4102&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzL WxpdmU%3d#AN=edsgcl.439146544&db=edsgao. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Jordan Reed Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 27 January 2017 This article explains how teachers could bear arms because of the recent shootings at Sandy Hook and Virginia Tech. This states that if teachers bear arms in schools that they will be more of a risk factor to the students in the school. Also that teachers would be more at risk of getting hurt during an event of an in school shooting. This article also talks about how these teachers that are training to bear arms in school have not actually been in a live shooting event. Having more teachers armed than officers in the school may cause a huge problem because of the amount of training required to safely operate a weapon. Out of the 30 states who wanted teachers to be armed only 11 of the 30 states passed for letting teachers to have guns. Teachers also carrying guns in school would make them both a security guard and a teacher instead of just being a teacher and this gives them liability to protect the students at all times. If a teacher is armed and does not act properly in the case of a school shooting, then the teachers as well as the school could get sued, and this article suggests that the solution is not arming teachers but having law enforcement or security do that job. Pratt, Tyler. The Fourth Shortcomings For Police During School  Valparaiso University Law Review: LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews, vol. 44, no. 1095, 2010: 1095, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=1&sid=6aee9925-adf3-4f68- b2af- Jordan Reed Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 27 January 2017 d684452af354%40sessionmgr120&hid=119&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdm U%3d#AN=502170102&db=lft. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. . This article suggests a safer alternative to arming teachers who are under trained and explains how instead, police can have more training and different procedures for a school shooting and get there before anyone gets hurt. Some proposals they have come forth with to improve shooting procedures is that they will practice many different scenarios and situations involving active shooter in schools. This article is giving a way to protect teachers and students by increasing security and having more officers with more training in the building. The event that Pratt talks about in the introduction of the article shows flaws in the procedures when having a armed student in the building and show that we need better trained security guards and or teachers that can stop the event right when it happens or before it happens. In todays society if police are called upon a school shooting they want to use as little or no force at all because of the safety of the student, but if they have to they will. This source may not be the most credible but this article does come from a student that has done the research clearly and is probably and well educated student of the University with defiantly the right idea and state of mind, Theses are real events that happens. Chrusciel, Margaret M., et al. Law Enforcement Executive And Principal Perspectives On School Safety  Policing: An International Jordan Reed Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 27 January 2017 Journal 38.1 (2015): 24. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The purpose of choosing this article is that this article shows the topic from 2 different perspectives but they both agree on the same thing, this article speaks about both Law enforcement executives and also school principals regarding the arming of teachers in school, the study utilizes two surveys that were took by both parties in South Carolina and it shows that law enforcement and school principles were both on the same page for arming teachers in school in felt like that was the best way to keep the schools safe in the future. But in general majority of the people in these parties think it will be the most secure route to take. And then brings me back to the point of more security in schools and that is what they are leaning towards in mostly all these articles. This is a credible source because the authors of this article are from the criminology justice department in schools and know the research of school shootings and also how to know how to protect people in schools. Agron, Joe. Armed ... And : American School & University 6 2007: Academic OneFile. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=d543696a-dd8c- 4e7d- b7c1-1b8fabe046b9%40sessionmgr4008&vid=9&hid=4102 Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Jordan Reed Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 27 January 2017 The article is strictly against teachers having guns in school and feels like it is absurd for people to even be thinking about teachers being armed in school, but I see why this article was published in 2007 and year where no school shooting were really happening and everyone as well as Agron believed that are school system security was good enough to hold off violence in school. Agron states that guns should be kept out of school and should not be in the hands of anyone because the idea is to keep guns out of the school system and not in them. Also states that if teachers have guns in school it will create a environment that will impede the learning process and keep students mind on guns and not learning and also will effect security and make security even worse because every staff member has a gun on them. Joe Argon is the editor in chief of the American School & University magazine he is very well educated and really has his place in writing a article about school teachers carrying guns and if this is something we should consider or not consider, I feel his opinion now about teachers carrying guns would be different than his opinion in 2007 because of all the tragedies such as Sandy Hook that will really get him thinking and maybe change his mind, but either way he is a very credible author for this source.