Gainer 1 Christion Gainer Anastasia Khawaja ENC1101.903S17 29 January 2017 Changes in Teachers Salaries Over Time Being a teacher is one of the most important, yet underappreciated jobs known to man. A teacher is the individual who shapes his or students to be future lawyers, doctors, accountants, and everything in between. Teachers have a significant impact on their students and influence the students desire to learn.Yet, teachers salaries are one of the lowest paying wages, compared to similar jobs which have similar educational qualifications. The beliefs and viewpoints regarding teachers salaries have changed throughout the past 20 years. In the years between 2000-2010, economists believed that teachers salaries were mainly controlled by teachers unions, and that teachers were paid a standard wage, regardless of the qualification . Between 2011-2017, the main focus was raising salaries to promote the hiring of higher qualified teachers. The conversation regarding teachers salaries has shifted over time, beginning with a standard salary, then later shifting toward compensating teachers based on student performance and raising salaries based on their qualification. Yet, the question remains: are teachers underpaid in the United States? Tin-Chun, Lin. Teacher Salaries And Student Achievement: The Case Of  Applied Economics Letters 17.6 (2010): 547-550. Business Source Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Gainer 2 This article performed a study which tested the relationship between a salary and its impact on the quality of education and students accomplishments. The study used 500 school districts and analyzed them over the course of three years. Students SAT scores and grades were used to compare educational accomplishments to teachers salaries. The study concluded that there is a positive correlation between student accomplishments and teachers salaries. This may be because teachers salaries increase the more qualified they are. The more qualified the teacher, the better education a student may receive. The author of this article is Lin Tin-Chun. He is a professor at the Indiana University Northwest. This article is credible because Tin-Chun has a Ph.D in Economics. He has studied different aspects of economics, especially relating to teachers salaries. His article gives insight to how a qualification and experience affects the quality of education that a student receives. Also, this article is credible because I found it using the USF library online database. VEDDER, RICHARD, and JOSHUA HALL. Private School Competition And Public School Teacher  Journal Of Labor Research 21.1 (2000): 161-168. Business Source Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Unions have been known to monopolize, or control the salaries of public school teachers. This makes it difficult for teachers in public schools and private schools to have equal pay. This article studied the competition between public school and private school salaries. They hypothesized that the greater the presence of private schools in a particular area, the the greater the competition, and therefore the greater the public school teacher salary will be. The article suggest that because of the competition between public schools and Gainer 3 private schools it is harder for any monopoly to be on public schools because the salaries rise from competition. In this article the authors Richard Vedder and Joshua Hall are currently professors at the Ohio University, Athens. This is a credible article because the author Richard Vedder is an economist, historian, author, columnist, and a professor of economics. Richard Vedder has published books such as Broke By Degree, Out of Work: Unemployment and Government in Twentieth-century America, and Can teachers own their own schools? Also, this article is credible because I found it using the USF library online database. Figlio, David N. Can Public Schools Buy Better-Qualified  ILR Review 55.4 (2002): 686-699. Business Source Premier. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. This article focuses on the idea that hiring more qualified teachers can improve the quality of education that students receive. In particular, hiring teachers who teach subjects that they majored in, makes them more qualified to teach that subject. However, this more qualified teachers often request more increased salaries. Therefore the study found that there is a positive correlation between the level of of education a teacher has and the teachers salary. However, teachers unions control teachers salaries and preventing them from receiving a raise based on their level of education and the quality of their students performance. The author of this article is David Figlio, who is a researcher at Northwestern University. He has a Ph.D in economics, and conducts research on a wide variety of issues concerning education and educational staffing. He is a credible author because of his educational background and is knowledgeable about the topic. This article is credible also because it is an Gainer 4 academic journal and has been peer reviewed. His article is important to the debate of female teachers salaries in correlation to their level of education. This article helps highlight how the research question is viewed in that time period which is through 2000-2010. Hough, Heather J., Susanna Loeb, and (PACE) Policy Analysis for California Education. Can A District-Level Teacher Salary Incentive Policy Improve Teacher Recruitment And Retention? Policy Brief  Policy Analysis For California Education, PACE (2013): ERIC. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. In this article the authors analyzed the of the Quality Teacher and Education Act of 2008 (QTEA) on teacher recruitment, retention, and overall teacher quality in the San Francisco Unified School District According to the article, they had proof that the increase of salary in a district for teachers, the more attractive the job offer to the local teachers and the more deeper the pool of teachers to pull from and the more quality of the teacher. They also provided proof that an increase of salary can boost the potential of new-hires. According to Hough and Loeb, the higher the salary the more potent the chances of getting a quality teacher. The evidence Hough and Loeb presented suggested that when the (QTEA) is in effect the increase of teachers salaries can make a disadvantage compete with a school that are more prosperous. The authors of this article is Heather J.Hough and Susanna Loeb.These authors are credible because Heather J. Hough is a researcher with the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, fellow at PPIC, and she holds a Ph.D. in education. Susanna Loeb is the Barnett Family Professor of Education at Stanford University. She also specializes in the Gainer 5 economics of education and the relationship between schools and federal, state, and local policies. This article can be used because it is relevant to the research topic, and can be used to piece together the sources from the first time period to the sources from the second time period. Also, this article is credible because I found it using the USF library online database. Behrstock-Sherratt, Ellen, Amy Potemski, and Research Center on Great Teachers and Leaders at American Institutes for. Performance-Based Compensation: Linking Performance To Teacher Salaries. Ask The  Center On Great Teachers And Leaders (2013): ERIC. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. The authors of this article Ellen Behrstock-Sherratt and Amy Potemski reviewed resources from many educational sources such as for Educator Compensation Reform, the National Council on Teacher Quality (NCTQ), the Education Commission of the States, the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), and Race to the Top reviewed this research to give the reader a better understanding of the advancements of the states and districts that have developed new PBCS. PBCS is performance-based compensation systems which gives salaries that are fair and competitive to each point across an career continuum. In this article, the author Ellen Behrstock-Sherratt is a Research and Policy Analyst and author Amy Potemski is a researcher at American Institutes for Research. Behrstock-Sherratt has a Ph.D in education and Amy Potemski has a background in education and human development. Their work pertains to my research topic and is credible because they have experience and are experts in their respected fields. Their work is credible because they Gainer 6 have experience and other qualification in their fields that allow them to make conclusion about the influences on salaries.Their beliefs on teachers salaries are quickly affecting the world of education due to their unique ideas and methods of computation teachers. Also, this article is credible because I found it using the USF library online database. Allegretto, Sylvia A., Lawrence Mishel, and Institute Economic Policy. The Teacher Pay Gap Is Wider Than Ever: Pay Continues To Fall Further Behind Pay Of Comparable  Economic Policy Institute (2016): ERIC. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. The focus of this article is the importance of recruiting good teachers. The article firmly believes that a good teacher is the center of an effective learning environment. The article states that while the supply of qualified teachers is decreasing due to low wages and early retirement, the demand for qualified teachers has never been higher. This article examines the decline of teachers salaries and how this decline compares to the rest of the working class. It was found that the biggest factor that contributes to the decline in these wages is mostly due to the trade between the benefits and wages for teachers. Sylvia A.Allegretto and Lawrence Mishel are the authors of this article. Sylvia A.Allegretto is a labor economics and has a Ph.D in economics. Lawrence Mishel also has Ph.D in economics and specializes in researching trends in teachers wages. Both authors have a history of working with economics especially how it relates to the different economic factors associated with income and education. Their areas of expertise relates to the research topic because they analyze income. Their article is credible because it is peer reviewed and written Gainer 7 individuals who have experience in this field. Also, this article is credible because I found it using the USF library online database.