Samsonenko 1 Vladislav Samsonenko Professor Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC1101.903S17 February 10, 2017 The Effect of Video Games on Children For the last few decades, modern technologies have become an integral part of lives. People have started to use electronic devises in almost every sphere of their lives from different kinds of businesses to the family leisure. There is no surprise that children also using and enjoying technologies. Today, even a three-year-old child knows how to use iPad and X-box. That makes a lot of concern among parents because their children, especially boys, tend to spend too much time playing video games. The majority of people believe that there is nothing good about video games because they are addictive, violent, and bad for physical health of the child. Nevertheless, more and more scientists and parents noticed a positive influence of video games on children. That issue can be considered one of the most urgent ones in the Physiological and Educational spheres. That is why a dozens of studies were conducted on that topic. The outcome of the studies showed that playing video games can be beneficial for educational purposes as well as for the development of a child visual-spatial and problem solving skills. In this project, I will try to explore: what is the positive effects of video games on children? Samsonenko 2 Prot, Sara, et al. Games: Good, Bad, or The Pediatric Clinics of North America 59. Children, Adolescents, and the Media (2012): 647-658. ScienceDirect. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. The article Games: Good, Bad, or written by Prot et al. is discussing the increase in popularity of video games among children. The authors give two different points of view on the issue of the effect that video games may have on the child physiological development. As for the negative side of the issue, the authors claim that the majority of video games that children play violent. On the positive side is that video Games can develop child visual- spatial skills. There also quite a lot of examples and experiment results and summaries that provided to support different points of view. The article is extremely relevant to my project because it discusses both positive and negative sides of playing video games. That will help me to formulate my main points as well as contra arguments. Besides, he experiments discussed and summarized in the article will be a great support material. The authors can be considered as credible ones because all of them have a degree in Psychology concentrating in behavior that makes them a professional of the topic. Smith, Glen. Do Computer Games Affect Your Eurasian Journal of Education Research (EJER) (2004): 72-80. Education Source. Web. Feb 10. 2017. Samsonenko 3 The article Do Computer Games Affect Your written by Smith primarily discuss the positive effect of the computers on children by improving their spatial skills such as visualization and mental rotation. His claims are mostly based on research and experiments summaries. Smith also gives a couple of practical pieces of advice for parents on what kind of video games are better for a child in a certain age. That part is important because there is a high risk of increase of aggression if parents buy a game for a wrong age group. The article is relevant to the project because it illustrates the alternative positive sides that video games have on a child development. It is also rather important that he discusses the ways of how parents can make video games playing more beneficial for the child development. These piece of information will be good addition to my arguments. Moreover, the source is a trustworthy one because the author is an Associate Professor in the Education and Psychological Studies in the University of South Florida. Sabo, Helena M. Games Used in Teaching of ELearning & Software for Education 2 (2012): 271-276. Education Source. Web. Feb 10. 2017. Games Used in Teaching of is the article written by Sabo describing the possible way of how teachers can take advantage of their little student playing video games. The author points out the fact that teachers can learn how to use these games in studying process. For example, geography teachers can introduce special video games on natural hazards so that children have the opportunity learning while playing. That will definitely make the learning material more attractive to children. Other than that, the author explains the limitations of this method of receiving new information. For example, the biggest challenge for Samsonenko 4 this alternative way of studying is the high cost of installation. The majority of schools simply do not have resource to buy a new equipment. There is no doubt that the article is relevant to the project as it gives an example of how people can make playing video games beneficial in the sphere of education. The article is a credible one because Helena Sabo is currently a Professor in Romania. She has a degree in Psycology and Education that makes her article trustworthy. Suziedelyte, Agne. and Human Capital Development: Can Video Game Playing Make You Economic Inquiry 53.2 (2015): 1140-1155. Academic Search Premier. Web. Feb 10. 2017 The article and Human Capital Development: Can Video Game Playing Make You written by Suziedelyte describes an experiment that was conducted in order to find out whether playing video games has any positive impact on children. The article describes in details the specifics of the experiment. The author also takes into account the fact that different children have different backgrounds and family values. The outcome was that video games have a positive impact on the ability to solve problems in real life. What is more, the effect was quite the same as if a child trained his/her problem solving skills using educational activities. The article is an extremely relevant to the project because it describes the experiment held by the author. That profound explanation gives better understanding of the outcome of this experiment. Moreover, it will be beneficial for the project because it will make my research thesis and its support even stronger. The author of this article can be considered as a credible one Samsonenko 5 because Suziedelyte is a Professor in the University of London who is currently studying mental health area.