Paul Delbecq Anastasia Khawaja ENC1101 29 January 2017 Early Draft Comp 1 Martial arts have gone through considerable changes during the last hundred years. A martial art is a sport or skills of self- defense/attack with Asiatique origin mainly from Japan such ; Judo, Aikido, Karate, Kung Fu are some examples. Martial arts are systems of combat practices that were originally praticed for self- defense, military and law enforcement applications, in addition to spiritual and entertainment purposes. It is also considered a cultural heritage in many countries of the East. Four decades ago, martial arts were more about forms, katas and traditions. These forms were often a way to practice without any opponent. This was a problem since practitioners had no real experience when needed to use their skills to fend off an assault in real life. However, a lot has changed since then and people have more resources and options to learn about the many different martial arts techniques. Many people in the world now start practicing martial arts in a young age as a competitive sport or as an activity. It is a great sport or activity because it keeps the martial arts practitioners physically active and has many health benefits . It is also good for the mind as it instills self confidence, reinforces the personality and develops strong values, and disciplines to the martial artist. It helps people to maintain their life in a more peaceful and stress-free manner. These days there are many martial arts schools and practitioners available and there are also of resources online. What are the advantages of practicing a martial arts and how it changed over time ? Annotated bibliography. Horton, Neil. Japanese Martial Arts, Chichester: ePubDirect, 2005. eBook Collection(EBSCOhost). Web.29 Jan. 2017. This Is an ABC book of all the Japanese martial arts. a good overview of all the japonaise martial arts.It describes the characteristics and differences of each arts without going to much into details. Even though is not a comprehensive study of martial arts, is a good concise introductory treatment of each combat system . Some of the Japanese combat systems mentioned in this book are : Aikido, Aiki- Jutsu, Iaido, Jo-Jutsu, Judo, Ju-Jutsu, Karate, Kempo, Kendo, Kenjutsu, Kyudo, Naginatado, Ninjutsu, Yari-Jutsu, Sumo and other which are less known.Towards the endind of the books it talks about the most common Japanese Martial Terms. This is a very usefull and informative for those who are learning any Japanese combat system.This book will helps me a lot in my fure research because it talks concisely about the main characteristics and benefit and usefulness of all the martial arts. 2)Lawler, Jennifer. Martial arts for dummies. New York : Wiley Pub., 2003.Print This book illustrates martial arts techniques with an in-depth focus on beginners or amateurs. It incorporates the many different styles of fighting, so readers can decide on which style of fighting they want to focus on. From Karate to Kung Fu to Tae Kwon or any other style, this books contains everything in a compendious manner. Though it is difficult to throughly compartmentalise asomething as broad as martial arts, the author makes a good effort into it and divided it into five parts. Even the chapters can stand on their own, so readers will not lose track even if you skip part I or start with Part III. It also talks about what movies to watch and what to expect from a good instructor, so learners can get the best possible results. The book Marshall Art For Dummies was published by John Wiley & Sons publishing company in November 2002. The author of the book is Jennifer Lawler. She got her Ph.D in medieval literature from the University of Kansas. She is the author or co-author of more than 30 non-fiction books and novels, including the award-winning Dojo Wisdom. Lawler. Jennifer. Enter the dojo : discover the physical and mental benefits of martial arts training Amerricain Fitness 2003 : 24 Academic OneFile. Web 29 Jan. 2017. Thomas, Steve. Martial Arts As A Model For Nonviolence : Ressisting Interpersonal Violence With Assertive Force. The Conrad Grebel Review 33 ;1 (2015) : 72-91. ATLARELIGION Database with ATLASerials. Web 29 Jan. 2017 The article reinvigorates the idea of dealing violence with peace and compassion by using the martial arts techniques. It analyzes situations where innocent lives are attacked by aggressors and how to deal with such situations without causing significant harm to the attacker or the target. It takes a very humanistic approach on how to deal with violence. The article talks about the reverence for life a practice shared by almost all world religions and the importance of human life. It also provides many links for readers to get more in-depth understanding of approach to non-violent means to defuse tension. It questions the extent to which a person can hit back when attacked, emphasising that human lives are at stake. In short, the writer have done a wonderful job in putting together different views in regards to dealing with unexpected violent situations and how to minimise the harm to every human life involved, including the and thereby using marshall arts as more reliable, non-lethal ways to fend off attacks. He also makes a point of using martial arts effectively and not to misuse it . The article was published on the journal The Congrad Grebel Review in 2015 by Steve Thomas. He is Mennonite pastor and a graduate of Hesston College of the Goshen College and Asssociated Mennonite Biblical Seminary. He is currently a pastor at the First Mennonite Church in Middlebury, Ind. He co-founded the Peacemakers Academy in Goshen, Indiana and has been working as a peace educator for the past 13 years. 5) Lee, Bruce, and John R. Little. Striking thoughts: Bruce Wisdom for daily living. Boston: Tuttle Pub., 200. Print. Its a book that gathered all the philosphic thought of Bruce Lee who was one of greatest martial artist of the history. A book that demonstrates how martial arts is not just a an activity of attack and defense that get you in shape but also a way of life. This book is mostly philosophy is not a technical manual for fighting. This book contain all the philosophic thought of Bruce lee about every aspect of the life. They are the secret of Bruce lee Amazing success. With over 800 entries, covering more than 70 topics About Philosophical though about Existence, time,reality, the laws, death, actions, ideas, perceptions, the ego, concentration, will, fear, spirituality, happiness, will, adaptability, adversity, motivation, health and many other things. Those thoughts are organized and titled by John Little. Bruce Lee studied Kung Fu in Hong Kong under the legendary master Yip Man. After attending the university of Whashington as a philosophy major. He established a kung fu institute in Oakland, California, in 1964, to teach the art he later named jet kune do. From a young age and thought out his seven- year of television and film career, he wrote prodigiously on many topics that attracted his attention, especially philosophy. John Little is the world foremost authority on the life and work of Bruce Lee, his training method, and his philosophy. 6) Ertonghen, Jikkemien, and Marc Theeboom. The Social-Psychological Outcomes Of Martial Arts Practise Among Youth: A  Journal Of Sports Science & Medicine 9.4 (2010): 528-537. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Many people describe martial art involvement amongst the youth as controversial. Some argue that there are increased levels of aggressiveness and antisocial behavior amongst participants of martial arts, however, others refer to enhanced personal and social opportunities for participants. The review revealed that there is no clarity in the duality regarding martial art effects.