Canavan 1 Taylor Canavan TJ Murray ENC 1102 February 11, 2017 Cover Letter I chose to write my paper on shopping addictions because I truly believe it is a real thing. Personally, I shop when stressed or under pressure because it makes me feel better about myself. I think psychologists should look into this more and do more research because this addiction put a lot of women into debt causing them more stress and without even realizing it they go out to shop some more. I found it easier to write about this topic after I shopped and had a stressful day because I was able to take my personal experience and write about it. I really struggle writing it because it was an easy topic and I had good reasoning for it. I truly enjoyed this paper. Canavan 2 Taylor Canavan TJ Murray ENC 1102 January 28, 2017 The Truths About Shopping About 6% of the U.S population has a shopping addiction. you are a shopaholic you are known to shop compulsively and feel like you have no control over your (Psych Guides). Society looks at this addiction as a normal day event, buying because you look good in it or it makes you feel special. What society know is that this is more than a normality, a mental illness that needs to be taken seriously. Psychologists need to take action for shopping addictions because they are caused by stress, there are different levels of severity and the repercussions of it can cause many different issues to their self and the family. . Retail therapy is a conscious as well as unconscious act of buying yourself something to put yourself in a better mood. Being stressed we are in constant search of a mood booster. Some people crave sweets, others crave social interaction but some crave retail therapy. This pick me up of a mood boost only lasts a small amount of time and then this turns into remorse (Scott). This compulsive buying can become worse when money is tight, there are problems at home or any feel of loss of control. In a study done by Yasuhisa Hama, she surveyed causes of stress on both genders and then examined how it affected their impulse buying. Hama observed 78 males and 104 females (104 were undergrad students, 43 business men 28 housewives, 7 unknown occupations) (Hama, 219). She found that females had higher stress levels than men and their spending habits showed it. 51.3% of the women preferred stress shopping at department Canavan 3 stores, 43.4% of the men said the same and 40.2% of the total said to have found themselves at the store right after the stressful incident (Hama, 219). The other results showed that their stress levels cause them to be shopping immediately but within a week they found themselves shopping under stress. So, you happen to be a shopaholic, it seem like a big deal to you but a huge deal. From here it could get worse. Compulsives buyers are the ones who buy on impulse (Psych Buyers). Compulsive buyers typically are the overwhelmed, frantic shoppers who want to buy something to calm them down no matter the price or damage done to their bank account. Their emotional distress causes the compulsive buy. Collectors or hoarders feel complete until they have the same item in every style or color (Psych Guides). The amount of money spent and wasted by this buyer is tremendous. The item collection normally sits around house, gaining dust and taking up space. Hoarding can become unhealthy because the buyer is unwilling to give up the objects/items they have bought. If asked to give up their objects it can cause the person to go into an emotional distress, restarting the cycle of impulsive buying. Buying while stressed means that you are willing to spend however much it costs to make you happy, and you care what the financial outcome is. During this compulsive buy your brain is releasing endorphins and dopamine at the same time, this becomes and addictive feeling. The buyer in this moment, is willing to pay whatever for the object that makes them feel better. Felice Jonesse, a mother of six, on average spends $10,0000 monthly. She said in an interview with Suze Orman When I do shop, I do kind of get a rush. It makes me feel good, but afterwards, though, I get depressed. buy something even if I really like it because I have to come out with  (Orman). This feeling of guilt occurs after the endorphins and dopamine go away and your emotional balance is back at its normal state. Not only does guilt Canavan 4 occur but so does debt, Felice Jonesse was $135,000 in debt after one year of spending on her credit card (Orman). Shopping addictions are a bigger issue than most seem to think. Those who are affected with this mental illness even realize that they have it. Shopping to calm oneself down seems normal because everyone wants to be happy after been overwhelmed. The only difference between these shopaholics and normal shoppers is that shopaholics know when to stop. They shop even if money is tight and they have any problem running up their card, putting themselves into debt. There is no help for these poor souls, they just need someone to manage their shopping and be there for them when they are stressed. Some react faster than others and those are the ones who have it worse. Canavan 5 Works Cited Https://www.facebook.com/verywell. Is Retail Therapy An Effective Stress  Verywell. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hama, Yasuhisa. Shopping as a Coping Behavior for  Japanese Psychological Research 43.4 (2001): 218-24. Web. Shopping Addiction Symptoms, Causes and  Signs and Symptoms of Shopping Addictions Causes and Effects. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Scott, Elizabeth. Is Retail Therapy An Effective Stress  Verywell. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.verywell.com/retail-therapy-and-stress-3145259>. Orman, Suze. Pardon Our Interruption. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.oprah.com/money/The-Mom-Who-Shopped-Her-Family-Broke>.