Saleh 1 Miriam Saleh 27 January 2017 ENC 1102 T.J. Murray I did feel my reviewers and the one my professor gave me was helpful. Their comments about MLA formatting were perfectly valid and important. The grammatical errors and sentence structure did advance my paper as well. It was all good feedback and I am most certainly appreciative of the comments I received. At first, I quite understand why a few of the reviewers thought I needed to divide two of my paragraphs, but after rereading it, I understand why important to separate ideas. This way even if under the same topic the readers can still see the slight shift of focus. I fully understand this until I saw my paper through my eyes. Lastly, my professor thought it would be helpful to add a source to my counterargument. I actually think this was helpful because it was solely based on basic economics. Distribution of money a complicated topic we need an expert for. In fact, I think finding an advise would be counterintuitive for this paper because the reader just needs an elementary explanation to understand why Maybelline is the best makeup brand for our economy. Bringing in an expert would drive confusion since their words are complicated, outlandish and overall unnecessary for this piece. Saleh 2 Making Maybelline the Only Makeup Provider Nationwide Every woman who puts on makeup in the morning is usually just focused on ensuring she looks like she got her full eight hours of sleep, looks professional, and is ready to concur the day. But for the creators of Maybelline, makeup is more than just a movement, an opportunity, and an impact. Maybelline impacts women in a larger way than just aesthetics. This is why I believe the government should only allow cosmetic line to be the only one sold nationwide. Maybelline aids in two crucial ways highly associated with women today improving health and female empowerment. For Maybelline, their brand is not just about selling a product line for a profit. about using their brand identity to advance positive change in the world. First off, Maybelline contributes to the health of women in a positive way. Our health in America is most certainly declining. not failing in a specific way, like cholesterol or heart failure, but our national health is behind compared to other countries. Maybelline actually enforces good health principles in their product lines. In a study done by Northeastern State University different mascara companies were tested. Dr. goal was to measure microbial bacteria from different cosmetic companies. They used twelve brands to find that Maybelline was the only one that positive to microbial growth (Microbial contamination associated with mascara use, 591). mascara also had the lowest amount of bacteria in general at 29% whereas Avon was ranked at 66.7%. This three month long study also found that test subject was not affiliated with any ocular trauma, itching or irritation. Having the least amount of hygiene issues associated with their makeup line is unarguably valuable. Advancing Maybelline as the sole provider for cosmetics would be a game Saleh 3 changer for American health. Using mascara, for example, with the least amount of bacteria possible will improve vision and general eye care for females nationwide. The mascara that does not cause irritation will also help for the millions wearing contact lenses and will pay fewer visits to their optometrist. accomplishment in health exceeds to a larger scale actually. According to the Brookings Institution, over 77,000 jobs are primarily concerned with the manufacturing economically friendly products to the consumer. This means that the person is only hired to ensure all ingredients are completely natural and biodegradable (Sizing the Clean Economy, 21). The Brookings Institution enlisted companies who have hired these types of employees. Maybelline was one of the two makeup brands associated, the other being This is not a new trend that Maybelline has decided to take up on. Health-conscious related jobs in American companies started in 2003 and have grown in 90% since then. It is bizarre that Maybelline is one of two companies that are taking responsibility for their products. The initiative to make sure all products are safe should be endorsed by the government. America is desperate for ensuring using health conscious products! Thank goodness Maybelline came prepared to help American women. In addition, Maybelline is also a company involved in women empowerment. Many young women have people who believe in them or are willing to put in large amounts of money for their support. Every female deserves someone to take a chance on; this is a principle Maybelline exercises constantly. FB is an American Cancer Society group dedicated to donating money for cancer research. The program is comprised of twenty-two companies that have consistently brought in funds. According to Catherine Saleh 4 Phillips, Maybelline is heavily involved in this partnership by donating profits towards cancer research and patients (Images, femininity and cancer: an analysis of an international patient education programme, 69). They did this so families who are currently drowning in debt from medical bills have less of a burden. Maybelline wants to bring financial hope to these women to remind them how each life is valuable. The article continued to describe how Maybelline provides young women with cancer self-help materials such as concealer, eye shadow and mascara to make each woman feel beautiful even when in bed-rest. progressive actions to empower women have also helped our economy. Their donations to American Cancer Society also take the financial load off of out-of-pocket scientists and cancer research (Phillips, 22). This way, there can be more and more studies can be done and less of a burden on our tax dollars. Maybelline has started empowering women in the work field as well. This is also crucial because women are not encouraged to take on serious careers the way men are today. According to PR Newswire, every four-months Maybelline partners with PEOPLE to nominate ten girls to come work with them for educational purposes (Maybelline New York Honors Women Who Empower Through Education, 1). This program is to teach young women more about business so they can develop lucrative careers in business and entrepreneurship themselves. These young women work on the job force with Maybelline to later pursue their dreams even if in another industry! Overall, Maybelline uses their success to promote the success and wellness of others. This quality, of giving back to others, is not found in other large conglomerates. Saleh 5 Some may argue that only allowing one makeup brand, Maybelline, to be sold nationwide will affect our economy because create a monopoly. Theoretically this would be valid but what would really happen is the employees from the other current cosmetic brands would get hired on team. Maybelline is currently one of the top companies in makeup right now but since they will be the sole provider, manufacturing, sales and profit will go up. This would even out the money spent on the makeup industry in America. Plus, they will have less money to spend on marketing so that money will go back into the philanthropy already involved in or paying their employees better salaries. In conclusion, the U.S government should completely eradicate other makeup brands to be sold in nationwide. Making Maybelline cosmetics the only line would help health in America since they are an environmentally conscious brand. also involved in empowerment by donating money and hosting programs for them. Beyond selling makeup, they use every opportunity they are provided with for the goodness of Americans. American companies helping the American people should be the moral epitome for our country. So, why we start there? Saleh 6 Work Cited Pack, Latricia D., et al. Contamination Associated with Mascara Optometry - Journal of the American Optometric Association 79.10 (2008): 593. Web. Phillips, C. Femininity and Cancer: An Analysis of an International Patient Education Health: 13.1 (2009): Web. Carter, Nicole. Maybelline finds inspiring women in New York. NY Daily News, 13 Sept. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. York, Maybelline New. New York Honors Women Who Empower Through Sept. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Muro, Mark, and Jonathan Rothwell. the Clean Brookings.edu, The Sept. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.