Hoggins 1 Ronnie Hoggins Jr Instructor Robert ENC 1130 29 January 2017 Cover Letter Many people realize how harmful energy drinks are to your body. Athletes are especially affected by energy drinks because of the ingredients, which can cause health problems when associated with strenuous physical activity. This controversial topic is also absurd because many people believe that energy drinks should be banned. However, other relies on energy drinks to keep them going throughout their day. This paper presents both sides of this controversial issue, as well as a possible compromise for both stakeholders. Such compromise can potentially bring both sides together to create a healthier, athlete friendly energy drink. To prevent bias in the paper, the ideas of the first stakeholder are presented in the first body paragraph, the ideas of the second stakeholder are presented in the second body paragraph and in the third body it presents the compromise that can bring both stakeholders together. Research was done and in-text citations were used in the first two body paragraphs to present factual information about the stakeholders and prevent any personal opinion. A compromise was developed by in cooperating both stakeholders views and bring them together to see eye to eye. The thesis of the paper outlines the main idea of the discussion and the conclusion restates the thesis and compromise. Hoggins 2 Energy Drinks In Sports When you think of the words and you would assume that these words automatically fit each other perfect, but when you add the word behind energy it means disaster. Who would have thought that something that boosts your energy could harm you and be fatal? Energy drinks in sports has been an ongoing issue due to the fact that scientist are trying to figure out ways to improve an athletes energy without harming them. There have been many cases where people have been harmed because they have taken some form of an energy drink before competition. These actions have led to the talk about the banning of energy drinks in sports. The American Medical Association is a stakeholder who believes that energy drinks are harmful and believe these drink should be banned. On the other hand, Monsters Energy argues against this, believing that banning energy drink in the world of sports will harm their business. Though energy drinks taste good and provide the energy boost you feel you need, some people believe that they are harmful to your body and can impact your health and sports performance while others believe they are good for you and you can benefit from them. Energy drinks could ruin the young of our country and can later on in life affect them if not smart about the way they consume energy drinks. The American Medical Association believes that energy drinks are harmful to the youth and that these drinks are harmful due to the fact of what they contain inside of them. Most also contain large quantities of sugar and other substances such as taurine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, nicotinamide, B vitamins, and various stimulating herbal deriva- tives (Sandra D. Reid, 104). Studies have shown while 50% of teenagers drink energy drink to boost their energy, 23% of them consume them for sports and to enhance their performance. (Sandra Hoggins 3 D. Reid, 107). Young athletes consume these energy drinks to help them get through a long and hard practice, or to help them remain awake and productive throughout the day. were significantly more likely to select an energy drink based on the popularity of the brand. Female respondents selected drinks based on the D. Reid, 105). According to the author statement, males where more likely to suffer from energy drinks harm than females because they worried about if it was increasing their energy but how good it tasted or what the majority of people where drinking. Energy drinks contain massive and excessive amounts of caffeine that may lead to a host of health problems in young people, banning companies from marketing these products to adolescents is a common sense action that we can take to protect the health of American kids. (Dr. Alexander Ding). The sources implies that the things that energy drink companies are putting into their product are very harmful to children and by taking them of the market not only will better the like of youth but prevent healthcare issues caused by the products. In sports, performance is correlated with energy levels. An athlete would leap at the opportunity to increase his energy during performance. Speaking from an perspective, more energy is great but if it is artificial then I do not want it. The more studies that are being conducted, the more that these energy drink companies are being exposed of what is in their products and how harmful they are to the human body, especially at a young age. Most energy drinks also contain large quantities of sugar and other substances such as taurine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, nicotinamide, B vitamins, and various stimulating herbal deriva- tives (Sandra D. Reid, 104). Too much of anything is not good for you, especially if it is artificial. I do not believe that there should be a ban on Hoggins 4 energy drinks, but I do believe that there should be a control limit on the amount energy drinks that are consumed, especially by athletes. Though some believe that energy drinks are harmful and seek to ban them, others believe them to be a great way to receive a boost when you are feeling sluggish and drowsy. Monster Energy is the number one consumed energy drink by the general public. (Sandra D. Reid, 106). Energy drinks also increase glucose and insulin levels. According to the article, more than 400 mg of caffeine daily is considered a high intake so even if energy drinks with higher caffeine levels are consumed (average 210 mg), it is reasonable to conclude that on an average these students use energy drinks but do not consume high or dangerous amounts of caffeine in this form. (Sandra D. Reid, 108). A Monster Energy drink has about 85mg of caffeine in it and the company does not encourage consumers to drink more than three Monsters a day. Another reason why people want to consume energy drinks is because of their delicious taste that keeps their customers coming back for more. Monsters Energy main purpose is to satisfy needs for superior quality and great tasting, healthy, natural and functional beverages, while also giving them the boost they need throughout their day. To conclude, though energy drink taste good and give you the energy boost you feel you need, they are harmful to you and your body and can later on in life hurt you especially in the youth. Whoever thought that something that boosts your energy could harm you and be fatal. Energy drinks in sports has been an ongoing issue due to the fact that scientist are trying to figure out ways to improve an athletes energy without them getting harmed. There have been many cases where people have been Hoggins 5 harmed because they have token some form of an energy drink before competition. The AMA believe that these drinks should be banned because not only are the harmful to adults in sports but also they are harmful to the youth in sports. On the other hand, Monster Energy believes that it is okay to have energy drinks just as long as they are consumed the right way. Hoggins 6 Works Cited Academy, U.S. Sports. Energy  The Sport Journal. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Impact of an Energy Drink on the Structure of Stomach and Pancreas of Albino Rat: Can Omega-3 Provide a  Impact of an Energy Drink on the Structure of Stomach and Pancreas of Albino Rat: Can Omega-3 Provide a Protection? N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Arria, Amelia M., and Mary Claire The Risk of Energy  JAMA : the journal of the American Medical Association. U.S. National Library of Medicine, 25 Jan. 2011. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Campbell, Lucy.  Lawsuits, Legal News & Issues, Lawsuit Settlements, Class Action Lawsuits. N.p., 19 June 2013. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Monster Energy Mission  UNLEASH THE BEAST. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Reid, Sandra D., Jonathan Ramsarran, Rachel Brathwaite, Sarika Lyman, Ariane Baker, C. Cornish, Stefan Ganga, Zahrid Mohammed, Avinash T. Sookdeo, and Cathrine K. Thapelo. Energy drink usage among university students in a Caribbean country: Patterns of use and adverse  Journal of Epidemiology and Global Health 5.2 (2015): 103-16. Web. Hoggins 7