Powdar 1 Olivia Powdar ENC 1102.906 Prof. TJ Murray 16 January 2017 Butterflies Are The New Fashion Butterflies are creating the best designs just by being alive and they do not even notice. At the wedding of Khloe James she had on and ensemble that had a plunging neckline that seemed to change colors every couple of minutes the dress was made by OLIVE who specializes is using natural materials from her designs. Mrs. James said the dress neckline was lined with two different kinds of butterflies that were trained to move at certain times. All the butterflies have different colors and designs on their wings, their main colors are blue, green, yellow and red. These colors are mixed together to create the beautiful colors that you see on the butterflies today. The best kinds of designs from them are the ones that can change color on the fabric that they are printed on. Roman Butterfly is a fashion company that only designs with butterflies that can change color when they flap their wings. The Vanessa cardui also known as The Painted Lady, are used on the more mature fashions because of their brown and gold designs. The Monarch Butterflies are used in patterns for little children because of their more playful colors. The butterflies are the new fashion because they are able to be multidimensional since the butterflies can move, very lightweight so the clients weighed down by the cloth and worn by all celebrities who believe they are somebody. Just last week Jessica Homer wore a Painted lady gown to the where she won 5 for her new movie. Powdar 1 The government should mandate that all clothes need to be designed with butterflies because they make better patterns than the machines that are used today and the designs would be made from natural means. We would not have to spend even more money than necessary on ink for designs. The clothes have to be ordered online or bought in stores that specialize in these designs. There are store all over the world and the clothes would be bought at the same prices that clothes are bought for today. The butterflies are just replacing the ink, glitter and rhinestones that are falling off of our clothes today. The government can use the butterflies for the military and their uniforms. They would be able to use the newly discovered camouflage butterflies named The Hidden because that have the same camouflage properties as chameleons. These butterflies are only to be used for the military because if they were to be used with everyone then they could be used for crime. The reason they are only for the military is because of the group that broke into the London bank and stole all the pounds that were inside the bank and the money has still not been found nor the people that have stole the money. The butterflies are will be born in factories but there will be no speeding up the processes of the life span of the butterflies.The butterflies will live as long as they are supposed to even though they are the designs of our clothes. They will create beautiful designs and the world will be able to share the different designs with the world. Powdar 1 Works Cited Vanessa  . Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  . Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.