WU1 Yanfeng wu ENC1102 Adam Philips 2/12/2017 Air Pollution The Ford Motor company and Greenpeace are two organizations that have opposite goals on the air pollution. Air Pollution has come to be a term that most of people are already familiar with. Air pollution nowadays is a menace around the world. The smog problem is not only serious in developing countries but also happens in the developed countries, even in the USA, which is becoming one of most serious environmental problems. In addition, air pollution has a negative impact on human life. In some places, citizens must wear masks before they go out. Ford Company is one of biggest companies in the USA. It sold about 2.5 million vehicles in 2013. Car exhaust is one of many factors that cause air pollution, which will generate some small particles in the air called PM 2.5. Meanwhile, Greenpeace is an environmental organization which focuses on the environmental issues, such as water and air pollution. The difference between those two stakeholders is that Ford is a car production company, which is contributing to the air pollution, but Greenpeace is appealing people to use cleaner modes of transportation instead of cars. Although Ford and Greenpeace have incompatible goals, they do have chances to collaborate to figure out the air pollution problem. The only way that the two companies can reach an agreement is only if they are able to reach common grounds. The focus of this discussion will be on the two contrasting companies, and a common ground that will be of benefit to both of the stakeholders. WU2 The first stakeholder for the evaluation is Ford company. The main goal of Ford company is the mass production of cars. Ford company was found in 1903, boosting a long history in the automotive industry , 2017). By the 21st century, Ford had already become the most famous company and selling millions of Ford cars to the world. With developing technologies, there are many new alternative forms of fuel that have been established , 2017). However, Ford company and other car companies are still using gasoline as their main fuel. Another stakeholder is Greenpeace. The main goal of this organization is trying to reduce the pollution around the world. Under the structure and functionality, Greenpeace is a non- governmental organization, which is in 40 countries Greenpeace International , 2017). The Canadian and American environmental activists in establishing this organization 1971, mainly dealing with the environmental issues and appealing for more people to protect our earth and join them. Additionally, Greenpeace also detected the air quality and reported to the citizen Greenpeace International , 2017). alleviate such problems, one solution is to promote households to purchase small placement(engine) cars Rubino, Ann page 80). It is hard for people to stop using car nowadays, which is a feasible way. Therefore, trying to buy some less displacement car is most effective way to reduce the air pollution Greenpeace International , 2017). Compromise How it will work: For a compromise, one of the stakeholders must be able to give up their interest, in order to enable the other to gain an advantage. Through a compromise, the problem of air pollution will be solved. Ford can donate small portions of their profits that they earned towards the development new engine cars, which would be more environmentally friendly. Such fuels will be green fuels. The fuels reduce the air pollution, which translates into WU3 a gain for Greenpeace. Ford Motors will make a sacrifice, and Greenpeace will be at an advantage. With the common ground, the problem of Air Pollution will be met. Why Both stakeholders should agree: the compromise will involve one stakeholder giving up something and the other gaining. It is the important thing for both stakeholders to have a common ground. Car exhaust has the potential to generate some toxic gas from gasoline burning, such as CO, NOX, PB, NO, and NO2. NO2 during pregnancy was associated with differential offspring DNA methylation in mitochondria-related genes. Exposure to NO2 was also linked to differential methylation as well as expression of genes involved in antioxidant defense Gruzieva, Olena page 104). NO2 is a toxic gas which can potentially harm pregnant people. When pregnant people breathe in the NO2, it is likely to change DNA or lead to other unpredictable diseases. According to Ajmina, journal called of Ambient Air Pollution Exposure on Olfaction: A said that is evidence in human epidemiologic and pathologic studies that increased exposure to ambient air pollutants is associated with olfactory From the analysis of this journal, people can take notice of the fact that the air pollution may cause the diseases as well as noise. The air pollution not only pollutes our environment but also threatens health. Every year, there are about 2.5 million people dead because of air pollution. To prevent the air pollution, Greenpeace had been trying to figure out a method to solve it. Failure to reach a compromise means that lives of many people will be at risk. What are they giving up: For a compromise to take place, then one of the stakeholders must be able to give up their stance, in order to enable the others to get an advantage. In this case, Ford Motors is the stakeholder that is giving up to the conflict. Because of Ford Motors is the stakeholder that is expected to give up something. Ford will have to give up a portion of their WU4 profits. The profits from the company will be directed towards research to come up with an alternative source of green fuel. Green fuel is fuel that does not cause harm to the environment. Air pollution will then become a concept that can be manageable. By Ford Motors being able to give up their profits, then the stakeholders can have a common ground. How it will be developed: The Green fuels will be developed through several steps. Methanol will be ended. The process will include the production of methanol, basically from fossil fuels that have no CO2. The production process will make use of the zero CO2 process. The process may include the use of Oxidation catalysts, internal heat, fuel gasification furnace and steam reforming catalyst. Such production costs will also lower the cost of electricity (Witze, 2013). In conclusion, both companies are giants. Having a common ground for the two stakeholders is not easy. Nonetheless, there is still hope. With a common ground, then both of these companies still have the potential to bring air pollution to an end. Although Ford and Greenpeace have an interest confliction with each other and it is difficult for them to give up on their main goal, they still can have collaborations. The best way for them to solve these issues is that Ford motor company and Greenpeace organization raise part of the money to develop their Ford car or use new cleaning technologies. At the same time, Ford can pay a partial amount of money that earn from the car selling to Greenpeace or other environmental organizations. Then, Greenpeace can use those the money to educate people and give them some knowledge on air pollution. The main thing should be focused on the use of environmentally friendly transportation, such as a bicycle. Environmental Protection is the tendency this era. Ford is a big company, if they start to improve their car and use new alternative energies, the other companies will follow the way Ford did. They will be the trend setters for the other companies. From this WU5 essay, it is apparent that Air pollution is very harmful to the environment as well as the as the society. If Greenpeace and Ford Motors cannot reach an agreement, then the air pollution will be worse and human will continue suffering the painful from the air. WU6 Works Cited Ajmani, Gaurav S., Helen H. Suh, and Jayant M. Pinto. Effects of Ambient Air Pollution Exposure on Olfaction: A  Environmental Health Perspectives 124.11 (2016): 1683-1685. Web. Gruzieva, Olena Epigenome-Wide Meta-Analysis of Methylation in Children Related to Prenatal NO2 Air Pollution  Environmental Health Perspectives 125.1 (2016): 104 .Web Rubino,Ann Air pollution:Problem and  The Science Teacher .Summer 5 (2008): 80. Web Witze, Alexandra fuels blast off: propellants offer satellites greater efficiency and lower toxicity than liquid In nature 7464 (2013): 509. Web Happening at  Ford New Cars, Trucks, SUVs, Crossovers & Hybrids Vehicles Built Just for You Ford.com Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Greenpeace  Greenpeace USA. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/